ab		The fifth month of the Jewish year according to the ecclesiastical reckoning, the eleventh by the civil computation, coinciding nearly with August.
ab-		A prefix in many words of Latin origin.
abaca		The Manila-hemp plant (Musa textilis); also, its fiber. See Manila hemp under Manila.
abacinate		To blind by a red-hot metal plate held before the eyes.
abacination		The act of abacinating.
abaciscus		One of the tiles or squares of a tessellated pavement; an abaculus.
abacist		One who uses an abacus in casting accounts; a calculator.
aback		Toward the back or rear; backward.
abactinal		Pertaining to the surface or end opposite to the mouth in a radiate animal; -- opposed to actinal.
abaction	Obsolete	Stealing cattle on a large scale.
abactor	Obsolete	One who steals and drives away cattle or beasts by herds or droves.
abaculus		A small tile of glass, marble, or other substance, of various colors, used in making ornamental patterns in mosaic pavements.
abacus		A calculating table or frame; an instrument for performing arithmetical calculations by balls sliding on wires, or counters in grooves, the lowest line representing units, the second line, tens, etc. It is still employed in China.
abada	Obsolete	The rhinoceros.
abaddon		The destroyer, or angel of the bottomless pit; -- the same as Apollyon and Asmodeus.
abaft		Behind; toward the stern from; as, abaft the wheelhouse.
abaisance	Obsolete	Obeisance.
abaiser		Ivory black or animal charcoal.
abaist	Obsolete	Abashed; confounded; discomfited.
abalienate		(Civil Law) To transfer the title of from one to another; to alienate.
abalienation	Obsolete	The act of abalienating; alienation; estrangement.
abalone		A univalve mollusk of the genus Haliotis.
aband	Obsolete	To abandon.
abandon		To give up absolutely; to forsake entirely; to renounce utterly; to relinquish all connection with or concern on; to desert, as a person to whom one owes allegiance or fidelity; to quit; to surrender.
abandoned		Forsaken, deserted.
abandonedly		Unrestrainedly.
abandonee		One to whom anything is legally abandoned.
abandoner		One who abandons.
abandonment		The act of abandoning, or the state of being abandoned; total desertion; relinquishment.
abandum		Anything forfeited or confiscated.
abanet		See Abnet — the girdle of a Jewish priest or officer.
abanga		A West Indian palm; also the fruit of this palm, the seeds of which are used as a remedy for diseases of the chest.
abannation	Obsolete	Banishment.
abannition	Obsolete	Banishment.
abarticulation		Articulation, usually that kind of articulation which admits of free motion in the joint; diarthrosis.
abase		To cast down or reduce low or lower, as in rank, office, condition in life, or estimation of worthiness; to depress; to humble; to degrade.
abased		Lowered; humbled.
abasedly		Abjectly; downcastly.
abasement		The act of abasing, humbling, or bringing low; the state of being abased or humbled; humiliation.
abaser		He who, or that which, abases.
abash		To destroy the self-possession of; to confuse or confound, as by exciting suddenly a consciousness of guilt, mistake, or inferiority; to put to shame; to disconcert; to discomfit.
abashedly		In an abashed manner.
abashment		The state of being abashed; confusion from shame.
abasia		Inability to coördinate muscular actions properly in walking. - - A*ba"sic (#), a.
abassi		A silver coin of Persia, worth about twenty cents.
abassis		A silver coin of Persia, worth about twenty cents.
abatable		Capable of being abated; as, an abatable writ or nuisance.
abate		To bring down or reduce from a higher to a lower state, number, or degree; to lessen; to diminish; to contract; to moderate; toto cut short; as, to abate a demand; to abate pride, zeal, hope.
abatement		The act of abating, or the state of being abated; a lessening, diminution, or reduction; removal or putting an end to; as, the abatement of a nuisance is the suppression thereof.
abater		One who, or that which, abates.
abatis		A means of defense formed by felled trees, the ends of whose branches are sharpened and directed outwards, or against the enemy.
abatised		Provided with an abatis.
abator		(a) One who abates a nuisance. (b) A person who, without right, enters into a freehold on the death of the last possessor, before the heir or devisee.
abattis		A means of defense formed by felled trees, the ends of whose branches are sharpened and directed outwards, or against the enemy.
abattoir		A public slaughterhouse for cattle, sheep, etc.
abature		Grass and sprigs beaten or trampled down by a stag passing through them.
abatvoix		The sounding-board over a pulpit or rostrum.
abawed	Obsolete	Astonished; abashed.
abaxial		Away from the axis or central line; eccentric.
abaxile		Away from the axis or central line; eccentric.
abay	Obsolete	Barking; baying of dogs upon their prey. See Bay.
abb		Among weaves, yarn for the warp. Hence, abb wool is wool for the abb.
abba		Father; religious superior; -- in the Syriac, Coptic, and Ethiopic churches, a title given to the bishops, and by the bishops to the patriarch.
abbacy		The dignity, estate, or jurisdiction of an abbot.
abbatial		Belonging to an abbey; as, abbatial rights.
abbatical	Obsolete	Abbatial.
abbe		The French word answering to the English abbot, the head of an abbey; but commonly a title of respect given in France to every one vested with the ecclesiastical habit or dress.
abbess		A female superior or governess of a nunnery, or convent of nuns, having the same authority over the nuns which the abbots have over the monks.
abbey		A monastery or society of persons of either sex, secluded from the world and devoted to religion and celibacy; also, the monastic building or buildings.
abbot		One of a class of bishops whose sees were formerly abbeys.
abbotship		The state or office of an abbot.
abbreviate		To make briefer; to shorten; to abridge; to reduce by contraction or omission, especially of words written or spoken.
abbreviated		Shortened; relatively short; abbreviate.
abbreviation		The form to which a word or phrase is reduced by contraction and omission; a letter or letters, standing for a word or phrase of which they are a part; as, Gen. for Genesis; U.S.A. for United States of America.
abbreviator		One who abbreviates or shortens.
abbreviatory		Serving or tending to abbreviate; shortening; abridging.
abbreviature	Obsolete	An abbreviation; an abbreviated state or form.
abdal		A religious devotee or dervish in Persia.
abderian		Given to laughter; inclined to foolish or incessant merriment.
abderite		An inhabitant of Abdera, in Thrace.
abdest		Purification by washing the hands before prayer; -- a Mohammedan rite.
abdicable		Capable of being abdicated.
abdicant		Abdicating; renouncing; -- followed by of.
abdicate		To surrender or relinquish, as sovereign power; to withdraw definitely from filling or exercising, as a high office, station, dignity; as, to abdicate the throne, the crown, the papacy.
abdication		The act of abdicating; the renunciation of a high office, dignity, or trust, by its holder; commonly the voluntary renunciation of sovereign power; as, abdication of the throne, government, power, authority.
abdicative		Causing, or implying, abdication.
abdicator		One who abdicates.
abditive		Having the quality of hiding.
abditory		A place for hiding or preserving articles of value.
abdomen		(Anat.) The belly, or that part of the body between the thorax and the pelvis.
abdominal		Of or pertaining to the abdomen; ventral; as, the abdominal regions, muscles, cavity.
abdominales		A group including the greater part of fresh-water fishes, and many marine ones, having the ventral fins under the abdomen behind the pectorals.
abdominalia		A group of cirripeds having abdominal appendages.
abdominoscopy		Examination of the abdomen to detect abdominal disease.
abdominothoracic		Relating to the abdomen and the thorax, or chest.
abdominous		Having a protuberant belly; pot-bellied.
abduce	Obsolete	To draw or conduct away; to withdraw; to draw to a different part.
abduct		To take away surreptitiously by force; to carry away (a human being) wrongfully and usually by violence; to kidnap.
abduction		The act of abducing or abducting; a drawing apart; a carrying away.
abductor		One who abducts.
abeam		On the beam, that is, on a line which forms a right angle with the ship's keel; opposite to the center of the ship's side.
abear	Obsolete	To bear; to behave.
abearance	Obsolete	Behavior.
abearing	Obsolete	Behavior.
abecedarian		One who is learning the alphabet; hence, a tyro.
abecedary		Pertaining to, or formed by, the letters of the alphabet; alphabetic; hence, rudimentary.
abed		In bed, or on the bed.
abegge	Obsolete	Same as Aby.
abele		The white polar (Populus alba).
abelian		One of a sect in Africa (4th century), mentioned by St. Augustine, who states that they married, but lived in continence, after the manner, as they pretended, of Abel.
abelite		One of a sect in Africa (4th century), mentioned by St. Augustine, who states that they married, but lived in continence, after the manner, as they pretended, of Abel.
abelmosk		An evergreen shrub (Hibiscus -- formerly Abelmoschus- moschatus), of the East and West Indies and Northern Africa, whose musky seeds are used in perfumery and to flavor coffee; -- sometimes called musk mallow.
abelonian		One of a sect in Africa (4th century), mentioned by St. Augustine, who states that they married, but lived in continence, after the manner, as they pretended, of Abel.
aber-de-vine		The European siskin (Carduelis spinus), a small green and yellow finch, related to the goldfinch.
aberr	Obsolete	To wander; to stray.
aberrance		State of being aberrant; a wandering from the right way; deviation from truth, rectitude, etc. Aberrancy of curvature (Geom.), the deviation of a curve from a circular form.
aberrancy		State of being aberrant; a wandering from the right way; deviation from truth, rectitude, etc. Aberrancy of curvature (Geom.), the deviation of a curve from a circular form.
aberrant		Wandering; straying from the right way.
aberrate		To go astray; to diverge.
aberration		The act of wandering; deviation, especially from truth or moral rectitude, from the natural state, or from a type.
aberrational		Characterized by aberration.
aberuncate	Obsolete	To weed out.
aberuncator		A weeding machine.
abet		To instigate or encourage by aid or countenance; -- used in a bad sense of persons and acts; as, to abet an ill-doer; to abet one in his wicked courses; to abet vice; to abet an insurrection.
abetment		The act of abetting; as, an abetment of treason, crime, etc.
abettal		Abetment.
abetter		One who abets; an instigator of an offense or an offender.
abettor		One who abets; an instigator of an offense or an offender.
abevacuation		A partial evacuation.
abeyance		(Law) Expectancy; condition of being undetermined.
abeyancy		Abeyance.
abeyant		Being in a state of abeyance.
abgeordnetenhaus		See Legislature, Austria, Prussia.
abhal		The berries of a species of cypress in the East Indies.
abhominable		Abominable.
abhominal	Obsolete	Inhuman.
abhor		To shrink back with shuddering from; to regard with horror or detestation; to feel excessive repugnance toward; to detest to extremity; to loathe.
abhorrence		Extreme hatred or detestation; the feeling of utter dislike.
abhorrency	Obsolete	Abhorrence.
abhorrent		Abhorring; detesting; having or showing abhorrence; loathing; hence, strongly opposed to; as, abhorrent thoughts.
abhorrently		With abhorrence.
abhorrer		One who abhors.
abhorrible		Detestable.
abhorring		Detestation.
abib		The first month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, corresponding nearly to our April.
abidance		The state of abiding; abode; continuance; compliance (with).
abide		To stay; to continue in a place; to have one's abode; to dwell; to sojourn; -- with with before a person, and commonly with at or in before a place.
abider		One who dwells; a resident.
abiding		Continuing; lasting.
abidingly		Permanently.
abies		A genus of coniferous trees, properly called Fir, as the balsam fir and the silver fir.
abietene		A volatile oil distilled from the resin or balsam of the nut pine (Pinus sabiniana) of California.
abietic		Of or pertaining to the fir tree or its products; as, abietic acid, called also sylvic acid.
abietin		A resinous obtained from Strasburg turpentine or Canada balsam.
abietine		A resinous obtained from Strasburg turpentine or Canada balsam.
abietinic		Of or pertaining to abietin; as, abietinic acid.
abietite		A substance resembling mannite, found in the needles of the common silver fir of Europe (Abies pectinata).
abigail		A lady's waiting-maid.
abiliment	Obsolete	Habiliment.
ability		The quality or state of being able; power to perform, whether physical, moral, intellectual, conventional, or legal; capacity; skill or competence in doing; sufficiency of strength, skill, resources, etc.; -- in the plural…
abime	Obsolete	A abyss.
abiogenesis		The supposed origination of living organisms from lifeless matter; such genesis as does not involve the action of living parents; spontaneous generation; -- called also abiogeny, and opposed to biogenesis.
abiogenetic		Of or pertaining to abiogenesis.
abiogenist		One who believes that life can be produced independently of antecedent.
abiogenous		Produced by spontaneous generation.
abiogeny		Same as Abiogenesis.
abiological		Pertaining to the study of inanimate things.
abirritant		A medicine that diminishes irritation.
abirritate		To diminish the sensibility of; to debilitate.
abirritation		A pathological condition opposite to that of irritation; debility; want of strength; asthenia.
abirritative		Characterized by abirritation or debility.
abit	Obsolete	3d sing. pres. of Abide.
abject	Obsolete	Cast down; low-lying.
abjectedness		A very abject or low condition; abjectness.
abjection		The act of bringing down or humbling.
abjectly		Meanly; servilely.
abjectness		The state of being abject; abasement; meanness; servility.
abjudge		To take away by judicial decision.
abjudicate	Obsolete	To reject by judicial sentence; also, to abjudge.
abjudication		Rejection by judicial sentence.
abjugate	Obsolete	To unyoke.
abjunctive		Exceptional.
abjuration		The act of abjuring or forswearing; a renunciation upon oath; as, abjuration of the realm, a sworn banishment, an oath taken to leave the country and never to return.
abjuratory		Containing abjuration.
abjure		To renounce upon oath; to forswear; to disavow; as, to abjure allegiance to a prince.
abjurement		Renunciation.
abjurer		One who abjures.
ablactate		To wean.
ablactation		The weaning of a child from the breast, or of young beasts from their dam.
ablaqueate	Obsolete	To lay bare, as the roots of a tree.
ablaqueation	Obsolete	The act or process of laying bare the roots of trees to expose them to the air and water.
ablastemic		Non-germinal.
ablation		A carrying or taking away; removal.
ablatitious		Diminishing; as, an ablatitious force.
ablative		(Gram.) Applied to one of the cases of the noun in Latin and some other languages, -- the fundamental meaning of the case being removal, separation, or taking away.
ablaut		The substitution of one root vowel for another, thus indicating a corresponding modification of use or meaning; vowel permutation; as, get, gat, got; sing, song; hang, hung.
ablaze		On fire; in a blaze, gleaming.
able		Having sufficient power, strength, force, skill, means, or resources of any kind to accomplish the object; possessed of qualifications rendering competent for some end; competent; qualified; capable; as, an able workman, soldier…
able-bodied		Having a sound, strong body; physically competent; robust. -- A`ble-bod"ied*ness, n..
able-minded		Having much intellectual power. -- A`ble-mind"ed*ness, n.
ablegate	Obsolete	To send abroad.
ablegation	Obsolete	The act of sending abroad.
ablen		A small fresh-water fish (Leuciscus alburnus); the bleak.
ableness	Obsolete	Ability of body or mind; force; vigor.
ablepsy		Blindness.
abler		comp. of Able. -- A"blest, a., superl. of Able.
ablet		A small fresh-water fish (Leuciscus alburnus); the bleak.
abligate	Obsolete	To tie up so as to hinder from.
abligurition	Obsolete	Prodigal expense for food.
ablins	Scots	Perhaps.
abloom		In or into bloom; in a blooming state.
ablude	Obsolete	To be unlike; to differ.
abluent		Washing away; carrying off impurities; detergent. -- n. (Med.) A detergent.
ablush		Blushing; ruddy.
ablution		The act of washing or cleansing; specifically, the washing of the body, or some part of it, as a religious rite.
ablutionary		Pertaining to ablution.
abluvion		That which is washed off.
ably		In an able manner; with great ability; as, ably done, planned, said.
abnegate		To deny and reject; to abjure.
abnegation		a denial; a renunciation.
abnegative		Denying; renouncing; negative.
abnegator		One who abnegates, denies, or rejects anything.
abnet		The girdle of a Jewish priest or officer.
abnodate		To clear (tress) from knots.
abnodation		The act of cutting away the knots of trees.
abnormal		Not conformed to rule or system; deviating from the type; anomalous; irregular.
abnormality		The state or quality of being abnormal; variation; irregularity.
abnormally		In an abnormal manner; irregularly.
abnormity		Departure from the ordinary type; irregularity; monstrosity.
abnormous		Abnormal; irregular.
aboard		On board; into or within a ship or boat; hence, into or within a railway car.
abodance	Obsolete	An omen; a portending.
abode		of Abide — to stay; to continue in a place; to have one's abode; to dwell; to sojourn; -- with with before a person, and commonly with at or in before a place.
abodement	Obsolete	A foreboding; an omen.
aboding	Obsolete	A foreboding.
abolish		To do away with wholly; to annul; to make void; -- said of laws, customs, institutions, governments, etc.; as, to abolish slavery, to abolish folly.
abolishable		Capable of being abolished.
abolisher		One who abolishes.
abolishment		The act of abolishing; abolition; destruction.
abolition		The act of abolishing, or the state of being abolished; an annulling; abrogation; utter destruction; as, the abolition of slavery or the slave trade; the abolition of laws, decrees, ordinances, customs, taxes, debts, etc.
abolitionism		The principles or measures of abolitionists.
abolitionist		A person who favors the abolition of any institution, especially negro slavery.
abolitionize		To imbue with the principles of abolitionism.
aboma		A large South American serpent (Boa aboma).
abomasum		The fourth or digestive stomach of a ruminant, which leads from the third stomach omasum.
abomasus		The fourth or digestive stomach of a ruminant, which leads from the third stomach omasum.
abominable		Worthy of, or causing, abhorrence, as a thing of evil omen; odious in the utmost degree; very hateful; detestable; loathsome; execrable.
abominableness		The quality or state of being abominable; odiousness.
abominably		In an abominable manner; very odiously; detestably.
abominate		To turn from as ill-omened; to hate in the highest degree, as if with religious dread; loathe; as, to abominate all impiety.
abomination		The feeling of extreme disgust and hatred; abhorrence; detestation; loathing; as, he holds tobacco in abomination.
aboon	Scots	and adv.
aboral		Situated opposite to, or away from, the mouth.
abord	Obsolete	Manner of approaching or accosting; address.
aboriginal		First; original; indigenous; primitive; native; as, the aboriginal tribes of America.
aboriginality		The quality of being aboriginal.
aboriginally		Primarily.
aborigines		The earliest known inhabitants of a country; native races.
aborsement	Obsolete	Abortment; abortion.
aborsive	Obsolete	Abortive.
abort		To miscarry; to bring forth young prematurely.
aborted		Brought forth prematurely.
aborticide		The act of destroying a fetus in the womb; feticide.
abortifacient		Producing miscarriage. -- n.
abortion		The act of giving premature birth; particularly, the expulsion of the human fetus prematurely, or before it is capable of sustaining life; miscarriage.
abortional		Pertaining to abortion; miscarrying; abortive.
abortionist		One who procures abortion or miscarriage.
abortive		Produced by abortion; born prematurely; as, an abortive child.
abortively		In an abortive or untimely manner; immaturely; fruitlessly.
abortiveness		The quality of being abortive.
abortment	Obsolete	Abortion.
abought	Obsolete	of Aby — to pay for; to suffer for; to atone for; to make amends for; to give satisfaction.
abound		To be in great plenty; to be very prevalent; to be plentiful.
about		Around; all round; on every side of. iii. 3.
about-sledge		The largest hammer used by smiths.
above		In or to a higher place; higher than; on or over the upper surface; over; -- opposed to below or beneath.
above-cited		Cited before, in the preceding part of a book or writing.
above-mentioned		Mentioned or named before; aforesaid.
above-named		Mentioned or named before; aforesaid.
aboveboard		Above the board or table. Hence: in open sight; without trick, concealment, or deception.
abovedeck		On deck; and hence, like aboveboard, without artifice.
abovesaid		Mentioned or recited before.
abox		Braced aback.
abra		A narrow pass or defile; a break in a mesa; the mouth of a cañon.
abracadabra		A mystical word or collocation of letters written as in the figure.
abradant		A material used for grinding, as emery, sand, powdered glass, etc.
abrade	Obsolete	To rub or wear off; to waste or wear away by friction; as, to abrade rocks.
abraham-man		One of a set of vagabonds who formerly roamed through England, feigning lunacy for the sake of obtaining alms.
abrahamic		Pertaining to Abraham, the patriarch; as, the Abrachamic covenant.
abrahamitic		Relating to the patriarch Abraham.
abrahamitical		Relating to the patriarch Abraham.
abraid	Obsolete	To awake; to arouse; to stir or start up; also, to shout out.
abram-man		One of a set of vagabonds who formerly roamed through England, feigning lunacy for the sake of obtaining alms.
abranchial		Abranchiate.
abranchiata		A group of annelids, so called because the species composing it have no special organs of respiration.
abranchiate		Without gills.
abrase	Obsolete	Rubbed smooth.
abrasion		The act of abrading, wearing, or rubbing off; the wearing away by friction; as, the abrasion of coins.
abrasive		Producing abrasion.
abraum		A red ocher used to darken mahogany and for making chloride of potassium.
abraxas		A mystical word used as a charm and engraved on gems among the ancients; also, a gem stone thus engraved.
abray	Obsolete	See Abraid — to awake; to arouse; to stir or start up; also, to shout out.
abreaction		See Catharsis, below.
abreast		Side by side, with breasts in a line; as,
abregge	Obsolete	See Abridge — to make shorter; to shorten in duration; to lessen; to diminish; to curtail; as, to abridge labor; to abridge power or rights.
abrenounce	Obsolete	To renounce.
abrenunciation	Obsolete	Absolute renunciation or repudiation.
abreption	Obsolete	A snatching away.
abreuvoir		The joint or interstice between stones, to be filled with mortar.
abricock	Obsolete	See Apricot — a fruit allied to the plum, of an orange color, oval shape, and delicious taste; also, the tree (Prunus Armeniaca of Linnæus) which bears this fruit.
abridge		To make shorter; to shorten in duration; to lessen; to diminish; to curtail; as, to abridge labor; to abridge power or rights.
abridger		One who abridges.
abridgment		The act abridging, or the state of being abridged; diminution; lessening; reduction or deprivation; as, an abridgment of pleasures or of expenses.
abroach		Broached; in a condition for letting out or yielding liquor, as a cask which is tapped.
abroad		At large; widely; broadly; over a wide space; as, a tree spreads its branches abroad.
abrogable		Capable of being abrogated.
abrogate		To annul by an authoritative act; to abolish by the authority of the maker or his successor; to repeal; -- applied to the repeal of laws, decrees, ordinances, the abolition of customs…
abrogation		The act of abrogating; repeal by authority.
abrogative		Tending or designed to abrogate; as, an abrogative law.
abrogator		One who repeals by authority.
abrood	Obsolete	In the act of brooding.
abrook	Obsolete	To brook; to endure.
abrupt		Broken off; very steep, or craggy, as rocks, precipices, banks; precipitous; steep; as, abrupt places.
abruption		A sudden breaking off; a violent separation of bodies.
abruptly		In an abrupt manner; without giving notice, or without the usual forms; suddenly.
abruptness		The state of being abrupt or broken; craggedness; ruggedness; steepness.
abscess		A collection of pus or purulent matter in any tissue or organ of the body, the result of a morbid process.
abscession	Obsolete	A separating; removal; also, an abscess.
abscind		To cut off.
abscision		See Abscission — the act or process of cutting off.
absciss		See Abscissa — one of the elements of reference by which a point, as of a curve, is referred to a system of fixed rectilineal coördinate axes.
abscissa		One of the elements of reference by which a point, as of a curve, is referred to a system of fixed rectilineal coördinate axes.
abscission		The act or process of cutting off.
abscond		To hide, withdraw, or be concealed.
abscondence		Fugitive concealment; secret retirement; hiding.
absconder		One who absconds.
absence		A state of being absent or withdrawn from a place or from companionship; -- opposed to presence.
absent		Being away from a place; withdrawn from a place; not present.
absent-minded		Absent in mind; abstracted; preoccupied. -- Ab`sent-mind ed*ly, adv.
absentaneous	Obsolete	Pertaining to absence.
absentation		The act of absenting one's self.
absentee		One who absents himself from his country, office, post, or duty; especially, a landholder who lives in another country or district than that where his estate is situated; as, an Irish absentee.
absenteeism		The state or practice of an absentee; esp. the practice of absenting one's self from the country or district where one's estate is situated.
absenter		One who absents one's self.
absently		In an absent or abstracted manner.
absentment		The state of being absent; withdrawal.
absentness		The quality of being absent-minded.
absey-book	Obsolete	An A-B-C book; a primer.
absinth		The plant absinthium or common wormwood.
absinthate		A combination of absinthic acid with a base or positive radical.
absinthe		The plant absinthium or common wormwood.
absinthial		Of or pertaining to wormwood; absinthian.
absinthian		Of the nature of wormwood.
absinthiate		To impregnate with wormwood.
absinthiated		Impregnated with wormwood; as, absinthiated wine.
absinthic		Relating to the common wormwood or to an acid obtained from it.
absinthin		The bitter principle of wormwood (Artemisia absinthium).
absinthism		The condition of being poisoned by the excessive use of absinth.
absinthium		The common wormwood (Artemisia absinthium), an intensely bitter plant, used as a tonic and for making the oil of wormwood.
absis		See Apsis — (Astron.) One of the two points of an orbit, as of a planet or satellite, which are at the greatest and least distance from the central body…
absist	Obsolete	To stand apart from; top leave off; to desist.
absistence	Obsolete	A standing aloof.
absolute		Loosed from any limitation or condition; uncontrolled; unrestricted; unconditional; as, absolute authority, monarchy, sovereignty, an absolute promise or command; absolute power; an absolute monarch.
absolutely		In an absolute, independent, or unconditional manner; wholly; positively.
absoluteness		The quality of being absolute; independence of everything extraneous; unlimitedness; absolute power; independent reality; positiveness.
absolution		An absolving, or setting free from guilt, sin, or penalty; forgiveness of an offense.
absolutism		The state of being absolute; the system or doctrine of the absolute; the principles or practice of absolute or arbitrary government; despotism.
absolutist		One who is in favor of an absolute or autocratic government.
absolutistic		Pertaining to absolutism; absolutist.
absolutory		Serving to absolve; absolving.
absolvable		That may be absolved.
absolvatory		Conferring absolution; absolutory.
absolve		To set free, or release, as from some obligation, debt, or responsibility, or from the consequences of guilt or such ties as it would be sin or guilt to violate; to pronounce free; as, to absolve a subject from his allegiance…
absolvent		Absolving.
absolver		One who absolves.
absonant		Discordant; contrary; -- opposed to consonant.
absonous	Obsolete	Discordant; inharmonious; incongruous.
absorb		To suck up; to drink in; to imbibe; as a sponge or as the lacteals of the body.
absorbability		The state or quality of being absorbable.
absorbable		Capable of being absorbed or swallowed up.
absorbedly		In a manner as if wholly engrossed or engaged.
absorbency		Absorptiveness.
absorbent		Absorbing; swallowing; absorptive.
absorber		One who, or that which, absorbs.
absorbing		Swallowing, engrossing; as, an absorbing pursuit. -- Ab*sorb"ing, adv.
absorbition	Obsolete	Absorption.
absorpt		Absorbed.
absorption		The act or process of absorbing or sucking in anything, or of being absorbed and made to disappear; as, the absorption of bodies in a whirlpool, the absorption of a smaller tribe into a larger.
absorptive		Having power, capacity, or tendency to absorb or imbibe.
absorptiveness		The quality of being absorptive; absorptive power.
absorptivity		Absorptiveness.
absquatulate		To take one's self off; to decamp.
abstain		To hold one's self aloof; to forbear or refrain voluntarily, and especially from an indulgence of the passions or appetites; -- with from.
abstainer		One who abstains; esp., one who abstains from the use of intoxicating liquors.
abstemious		Abstaining from wine.
abstemiousness		The quality of being abstemious, temperate, or sparing in the use of food and strong drinks.
abstention		The act of abstaining; a holding aloof.
abstentious		Characterized by abstinence; self-restraining.
absterge		To make clean by wiping; to wipe away; to cleanse; hence, to purge.
abstergent		Serving to cleanse, detergent.
absterse	Obsolete	To absterge; to cleanse; to purge away.
abstersion		Act of wiping clean; a cleansing; a purging.
abstersive		Cleansing; purging.
abstersiveness		The quality of being abstersive.
abstinence		The act or practice of abstaining; voluntary forbearance of any action, especially the refraining from an indulgence of appetite, or from customary gratifications of animal or sensual propensities.
abstinency		Abstinence.
abstinent		Refraining from indulgence, especially from the indulgence of appetite; abstemious; continent; temperate.
abstinently		With abstinence.
abstorted	Obsolete	Wrested away.
abstract		Considered apart from any application to a particular object; separated from matter; exiting in the mind only; as, abstract truth, abstract numbers.
abstracted		Separated or disconnected; withdrawn; removed; apart.
abstractedly		In an abstracted manner; separately; with absence of mind.
abstractedness		The state of being abstracted; abstract character.
abstracter		One who abstracts, or makes an abstract.
abstraction		The act of abstracting, separating, or withdrawing, or the state of being withdrawn; withdrawal.
abstractional		Pertaining to abstraction.
abstractionist		An idealist.
abstractitious	Obsolete	Obtained from plants by distillation.
abstractive		Having the power of abstracting; of an abstracting nature.
abstractively		In a abstract manner; separately; in or by itself.
abstractiveness		The quality of being abstractive; abstractive property.
abstractly		In an abstract state or manner; separately; absolutely; by itself; as, matter abstractly considered.
abstractness		The quality of being abstract.
abstringe	Obsolete	To unbind.
abstrude	Obsolete	To thrust away.
abstruse		Remote from apprehension; difficult to be comprehended or understood; recondite; as, abstruse learning.
abstrusely		In an abstruse manner.
abstruseness		The quality of being abstruse; difficulty of apprehension.
abstrusion		The act of thrusting away.
abstrusity		Abstruseness; that which is abstruse.
absume	Obsolete	To consume gradually; to waste away.
absumption	Obsolete	Act of wasting away; a consuming; extinction.
absurd	Obsolete	Contrary to reason or propriety; obviously and fiatly opposed to manifest truth; inconsistent with the plain dictates of common sense; logically contradictory; nonsensical; ridiculous; as, an absurd person, an absurd opinion…
absurdity		The quality of being absurd or inconsistent with obvious truth, reason, or sound judgment.
absurdly		In an absurd manner.
absurdness		Absurdity.
abuna		The Patriarch, or head of the Abyssinian Church.
abundance		An overflowing fullness; ample sufficiency; great plenty; profusion; copious supply; superfluity; wealth: -- strictly applicable to quantity only, but sometimes used of number.
abundant		Fully sufficient; plentiful; in copious supply; -- followed by in, rarely by with. xxxiv. 6.
abundantly		In a sufficient degree; fully; amply; plentifully; in large measure.
aburst		In a bursting condition.
abusable		That may be abused.
abuse		To put to a wrong use; to misapply; to misuse; to put to a bad use; to use for a wrong purpose or end; to pervert; as, to abuse inherited gold; to make an excessive use of; as, to abuse one's authority.
abuseful		Full of abuse; abusive.
abuser		One who abuses.
abusion		Evil or corrupt usage; abuse; wrong; reproach; deception; cheat.
abusive		Wrongly used; perverted; misapplied.
abusively		In an abusive manner; rudely; with abusive language.
abusiveness		The quality of being abusive; rudeness of language, or violence to the person.
abut		To project; to terminate or border; to be contiguous; to meet; -- with on, upon, or against; as, his land abuts on the road.
abutilon		A genus of malvaceous plants of many species, found in the torrid and temperate zones of both continents; -- called also Indian mallow.
abutment		That on or against which a body abuts or presses; as (a) (Arch.) The solid part of a pier or wall, etc., which receives the thrust or lateral pressure of an arch, vault, or strut.
abuttal		The butting or boundary of land, particularly at the end; a headland.
abutter		One who, or that which, abuts. Specifically, the owner of a contiguous estate; as, the abutters on a street or a river.
abuzz	Colloquial	In a buzz; buzzing.
aby	Obsolete	To pay for; to suffer for; to atone for; to make amends for; to give satisfaction.
abye	Obsolete	To pay for; to suffer for; to atone for; to make amends for; to give satisfaction.
abyme	Obsolete	A abyss.
abysm		An abyss; a gulf.
abysmal		Pertaining to, or resembling, an abyss; bottomless; unending; profound.
abysmally		To a fathomless depth; profoundly.
abyss		A bottomless or unfathomed depth, gulf, or chasm; hence, any deep, immeasurable, and, specifically, hell, or the bottomless pit.
abyssal		Belonging to, or resembling, an abyss; unfathomable.
abyssinian		Of or pertaining to Abyssinia.
