acacia		A roll or bag, filled with dust, borne by Byzantine emperors, as a memento of mortality.	
acacin		Gum arabic.	
acacine		Gum arabic.	
academe	Poetic	An academy.	
academial		Academic.	
academian		A member of an academy, university, or college.	
academic		One holding the philosophy of Socrates and Plato; a Platonist.	
academical		Belonging to the school or philosophy of Plato; as, the Academic sect or philosophy.	
academically		In an academical manner.	
academicals		The articles of dress prescribed and worn at some colleges and universities.	
academician		A member of an academy, or society for promoting science, art, or literature, as of the French Academy, or the Royal Academy of arts.	
academicism		A tenet of the Academic philosophy.	
academism	Obsolete	The doctrines of the Academic philosophy.	
academist		An Academic philosopher.	French académiste.
academy		A garden or grove near Athens (so named from the hero Academus), where Plato and his followers held their philosophical conferences; hence, the school of philosophy of which Plato was head.	French académie, from Latin academia, from Greek Ἀκαδήμια.
acadian		Of or pertaining to Acadie, or Nova Scotia. -- n.	
acajou		(a) The cashew tree; also, its fruit. See Cashew. (b) The mahogany tree; also, its timber.	
acaleph		One of the Acalephæ.	
acalephae		A group of Coelenterata, including the Medusæ or jellyfishes, and hydroids; -- so called from the stinging power they possess.	Latin acalephe.
acalephan		One of the Acalephæ.	
acalephoid		Belonging to or resembling the Acalephæ or jellyfishes.	
acalycine		Without a calyx, or outer floral envelope.	
acalysinous		Without a calyx, or outer floral envelope.	
acanth		Same as Acanthus.	
acantha		(Zoöl.) A spine or prickly fin.	
acanthaceous		Armed with prickles, as a plant.	Latin Acanthaceae.
acanthine		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the plant acanthus.	Latin acanthinus.
acanthocarpous		Having the fruit covered with spines.	
acanthocephala		A group of intestinal worms, having the proboscis armed with recurved spines.	
acanthocephalous		Having a spiny head, as one of the Acanthocephala.	
acanthophorous		Spine-bearing.	
acanthopodious		Having spinous petioles.	
acanthopteri		A group of teleostean fishes having spiny fins. See Acanthopterygii.	
acanthopterous		(Zoöl.) Spiny-winged.	
acanthopterygian		Belonging to the order of fishes having spinose fins, as the perch. -- n.	
acanthopterygii		An order of fishes having some of the rays of the dorsal, ventral, and anal fins unarticulated and spinelike, as the perch.	
acanthopterygious		Having fins in which the rays are hard and spinelike; spiny- finned.	
acanthus		(Bot.) A genus of herbaceous prickly plants, found in the south of Europe, Asia Minor, and India; bear's-breech.	
acapsular		Having no capsule.	
acardiac		Without a heart; as, an acardiac fetus.	
acaridan		One of a group of arachnids, including the mites and ticks.	
acarina		The group of Arachnida which includes the mites and ticks.	
acarine		Of or caused by acari or mites; as, acarine diseases.	
acaroid		Shaped like or resembling a mite.	
acarpellous		Having no carpels.	
acarpous		Not producing fruit; unfruitful.	Greek ἄκαρπος.
acarus		A genus including many species of small mites.	
acatalectic		Not defective; complete; as, an acatalectic verse. -- n.	Latin acatalecticus, from Greek akatalēktikos.
acatalepsy		Incomprehensibility of things; the doctrine held by the ancient Skeptic philosophers, that human knowledge never amounts to certainty, but only to probability.	
acataleptic		Incapable of being comprehended; incomprehensible.	Latin acatalepticus, from Greek ἀκατάληπτος.
acater	Obsolete	See Caterer — one who caters.	
acates	Obsolete	See Cates — provisions; food; viands; especially, luxurious food; delicacies; dainties.	
acaudate		Tailless.	
acaulescent		Having no stem or caulis, or only a very short one concealed in the ground.	
acauline		Same as Acaulescent.	
acaulose		Same as Acaulescent.	
acaulous		Same as Acaulescent.	
accadian		Pertaining to a race supposed to have lived in Babylonia before the Assyrian conquest. -- Ac*ca cad, n.	
accede		To enter upon an office or dignity; to attain.	
accedence		The act of acceding.	
acceder		One who accedes.	
accelerando		Gradually accelerating the movement.	
accelerate		To cause to move faster; to quicken the motion of; to add to the speed of; -- opposed to retard.	
acceleration		The act of accelerating, or the state of being accelerated; increase of motion or action; as, a falling body moves toward the earth with an acceleration of velocity; -- opposed to retardation.	
accelerative		Relating to acceleration; adding to velocity; quickening.	
accelerator		One who, or that which, accelerates.	
acceleratory		Accelerative.	
accelerograph		An apparatus for studying the combustion of powder in guns, etc.	
accelerometer		An apparatus for measuring the velocity imparted by gunpowder.	
accend	Obsolete	To set on fire; to kindle.	
accendibility		Capacity of being kindled, or of becoming inflamed; inflammability.	
accendible		Capable of being inflamed or kindled; combustible; inflammable.	
accension		The act of kindling or the state of being kindled; ignition.	Latin accensionem.
accensor		One of the functionaries who light and trim the tapers.	
accent		A superior force of voice or of articulative effort upon some particular syllable of a word or a phrase, distinguishing it from the others.	
accentless		Without accent.	
accentor		(Zoöl.) A genus of European birds (so named from their sweet notes), including the hedge warbler.	
accentuable		Capable of being accented.	
accentual		Of or pertaining to accent; characterized or formed by accent.	
accentuality		The quality of being accentual.	
accentually		In an accentual manner; in accordance with accent.	
accentuate		To pronounce with an accent or with accents.	
accentuation		Act of accentuating; applications of accent. Specifically (Eccles.	
accept		To receive with a consenting mind (something offered); as, to accept a gift; -- often followed by of.	
acceptability		The quality of being acceptable; acceptableness.	
acceptable		Capable, worthy, or sure of being accepted or received with pleasure; pleasing to a receiver; gratifying; agreeable; welcome; as, an acceptable present, one acceptable to us.	
acceptableness		The quality of being acceptable, or suitable to be favorably received; acceptability.	
acceptably		In an acceptable manner; in a manner to please or give satisfaction.	
acceptance		The act of accepting; a receiving what is offered, with approbation, satisfaction, or acquiescence; esp., favorable reception; approval; as, the acceptance of a gift, office, doctrine…	
acceptancy		Acceptance.	
acceptant		Accepting; receiving.	
acceptation		The meaning in which a word or expression is understood, or generally received; as, term is to be used according to its usual acceptation.	
acceptedly		In a accepted manner; admittedly.	
accepter		A person who accepts; a taker.	
acceptilation		Gratuitous discharge; a release from debt or obligation without payment; free remission.	
acception	Obsolete	Acceptation; the received meaning.	
acceptive		Fit for acceptance.	
acceptor		One who accepts; specifically (Law & Com.), one who accepts an order or a bill of exchange; a drawee after he has accepted.	
access		A coming to, or near approach; admittance; admission; accessibility; as, to gain access to a prince.	
accessarily		In the manner of an accessary.	
accessariness		The state of being accessary.	
accessary		Accompanying, as a subordinate; additional; accessory; esp., uniting in, or contributing to, a crime, but not as chief actor.	
accessibility		The quality of being accessible, or of admitting approach; receptibility.	
accessible		Easy of access or approach; approachable; as, an accessible town or mountain, an accessible person.	
accessibly		In an accessible manner.	
accession		A coming to; the act of acceding and becoming joined; as, a king's accession to a confederacy.	
accessional		Pertaining to accession; additional.	
accessive		Additional.	
accessorial		Of or pertaining to an accessory; as, accessorial agency, accessorial guilt.	
accessorily		In the manner of an accessory; auxiliary.	
accessoriness		The state of being accessory, or connected subordinately.	
accessory		Accompanying as a subordinate; aiding in a secondary way; additional; connected as an incident or subordinate to a principal; contributing or contributory; said of persons and things, and, when of persons, usually in a bad sense…	
acciaccatura		A short grace note, one semitone below the note to which it is prefixed; -- used especially in organ music.	
accidence		The accidents, of inflections of words; the rudiments of grammar.	
accident		Literally, a befalling; an event that takes place without one's foresight or expectation; an undesigned, sudden, and unexpected event; chance; contingency; often…	
accidental		Happening by chance, or unexpectedly; taking place not according to the usual course of things; casual; fortuitous; as, an accidental visit.	
accidentalism		Accidental character or effect.	
accidentality		The quality of being accidental; accidentalness.	
accidentally		In an accidental manner; unexpectedly; by chance; unintentionally; casually; fortuitously; not essentially.	
accidentalness		The quality of being accidental; casualness.	
accidie	Obsolete	Sloth; torpor.	Anglo-Norman accidie.
accipenser		See Acipenser — a genus of ganoid fishes, including the sturgeons, having the body armed with bony scales, and the mouth on the under side of the head.	
accipient		A receiver.	
accipiter		(Zoöl.) A genus of rapacious birds; one of the Accipitres or Raptores.	Latin accipiter.
accipitral		Pertaining to, or of the nature of, a falcon or hawk; hawklike.	
accipitres		The order that includes rapacious birds.	
accipitrine		Like or belonging to the Accipitres; raptorial; hawklike.	
accismus		Affected refusal; coyness.	
accite	Obsolete	To cite; to summon.	Latin accitus.
acclaim		To applaud.	
acclaimer		One who acclaims.	
acclamation		A shout of approbation, favor, or assent; eager expression of approval; loud applause.	
acclamatory		Pertaining to, or expressing approval by, acclamation.	
acclimatable		Capable of being acclimated.	
acclimatation		Acclimatization.	French acclimatation.
acclimate		To habituate to a climate not native; to acclimatize.	
acclimatement		Acclimation.	
acclimation		The process of becoming, or the state of being, acclimated, or habituated to a new climate; acclimatization.	
acclimatizable		Capable of being acclimatized.	
acclimatization		The act of acclimatizing; the process of inuring to a new climate, or the state of being so inured.	
acclimatize		To inure or habituate to a climate different from that which is natural; to adapt to the peculiarities of a foreign or strange climate; said of man, the inferior animals, or plants.	
acclimature		The act of acclimating, or the state of being acclimated.	
acclive	Obsolete	Acclivous.	
acclivitous		Acclivous.	
acclivity		A slope or inclination of the earth, as the side of a hill, considered as ascending, in opposition to declivity, or descending; an upward slope; ascent.	
acclivous		Sloping upward; rising as a hillside; -- opposed to declivous.	
accloy	Obsolete	To fill to satiety; to stuff full; to clog; to overload; to burden. See Cloy.	Old French encloyer.
accoast	Obsolete	To lie or sail along the coast or side of; to accost.	
accoil		(Naut.) To coil together.	
accolade		A ceremony formerly used in conferring knighthood, consisting am embrace, and a slight blow on the shoulders with the flat blade of a sword.	
accombination		A combining together.	
accommodable		That may be accommodated, fitted, or made to agree.	Middle French accomodable.
accommodableness		The quality or condition of being accommodable.	
accommodate		To render fit, suitable, or correspondent; to adapt; to conform; as, to accommodate ourselves to circumstances.	
accommodately		Suitably; fitly.	
accommodateness		Fitness.	
accommodating		Affording, or disposed to afford, accommodation; obliging; as an accommodating man, spirit, arrangement.	
accommodation		The act of fitting or adapting, or the state of being fitted or adapted; adaptation; adjustment; -- followed by to.	
accommodator		He who, or that which, accommodates.	
accompanable	Obsolete	Sociable.	
accompanier		He who, or that which, accompanies.	
accompaniment		That which accompanies; something that attends as a circumstance, or which is added to give greater completeness to the principal thing, or by way of ornament, or for the sake of symmetry.	
accompanist		The performer in music who takes the accompanying part.	
accompany		To go with or attend as a companion or associate; to keep company with; to go along with; -- followed by with or by; as, he accompanied his speech with a bow.	
accompletive		Tending to accomplish.	Latin accompletivus.
accomplice		(Law) An associate in the commission of a crime; a participator in an offense, whether a principal or an accessory.	
accompliceship		The state of being an accomplice.	
accomplicity		The act or state of being an accomplice.	
accomplish		He had accomplished half a league or more.	
accomplishable		Capable of being accomplished; practicable.	
accomplished		Completed; effected; established; as, an accomplished fact.	
accomplisher		One who accomplishes.	
accomplishment		The act of accomplishing; entire performance; completion; fulfillment; as, the accomplishment of an enterprise, of a prophecy, etc.	
accompt		See Account — a reckoning; computation; calculation; enumeration; a record of some reckoning; as, the Julian account of time.	
accomptable		See Accountable — liable to be called on to render an account; answerable; as, every man is accountable to God for his conduct.	
accomptant		See Accountant — one who renders account; one accountable.	
accord		Agreement or concurrence of opinion, will, or action; harmony of mind; consent; assent.	
accordable	Obsolete	Agreeing.	Old French acordable.
accordance		Agreement; harmony; conformity. -- Harmony; unison; coincidence.	
accordancy		Accordance.	
accordant		Agreeing; consonant; harmonious; corresponding; conformable; -- followed by with or to.	
accordantly		In accordance or agreement; agreeably; conformably; -- followed by with or to.	
accorder		One who accords, assents, or concedes.	
according	Obsolete	Agreeing; in agreement or harmony; harmonious.	
accordingly		Agreeably; correspondingly; suitably; in a manner conformable.	
accordion		A small, portable, keyed wind instrument, whose tones are generated by play of the wind upon free metallic reeds.	
accordionist		A player on the accordion.	
accordment	Obsolete	Agreement; reconcilement.	Old French acordement.
accorporate	Obsolete	To unite; to attach; to incorporate.	
accost	Obsolete	To join side to side; to border; hence, to sail along the coast or side of.	
accostable		Approachable; affable.	
accosted		Supported on both sides by other charges; also, side by side.	
accouchement		Delivery in childbed	
accoucheur		A man who assists women in childbirth; a man midwife; an obstetrician.	
accoucheuse		A midwife.	
account		A reckoning; computation; calculation; enumeration; a record of some reckoning; as, the Julian account of time.	Anglo-Norman acounter.
accountability		The state of being accountable; liability to be called on to render an account; accountableness.	
accountable		Liable to be called on to render an account; answerable; as, every man is accountable to God for his conduct.	
accountableness		The quality or state of being accountable; accountability.	
accountably		In an accountable manner.	
accountancy		The art or employment of an accountant.	
accountant		One who renders account; one accountable.	
accountantship		The office or employment of an accountant.	
accouple		To join; to couple.	Old French acopler.
accouplement		The act of coupling, or the state of being coupled; union.	French accouplement.
accourage	Obsolete	To encourage.	
accourt	Obsolete	To treat courteously; to court.	
accouter		To furnish with dress, or equipments, esp. those for military service; to equip; to attire; to array.	
accouterments		Dress; trappings; equipment; specifically, the devices and equipments worn by soldiers.	French accoutrement, from Old French accoustrement.
accoutre		To furnish with dress, or equipments, esp. those for military service; to equip; to attire; to array.	
accoutrements		Dress; trappings; equipment; specifically, the devices and equipments worn by soldiers.	
accoy	Obsolete	To render quiet; to soothe.	
accredit		To put or bring into credit; to invest with credit or authority; to sanction.	
accreditation		The act of accrediting; as, letters of accreditation.	
accrementitial		Pertaining to accremention.	
accrementition		The process of generation by development of blastema, or fission of cells, in which the new formation is in all respect like the individual from which it proceeds.	
accresce		To accrue.	Latin accrescere.
accrescence		Continuous growth; an accretion.	
accrescent		Growing; increasing.	Latin accrescens.
accrete		To grow together.	
accretion		The act of increasing by natural growth; esp. the increase of organic bodies by the internal accession of parts; organic growth.	
accretive		Relating to accretion; increasing, or adding to, by growth.	
accriminate	Obsolete	To accuse of a crime. -- Ac*crim`i*na"tion, n.	
accroach		To usurp, as jurisdiction or royal prerogatives.	
accroachment	Obsolete	An encroachment; usurpation.	
accrual		Accrument.	
accrue	Obsolete	To come to by way of increase; to arise or spring as a growth or result; to be added as increase, profit, or damage, especially as the produce of money lent.	
accruer		The act of accruing; accretion; as, title by accruer.	
accrument		The process of accruing, or that which has accrued; increase.	
accubation		The act or posture of reclining on a couch, as practiced by the ancients at meals.	Latin accubatio.
accumb	Obsolete	To recline, as at table.	Latin accumbere.
accumbency		The state of being accumbent or reclining.	
accumbent		Leaning or reclining, as the ancients did at their meals.	Latin accumbo.
accumber	Obsolete	To encumber.	
accumulate		To heap up in a mass; to pile up; to collect or bring together; to amass; as, to accumulate a sum of money.	
accumulation		The act of accumulating, the state of being accumulated, or that which is accumulated; as, an accumulation of earth, of sand, of evils, of wealth, of honors.	
accumulative		Characterized by accumulation; serving to collect or amass; cumulative; additional. -- Ac*cu mu*la*tive*ness, n.	
accumulator		One who, or that which, accumulates, collects, or amasses.	
accuracy		The state of being accurate; freedom from mistakes, this exemption arising from carefulness; exact conformity to truth, or to a rule or model; precision; exactness; nicety; correctness; as…	
accurate		In exact or careful conformity to truth, or to some standard of requirement, the result of care or pains; free from failure, error, or defect; exact; as, an accurate calculator; an accurate measure; accurate expression…	Latin accuratus.
accurately		In an accurate manner; exactly; precisely; without error or defect.	
accurateness		The state or quality of being accurate; accuracy; exactness; nicety; precision.	
accurse		To devote to destruction; to imprecate misery or evil upon; to curse; to execrate; to anathematize.	Middle English acursien.
accursed		Doomed to destruction or misery; cursed; hence, bad enough to be under the curse; execrable; detestable; exceedingly hateful; -- as, an accursed deed.	
accurst		Doomed to destruction or misery; cursed; hence, bad enough to be under the curse; execrable; detestable; exceedingly hateful; -- as, an accursed deed.	
accusable		Liable to be accused or censured; chargeable with a crime or fault; blamable; -- with of.	Latin accusabilis.
accusal		Accusation.	
accusant		An accuser.	Latin accusans.
accusation		The act of accusing or charging with a crime or with a lighter offense.	
accusatival		Pertaining to the accusative case.	
accusative		Producing accusations; accusatory.	
accusatively		In an accusative manner.	
accusatorial		Accusatory.	
accusatorially		By way accusation.	
accusatory		Pertaining to, or containing, an accusation; as, an accusatory libel.	
accuse		To charge with, or declare to have committed, a crime or offense; (Law) to charge with an offense, judicially or by a public process; - - with of; as, to accuse one of a high crime or misdemeanor.	
accused		Charged with offense; as, an accused person.	
accusement	Obsolete	Accusation.	Old French acusement.
accuser		One who accuses; one who brings a charge of crime or fault.	
accusingly		In an accusing manner.	
accustom		To make familiar by use; to habituate, familiarize, or inure; - - with to.	Old French acoustumer.
accustomable		Habitual; customary; wonted.	
accustomably		According to custom; ordinarily; customarily.	
accustomance	Obsolete	Custom; habitual use.	Old French accoustumance.
accustomarily	Obsolete	Customarily.	
accustomary	Archaic	Usual; customary.	
accustomed		Familiar through use; usual; customary.	
accustomedness		Habituation.	
ace		A unit; a single point or spot on a card or die; the card or die so marked; as, the ace of diamonds.	Middle English as, from Old French as, from Latin as.
aceldama		The potter's field, said to have lain south of Jerusalem, purchased with the bribe which Judas took for betraying his Master, and therefore called the field of blood.	Greek Ἀκελδαμάχ.
acentric		Not centered; without a center.	
acephal		One of the Acephala.	Greek ἀκέφαλος.
acephala		That division of the Mollusca which includes the bivalve shells, like the clams and oysters; -- so called because they have no evident head.	
acephalan		Same as Acephal.	
acephali		A fabulous people reported by ancient writers to have heads.	
acephalist		One who acknowledges no head or superior.	
acephalocyst		A larval entozoön in the form of a subglobular or oval vesicle, or hy datid, filled with fluid, sometimes found in the tissues of man and the lower animals; -- so called from the absence of a head or visible organs on the vesicle.	
acephalocystic		Pertaining to, or resembling, the acephalocysts.	
acephalous		(Zoöl.) Without a distinct head; -- a term applied to bivalve mollusks.	French acéphale, from Greek ἀκέφαλος.
acequia		A canal or trench for irrigating land.	
acerate		A combination of aceric acid with a salifiable base.	
acerb		Sour, bitter, and harsh to the taste, as unripe fruit; sharp and harsh.	Latin acerbus.
acerbate		To sour; to imbitter; to irritate.	Latin acerbatus.
acerbic		Sour or severe.	
acerbitude	Obsolete	Sourness and harshness.	Latin acerbitudo.
acerbity		Sourness of taste, with bitterness and astringency, like that of unripe fruit.	French acerbité, from Latin acerbitas.
aceric		Pertaining to, or obtained from, the maple; as, aceric acid.	
acerose		(a) Having the nature of chaff; chaffy. (b) Needle-shaped, having a sharp, rigid point, as the leaf of the pine.	
acerous		Same as Acerose. (a) Destitute of tentacles, as certain mollusks. (b) Without antennæ, as some insects.	
acerval	Obsolete	Pertaining to a heap.	Latin acervalis.
acervate	Obsolete	To heap up.	Latin acervatus.
acervation		A heaping up; accumulation.	Latin acervatio.
acervative		Heaped up; tending to heap up.	
acervose		Full of heaps.	
acervuline		Resembling little heaps.	
acescence		The quality of being acescent; the process of acetous fermentation; a moderate degree of sourness.	
acescency		The quality of being acescent; the process of acetous fermentation; a moderate degree of sourness.	
acescent		Turning sour; readily becoming tart or acid; slightly sour.	Latin acescens.
acetable	Obsolete	An acetabulum; or about one eighth of a pint.	
acetabular		Cup-shaped; saucer-shaped; acetabuliform.	
acetabulifera		The division of Cephalopoda in which the arms are furnished with cup-shaped suckers, as the cuttlefishes, squids, and octopus; the Dibranchiata.	
acetabuliferous		Furnished with fleshy cups for adhering to bodies, as cuttlefish, etc.	Latin acetabuliferosa.
acetabuliform		Shaped like a shallow; saucer-shaped; as, an acetabuliform calyx.	
acetabulum		(Anat.) (a) The bony cup which receives the head of the thigh bone. (b) The cavity in which the leg of an insect is inserted at its articulation with the body.	Latin acetabulum.
acetal		A limpid, colorless, inflammable liquid from the slow oxidation of alcohol under the influence of platinum black.	
acetaldehyde		Acetic aldehyde. See Aldehyde.	
acetamide		A white crystalline solid, from ammonia by replacement of an equivalent of hydrogen by acetyl.	
acetanilide		A compound of aniline with acetyl, used to allay fever or pain; -- called also antifebrine.	
acetarious		Used in salads; as, acetarious plants.	Latin acetaria.
acetary		An acid pulp in certain fruits, as the pear.	
acetate		A salt formed by the union of acetic acid with a base or positive radical; as, acetate of lead, acetate of potash.	Latin acetum.
acetated		Combined with acetic acid.	
acetic		(a) Of a pertaining to vinegar; producing vinegar; producing vinegar; as, acetic fermentation.	French acétique, from Latin acetum.
acetification		The act of making acetous or sour; the process of converting, or of becoming converted, into vinegar.	
acetifier		An apparatus for hastening acetification.	
acetify		To convert into acid or vinegar.	
acetimeter		An instrument for estimating the amount of acetic acid in vinegar or in any liquid containing acetic acid.	
acetimetry		The act or method of ascertaining the strength of vinegar, or the proportion of acetic acid contained in it.	
acetin		A combination of acetic acid with glycerin.	
acetize		To acetify.	
acetol		Methyl ketol; also, any of various homologues of the same.	
acetometer		Same as Acetimeter.	
acetonaemia		A morbid condition characterized by the presence of acetone in the blood, as in diabetes.	
acetone		A volatile liquid consisting of three parts of carbon, six of hydrogen, and one of oxygen; pyroacetic spirit, -- obtained by the distillation of certain acetates, or by the destructive distillation of citric acid, starch, sugar…	
acetonemia		A morbid condition characterized by the presence of acetone in the blood, as in diabetes.	
acetonic		Of or pertaining to acetone; as, acetonic bodies.	
acetonuria		Excess of acetone in the urine, as in starvation or diabetes.	
acetophenone		A crystalline ketone, CH3COC6H5, which may be obtained by the dry distillation of a mixture of the calcium salts of acetic and benzoic acids.	
acetose		Sour like vinegar; acetous.	
acetosity		The quality of being acetous; sourness.	
acetous		Having a sour taste; sour; acid.	Latin acetum.
acetyl		A complex, hypothetical radical, composed of two parts of carbon to three of hydrogen and one of oxygen.	
acetylene		A gaseous compound of carbon and hydrogen, in the proportion of two atoms of the former to two of the latter.	French acétylène.
ach	Obsolete	A name given to several species of plants; as, smallage, wild celery, parsley.	French ache, from Latin apium.
achaean		Of or pertaining to Achaia in Greece; also, Grecian. -- n.	
achaian		Of or pertaining to Achaia in Greece; also, Grecian. -- n.	
acharnement		Savage fierceness; ferocity.	French acharnement.
achate	Obsolete	Purchase; bargaining.	Old French achat.
achatina		A genus of land snails, often large, common in the warm parts of America and Africa.	
achatour	Obsolete	Purveyor; acater.	Old French achateor.
ache	Obsolete	A name given to several species of plants; as, smallage, wild celery, parsley.	Middle English aken.
achean		See Achæan, Achaian.	
achene		A small, dry, indehiscent fruit, containing a single seed, as in the buttercup; -- called a naked seed by the earlier botanists.	
achenial		Pertaining to an achene.	
achenium		A small, dry, indehiscent fruit, containing a single seed, as in the buttercup; -- called a naked seed by the earlier botanists.	
acheron		A river in the Nether World or infernal regions; also, the infernal regions themselves.	
acherontic		Of or pertaining to Acheron; infernal; hence, dismal, gloomy; moribund.	
achievable		Capable of being achieved.	
achievance	Obsolete	Achievement.	Old French achevance.
achieve		To carry on to a final close; to bring out into a perfected state; to accomplish; to perform; -- as, to achieve a feat, an exploit, an enterprise.	Anglo-Norman aschever.
achievement		The act of achieving or performing; an obtaining by exertion; successful performance; accomplishment; as, the achievement of his object.	Old French achevement.
achiever		One who achieves; a winner.	
achillean		Resembling Achilles, the hero of the Iliad; invincible.	
achilous		Without a lip.	
aching		That aches; continuously painful. See Ache. -- Ach"ing*ly, adv.	
achiote		Seeds of the annotto tree; also, the coloring matter, annotto.	Spanish achiote, from Classical Nahuatl achiotl.
achlamydate		Not possessing a mantle; -- said of certain gastropods.	
achlamydeous		Naked; having no floral envelope, neither calyx nor corolla.	
acholia		Deficiency or want of bile.	
acholous		Lacking bile.	
achromatic		(Opt.) Free from color; transmitting light without decomposing it into its primary colors.	Greek ἀχρωμάτιστος.
achromatically		In an achromatic manner.	
achromaticity		Achromatism.	
achromatin		Tissue which is not stained by fluid dyes.	
achromatism		The state or quality of being achromatic; as, the achromatism of a lens; achromaticity.	
achromatization		The act or process of achromatizing.	
achromatize		To deprive of color; to make achromatic.	
achromatopsy		Color blindness; inability to distinguish colors; Daltonism.	
achromatous		Lacking, or deficient in, color; as, achromatous blood.	
achromic		Free from color; colorless; as, in Physiol. Chem., the achromic point of a starch solution acted upon by an amylolytic enzyme is the point at which it fails to give any color with iodine.	
achronic		See Acronyc — rising at sunset and setting at sunrise, as a star; -- opposed to cosmical.	
achroodextrin		Dextrin not colorable by iodine. See Dextrin.	
achrooedextrin		Dextrin not colorable by iodine. See Dextrin.	
achroous		Colorless; achromatic.	Greek ἄχροος.
achrophony		The use of a picture symbol of an object to represent phonetically the initial sound of the name of the object.	
achylous		Without chyle.	Greek ἄχυλος.
achymous		Without chyme.	Greek ἄχυμος.
acicula		One of the needlelike or bristlelike spines or prickles of some animals and plants; also, a needlelike crystal.	Latin acicula.
acicular		Needle-shaped; slender like a needle or bristle, as some leaves or crystals; also, having sharp points like needless.	Latin acicula.
aciculate		(a) Furnished with aciculæ. (b) Acicular. (c) Marked with fine irregular streaks as if scratched by a needle.	
aciculated		(a) Furnished with aciculæ. (b) Acicular. (c) Marked with fine irregular streaks as if scratched by a needle.	
aciculiform		Needle-shaped; acicular.	
aciculite		Needle ore.	Latin acicula.
acid		Sour, sharp, or biting to the taste; tart; having the taste of vinegar: as, acid fruits or liquors.	French acide.
acidic		Containing a high percentage of silica; -- opposed to basic. an acidic solution.	
acidiferous		Containing or yielding an acid.	
acidifiable		Capable of being acidified, or converted into an acid.	
acidific		Producing acidity; converting into an acid.	
acidification		The act or process of acidifying, or changing into an acid.	
acidifier		A simple or compound principle, whose presence is necessary to produce acidity, as oxygen, chlorine, bromine, iodine, etc.	
acidify		To make acid; to convert into an acid; as, to acidify sugar.	
acidimeter		An instrument for ascertaining the strength of acids.	
acidimetry		The measurement of the strength of acids, especially by a chemical process based on the law of chemical combinations, or the fact that, to produce a complete reaction…	
acidity		The quality of being sour; sourness; tartness; sharpness to the taste; as, the acidity of lemon juice.	French acidité, from Latin aciditātem.
acidly		Sourly; tartly.	
acidness		Acidity; sourness.	
acidulate		To make sour or acid in a moderate degree; to sour somewhat.	
acidulent		Having an acid quality; sour; acidulous.	
acidulous		Slightly sour; sub-acid; sourish; as, an acidulous tincture.	Latin acidulus.
acierage		The process of coating the surface of a metal plate (as a stereotype plate) with steellike iron by means of voltaic electricity; steeling.	French aciérage.
aciform		Shaped like a needle.	
acinaceous		Containing seeds or stones of grapes, or grains like them.	
acinaces		A short sword or saber.	
acinaciform		Scimeter-shaped; as, an acinaciform leaf.	
acinesia		Same as Akinesia.	
acinetae		A group of suctorial Infusoria, which in the adult stage are stationary.	
acinetiform		Resembling the Acinetæ.	
aciniform		Having the form of a cluster of grapes; clustered like grapes.	
acinose		Consisting of acini, or minute granular concretions; as, acinose or acinous glands.	Latin acinosus.
acinous		Consisting of acini, or minute granular concretions; as, acinose or acinous glands.	
acinus		(Bot.) (a) One of the small grains or drupelets which make up some kinds of fruit, as the blackberry, raspberry, etc. (b) A grapestone.	Latin acinus.
acipenser		A genus of ganoid fishes, including the sturgeons, having the body armed with bony scales, and the mouth on the under side of the head.	
aciurgy		Operative surgery.	
acknow	Obsolete	To recognize.	Middle English aknowen, from Old English acnawan.
acknowledge		To of or admit the knowledge of; to recognize as a fact or truth; to declare one's belief in; as, to acknowledge the being of a God.	
acknowledgedly		Confessedly.	
acknowledger		One who acknowledges.	
acknowledgment		The act of acknowledging; admission; avowal; owning; confession.	
aclinic		Without inclination or dipping; -- said the magnetic needle balances itself horizontally, having no dip.	Greek ἀκλινής.
acme		The top or highest point; the culmination.	Greek ἀκμή.
acne		A pustular affection of the skin, due to changes in the sebaceous glands.	
acnodal		Pertaining to acnodes.	
acnode		An isolated point not upon a curve, but whose coördinates satisfy the equation of the curve so that it is considered as belonging to the curve.	
acock		In a cocked or turned up fashion.	
acockbill		(a) Hanging at the cathead, ready to let go, as an anchor. (b) Topped up; having one yardarm higher than the other.	
acologic		Pertaining to acology.	
acology		Materia medica; the science of remedies.	
acolothist		See Acolythist — an acolyte.	
acolyctine		An organic base, in the form of a white powder, obtained from Aconitum lycoctonum.	
acolyte		(Eccl.) One who has received the highest of the four minor orders in the Catholic church, being ordained to carry the wine and water and the lights at the Mass.	Latin acolythus.
acolyth		Same as Acolyte.	
acolythist	Obsolete	An acolyte.	
aconddylose		Being without joints; jointless.	
acondylous		Being without joints; jointless.	
aconital		Of the nature of aconite.	
aconite		(Bot.) The herb wolfsbane, or monkshood; -- applied to any plant of the genus Aconitum (tribe Hellebore), all the species of which are poisonous.	French aconit, from Latin aconitum, from Greek ἀκόνιτον.
aconitia		Same as Aconitine.	
aconitic		Of or pertaining to aconite.	
aconitine		An intensely poisonous alkaloid, extracted from aconite.	
aconitum		The poisonous herb aconite; also, an extract from it.	Latin aconitum, from Greek ἀκόνιτον.
acontia		Threadlike defensive organs, composed largely of nettling cells (cnidæ), thrown out of the mouth or special pores of certain Actiniæ when irritated.	
acontias		Anciently, a snake, called dart snake; now, one of a genus of reptiles closely allied to the lizards.	
acopic		Relieving weariness; restorative.	
acorn		The fruit of the oak, being an oval nut growing in a woody cup or cupule.	Middle English acorne.
acorn-shell		One of the sessile cirripeds; a barnacle of the genus Balanus. See Barnacle.	
acorned		Furnished or loaded with acorns.	
acosmism		A denial of the existence of the universe as distinct from God.	
acosmist		One who denies the existence of the universe, or of a universe as distinct from God.	
acotyledon		A plant which has no cotyledons, as the dodder and all flowerless plants.	
acotyledonous		Having no seed lobes, as the dodder; also applied to plants which have no true seeds, as ferns, mosses, etc.	
acouchy		A small species of agouti (Dasyprocta acouchy).	French acouchi.
acoumeter		An instrument for measuring the acuteness of the sense of hearing.	
acoumetry		The measuring of the power or extent of hearing.	
acoustic		Pertaining to the sense of hearing, the organs of hearing, or the science of sounds; auditory.	French acoustique, from Greek ακουστικός.
acoustical		Of or pertaining to acoustics.	
acoustically		In relation to sound or to hearing.	
acoustician		One versed in acoustics.	
acoustics		The science of sounds, teaching their nature, phenomena, and laws.	French acoustique, from Greek ακουστικός.
acquaint		To furnish or give experimental knowledge of; to make (one) to know; to make familiar; -- followed by with.	Middle English aqueinten.
acquaintable	Obsolete	Easy to be acquainted with; affable.	
acquaintance		A state of being acquainted, or of having intimate, or more than slight or superficial, knowledge; personal knowledge gained by intercourse short of that of friendship or intimacy; as, I know the man…	Old French acointance.
acquaintanceship		A state of being acquainted; acquaintance.	
acquaintant		An acquaintance.	
acquainted		Personally known; familiar. See To be acquainted with, under Acquaint, v. t.	
acquaintedness		State of being acquainted; degree of acquaintance.	
acquest		Acquisition; the thing gained.	Old French aquest.
acquiesce		To rest satisfied, or apparently satisfied, or to rest without opposition and discontent (usually implying previous opposition or discontent); to accept or consent by silence or by omitting to object; -- followed by in…	Middle French acquiescer.
acquiescence		A silent or passive assent or submission, or a submission with apparent content; -- distinguished from avowed consent on the one hand, and on the other, from opposition or open discontent; quiet satisfaction.	French acquiescence.
acquiescency		The quality of being acquiescent; acquiescence.	
acquiescent		Resting satisfied or submissive; disposed tacitly to submit; assentive; as, an acquiescent policy.	
acquiescently		In an acquiescent manner.	
acquiet	Obsolete	To quiet.	
acquirability		The quality of being acquirable; attainableness.	
acquirable		Capable of being acquired.	
acquire		To gain, usually by one's own exertions; to get as one's own; as, to acquire a title, riches, knowledge, skill, good or bad habits.	Middle English aqueren, from Old French aquerre.
acquirement		The act of acquiring, or that which is acquired; attainment.	
acquirer		A person who acquires.	
acquiry	Obsolete	Acquirement.	
acquisite	Obsolete	Acquired.	
acquisition		The thing acquired or gained; an acquirement; a gain; as, learning is an acquisition.	
acquisitive		Able or disposed to make acquisitions; acquiring; as, an acquisitive person or disposition.	
acquisitively		In the way of acquisition.	
acquisitiveness		The quality of being acquisitive; propensity to acquire property; desire of possession.	
acquisitor		One who acquires.	
acquist		Acquisition; gain.	
acquit		To discharge, as a claim or debt; to clear off; to pay off; to requite.	Middle English aquiten, from Old French aquiter.
acquitment	Obsolete	Acquittal.	
acquittal		The act of acquitting; discharge from debt or obligation; acquittance.	
acquittance		The clearing off of debt or obligation; a release or discharge from debt or other liability.	
acquitter		One who acquits or releases.	
acrania		(Physiol.) Partial or total absence of the skull.	
acranial		Wanting a skull.	
acrase	Obsolete	To craze.	
acrasia	Obsolete	Excess; intemperance.	
acraspeda		A group of acalephs, including most of the larger jellyfishes; the Discophora.	
acrasy	Obsolete	Excess; intemperance.	
acraze	Obsolete	To craze.	
acre		A piece of land, containing 160 square rods, or 4,840 square yards, or 43,560 square feet.	Middle English acre.
acreable		Of an acre; per acre; as, the acreable produce.	
acreage		Acres collectively; as, the acreage of a farm or a country.	
acred		Possessing acres or landed property; -- used in composition; as, large-acred men.	
acrid		Sharp and harsh, or bitter and not, to the taste; pungent; as, acrid salts.	Latin acris.
acridity		The quality of being acrid or pungent; irritant bitterness; acrimony; as, the acridity of a plant, of a speech.	
acridly		In an acid manner.	
acridness		The quality of being acrid or pungent; irritant bitterness; acrimony; as, the acridity of a plant, of a speech.	
acrimonious		Caustic; bitter-tempered' sarcastic; as, acrimonious dispute, language, temper.	
acrimoniously		In an acrimonious manner.	
acrimoniousness		The quality of being acrimonious; asperity; acrimony.	
acrimony		Sharpness or severity, as of language or temper; irritating bitterness of disposition or manners.	Middle French acrimonie, from Latin acrimonia.
acrisia	Obsolete	(Med.) Undecided character of a disease.	
acrisy	Obsolete	(Med.) Undecided character of a disease.	
acrita		The lowest groups of animals, in which no nervous system has been observed.	
acritan		Of or pertaining to the Acrita. -- n.	
acrite		Acritan.	
acritical		Having no crisis; giving no indications of a crisis; as, acritical symptoms, an acritical abscess.	
acritochromacy		Color blindness; achromatopsy.	
acritude	Obsolete	Acridity; pungency joined with heat.	
acrity	Obsolete	Sharpness; keenness.	Latin acritas.
acroamatic		Communicated orally; oral; -- applied to the esoteric teachings of Aristotle, those intended for his genuine disciples, in distinction from his exoteric doctrines, which were adapted to outsiders or the public generally.	Greek ἀκροαματικός.
acroamatical		Communicated orally; oral; -- applied to the esoteric teachings of Aristotle, those intended for his genuine disciples, in distinction from his exoteric doctrines, which were adapted to outsiders or the public generally.	
acroatic		Same as Acroamatic.	Greek ἀκροατικός.
acrobat		One who practices rope dancing, high vaulting, or other daring gymnastic feats.	French acrobate, from Greek ἀκροβάτης.
acrobatic		Pertaining to an acrobat. -- Ac`ro*bat"ic*al*ly, adv.	
acrobatism		Feats of the acrobat; daring gymnastic feats; high vaulting.	
acrocarpous		(a) Having a terminal fructification; having the fruit at the end of the stalk.	
acrocephalic		Characterized by a high skull.	
acrocephaly		Loftiness of skull.	
acroceraunian		Of or pertaining to the high mountain range of peaks (now Kimara), between Epirus and Macedonia.	
acrodactylum		The upper surface of the toes, individually.	
acrodont		One of a group of lizards having the teeth immovably united to the top of the alveolar ridge. -- a.	
acrogen		A plant of the highest class of cryptograms, including the ferns, etc. See Cryptogamia.	
acrogenous		Increasing by growth from the extremity; as, an acrogenous plant.	
acrolein		A limpid, colorless, highly volatile liquid, obtained by the dehydration of glycerin, or the destructive distillation of neutral fats containing glycerin.	
acrolith		A statue whose extremities are of stone, the trunk being generally of wood.	
acrolithan		Pertaining to, or like, an acrolith.	
acrolithic		Pertaining to, or like, an acrolith.	
acromegaly		Chronic enlargement of the extremities and face.	French acromégalie, from Latin acromegalia.
acromial		Of or pertaining to the acromion.	
acromion		The outer extremity of the shoulder blade.	
acromonogrammatic		Having each verse begin with the same letter as that with which the preceding verse ends.	
acronyc		Rising at sunset and setting at sunrise, as a star; -- opposed to cosmical.	
acronycally		In an acronycal manner as rising at the setting of the sun, and vise versâ.	
acronychal		Rising at sunset and setting at sunrise, as a star; -- opposed to cosmical.	
acronyctous		Acronycal.	
acrook		Crookedly.	
acropetal		Developing from below towards the apex, or from the circumference towards the center; centripetal; -- said of certain inflorescence.	
acrophony		The use of a picture symbol of an object to represent phonetically the initial sound of the name of the object.	
acropodium		The entire upper surface of the foot.	
acropolis		The upper part, or the citadel, of a Grecian city; especially, the citadel of Athens.	Greek ἀκρόπολις.
acropolitan		Pertaining to an acropolis.	
acrospire		The sprout at the end of a seed when it begins to germinate; the plumule in germination; -- so called from its spiral form.	
acrospore		A spore borne at the extremity of the cells of fructification in fungi.	
acrosporous		Having acrospores.	
across		From side to side; athwart; crosswise, or in a direction opposed to the length; quite over; as, a bridge laid across a river.	Middle English acros.
acrostic		A composition, usually in verse, in which the first or the last letters of the lines, or certain other letters, taken in order, form a name, word, phrase, or motto.	Greek ἀκροστιχίς.
acrostical		Pertaining to, or characterized by, acrostics.	
acrostically		After the manner of an acrostic.	
acrotarsium		The instep or front of the tarsus.	
acroteleutic		The end of a verse or psalm, or something added thereto, to be sung by the people, by way of a response.	
acroter		Same as Acroterium.	French acrotère.
acroterial		Pertaining to an acroterium; as, ornaments.	
acroterium		(a) One of the small pedestals, for statues or other ornaments, placed on the apex and at the basal angles of a pediment.	
acrotic		Pertaining to or affecting the surface.	
acrotism		Lack or defect of pulsation.	
acrotomous		Having a cleavage parallel with the base.	
acrylic		Of or containing acryl, the hypothetical radical of which acrolein is the hydride; as, acrylic acid.	
act		That which is done or doing; the exercise of power, or the effect, of which power exerted is the cause; a performance; a deed.	Old French acte, from Latin acta, from Greek ἀκτή.
actable		Capable of being acted.	
actinal		Pertaining to the part of a radiate animal which contains the mouth.	
actinaria		A large division of Anthozoa, including those which have simple tentacles and do not form stony corals.	
acting		Operating in any way.	
actinia		(a) An animal of the class Anthozoa, and family Actinidæ.	
actinic		Of or pertaining to actinism; as, actinic rays.	
actiniform		Having a radiated form, like a sea anemone.	
actinism		The property of radiant energy (found chiefly in solar or electric light) by which chemical changes are produced, as in photography.	
actinium		A supposed metal, said by Phipson to be contained in commercial zinc; -- so called because certain of its compounds are darkened by exposure to light.	
actino-chemistry		Chemistry in its relations to actinism.	
actinogram		A record made by the actinograph.	
actinograph		An instrument for measuring and recording the variations in the actinic or chemical force of rays of light.	
actinoid		Having the form of rays; radiated, as an actinia.	
actinolite		A bright green variety of amphibole occurring usually in fibrous or columnar masses.	
actinolitic		Of the nature of, or containing, actinolite.	
actinology		The science which treats of rays of light, especially of the actinic or chemical rays.	
actinomere		One of the radial segments composing the body of one of the Coelenterata.	
actinometer		(a) An instrument for measuring the direct heating power of the sun's rays.	
actinometric		Pertaining to the measurement of the intensity of the solar rays, either (a) heating, or (b) actinic.	
actinometry		The measurement of the force of solar radiation.	
actinomycosis		A chronic infectious disease of cattle and man due to the presence of Actinomyces bovis.	
actinophone		An apparatus for the production of sound by the action of the actinic, or ultraviolet, rays.	
actinophonic		Pertaining to, or causing the production of, sound by means of the actinic, or ultraviolet, rays; as, actinophonic phenomena.	
actinophorous		Having straight projecting spines.	
actinosome		The entire body of a coelenterate.	
actinost		(Anat.) One of the bones at the base of a paired fin of a fish.	
actinostome		The mouth or anterior opening of a coelenterate animal.	
actinotrocha		A peculiar larval form of Phoronis, a genus of marine worms, having a circle of ciliated tentacles.	
actinozoa		A group of Coelenterata, comprising the Anthozoa Ctenophora.	
actinozoal		Of or pertaining to the Actinozoa.	
actinozooen		One of the Actinozoa.	
actinozoon		One of the Actinozoa.	
actinula		A kind of embryo of certain hydroids (Tubularia), having a stellate form.	
action		A process or condition of acting or moving, as opposed to rest; the doing of something; exertion of power or force, as when one body acts on another; the effect of power exerted on one body by another; agency; activity…	Middle English accion, from Old French action, from Latin actio.
actionable		That may be the subject of an action or suit at law; as, to call a man a thief is actionable.	
actionably		In an actionable manner.	
actionary	Obsolete	A shareholder in joint-stock company.	
actionist	Obsolete	A shareholder in joint-stock company.	
actionless		Void of action.	
activate	Obsolete	To make active.	
active		Having the power or quality of acting; causing change; communicating action or motion; acting; -- opposed to Ant: passive, that receives; as, certain active principles; the powers of the mind.	Middle English actif, from Old French actif, from Latin activus.
actively		In an active manner; nimbly; briskly; energetically; also, by one's own action; voluntarily, not passively.	
activeness		The quality of being active; nimbleness; quickness of motion; activity.	
activity		The state or quality of being active; nimbleness; agility; vigorous action or operation; energy; active force; as, an increasing variety of human activities. -- Liveliness; briskness; quickness.	Middle French activité, from Latin activitas.
actless		Without action or spirit.	
acton	Obsolete	A stuffed jacket worn under the mail, or (later) a jacket plated with mail.	
actor		One who acts, or takes part in any affair; a doer.	Latin actor.
actress		A female stageplayer; a woman who acts a part.	
actual		Existing in act or reality; really acted or acting; in fact; real; -- opposed to potential, possible, virtual, speculative, coceivable, theoretical, or nominal; as, the actual cost of goods; the actual case under discussion.	Middle English actual.
actualist		One who deals with or considers actually existing facts and conditions, rather than fancies or theories; -- opposed to idealist.	
actuality		The state of being actual; reality; as, the actuality of God's nature.	
actualization		A making actual or really existent.	
actualize		To make actual; to realize in action.	
actually		In act or in fact; really; in truth; positively.	
actualness		Quality of being actual; actuality.	
actuarial		Of or pertaining to actuaries; as, the actuarial value of an annuity.	
actuary		(Law) A registar or clerk; -- used originally in courts of civil law jurisdiction, but in Europe used for a clerk or registar generally.	Latin actuarius.
actuate		To put into action or motion; to move or incite to action; to influence actively; to move as motives do; -- more commonly used of persons.	Latin actuatus.
actuation		A bringing into action; movement.	
actuator		One who actuates, or puts into action.	
actuose	Obsolete	Very active.	Latin actuosus.
actuosity	Obsolete	Abundant activity.	
acturience		Tendency or impulse to act.	Latin agere.
acuate	Obsolete	To sharpen; to make pungent; to quicken.	
acuation		Act of sharpening.	
acuition	Obsolete	The act of sharpening.	
acuity		Sharpness or acuteness, as of a needle, wit, etc.	Middle French acuité, from Latin acuitas.
aculeate		(Zoöl.) Having a sting; covered with prickles; sharp like a prickle.	
aculeated		Having a sharp point; armed with prickles; prickly; aculeate.	
aculeiform		Like a prickle.	
aculeolate		Having small prickles or sharp points.	
aculeous	Obsolete	Aculeate.	Latin aculeus.
aculeus		(Bot.) A prickle growing on the bark, as in some brambles and roses.	Latin aculeus.
acumen		Quickness of perception or discernment; penetration of mind; the faculty of nice discrimination.	Latin acumen.
acuminate		Tapering to a point; pointed; as, acuminate leaves, teeth, etc. To render sharp or keen.	
acumination		A sharpening; termination in a sharp point; a tapering point.	
acuminose		Terminating in a flat, narrow end.	
acuminous		Characterized by acumen; keen.	
acupressure		A mode of arresting hemorrhage resulting from wounds or surgical operations, by passing under the divided vessel a needle, the ends of which are left exposed externally on the cutaneous surface.	
acupuncturation		See Acupuncture — pricking with a needle; a needle prick. Specifically (Med.): The insertion of needles into the living tissues for remedial purposes.	
acupuncture		Pricking with a needle; a needle prick. Specifically (Med.): The insertion of needles into the living tissues for remedial purposes.	
acustumaunce	Obsolete	See Accustomance — custom; habitual use.	
acutangular		Acute-angled.	
acute		Sharp at the end; ending in a sharp point; pointed; -- opposed to blunt or obtuse; as, an acute angle; an acute leaf.	Latin acutus.
acute-angled		Having acute angles; as, an acute-angled triangle, a triangle with every one of its angles less than a right angle.	
acutely		In an acute manner; sharply; keenly; with nice discrimination.	
acuteness		The quality of being acute or pointed; sharpness; as, the acuteness of an angle.	
acutifoliate		Having sharp-pointed leaves.	
acutilobate		Having acute lobes, as some leaves.	
acutorsion		The twisting of an artery with a needle to arrest hemorrhage.	
acyclic		Not cyclic; not disposed in cycles or whorls; as: (a) (Bot.) Of a flower, having its parts inserted spirally on the receptacle.	
acyl		An acid radical, as acetyl, malonyl, or benzoyl.	
