ad-		As a prefix ad- assumes the forms ac-, af-, ag-, al-, an-, ap-, ar-, as-, at-, assimilating the d with the first letter of the word to which ad- is prefixed.	
adact	Obsolete	To compel; to drive.	
adactyl		(a) Without fingers or without toes. (b) Without claws on the feet (of crustaceous animals).	
adactylous		(a) Without fingers or without toes. (b) Without claws on the feet (of crustaceous animals).	
adage		An old saying, which has obtained credit by long use; a proverb.	French adage, from Latin adagium.
adagial		Pertaining to an adage; proverbial.	
adagio		Slow; slowly, leisurely, and gracefully.	
adam		The name given in the Bible to the first man, the progenitor of the human race.	
adamant		A stone imagined by some to be of impenetrable hardness; a name given to the diamond and other substance of extreme hardness; but in modern minerology it has no technical signification.	Latin adamantem.
adamantean		Of adamant; hard as adamant.	
adamantine		Made of adamant, or having the qualities of adamant; incapable of being broken, dissolved, or penetrated; as, adamantine bonds or chains.	Latin adamantinus, from Greek ἀδαμάντινος.
adambulacral		Next to the ambulacra; as, the adambulacral ossicles of the starfish.	
adamic		Of or pertaining to Adam, or resembling him.	
adamical		Of or pertaining to Adam, or resembling him.	
adamite		A descendant of Adam; a human being.	
adance		Dancing.	
adangle		Dangling.	
adansonia		A genus of great trees related to the Bombax.	
adapt	Obsolete	Fitted; suited.	Middle French adapter, from Latin adaptare.
adaptability		The quality of being adaptable; suitableness.	
adaptable		Capable of being adapted.	
adaptableness		The quality of being adaptable; suitableness.	
adaptation		The act or process of adapting, or fitting; or the state of being adapted or fitted; fitness.	French adaptation, from Latin adaptatio.
adaptative		Adaptive.	
adaptedness		The state or quality of being adapted; suitableness; special fitness.	
adapter		One who adapts.	
adaption		Adaptation.	
adaptive		Suited, given, or tending, to adaptation; characterized by adaptation; capable of adapting.	
adaptiveness		The quality of being adaptive; capacity to adapt.	
adaptly		In a suitable manner.	
adaptness		Adaptedness.	
adaptorial		Adaptive.	
adar		The twelfth month of the Hebrew ecclesiastical year, and the sixth of the civil.	
adarce		A saltish concretion on reeds and grass in marshy grounds in Galatia.	Latin adarce.
adatis		A fine cotton cloth of India.	
adaunt	Obsolete	To daunt; to subdue; to mitigate.	
adaw	Obsolete	To subdue; to daunt.	
adays	Obsolete	By day, or every day; in the daytime.	
add		To give by way of increased possession (to any one); to bestow (on).	Latin addere.
addable		Addible.	
addax		One of the largest African antelopes (Hippotragus, or Oryx, nasomaculatus).	
addeem	Obsolete	To award; to adjudge.	
addendum		A thing to be added; an appendix or addition.	
adder		One who, or that which, adds; esp., a machine for adding numbers.	Middle English addere.
adderwort		The common bistort or snakeweed (Polygonum bistorta).	
addibility		The quantity of being addible; capability of addition.	
addible		Capable of being added.	
addice	Obsolete	See Adze — a carpenter's or cooper's tool, formed with a thin arching blade set at right angles to the handle.	
addict		To apply habitually; to devote; to habituate; -- with to.	Latin addictus.
addictedness		The quality or state of being addicted; attachment.	
addiction		The state of being addicted; devotion; inclination.	
additament		An addition, or a thing added.	Latin additamentum.
addition		The act of adding two or more things together; -- opposed to subtraction or diminution.	
additional		Added; supplemental; in the way of an addition.	
additionally		By way of addition.	
additionary		Additional.	
addititious		Additive.	
additive		Proper to be added; positive; -- opposed to subtractive.	Latin additivus.
additory		Tending to add; making some addition.	
addle	Obsolete	Liquid filth; mire.	Middle English addlen, from Old English edlean.
addle-brain	Colloquial	A foolish or dull-witted fellow.	
addle-brained		Dull-witted; stupid.	
addle-head	Colloquial	A foolish or dull-witted fellow.	
addle-headed		Dull-witted; stupid.	
addle-pate	Colloquial	A foolish or dull-witted fellow.	
addle-pated		Dull-witted; stupid.	
addle-patedness		Stupidity.	
addlings	English dialect	Earnings.	
addoom	Obsolete	To adjudge.	
addorsed		Set or turned back to back.	
address		Reflexively: To prepare one's self; to apply one's skill or energies (to some object); to betake.	Middle English adressen, from Old French adrecier.
addressee		One to whom anything is addressed.	
addression	Rare & obs	The act of addressing or directing one's course.	
adduce		To bring forward or offer, as an argument, passage, or consideration which bears on a statement or case; to cite; to allege.	Latin adducere.
adducent		Bringing together or towards a given point; -- a word applied to those muscles of the body which pull one part towards another.	Latin adducens.
adducer		One who adduces.	
adducible		Capable of being adduced.	
adduct		To draw towards a common center or a middle line.	Latin adductus.
adduction		The act of adducing or bringing forward.	
adductive		Adducing, or bringing towards or to something.	
adductor		A muscle which draws a limb or part of the body toward the middle line of the body, or closes extended parts of the body; -- opposed to abductor; as, the adductor of the eye, which turns the eye toward the nose.	
addulce	Obsolete	To sweeten; to soothe.	
adeem		To revoke, as a legacy, grant, etc., or to satisfy it by some other gift.	Latin adimo.
adelantadillo		A Spanish red wine made of the first ripe grapes.	
adelantado		A governor of a province; a commander.	
adelaster		A provisional name for a plant which has not had its flowers botanically examined, and therefore has not been referred to its proper genus.	
adeling		Same as Atheling.	Old English æþeling.
adelocodonic		Applied to sexual zooids of hydroids, that have a saclike form and do not become free; -- opposed to phanerocodonic.	
adelopod		An animal having feet that are not apparent.	
adelphia		A or collection of stamens in a bundle; -- used in composition, as in the class names, Monadelphia, Diadelphia, etc.	
adelphous		Having coalescent or clustered filaments; -- said of stamens; as, adelphous stamens.	
adempt	Obsolete	Takes away.	Latin ademptum.
ademption		The revocation or taking away of a grant donation, legacy, or the like.	Latin ademptio.
aden-		Combining forms of the Greek word for gland; -- used in words relating to the structure, diseases, etc., of the glands.	
adenalgia		(Med.) Pain in a gland.	
adenalgy		(Med.) Pain in a gland.	
adeniform		Shaped like a gland; adenoid.	
adenitis		Glandular inflammation.	
adeno-		Combining forms of the Greek word for gland; -- used in words relating to the structure, diseases, etc., of the glands.	Greek ἀδήν.
adenographic		Pertaining to adenography.	
adenography		That part of anatomy which describes the glands.	
adenoid		Glandlike; glandular.	Modern Greek (1453- ἀδενοειδής.
adenoidal		Glandlike; glandular.	
adenological		Pertaining to adenology.	
adenology		The part of physiology that treats of the glands.	
adenoma		A benign tumor of a glandlike structure; morbid enlargement of a gland. -- Ad`e*nom"a*tous, a.	
adenopathy		Disease of a gland.	
adenophorous		Producing glands.	
adenophyllous		Having glands on the leaves.	
adenosclerosis		The hardening of a gland.	
adenose		Like a gland; full of glands; glandulous; adenous.	
adenotomic		Pertaining to adenotomy.	
adenotomy		Dissection of, or incision into, a gland or glands.	
adenous		Same as Adenose.	
adeps		Animal fat; lard.	
adept		One fully skilled or well versed in anything; a proficient; as, adepts in philosophy.	French adepte, from Latin adeptus.
adeption	Obsolete	An obtaining; attainment.	Latin adeptio.
adeptist	Obsolete	A skilled alchemist.	
adeptness		The quality of being adept; skill.	
adequacy		The state or quality of being adequate, proportionate, or sufficient; a sufficiency for a particular purpose; as, the adequacy of supply to the expenditure.	
adequate		Equal to some requirement; proportionate, or correspondent; fully sufficient; as, powers adequate to a great work; an adequate definition.	Latin adaequatus.
adequately		In an adequate manner.	
adequateness		The quality of being adequate; suitableness; sufficiency; adequacy.	
adequation	Obsolete	The act of equalizing; act or result of making adequate; an equivalent.	Latin adaequatio.
adesmy		The division or defective coherence of an organ that is usually entire.	
adessenarian		One who held the real presence of Christ's body in the eucharist, but not by transubstantiation.	
adfected		See Affected, 5.	
adfiliated	Obsolete	See Affiliated.	
adfiliation	Obsolete	See Affiliation — adoption; association or reception as a member in or of the same family or society.	
adfluxion		See Affluxion — the act of flowing towards; afflux.	
adhamant		Clinging, as by hooks.	
adhere		To stick fast or cleave, as a glutinous substance does; to become joined or united; as, wax to the finger; the lungs sometimes adhere to the pleura.	Latin adhaerere.
adherence		The state of being fixed in attachment; fidelity; steady attachment; adhesion; as, adherence to a party or to opinions.	Middle French adhérence, from Latin adhærentia.
adherency		The state or quality of being adherent; adherence.	
adherent		Sticking; clinging; adhering.	
adherently		In an adherent manner.	
adherer		One who adheres; an adherent.	
adhesion		The action of sticking; the state of being attached; intimate union; as the adhesion of glue, or of parts united by growth, cement, or the like.	French adhésion.
adhesive		Sticky; tenacious, as glutinous substances.	French adhésif.
adhesively		In an adhesive manner.	
adhesiveness		The quality of sticking or adhering; stickiness; tenacity of union.	
adhibit		To admit, as a person or thing; to take in.	
adhibition		The act of adhibiting; application; use.	
adhort	Obsolete	To exhort; to advise.	Latin adhortari.
adhortation	Obsolete	Advice; exhortation.	Latin adhortatio.
adhortatory	Obsolete	Containing counsel or warning; hortatory; advisory.	
adiabatic		Not giving out or receiving heat. -- Ad`i*a*bat`ic*al*ly, adv.	Greek ἀδιάβατος.
adiactinic		Not transmitting the actinic rays.	
adiantum		A genus of ferns, the leaves of which shed water; maidenhair.	
adiaphorism		Religious indifference.	
adiaphorist		One of the German Protestants who, with Melanchthon, held some opinions and ceremonies to be indifferent or nonessential, which Luther condemned as sinful or heretical.	
adiaphoristic		Pertaining to matters indifferent in faith and practice.	
adiaphorite		Same as Adiaphorist.	
adiaphorous		(Med.) Incapable of doing either harm or good, as some medicines.	
adiaphory	Obsolete	Indifference.	
adiathermic		Not pervious to heat.	
adieu		Good-by; farewell; an expression of kind wishes at parting.	
adight	Obsolete	To set in order; to array; to attire; to deck, to dress.	
adios		Adieu; farewell; good-by; -- chiefly used among Spanish- speaking people.	Spanish adiós.
adipescent		Becoming fatty.	
adipic		Pertaining to, or derived from, fatty or oily substances; -- applied to certain acids obtained from fats by the action of nitric acid.	Latin adeps.
adipocerate		To convert adipocere.	
adipoceration		The act or process of changing into adipocere.	
adipocere		A soft, unctuous, or waxy substance, of a light brown color, into which the fat and muscle tissue of dead bodies sometimes are converted, by long immersion in water or by burial in moist places.	
adipoceriform		Having the form or appearance of adipocere; as, an adipoceriform tumor.	
adipocerous		Like adipocere.	
adipogenous		Producing fat.	
adipolysis		The digestion of fats.	
adipolytic		Hydrolyzing fats; converting neutral fats into glycerin and free fatty acids, esp. by the action of an enzyme; as, adipolytic action.	
adipoma		A mass of fat found internally; also, a fatty tumor. -- Ad`i*pom"a*tous, a.	
adipose		Of or pertaining to animal fat; fatty.	
adiposeness		The state of being fat; fatness.	
adiposity		The state of being fat; fatness.	
adipous		Fatty; adipose.	
adipsous		Quenching thirst, as certain fruits.	
adipsy		Absence of thirst.	
adit		An entrance or passage. Specifically: The nearly horizontal opening by which a mine is entered, or by which water and ores are carried away; -- called also drift and tunnel.	
adjacence		The state of being adjacent or contiguous; contiguity; as, the adjacency of lands or buildings.	
adjacency		The state of being adjacent or contiguous; contiguity; as, the adjacency of lands or buildings.	
adjacent		Lying near, close, or contiguous; neighboring; bordering on; as, a field adjacent to the highway.	Latin adiacens.
adjacently		So as to be adjacent.	
adject		To add or annex; to join.	
adjection		The act or mode of adding; also, the thing added.	Latin adiecto.
adjectional		Pertaining to adjection; that is, or may be, annexed.	
adjectitious		Added; additional.	Latin adjectitius.
adjectival		Of or relating to the relating to the adjective; of the nature of an adjective; adjective.	
adjectivally		As, or in the manner of, an adjective; adjectively.	
adjective		Added to a substantive as an attribute; of the nature of an adjunct; as, an word sentence.	Old French adjectif, from Latin adiectivus.
adjectively		In the manner of an adjective; as, a word used adjectively.	
adjoin		To join or unite to; to lie contiguous to; to be in contact with; to attach; to append.	Anglo-Norman adjoindre, from Latin adiungo.
adjoinant	Obsolete	Contiguous.	
adjoining		Joining to; contiguous; adjacent; as, an adjoining room.	Old English ajoinen, from Old French ajoindre.
adjoint	Obsolete	An adjunct; a helper.	
adjourn		To put off or defer to another day, or indefinitely; to postpone; to close or suspend for the day; -- commonly said of the meeting, or the action, of convened body; as, to adjourn the meeting; to adjourn a debate.	Old French ajorner.
adjournal		Adjournment; postponement.	
adjournment		The act of adjourning; the putting off till another day or time specified, or without day.	
adjudge		To award judicially in the case of a controverted question; as, the prize was adjudged to the victor.	Old French ajugier, from Latin adiudicare.
adjudger		One who adjudges.	
adjudgment		The act of adjudging; judicial decision; adjudication.	
adjudicate		To adjudge; to try and determine, as a court; to settle by judicial decree.	Latin adiudico.
adjudication		The act of adjudicating; the act or process of trying and determining judicially.	Latin adjudicatio.
adjudicative		Adjudicating.	
adjudicator		One who adjudicates.	
adjudicature		Adjudication.	
adjugate	Obsolete	To yoke to.	
adjument	Obsolete	Help; support; also, a helper.	Latin adjumentum.
adjunct		Conjoined; attending; consequent.	Latin adiunctus.
adjunction		The act of joining; the thing joined or added.	Latin adjunctio.
adjunctive		Joining; having the quality of joining; forming an adjunct.	
adjunctively		In an adjunctive manner.	
adjunctly		By way of addition or adjunct; in connection with.	
adjuration		The act of adjuring; a solemn charging on oath, or under the penalty of a curse; an earnest appeal.	
adjuratory		Containing an adjuration.	
adjure		To charge, bind, or command, solemnly, as if under oath, or under the penalty of a curse; to appeal to in the most solemn or impressive manner; to entreat earnestly.	Latin adiuro.
adjurer		One who adjures.	
adjust		To make exact; to fit; to make correspondent or conformable; to bring into proper relations; as, to adjust a garment to the body, or things to a standard.	Middle French adjuster.
adjustable		Capable of being adjusted.	
adjustage		Adjustment.	
adjuster		One who, or that which, adjusts.	
adjustive		Tending to adjust.	
adjustment		The act of adjusting, or condition of being adjusted; act of bringing into proper relations; regulation.	
adjutage		Same as Ajutage.	
adjutancy		Skillful arrangement in aid; assistance.	
adjutant		(Mil.) A regimental staff officer, who assists the colonel, or commanding officer of a garrison or regiment, in the details of regimental and garrison duty.	Latin adiuto.
adjutator		A corruption of Agitator.	
adjutor	Archaic	A helper or assistant.	Latin adiutor.
adjutory	Obsolete	Serving to help or assist; helping.	Latin adjutorius.
adjutrix		A female helper or assistant.	Latin adjūtrix.
adjuvant		Helping; helpful; assisting.	Latin adiuvans.
adlegation		A right formerly claimed by the states of the German Empire of joining their own ministers with those of the emperor in public treaties and negotiations to the common interest of the empire.	Latin adlegatio.
adlocution	Obsolete	See Allocution — an address; a hortatory or authoritative address as of a pope to his clergy.	
admarginate		To write in the margin.	
admaxillary		Near to the maxilla or jawbone.	
admeasure		(Law) To determine the proper share of, or the proper apportionment; as, to admeasure dower; to admeasure common of pasture.	
admeasurer		One who admeasures.	
admensuration		Same as Admeasurement.	
adminicle		(Law) Corroborative or explanatory proof.	
adminicular		Supplying help; auxiliary; corroborative; explanatory; as, adminicular evidence.	
adminiculary		Adminicular.	
administer		To manage or conduct, as public affairs; to direct or superintend the execution, application, or conduct of; as, to administer the government or the state.	Middle English admynistren, from Old French aminister, from Latin administrare.
administerial		Pertaining to administration, or to the executive part of government.	
administrable		Capable of being administered; as, an administrable law.	
administrant		Executive; acting; managing affairs. -- n.	
administrate		To administer.	
administration		The act of administering; government of public affairs; the service rendered, or duties assumed, in conducting affairs; the conducting of any office or employment; direction; management.	Middle English administracioun, from Old French administration, from Latin administratio.
administrative		Pertaining to administration; administering; executive; as, an administrative body, ability, or energy. -- Ad*min"is*tra`tive*ly, adv.	
administrator		One who administers affairs; one who directs, manages, executes, or dispenses, whether in civil, judicial, political, or ecclesiastical affairs; a manager.	Latin administrator.
administratorship		The position or office of an administrator.	
administratrix		A woman who administers; esp., one who administers the estate of an intestate, or to whom letters of administration have been granted; a female administrator.	
admirability		Admirableness.	Latin admirabilitas.
admirable		Having qualities to excite wonder united with approbation; deserving the highest praise; most excellent; -- used of persons or things. -- Wonderful; marvelous; surprising; excellent; delightful; praiseworthy.	Middle French admirable, from Latin admirabilis.
admirableness		The quality of being admirable; wonderful excellence.	
admirably		In an admirable manner.	
admiral		A naval officer of the highest rank; a naval officer of high rank, of which there are different grades.	Old French admiral.
admiralship		The office or position oaf an admiral; also, the naval skill of an admiral.	
admiralty		The department or officers having authority over naval affairs generally.	French amirauté.
admirance	Obsolete	Admiration.	
admiration		Wonder mingled with approbation or delight; an emotion excited by a person or thing possessed of wonderful or high excellence; as, admiration of a beautiful woman, of a landscape, of virtue.	French admiration, from Latin admiratio.
admirative		Relating to or expressing admiration or wonder.	
admire		To regard with wonder and delight; to look upon with an elevated feeling of pleasure, as something which calls out approbation, esteem, love, or reverence; to estimate or prize highly; as, to admire a person of high moral worth…	French admirer, from Latin admiror.
admired		Regarded with wonder and delight; highly prized; as, an admired poem.	
admirer		One who admires; one who esteems or loves greatly.	
admiring		Expressing admiration; as, an admiring glance. -- Ad*mir"ing*ly, adv.	
admissibility		The quality of being admissible; admissibleness; as, the admissibility of evidence.	
admissible		Entitled to be admitted, or worthy of being admitted; that may be allowed or conceded; allowable; as, the supposition is hardly admissible. -- Ad*mis si*bly, adv.	Middle French admissible.
admission		Power or permission to enter; admittance; entrance; access; power to approach.	
admissive		Implying an admission; tending to admit.	
admissory		Pertaining to admission.	
admit		To suffer to enter; to grant entrance, whether into a place, or into the mind, or consideration; to receive; to take; as, they were into his house; to admit a serious thought into the mind…	Middle English admitten.
admittable		Admissible.	
admittance		Permission to enter; the power or right of entrance; also, actual entrance; reception.	
admittatur		The certificate of admission given in some American colleges.	
admitted		Received as true or valid; acknowledged. -- Ad*mit"ted*ly adv.	
admittedly		Received as true or valid; acknowledged. -- Ad*mit"ted*ly adv.	
admitter		One who admits.	
admix		To mingle with something else; to mix.	
admixtion		A mingling of different things; admixture.	Latin admixtio.
admixture		The act of mixing; mixture.	
admonish		To warn or notify of a fault; to reprove gently or kindly, but seriously; to exhort. 2 Thess. iii. 15.	
admonisher		One who admonishes.	
admonishment		Admonition.	
admonition		Gentle or friendly reproof; counseling against a fault or error; expression of authoritative advice; friendly caution or warning.	Middle English amonicioun, from Old French amonicion, from Latin admonitio.
admonitioner	Obsolete	Admonisher.	
admonitive		Admonitory.	
admonitor		Admonisher; monitor.	
admonitorial		Admonitory.	
admonitory		That conveys admonition; warning or reproving; as, an admonitory glance. -- Ad*mon"i*to*ri*ly,, adv.	
admonitrix		A female admonitor.	
admortization		The reducing or lands or tenements to mortmain. See Mortmain.	Latin admortizatio.
admove	Obsolete	To move or conduct to or toward.	
adnascent		Growing to or on something else.	Latin adnascens.
adnate		(Bot.) Growing together; -- said only of organic cohesion of unlike parts.	Latin adnatus.
adnation		The adhesion or cohesion of different floral verticils or sets of organs.	
adnominal		Pertaining to an adnoun; adjectival; attached to a noun.	
adnoun		An adjective, or attribute.	
adnubilated		Clouded; obscured.	
ado		Doing; trouble; difficulty; troublesome business; fuss; bustle; as, to make a great ado about trifles.	
adobe		An unburnt brick dried in the sun; also used as an adjective, as, an adobe house, in Texas or New Mexico.	Spanish adobe, from Arabic طوب.
adolescence		The state of growing up from childhood to manhood or womanhood; youth, or the period of life between puberty and maturity, generally considered to be, in the male sex, from fourteen to twenty-one.	Middle English adolescence, from Old French adolescence, from Latin adolescentia.
adolescency		The quality of being adolescent; youthfulness.	
adolescent		Growing; advancing from childhood to maturity.	
adonai		A Hebrew name for God, usually translated in the Old Testament by the word "Lord the incommunicable name, Adonai".	
adonean		Pertaining to Adonis; Adonic.	
adonic		Relating to Adonis, famed for his beauty. -- n.	
adonis		(Gr. Myth.) A youth beloved by Venus for his beauty.	
adonist		One who maintains that points of the Hebrew word translated are really the vowel points of the word	
adonize		To beautify; to dandify.	
adoor		At the door; of the door; as, out adoors.	
adoors		At the door; of the door; as, out adoors.	
adopt		To take by choice into relationship, as, child, heir, friend, citizen, etc.; esp. to take voluntarily (a child of other parents) to be in the place of, or as, one's own child.	Middle French adopter.
adoptable		Capable of being adopted.	
adopted		Taken by adoption; taken up as one's own; as, an adopted son, citizen, country, word. -- A*dopt"ed*ly, adv.	
adopter		One who adopts.	
adoption		The act of adopting, or state of being adopted; voluntary acceptance of a child of other parents to be the same as one's own child.	French adoption.
adoptionist		One of a sect which maintained that Christ was the Son of God not by nature but by adoption.	
adoptious	Obsolete	Adopted.	
adoptive		Pertaining to adoption; made or acquired by adoption; fitted to adopt; as, an adoptive father, an child; an adoptive language. -- A*dopt"ive*ly, adv.	
adorability		Adorableness.	
adorable		Deserving to be adored; worthy of divine honors.	
adorableness		The quality of being adorable, or worthy of adoration.	
adorably		In an adorable manner.	
adoration		The act of playing honor to a divine being; the worship paid to God; the act of addressing as a god.	Middle French adoration, from Latin adoratio.
adore		To worship with profound reverence; to pay divine honors to; to honor as deity or as divine.	Old French aorer, from Latin adorare.
adorement	Obsolete	The act of adoring; adoration.	
adorer		One who adores; a worshiper; one who admires or loves greatly; an ardent admirer.	
adoringly		With adoration.	
adorn	Obsolete	To deck or dress with ornaments; to embellish; to set off to advantage; to render pleasing or attractive.	Middle English aournen, from Old French aorner, from Latin adornare.
adornation	Obsolete	Adornment.	
adorner		He who, or that which, adorns; a beautifier.	
adorningly		By adorning; decoratively.	
adornment		An adorning; an ornament; a decoration.	
adosculation		Impregnation by external contact, without intromission.	Latin adosculari.
adown	Archaic	From a higher to a lower situation; downward; down, to or on the ground.	Old English adun.
adpress		See Appressed. -- Ad*pressed",, a.	
adrad	Obsolete	Put in dread; afraid.	
adragant		Gum tragacanth.	
adread	Obsolete	To dread.	
adreamed	Obsolete	Visited by a dream; -- used in the phrase, To be adreamed, to dream.	
adrenal		Suprarenal.	
adrenalin		A crystalline substance, C9H13O3N, obtained from suprarenal extract, of which it is regarded as the active principle.	
adrenaline		A crystalline substance, C9H13O3N, obtained from suprarenal extract, of which it is regarded as the active principle.	
adrian		Pertaining to the Adriatic Sea; as, Adrian billows.	
adriatic		Of or pertaining to a sea so named, the northwestern part of which is known as the Gulf of Venice.	
adrift		Floating at random; in a drifting condition; at the mercy of wind and waves.	
adrip		In a dripping state; as, leaves all adrip.	
adrogate		To adopt (a person who is his own master).	
adrogation		A kind of adoption in ancient Rome. See Arrogation.	Latin adrogatio.
adroit		Dexterous in the use of the hands or in the exercise of the mental faculties; exhibiting skill and readiness in avoiding danger or escaping difficulty; ready in invention or execution; -- applied to persons and to acts; as…	
adroitly		In an adroit manner.	
adroitness		The quality of being adroit; skill and readiness; dexterity.	
adry		In a dry or thirsty condition.	
adscititious		Supplemental; additional; adventitious; ascititious. -- Ad`sci*ti"tious*ly, adv.	Latin adscitus.
adscript		Held to service as attached to the soil; -- said of feudal serfs.	Latin adscriptus.
adscriptive		Attached or annexed to the glebe or estate and transferable with it.	Latin adscriptivus.
adsignification		Additional signification.	
adsignify		To denote additionally.	
adstrict		See Astrict, and Astriction.	
adstrictory		See Astrictory — astrictive.	
adstringent		See Astringent — drawing together the tissues; binding; contracting; -- opposed to laxative; as, astringent medicines; a butter and astringent taste; astringent fruit.	
adularia		A transparent or translucent variety of common feldspar, or orthoclase, which often shows pearly opalescent reflections; -- called by lapidaries moonstone.	
adulate		To flatter in a servile way.	
adulation		Servile flattery; praise in excess, or beyond what is merited.	French adulation, from Latin adulatio.
adulator		A servile or hypocritical flatterer.	
adulatory		Containing excessive praise or compliment; servilely praising; flattering; as, an adulatory address.	
adulatress		A woman who flatters with servility.	
adult		Having arrived at maturity, or to full size and strength; matured; as, an adult person or plant; an adult ape; an adult age.	French adulte, from Latin adultus.
adulter	Obsolete	To commit adultery; to pollute.	
adulterant		That which is used to adulterate anything. -- a.	
adulterate		Tainted with adultery.	
adulteration		The act of adulterating; corruption, or debasement (esp. of food or drink) by foreign mixture.	
adulterator		One who adulterates or corrupts.	
adulterer		A man who commits adultery; a married man who has sexual intercourse with a woman not his wife.	
adulteress		A woman who commits adultery.	
adulterine		Proceeding from adulterous intercourse. Hence: Spurious; without the support of law; illegal.	Latin adulterinus.
adulterize		To commit adultery.	
adulterous		Guilty of, or given to, adultery; pertaining to adultery; illicit.	
adulterously		In an adulterous manner.	
adultery		The unfaithfulness of a married person to the marriage bed; sexual intercourse by a married man with another than his wife, or voluntary sexual intercourse by a married woman with another than her husband.	
adultness		The state of being adult.	
adumbrant		Giving a faint shadow, or slight resemblance; shadowing forth.	
adumbrate		To give a faint shadow or slight representation of; to outline; to shadow forth.	
adumbration		The act of adumbrating, or shadowing forth.	Latin adumbrationem.
adumbrative		Faintly representing; typical.	
adunation		A uniting; union.	
adunc		Hooked; as, a parrot has an adunc bill.	Latin aduncus.
aduncity		Curvature inwards; hookedness.	
aduncous		Curved inwards; hooked.	
adunque		Hooked; as, a parrot has an adunc bill.	
adure	Obsolete	To burn up.	
adurol		Either of two compounds, a chlorine derivative and bromine derivative, of hydroquinone, used as developers.	
adust		Inflamed or scorched; fiery.	Middle French aduste.
adusted	Obsolete	Burnt; adust.	
adustible	Obsolete	That may be burnt.	
adustion	Obsolete	The act of burning, or heating to dryness; the state of being thus heated or dried.	
advance		To bring forward; to move towards the van or front; to make to go on.	Old French avancer, from Latin abante.
advanced		In the van or front.	
advancement		The act of advancing, or the state of being advanced; progression; improvement; furtherance; promotion to a higher place or dignity; as, the advancement of learning.	Middle English avancement.
advancer		One who advances; a promoter.	
advancive		Tending to advance.	
advantage		Any condition, circumstance, opportunity, or means, particularly favorable to success, or to any desired end; benefit; as, the enemy had the advantage of a more elevated position.	Middle English avantage.
advantageable	Obsolete	Advantageous.	
advantageous		Being of advantage; conferring advantage; gainful; profitable; useful; beneficial; as, an advantageous position; trade is advantageous to a nation.	
advantageously		Profitably; with advantage.	
advantageousness		Profitableness.	
advene		To accede, or come (to); to be added to something or become a part of it, though not essential.	Latin advenire.
advenient	Obsolete	Coming from outward causes; superadded.	
advent		(Eccl.) The period including the four Sundays before Christmas.	Latin adventus.
adventist		One of a religious body, embracing several branches, who look for the proximate personal coming of Christ; -- called also Second Adventists.	
adventitious		Added extrinsically; not essentially inherent; accidental or causal; additional; supervenient; foreign.	Latin adventicius.
adventive		Accidental.	
adventual		Relating to the season of advent.	
adventure		That which happens without design; chance; hazard; hap; hence, chance of danger or loss.	Middle English aventuren.
adventureful		Given to adventure.	
adventurer		One who adventures; as, the merchant adventurers; one who seeks his fortune in new and hazardous or perilous enterprises.	
adventuresome		Full of risk; adventurous; venturesome. -- Ad*ven"ture*some*ness, n.	
adventuress		A female adventurer; a woman who tries to gain position by equivocal means.	
adventurous		Inclined to adventure; willing to incur hazard; prone to embark in hazardous enterprise; rashly daring; -- applied to persons.	Middle English aventurous.
adventurously		In an adventurous manner; venturesomely; boldly; daringly.	
adventurousness		The quality or state of being adventurous; daring; venturesomeness.	
adverb		A word used to modify the sense of a verb, participle, adjective, or other adverb, and usually placed near it; as, he writes well; paper extremely white.	French adverbe, from Latin adverbium.
adverbial		Of or pertaining to an adverb; of the nature of an adverb; as, an adverbial phrase or form.	
adverbiality		The quality of being adverbial.	
adverbialize		To give the force or form of an adverb to.	
adverbially		In the manner of an adverb.	
adversaria		A miscellaneous collection of notes, remarks, or selections; a commonplace book; also, commentaries or notes.	Latin adversus.
adversarious		Hostile.	
adversary		One who is turned against another or others with a design to oppose or resist them; a member of an opposing or hostile party; an opponent; an antagonist; an enemy; a foe.	Anglo-Norman aversaire, from Latin adversarius.
adversative		Expressing contrariety, opposition, or antithesis; as, an adversative conjunction (but, however, yet, etc. ); an adversative force. -- Ad*ver"sa*tive*ly, adv.	Latin adversativus.
adverse	Obsolete	Acting against, or in a contrary direction; opposed; contrary; opposite; conflicting; as, adverse winds; an adverse party; a spirit adverse to distinctions of caste. 2.	
adversely		In an adverse manner; inimically; unfortunately; contrariwise.	
adverseness		The quality or state of being adverse; opposition.	
adversifoliate		Having opposite leaves, as plants which have the leaves so arranged on the stem.	
adversifolious		Having opposite leaves, as plants which have the leaves so arranged on the stem.	
adversion	Obsolete	A turning towards; attention.	
adversity	Obsolete	Opposition; contrariety.	Old French adversité, from Latin adversitatem.
advert		To turn the mind or attention; to refer; to take heed or notice; -- with to; as, he adverted to what was said.	Middle English adverten.
advertence		The act of adverting, of the quality of being advertent; attention; notice; regard; heedfulness.	
advertency		The act of adverting, of the quality of being advertent; attention; notice; regard; heedfulness.	
advertent		Attentive; heedful; regardful.	
advertise	Archaic	To give notice to; to inform or apprise; to notify; to make known; hence, to warn; -- often followed by of before the subject of information; as, to advertise a man of his loss.	
advertisement		A public notice, especially a paid notice in some public print; anything that advertises; as, a newspaper containing many advertisement.	Middle French advertissement.
advertiser		One who, or that which, advertises.	
advice		An opinion recommended or offered, as worthy to be followed; counsel.	Old French avis.
advisability		The quality of being advisable; advisableness.	
advisable		Proper to be advised or to be done; expedient; prudent.	
advisable-ness		The quality of being advisable or expedient; expediency; advisability.	
advisably		With advice; wisely.	
advise		To give advice to; to offer an opinion, as worthy or expedient to be followed; to counsel; to warn.	Middle English avisen, from French aviser, from Latin advisare.
advisedly		With deliberate purpose; purposely; by design.	
advisedness		Deliberate consideration; prudent procedure; caution.	
advisement		Consideration; deliberation; consultation.	
adviser		One who advises.	
advisership		The office of an adviser.	
adviso	Obsolete	Advice; counsel; suggestion; also, a dispatch or advice boat.	
advisory		Having power to advise; containing advice; as, an advisory council; their opinion is merely advisory.	
advocacy		The act of pleading for or supporting; work of advocating; intercession.	
advocate		One who pleads the cause of another. Specifically: One who pleads the cause of another before a tribunal or judicial court; a counselor.	Old French avocat, from Latin advocatus.
advocateship		Office or duty of an advocate.	
advocation	Archaic	The act of advocating or pleading; plea; advocacy.	
advocatory		Of or pertaining to an advocate.	
advoke	Obsolete	To summon; to call.	Latin advocare.
advolution		A rolling toward something.	Latin advolutum.
advoutrer	Obsolete	An adulterer.	
advoutress	Obsolete	An adulteress.	
advoutry	Obsolete	Adultery.	
advowee		One who has an advowson.	
advowson		The right of presenting to a vacant benefice or living in the church.	
advowtry	Obsolete	Adultery.	
advoyer	Obsolete	See Avoyer — a chief magistrate of a free imperial city or canton of Switzerland.	
adynamia		Considerable debility of the vital powers, as in typhoid fever.	
adynamic		(Med.) Pertaining to, or characterized by, debility of the vital powers; weak.	
adynamy		Adynamia.	
adytum		The innermost sanctuary or shrine in ancient temples, whence oracles were given.	
adz		To cut with an adz.	
adze		A carpenter's or cooper's tool, formed with a thin arching blade set at right angles to the handle.	Old English adesa.
