ae		A diphthong in the Latin language; used also by the Saxon writers.
aecidium		A form of fruit in the cycle of development of the Rusts or Brands, an order of fungi, formerly considered independent plants.
aedile		A magistrate in ancient Rome, who had the superintendence of public buildings, highways, shows, etc.; hence, a municipal officer.
aedileship		The office of an ædile.
aegean		Of or pertaining to the sea, or arm of the Mediterranean sea, east of Greece.
aegicrania		Sculptured ornaments, used in classical architecture, representing rams' heads or skulls.
aegilops		(Med.) An ulcer or fistula in the inner corner of the eye.
aegis		A shield or protective armor; -- applied in mythology to the shield of Jupiter which he gave to Minerva.
aegophony		Same as Egophony.
aegrotat		A medical certificate that a student is ill.
aeneid		The great epic poem of Virgil, of which the hero is Æneas.
aeneous		Colored like bronze.
aeolian		Of or pertaining to Æolia or Æolis, in Asia Minor, colonized by the Greeks, or to its inhabitants; æolic; as, the Æolian dialect.
aeolic		Æolian, 1; as, the Æolic dialect; the Æolic mode.
aeolipile		An apparatus consisting chiefly of a closed vessel (as a globe or cylinder) with one or more projecting bent tubes, through which steam is made to pass from the vessel, causing it to revolve.
aeolipyle		An apparatus consisting chiefly of a closed vessel (as a globe or cylinder) with one or more projecting bent tubes, through which steam is made to pass from the vessel, causing it to revolve.
aeolotropic		Exhibiting differences of quality or property in different directions; not isotropic.
aeolotropy		Difference of quality or property in different directions.
aeolus		The god of the winds.
aeon		A period of immeasurable duration; also, an emanation of the Deity. See Eon.
aeonian		Eternal; everlasting.
aepyornis		A gigantic bird found fossil in Madagascar.
aerate		To combine or charge with gas; usually with carbonic acid gas, formerly called fixed air.
aeration		Exposure to the free action of the air; airing; as, aëration of soil, of spawn, etc.
aerator		That which supplies with air; esp. an apparatus used for charging mineral waters with gas and in making soda water.
aerenchym		A secondary respiratory tissue or modified periderm, found in many aquatic plants and distinguished by the large intercellular spaces.
aerenchyma		A secondary respiratory tissue or modified periderm, found in many aquatic plants and distinguished by the large intercellular spaces.
aerial		Of or pertaining to the air, or atmosphere; inhabiting or frequenting the air; produced by or found in the air; performed in the air; as, aërial regions or currents.
aeriality		The state of being aërial; De Quincey.
aerially		Like, or from, the air; in an aërial manner.
aerie		The nest of a bird of prey, as of an eagle or hawk; also a brood of such birds; eyrie.
aeriferous		Conveying or containing air; air-bearing; as, the windpipe is an aëriferous tube.
aerification		The act of combining air with another substance, or the state of being filled with air.
aeriform		Having the form or nature of air, or of an elastic fluid; gaseous. Hence fig.: Unreal.
aerify		To infuse air into; to combine air with.
aero-		The combining form of the Greek word meaning air.
aerobic		Growing or thriving only in the presence of oxygen; also, pertaining to, or induced by, aërobies; as, aërobic fermentation. -- A`ër*o"bic*al*ly (#), adv.
aerobies		Microörganisms which live in contact with the air and need oxygen for their growth; as the microbacteria which form on the surface of putrefactive fluids.
aerobiotic		Related to, or of the nature of, aërobies; as, aërobiotic plants, which live only when supplied with free oxygen.
aeroboat		A form of hydro-aëroplane; a flying boat.
aerobus		An aëroplane or airship designed to carry passengers.
aeroclub		A club or association of persons interested in aëronautics.
aerocurve		A modification of the aëroplane, having curved surfaces, the advantages of which were first demonstrated by Lilienthal.
aerocyst		One of the air cells of algals.
aerodonetics		The science of gliding and soaring flight.
aerodynamic		Pertaining to the force of air in motion.
aerodynamics		The science which treats of the air and other gaseous bodies under the action of force, and of their mechanical effects.
aerofoil		A plane or arched surface for sustaining bodies by its movement through the air; a spread wing, as of a bird.
aerognosy		The science which treats of the properties of the air, and of the part it plays in nature.
aerographer		One versed in aëography: an aërologist.
aerographic		Pertaining to aërography; aërological.
aerographical		Pertaining to aërography; aërological.
aerography		A description of the air or atmosphere; aërology.
aerogun		A cannon capable of being trained at very high angles for use against aircraft.
aerohydrodynamic		Acting by the force of air and water; as, an aërohydrodynamic wheel.
aerolite		A stone, or metallic mass, which has fallen to the earth from distant space; a meteorite; a meteoric stone.
aerolith		Same as A.
aerolithology		The science of aërolites.
aerolitic		Of or pertaining to aërolites; meteoric; as, aërolitic iron.
aerologic		Of or pertaining to aërology.
aerological		Of or pertaining to aërology.
aerologist		One versed in aërology.
aerology		That department of physics which treats of the atmosphere.
aeromancy		Divination from the state of the air or from atmospheric substances; also, forecasting changes in the weather.
aeromechanic		Of or pert. to aëromechanics.
aeromechanical		Of or pert. to aëromechanics.
aeromechanics		The science of equilibrium and motion of air or an aëriform fluid, including aërodynamics and aërostatics.
aerometer		An instrument for ascertaining the weight or density of air and gases.
aerometric		Of or pertaining to aërometry; as, aërometric investigations.
aerometry		The science of measuring the air, including the doctrine of its pressure, elasticity, rarefaction, and condensation; pneumatics.
aeronat		A dirigible balloon.
aeronaut		An aërial navigator; a balloonist.
aeronautic		Pertaining to aëronautics, or aërial sailing.
aeronautical		Pertaining to aëronautics, or aërial sailing.
aeronautics		The science or art of ascending and sailing in the air, as by means of a balloon; aërial navigation; ballooning.
aeronef		A power-driven, heavier-than-air flying machine.
aerophobia		Dread of a current of air.
aerophoby		Dread of a current of air.
aerophyte		A plant growing entirely in the air, and receiving its nourishment from it; an air plant or epiphyte.
aeroplane		A flying machine, or a small plane for experiments on flying, which floats in the air only when propelled through it.
aeroplanist		One who flies in an aëroplane.
aeroscope		An apparatus designed for collecting spores, germs, bacteria, etc., suspended in the air.
aeroscopy		The observation of the state and variations of the atmosphere.
aerose		Of the nature of, or like, copper; brassy.
aerosiderite		A mass of meteoric iron.
aerosphere		The atmosphere.
aerostat		A balloon.
aerostatic		Of or pertaining to aërostatics; pneumatic.
aerostatical		Of or pertaining to aërostatics; pneumatic.
aerostatics		The science that treats of the equilibrium of elastic fluids, or that of bodies sustained in them.
aerostation		Aërial navigation; the art of raising and guiding balloons in the air.
aerotaxis		The positive or negative stimulus exerted by oxygen on aërobic and anaërobic bacteria. -- A`ër*o*tac"tic (#), a.
aerotherapentics		Treatment of disease by the use of air or other gases.
aeroyacht		A form of hydro-aëroplane; a flying boat.
aeruginous		Of the nature or color of verdigris, or the rust of copper.
aerugo		The rust of any metal, esp. of brass or copper; verdigris.
aery	Poetic	An aerie.
aesculapian		Pertaining to Æsculapius or to the healing art; medical; medicinal.
aesculapius		The god of medicine. Hence, a physician.
aesculin		Same as Esculin.
aesir		In the old Norse mythology, the gods Odin, Thor, Loki, Balder, Frigg, and the others.
aesopian		Of or pertaining to Æsop, or in his manner.
aesopic		Same as Æsopian.
aesthesia		Perception by the senses; feeling; -- the opposite of anæsthesia.
aesthesiometer		An instrument to measure the degree of sensation, by determining at how short a distance two impressions upon the skin can be distinguished, and thus to determine whether the condition of tactile sensibility is normal or altered.
aesthesis		Sensuous perception.
aesthesodic		Conveying sensory or afferent impulses; -- said of nerves.
aesthete		One who makes much or overmuch of æsthetics.
aesthetic		Of or Pertaining to æsthetics; versed in æsthetics; as, æsthetic studies, emotions, ideas, persons, etc. -- Æs*thet"ic*al*ly, adv.
aesthetical		Of or Pertaining to æsthetics; versed in æsthetics; as, æsthetic studies, emotions, ideas, persons, etc. -- Æs*thet"ic*al*ly, adv.
aesthetican		One versed in æsthetics.
aestheticism		The doctrine of æsthetics; æsthetic principles; devotion to the beautiful in nature and art.
aesthetics		The theory or philosophy of taste; the science of the beautiful in nature and art; esp. that which treats of the expression and embodiment of beauty by art.
aestho-physiology		The science of sensation in relation to nervous action.
aestival		Of or belonging to the summer; as, æstival diseases.
aestivate		To spend the summer.
aestivation		(Zoöl.) The state of torpidity induced by the heat and dryness of summer, as in certain snails; -- opposed to hibernation.
aestuary		See Estuary — a passage, as the mouth of a river or lake, where the tide meets the current; an arm of the sea; a frith. it to the sea was often by long and wide estuaries.
aestuous		Glowing; agitated, as with heat.
aetheogamous		Propagated in an unusual way; cryptogamous.
aether		See Ether — (Physics) A medium of great elasticity and extreme tenuity, supposed to pervade all space, the interior of solid bodies not excepted, and to be the medium of transmission of light and heat…
aethogen		A compound of nitrogen and boro
aethrioscope		An instrument consisting in part of a differential thermometer.
aetiological		Pertaining to ætiology; assigning a cause. -- Æ`ti*o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
aetiology		The science, doctrine, or demonstration of causes; esp., the investigation of the causes of any disease; the science of the origin and development of things.
aetites		See Eaglestone — a concretionary nodule of clay ironstone, of the size of a walnut or larger, so called by the ancients…
