afar		At, to, or from a great distance; far away; -- often used with from preceding, or off following; as, he was seen from afar; I saw him afar off.
afer		The southwest wind.
affability		The quality of being affable; readiness to converse; courteousness in receiving others and in conversation; complaisant behavior.
affable		Easy to be spoken to or addressed; receiving others kindly and conversing with them in a free and friendly manner; courteous; sociable.
affableness		Affability.
affably		In an affable manner; courteously.
affabrous		Executed in a workmanlike manner; ingeniously made.
affair		That which is done or is to be done; matter; concern; as, a difficult affair to manage; business of any kind, commercial, professional, or public; -- often in the plural.
affamish	Obsolete	To afflict with, or perish from, hunger.
affamishment		Starvation.
affatuate	Obsolete	To infatuate.
affear	Obsolete	To frighten.
affect		To act upon; to produce an effect or change upon.
affectation		An attempt to assume or exhibit what is not natural or real; false display; artificial show.
affectationist		One who exhibits affectation.
affected		Inclined; disposed; attached.
affectedly		In an affected manner; hypocritically; with more show than reality.
affectedness		Affectation.
affecter		One who affects, assumes, pretends, or strives after.
affectibility		The quality or state of being affectible.
affectible		That may be affected.
affecting		Moving the emotions; fitted to excite the emotions; pathetic; touching; as, an affecting address; an affecting sight.
affectingly		In an affecting manner; is a manner to excite emotions.
affection		The act of affecting or acting upon; the state of being affected.
affectional		Of or pertaining to the affections; as, affectional impulses; an affectional nature.
affectionate		Having affection or warm regard; loving; fond; as, an affectionate brother.
affectionated	Obsolete	Disposed; inclined.
affectionately		With affection; lovingly; fondly; tenderly; kindly.
affectionateness		The quality of being affectionate; fondness; affection.
affectioned	Obsolete	Affected; conceited.
affective		Pertaining to or exciting emotion; affectional; emotional.
affectively		In an affective manner; impressively; emotionally.
affectuous	Obsolete	Full of passion or emotion; earnest. -- Af*fec"tu*ous*ly, adv.
affeer		(Old Law) To assess or reduce, as an arbitrary penalty or amercement, to a certain and reasonable sum.
affeerer		One who affeers.
affeerment		The act of affeering.
affeeror		One who affeers.
afferent		Bearing or conducting inwards to a part or organ; -- opposed to efferent; as, afferent vessels; afferent nerves, which convey sensations from the external organs to the brain.
affettuoso		With feeling.
affiance		Plighted faith; marriage contract or promise.
affiancer		One who makes a contract of marriage between two persons.
affiant		One who makes an affidavit.
affiche		A written or printed notice to be posted, as on a wall; a poster; a placard.
affidavit		A sworn statement in writing; a declaration in writing, signed and made upon oath before an authorized magistrate.
affile	Obsolete	To polish.
affiliable		Capable of being affiliated to or on, or connected with in origin.
affiliate		To adopt; to receive into a family as a son; hence, to bring or receive into close connection; to ally.
affiliation		Adoption; association or reception as a member in or of the same family or society.
affinal		Related by marriage; from the same source.
affine	Obsolete	To refine.
affined	Obsolete	Joined in affinity or by any tie.
affinitative		Of the nature of affinity. -- Af*fin"i*ta*tive*ly, adv.
affinitive		Closely connected, as by affinity.
affinity		Relationship by marriage (as between a husband and his wife's blood relations, or between a wife and her husband's blood relations); -- in contradistinction to consanguinity, or relationship by blood; -- followed by with, to…
affirm		To make firm; to confirm, or ratify; esp. (Law), to assert or confirm, as a judgment, decree, or order, brought before an appelate court for review.
affirmable		Capable of being affirmed, asserted, or declared; -- followed by of; as, an attribute affirmable of every just man.
affirmance		Confirmation; ratification; confirmation of a voidable act.
affirmant		One who affirms or asserts.
affirmation		Confirmation of anything established; ratification; as, the affirmation of a law.
affirmative		Confirmative; ratifying; as, an act affirmative of common law.
affirmatively		In an affirmative manner; on the affirmative side of a question; in the affirmative; -- opposed to negatively.
affirmatory		Giving affirmation; assertive; affirmative.
affirmer		One who affirms.
affix		To subjoin, annex, or add at the close or end; to append to; to fix to any part of; as, to affix a syllable to a word; to affix a seal to an instrument; to affix one's name to a writing.
affixion	Obsolete	Affixture.
affixture		The act of affixing, or the state of being affixed; attachment.
afflation		A blowing or breathing on; inspiration.
afflatus		A divine impartation of knowledge; supernatural impulse; inspiration.
afflict		To inflict some great injury or hurt upon, causing continued pain or mental distress; to trouble grievously; to torment.
afflictedness	Obsolete	The state of being afflicted; affliction.
afflicter		One who afflicts.
afflicting		Grievously painful; distressing; afflictive; as, an afflicting event. -- Af*flict"ing*ly, adv.
affliction		The cause of continued pain of body or mind, as sickness, losses, etc.; an instance of grievous distress; a pain or grief.
afflictionless		Free from affliction.
afflictive		Giving pain; causing continued or repeated pain or grief; distressing.
afflictively		In an afflictive manner.
affluence		An abundant supply, as of thought, words, feelings, etc.; profusion; also, abundance of property; wealth.
affluency	Obsolete	Affluence.
affluent		Flowing to; flowing abundantly.
affluently		Abundantly; copiously.
affluentness		Great plenty.
afflux		A flowing towards; that which flows to; as, an afflux of blood to the head.
affluxion		The act of flowing towards; afflux.
affodill	Obsolete	Asphodel.
afforce		To reënforce; to strengthen.
afforcement	Obsolete	A fortress; a fortification for defense.
afforciament	Obsolete	See Afforcement — a fortress; a fortification for defense.
afford		To give forth; to supply, yield, or produce as the natural result, fruit, or issue; as, grapes afford wine; olives afford oil; the earth affords fruit; the sea affords an abundant supply of fish.
affordable		That may be afforded.
affordment	Obsolete	Anything given as a help; bestowal.
afforest		To convert into a forest; as, to afforest a tract of country.
afforestation		The act of converting into forest or woodland.
afformative		An affix.
affranchise		To make free; to enfranchise.
affranchisement		The act of making free; enfranchisement.
affrap	Obsolete	To strike, or strike down.
affray		To startle from quiet; to alarm.
affrayer		One engaged in an affray.
affreight		To hire, as a ship, for the transportation of goods or freight.
affreighter		One who hires or charters a ship to convey goods.
affreightment		The act of hiring, or the contract for the use of, a vessel, or some part of it, to convey cargo.
affret	Obsolete	A furious onset or attack.
affricate		A combination of a stop, or explosive, with an immediately following fricative or spirant of corresponding organic position, as pf in german Pfeffer, pepper, z (= ts) in German Zeit, time.
affriction	Obsolete	The act of rubbing against.
affriended	Obsolete	Made friends; reconciled.
affright		Sudden and great fear; terror.
affrightedly		With fright.
affrighten	Archaic	To frighten.
affrighter	Archaic	One who frightens.
affrightful	Archaic	Terrifying; frightful. -- Af*fright"ful*ly, adv.
affrightment	Archaic	Affright; the state of being frightened; sudden fear or alarm.
affront		To offend by some manifestation of disrespect; to insult to the face by demeanor or language; to treat with marked incivility.
affronte		Face to face, or front to front; facing.
affrontedly	Obsolete	Shamelessly.
affrontee		One who receives an affront.
affronter		One who affronts, or insults to the face.
affrontingly		In an affronting manner.
affrontive		Tending to affront or offend; offensive; abusive.
affrontiveness		The quality that gives an affront or offense.
affuse		To pour out or upon.
affusion		The act of pouring upon, or sprinkling with a liquid, as water upon a child in baptism.
affy	Obsolete	To confide (one's self to, or in); to trust.
afghan		A kind of worsted blanket or wrap.
afield		To, in, or on the field.
afire		On fire.
aflame		Inflames; glowing with light or passion; ablaze.
aflat	Obsolete	Level with the ground; flat.
aflaunt		In a flaunting state or position.
aflicker		In a flickering state.
afloat		Borne on the water; floating; on board ship.
aflow		Flowing.
aflush		In a flushed or blushing state.
aflutter		In a flutter; agitated.
afoam		In a foaming state; as, the sea is all afoam.
afoot		Fig.: In motion; in action; astir; in progress.
afore		(Naut.) In the fore part of a vessel.
aforecited		Named or quoted before.
aforegoing		Going before; foregoing.
aforehand	Archaic or dial	Beforehand; in anticipation.
aforementioned		Previously mentioned; before-mentioned.
aforenamed		Named before.
aforesaid		Said before, or in a preceding part; already described or identified.
aforethought		Premeditated; prepense; previously in mind; designed; as, malice aforethought, which is required to constitute murder.
aforetime		In time past; formerly. vi. 10.
afoul		In collision; entangled.
afraid		Impressed with fear or apprehension; in fear; apprehensive.
afreet		Same as Afrit.
afresh		Anew; again; once more; newly.
afric	Poetic	African. -- n.
african		Of or pertaining to Africa.
africander		One born in Africa, the offspring of a white father and a mother.
africanism		A word, phrase, idiom, or custom peculiar to Africa or Africans.
africanize		To place under the domination of Africans or negroes.
afrit		A powerful evil jinnee, demon, or monstrous giant.
afrite		A powerful evil jinnee, demon, or monstrous giant.
afront		In front; face to face. -- prep.
aft		Near or towards the stern of a vessel; astern; abaft.
after		Next; later in time; subsequent; succeeding; as, an after period of life.
after-dinner	Obsolete	The time just after dinner. -- a.
after-eatage		Aftergrass.
after-glow		A glow of refulgence in the western sky after sunset.
after-image		The impression of a vivid sensation retained by the retina of the eye after the cause has been removed; also extended to impressions left of tones, smells, etc.
after-mentioned		Mentioned afterwards; as, persons after-mentioned (in a writing).
after-note		One of the small notes occur on the unaccented parts of the measure, taking their time from the preceding note.
after-sails		The sails on the mizzenmast, or on the stays between the mainmast and mizzenmast.
after-wit		Wisdom or perception that comes after it can be of use.
after-witted		Characterized by afterwit; slow-witted.
afterbirth		The placenta and membranes with which the fetus is connected, and which come away after delivery.
aftercast		A throw of dice after the game in ended; hence, anything done too late.
afterclap		An unexpected subsequent event; something disagreeable happening after an affair is supposed to be at an end.
aftercrop		A second crop or harvest in the same year.
aftereye	Poetic	To look after.
aftergame		A second game; hence, a subsequent scheme or expedient.
aftergrass		The grass that grows after the first crop has been mown; aftermath.
aftergrowth		A second growth or crop, or (metaphorically) development.
afterguard		The seaman or seamen stationed on the poop or after part of the ship, to attend the after-sails.
afterings	Obsolete	The last milk drawn in milking; strokings.
aftermath		A second moving; the grass which grows after the first crop of hay in the same season; rowen.
aftermost		(Naut.) Nearest the stern; most aft.
afternoon		The part of the day which follows noon, between noon and evening.
afterpains		The pains which succeed childbirth, as in expelling the afterbirth.
afterpiece		A piece performed after a play, usually a farce or other small entertainment.
aftersensation		A sensation or sense impression following the removal of a stimulus producing a primary sensation, and reproducing the primary sensation in positive, negative, or complementary form.
aftershaft		The hypoptilum.
aftertaste		A taste which remains in the mouth after eating or drinking.
afterthought		Reflection after an act; later or subsequent thought or expedient.
afterward		At a later or succeeding time.
afterwards		At a later or succeeding time.
afterwise		Wise after the event; wise or knowing, when it is too late.
aftmost		Nearest the stern.
aftward		Toward the stern.
