aga		In Turkey, a commander or chief officer.	
again		In return, back; as, bring us word again.	Middle English again.
againbuy	Obsolete	To redeem.	Middle English agenbyen.
agains	Obsolete	Against; also, towards (in order to meet).	
againsay	Obsolete	To gainsay.	Middle English agenseyen.
against		Abreast; opposite to; facing; towards; as, against the mouth of a river; -- in this sense often preceded by over.	
againstand	Obsolete	To withstand.	Middle English aȝeinstanden.
againward	Obsolete	Back again.	Middle English agaynward.
agal-agal		Same as Agar-agar.	
agalactia		Failure of the due secretion of milk after childbirth.	
agalactous		Lacking milk to suckle with.	
agalaxy		Failure of the due secretion of milk after childbirth.	
agalloch		A soft, resinous wood (Aquilaria Agallocha) of highly aromatic smell, burnt by the orientals as a perfume.	
agallochum		A soft, resinous wood (Aquilaria Agallocha) of highly aromatic smell, burnt by the orientals as a perfume.	
agalmatolite		A soft, compact stone, of a grayish, greenish, or yellowish color, carved into images by the Chinese, and hence called figure stone, and pagodite.	
agama		A genus of lizards, one of the few which feed upon vegetable substances; also, one of these lizards.	
agami		A South American bird (Psophia crepitans), allied to the cranes, and easily domesticated; -- called also the gold-breasted trumpeter.	
agamic		(a) (Biol.) Produced without sexual union; as, agamic or unfertilized eggs.	
agamically		In an agamic manner.	
agamist		An unmarried person; also, one opposed to marriage.	
agamogenesis		Reproduction without the union of parents of distinct sexes: asexual reproduction.	
agamogenetic		Reproducing or produced without sexual union. -- Ag`a*mo*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv.	
agamous		Having no visible sexual organs; asexual.	
aganglionic		Without ganglia.	
agape		Gaping, as with wonder, expectation, or eager attention.	
agar-agar		A fucus or seaweed much used in the East for soups and jellies; Ceylon moss (Gracilaria lichenoides).	
agaric		(Bot.) A fungus of the genus Agaricus, of many species, of which the common mushroom is an example.	Latin agaricum, from Greek ἀγαρικόν.
agasp		In a state of gasping.	
agast	Obsolete	See Aghast — to affright; to terrify.	
agastric		Having to stomach, or distinct digestive canal, as the tapeworm.	
agate		(Min.) A semipellucid, uncrystallized variety of quartz, presenting various tints in the same specimen.	Middle French agathe, from Latin achates, from Greek ἀχάτης.
agatiferous		Containing or producing agates.	
agatine		Pertaining to, or like, agate.	
agatize		To convert into agate; to make resemble agate.	
agaty		Of the nature of agate, or containing agate.	
agave		A genus of plants (order Amaryllidaceæ) of which the chief species is the maguey or century plant (A.	Greek Ἀγαυή.
agazed	Obsolete	Gazing with astonishment; amazed.	
age		The whole duration of a being, whether animal, vegetable, or other kind; lifetime.	
aged		Old; having lived long; having lived almost to or beyond the usual time allotted to that species of being; as, an aged man; an aged oak.	
agedly		In the manner of an aged person.	
agedness		The quality of being aged; oldness.	
ageless		Without old age limits of duration; as, fountains of ageless youth.	
agen	Obsolete	See Again — in return, back; as, bring us word again.	
agency		The faculty of acting or of exerting power; the state of being in action; action; instrumentality.	
agend	Obsolete	See Agendum — something to be done; in the pl., a memorandum book.	
agendum		Something to be done; in the pl., a memorandum book.	Latin agendum.
agenesic		Characterized by sterility; infecund.	
agenesis		Any imperfect development of the body, or any anomaly of organization.	
agennesis		Impotence; sterility.	
agent		One who exerts power, or has the power to act; an actor.	Latin agens.
agential		Of or pertaining to an agent or an agency.	
ageratum		A genus of plants, one species of which (A.	
aggeneration	Obsolete	The act of producing in addition.	
agger	Obsolete	An earthwork; a mound; a raised work.	
aggerate	Obsolete	To heap up.	
aggeration		A heaping up; accumulation; as, aggerations of sand.	Latin aggeratio.
aggerose		In heaps; full of heaps.	
aggest	Obsolete	To heap up.	Latin aggestus.
agglomerate		To wind or collect into a ball; hence, to gather into a mass or anything like a mass.	Latin agglomerare.
agglomerated		Collected into a ball, heap, or mass.	
agglomeration		The act or process of collecting in a mass; a heaping together.	
agglomerative		Having a tendency to gather together, or to make collections.	
agglutinant		Uniting, as glue; causing, or tending to cause, adhesion. -- n.	
agglutinate		To unite, or cause to adhere, as with glue or other viscous substance; to unite by causing an adhesion of substances.	Latin agglutinatus.
agglutination		The act of uniting by glue or other tenacious substance; the state of being thus united; adhesion of parts.	
agglutinative		Pertaining to agglutination; tending to unite, or having power to cause adhesion; adhesive.	
aggrace	Obsolete	To favor; to grace.	
aggrade		To bring, or tend to bring, to a uniform grade, or slope, by addition of material; as, streams aggrade their beds by depositing sediment.	
aggrandizable		Capable of being aggrandized.	
aggrandization	Obsolete	Aggrandizement.	
aggrandize		To make great; to enlarge; to increase; as, to aggrandize our conceptions, authority, distress.	
aggrandizement		The act of aggrandizing, or the state of being aggrandized or exalted in power, rank, honor, or wealth; exaltation; enlargement; as, the emperor seeks only the aggrandizement of his own family.	French agrandissement.
aggrandizer		One who aggrandizes, or makes great.	
aggrate	Obsolete	To please.	Italian aggratare, from Latin aggratare.
aggravate		To make worse, or more severe; to render less tolerable or less excusable; to make more offensive; to enhance; to intensify.	Latin aggravatus.
aggravating		Making worse or more heinous; as, aggravating circumstances.	
aggravatingly		In an aggravating manner.	
aggravation		The act of aggravating, or making worse; -- used of evils, natural or moral; the act of increasing in severity or heinousness; something additional to a crime or wrong and enhancing its guilt or injurious consequences.	Middle French aggravation.
aggravative		Tending to aggravate.	
aggregate		Formed by a collection of particulars into a whole mass or sum; collective.	Latin aggregatus.
aggregately		Collectively; in mass.	
aggregation		The act of aggregating, or the state of being aggregated; collection into a mass or sum; a collection of particulars; an aggregate.	
aggregative		Taken together; collective.	
aggregator		One who aggregates.	
aggrege	Obsolete	To make heavy; to aggravate.	
aggress	Obsolete	To commit the first act of hostility or offense; to begin a quarrel or controversy; to make an attack; -- with on.	Latin aggressum.
aggression		The first attack, or act of hostility; the first act of injury, or first act leading to a war or a controversy; unprovoked attack; assault; as, a war of aggression. -- Attack; offense; intrusion; provocation.	French aggression, from Latin aggressio.
aggressive		Tending or disposed to aggress; characterized by aggression; making assaults; unjustly attacking; as, an aggressive policy, war, person, nation. -- Ag*gres sive*ness, n.	
aggressor		The person who first attacks or makes an aggression; he who begins hostility or a quarrel; an assailant.	
aggri		Applied to a kind of variegated glass beads of ancient manufacture; as, aggry beads are found in Ashantee and Fantee in Africa.	
aggrievance	Archaic	Oppression; hardship; injury; grievance.	
aggrieve	Obsolete	To give pain or sorrow to; to afflict; hence, to oppress or injure in one's rights; to bear heavily upon; -- now commonly used in the passive TO be aggrieved.	Old English agreven.
aggroup		To bring together in a group; to group.	
aggroupment		Arrangement in a group or in groups; grouping.	
aggry		Applied to a kind of variegated glass beads of ancient manufacture; as, aggry beads are found in Ashantee and Fantee in Africa.	
agha		In Turkey, a commander or chief officer.	Ottoman Turkish (1500-1928 آغا.
aghast	Obsolete	To affright; to terrify.	Middle English agast.
agible	Obsolete	Possible to be done; practicable.	
agile		Having the faculty of quick motion in the limbs; apt or ready to move; nimble; active; as, an agile boy; an agile tongue.	French agile, from Latin agilis.
agilely		In an agile manner; nimbly.	
agileness		Agility; nimbleness.	
agility		The quality of being agile; the power of moving the limbs quickly and easily; nimbleness; activity; quickness of motion; as, strength and agility of body.	Middle French agilité, from Latin agilitas.
agio		The premium or percentage on a better sort of money when it is given in exchange for an inferior sort.	
agiotage		Exchange business; also, stockjobbing; the maneuvers of speculators to raise or lower the price of stocks or public funds.	
agist		To take to graze or pasture, at a certain sum; -- used originally of the feeding of cattle in the king's forests, and collecting the money for the same.	
agistator		See Agister — (a) Formerly, an officer of the king's forest, who had the care of cattle agisted, and collected the money for the same; -- hence called gisttaker…	
agister		(a) Formerly, an officer of the king's forest, who had the care of cattle agisted, and collected the money for the same; -- hence called gisttaker, which in England is corrupted into guest-taker.	
agistment		(a) Formerly, the taking and feeding of other men's cattle in the king's forests.	
agistor		(a) Formerly, an officer of the king's forest, who had the care of cattle agisted, and collected the money for the same; -- hence called gisttaker, which in England is corrupted into guest-taker.	
agitable		Capable of being agitated, or easily moved.	
agitate		To move with a violent, irregular action; as, the wind agitates the sea; to agitate water in a vessel.	Latin agitatus.
agitatedly		In an agitated manner.	
agitation		The act of agitating, or the state of being agitated; the state of being moved with violence, or with irregular action; commotion; as, the sea after a storm is in agitation.	French agitation, from Latin agitatio.
agitative		Tending to agitate.	
agitato		Sung or played in a restless, hurried, and spasmodic manner.	
agitator		One who agitates; one who stirs up or excites others; as, political reformers and agitators.	
agleam		Gleaming; as, faces agleam.	
aglet		A tag of a lace or of the points, braids, or cords formerly used in dress.	
agley	Scotch	Aside; askew.	Scots agley.
aglimmer		In a glimmering state.	
aglitter		Clittering; in a glitter.	
aglossal		Without tongue; tongueless.	
aglow		In a glow; glowing; as, cheeks aglow; the landscape all aglow.	
aglutition		Inability to swallow.	
agminal		Pertaining to an army marching, or to a train.	
agminate		Grouped together; as, the agminated glands of Peyer in the small intestine.	
agminated		Grouped together; as, the agminated glands of Peyer in the small intestine.	
agnail		An inflammation or sore under or around the nail; also, a hangnail.	Middle English agnail, from Old English angnægl.
agnate		Related or akin by the father's side; also, sprung from the same male ancestor.	Latin agnatus.
agnatic		Pertaining to descent by the male line of ancestors.	
agnation		(Civil Law) Consanguinity by a line of males only, as distinguished from cognation.	
agnition	Obsolete	Acknowledgment.	Latin agnitio.
agnize	Archaic	To recognize; to acknowledge.	
agnoiology		The doctrine concerning those things of which we are necessarily ignorant.	
agnomen		An additional or fourth name given by the Romans, or account of some remarkable exploit or event; as, Publius Caius Scipio Africanus.	
agnominate	Obsolete	To name.	
agnomination		Paronomasia; also, alliteration; annomination.	Latin agnominatio.
agnostic		Professing ignorance; involving no dogmatic; pertaining to or involving agnosticism. -- Ag*nos"tic*al*ly, adv.	
agnosticism		That doctrine which, professing ignorance, neither asserts nor denies.	
agnus		Agnus Dei.	
ago		Past; gone by; since; as, ten years ago; gone long ago.	Middle English ago.
agog		In eager desire; eager; astir.	
agoing		In motion; in the act of going; as, to set a mill agoing.	
agon		A contest for a prize at the public games.	Latin agon, from Greek ἀγών.
agonic		Not forming an angle.	
agonism	Obsolete	Contention for a prize; a contest.	
agonist		One who contends for the prize in public games.	Greek ἀγωνιστής.
agonistic		Pertaining to violent contests, bodily or mental; pertaining to athletic or polemic feats; athletic; combative; hence, strained; unnatural.	Greek ἀγωνιστικός.
agonistical		Pertaining to violent contests, bodily or mental; pertaining to athletic or polemic feats; athletic; combative; hence, strained; unnatural.	
agonistically		In an agonistic manner.	
agonistics		The science of athletic combats, or contests in public games.	
agonize		To writhe with agony; to suffer violent anguish.	French agoniser, from Latin agonizare, from Greek ἀγωνίζομαι.
agonizingly		With extreme anguish or desperate struggles.	
agonothete		An officer who presided over the great public games in Greece.	
agonothetic		Pertaining to the office of an agonothete.	
agony		Violent contest or striving.	Greek ἀγωνία.
agood	Obsolete	In earnest; heartily.	
agora		An assembly; hence, the place of assembly, especially the market place, in an ancient Greek city.	Hebrew אגורה.
agouara		The crab-eating raccoon (Procyon cancrivorus), found in the tropical parts of America.	
agouta		A small insectivorous mammal (Solenodon paradoxus), allied to the moles, found only in Hayti.	
agouti		A rodent of the genus Dasyprocta, about the size of a rabbit, peculiar to South America and the West Indies.	
agouty		A rodent of the genus Dasyprocta, about the size of a rabbit, peculiar to South America and the West Indies.	
agrace	Obsolete	See Aggrace — to favor; to grace.	
agraffe		A hook, eyelet, or other device by which a piano wire is so held as to limit the vibration.	French agrafe.
agrammatist	Obsolete	A illiterate person.	
agraphia		The absence or loss of the power of expressing ideas by written signs.	
agraphic		Characterized by agraphia.	
agrappes		Hooks and eyes for armor, etc. Fairholt.	
agrarian		Pertaining to fields, or lands, or their tenure; esp., relating to am equal or equitable division of lands; as, the agrarian laws of Rome, which distributed the conquered and other public lands among citizens.	Middle French agrarien, from Latin agrarius.
agrarianism		An equal or equitable division of landed property; the principles or acts of those who favor a redistribution of land.	Latin ager.
agrarianize		To distribute according to, or to imbue with, the principles of agrarianism.	
agre	Obsolete	In good part; kindly.	
agree		To harmonize in opinion, statement, or action; to be in unison or concord; to be or become united or consistent; to concur; as, all parties agree in the expediency of the law.	Old French agreer, from French a gré.
agreeability		The quality of being, or making one's self, agreeable; agreeableness.	
agreeable		Pleasing, either to the mind or senses; pleasant; grateful; as, agreeable manners or remarks; an agreeable person; fruit agreeable to the taste.	
agreeableness		The quality of being agreeable or pleasing; that quality which gives satisfaction or moderate pleasure to the mind or senses.	
agreeably		In an agreeably manner; in a manner to give pleasure; pleasingly.	
agreeingly	Obsolete	In an agreeing manner (to); correspondingly; agreeably.	
agreement		State of agreeing; harmony of opinion, statement, action, or character; concurrence; concord; conformity; as, a good agreement subsists among the members of the council.	Old French agreement.
agreer		One who agrees.	
agrestic		Pertaining to fields or the country, in opposition to the city; rural; rustic; unpolished; uncouth.	Latin agrestis.
agrestical	Obsolete	Agrestic.	
agricolation	Obsolete	Agriculture.	
agricolist		A cultivator of the soil; an agriculturist.	
agricultor		An agriculturist; a farmer.	
agricultural		Of or pertaining to agriculture; connected with, or engaged in, tillage; as, the agricultural class; agricultural implements, wages, etc. -- Ag`ri*cul"tur*al*ly, adv.	
agriculturalist		An agriculturist (which is the preferred form.)	
agriculture		The art or science of cultivating the ground, including the harvesting of crops, and the rearing and management of live stock; tillage; husbandry; farming.	Latin agricultura.
agriculturism		Agriculture.	
agriculturist		One engaged or skilled in agriculture; a husbandman.	
agrief	Obsolete	In grief; amiss.	
agrimony		(a) A genus of plants of the Rose family. (b) The name is also given to various other plants; as, hemp agrimony (Eupatorium cannabinum); water agrimony (Bidens).	
agrin		In the act of grinning.	
agriologist		One versed or engaged in agriology.	
agriology		Description or comparative study of the customs of savage or uncivilized tribes.	
agrise	Obsolete	To shudder with terror; to tremble with fear.	Old English agrisan.
agrom		A disease occurring in Bengal and other parts of the East Indies, in which the tongue chaps and cleaves.	
agronomic		Pertaining to agronomy, of the management of farms.	
agronomical		Pertaining to agronomy, of the management of farms.	
agronomics		The science of the distribution and management of land.	
agronomist		One versed in agronomy; a student of agronomy.	
agronomy		The management of land; rural economy; agriculture.	French agronomie.
agrope		In the act of groping.	
agrostis		A genus of grasses, including species called in common language bent grass.	
agrostographic		Pertaining to agrostography.	
agrostographical		Pertaining to agrostography.	
agrostography		A description of the grasses.	
agrostologic		Pertaining to agrostology.	
agrostological		Pertaining to agrostology.	
agrostologist		One skilled in agrostology.	
agrostology		That part of botany which treats of the grasses.	
agrotechny		That branch of agriculture dealing with the methods of conversion of agricultural products into manufactured articles; agricultural technology.	
aground		On the ground; stranded; -- a nautical term applied to a ship when its bottom lodges on the ground.	Middle English agrounde.
agroupment		See Aggroupment — arrangement in a group or in groups; grouping.	
agrypnotic		Anything which prevents sleep, or produces wakefulness, as strong tea or coffee.	
aguardiente		A inferior brandy of Spain and Portugal.	
ague		(Med.) An intermittent fever, attended by alternate cold and hot fits.	Middle English agu.
aguilt	Obsolete	To be guilty of; to offend; to sin against; to wrong.	
aguish		Having the qualities of an ague; somewhat cold or shivering; chilly; shaky.	
agush		In a gushing state.	
agynous		Without female organs; male.	
