ai		The three-toed sloth (Bradypus tridactylus) of South America. See Sloth.	
aiblins	Scotch	Perhaps; possibly.	
aid		To support, either by furnishing strength or means in coöperation to effect a purpose, or to prevent or to remove evil; to help; to assist.	Old French aidier, from Latin adiuto.
aid-de-camp		An officer selected by a general to carry orders, also to assist or represent him in correspondence and in directing movements.	
aid-major		The adjutant of a regiment.	
aidant		Helping; helpful; supplying aid.	
aider		One who, or that which, aids.	
aidful	Archaic	Helpful.	
aidless		Helpless; without aid.	
aiel	Obsolete	See Ayle — a grandfather.	Old French aiol.
aiglet		A tag of a lace or of the points, braids, or cords formerly used in dress.	
aigremore		Charcoal prepared for making powder.	
aigret		(Zoöl.) The small white European heron. See Egret.	
aigrette		(Zoöl.) The small white European heron. See Egret.	
aiguille		A needle-shaped peak.	French aiguille, from Latin acucula.
aiguillette		A point or tag at the end of a fringe or lace; an aglet.	
aigulet		See Aglet — a tag of a lace or of the points, braids, or cords formerly used in dress.	
ail		To affect with pain or uneasiness, either physical or mental; to trouble; to be the matter with; -- used to express some uneasiness or affection, whose cause is unknown; as, what ails the man I know not what ails him.	Old English eglan.
ailanthus		Same as Ailantus.	Latin Ailanthus.
ailantus		A genus of beautiful trees, natives of the East Indies.	
aileron		A half gable, as at the end of a penthouse or of the aisle of a church.	
ailette		A small square shield, formerly worn on the shoulders of knights, -- being the prototype of the modern epaulet.	French ailette.
ailment		Indisposition; morbid affection of the body; -- not applied ordinarily to acute diseases.	
ailuroidea		A group of the Carnivora, which includes the cats, civets, and hyenas.	
aim		To point or direct a missile weapon, or a weapon which propels as missile, towards an object or spot with the intent of hitting it; as, to aim at a fox, or at a target.	Middle English amen.
aimer		One who aims, directs, or points.	
aimless		Without aim or purpose; as, an aimless life. -- Aim less*ness, n.	
aino	Colloquial	One of a peculiar race inhabiting Yesso, the Kooril Islands etc., in the northern part of the empire of Japan, by some supposed to have been the progenitors of the Japanese.	
air		The fluid which we breathe, and which surrounds the earth; the atmosphere.	Middle English air, from Anglo-Norman aeir.
air-built		Erected in the air; having no solid foundation; chimerical; as, an air-built castle.	
air-drawn		Drawn in air; imaginary.	
air-slacked		Slacked, or pulverized, by exposure to the air; as, air-slacked lime.	
air-tight	Colloquial	So tight as to be impermeable to air; as, an air-tight cylinder.	
aircraft		Any device, as a balloon, aëroplane, etc., for floating in, or flying through, the air.	
airer		One who exposes to the air.	
airily		In an airy manner; lightly; gaily; jauntily; fippantly.	
airiness		The state or quality of being airy; openness or exposure to the air; as, the airiness of a country seat.	
airing		A walk or a ride in the open air; a short excursion for health's sake.	
airless		Not open to a free current of air; wanting fresh air, or communication with the open air.	
airlike		Resembling air.	
airling	Obsolete	A thoughtless, gay person.	
airman		A man who ascends or flies in an aircraft; a flying machine pilot.	
airmanship		Art, skill, or ability in the practice of aërial navigation.	
airol		A grayish green antiseptic powder, consisting of a basic iodide and gallate of bismuth, sometimes used in place of iodoform.	
airometer		A hollow cylinder to contain air.	
airsick		Affected with aërial sickness. -- Air"sick`ness, n.	
airward		Toward the air; upward.	
airwards		Toward the air; upward.	
airwoman		A woman who ascends or flies in an aircraft.	
airy		Consisting of air; as, an airy substance; the airy parts of bodies.	
aisle		(a) A lateral division of a building, separated from the middle part, called the nave, by a row of columns or piers, which support the roof or an upper wall containing windows, called the clearstory wall.	Middle French aisle, from Old French aile.
aisled		Furnished with an aisle or aisles.	
aisless		Without an aisle.	
ait	Scots	An islet, or little isle, in a river or lake; an eyot.	
aitch		The letter h or H.	
aitchbone		The bone of the rump; also, the cut of beef surrounding this bone.	
aitiology		See Ætiology.	
