al-		All; wholly; completely; as, almighty,almost. (b) Etym: To; at; on; -- in OF. shortened to a-.	
al-phitomancy		Divination by means of barley meal.	
ala		A winglike organ, or part.	French à la.
alabaster		(Min.) (a) A compact variety or sulphate of lime, or gypsum, of fine texture, and usually white and translucent, but sometimes yellow, red, or gray.	Old French alabastre, from Latin alabaster, from Greek ἀλάβαστρος.
alabastrian		Alabastrine.	
alabastrine		Of, pertaining to, or like, alabaster; as alabastrine limbs.	
alabastrum		A flower bud.	
alack	Archaic	An exclamation expressive of sorrow.	
alackaday		An exclamation expressing sorrow.	
alacrify		To rouse to action; to inspirit.	
alacrious		Brisk; joyously active; lively.	
alacriously		With alacrity; briskly.	
alacriousness	Obsolete	Alacrity.	
alacrity		A cheerful readiness, willingness, or promptitude; joyous activity; briskness; sprightliness; as, the soldiers advanced with alacrity to meet the enemy.	
aladinist		One of a sect of freethinkers among the Mohammedans.	
alalia		Inability to utter articulate sounds, due either to paralysis of the larynx or to that form of aphasia, called motor, or ataxis, aphasia, due to loss of control of the muscles of speech.	
alalonga		The tunny. See Albicore.	
alamire		The lowest note but one in Guido Aretino's scale of music.	
alamodality		The quality of being à la mode; conformity to the mode or fashion; fashionableness.	
alamode		According to the fashion or prevailing mode.	
alamort		To the death; mortally.	
alan	Obsolete	A wolfhound.	
aland		On land; to the land; ashore.	
alanine		A white crystalline base, C3H7NO2, derived from aldehyde ammonia.	
alantin		See Inulin — a substance of very wide occurrence.	
alar		Pertaining to, or having, wings.	
alarm		A summons to arms, as on the approach of an enemy.	Middle English alarme.
alarmable		Easily alarmed or disturbed.	
alarmed		Aroused to vigilance; excited by fear of approaching danger; agitated; disturbed; as, an alarmed neighborhood; an alarmed modesty.	
alarmedly		In an alarmed manner.	
alarming		Exciting, or calculated to excite, alarm; causing apprehension of danger; as, an alarming crisis or report. -- A*larm"ing*ly, adv.	
alarmist		One prone to sound or excite alarms, especially, needless alarms.	
alarum		See Alarm — a summons to arms, as on the approach of an enemy.	Middle English alarom, from Italian all'arme, from Latin arma.
alary		Of or pertaining to wings; also, wing-shaped.	Latin alarius.
alas		An exclamation expressive of sorrow, pity, or apprehension of evil; -- in old writers, sometimes followed by day or white; alas the day, like alack a day, or alas the white.	Old French a las.
alate	Archaic	Lately; of late.	Latin alatus.
alated		Winged; having wings, or side appendages like wings.	
alatern		An ornamental evergreen shrub (Rhamnus alaternus) belonging to the buckthorns.	
alaternus		An ornamental evergreen shrub (Rhamnus alaternus) belonging to the buckthorns.	
alation		The state of being winged.	
alaunt	Obsolete	See Alan — a wolfhound.	Old French alans.
alb		A vestment of white linen, reaching to the feet, an enveloping the person; -- in the Roman Catholic church, worn by those in holy orders when officiating at mass.	Middle English albe.
albacore		See Albicore — a name applied to several large fishes of the Mackerel family, esp. Orcynus alalonga.	
alban		A white crystalline resinous substance extracted from gutta- percha by the action of alcohol or ether.	
albanian		Of or pertaining to Albania, a province of Turkey. -- n.	
albata		A white metallic alloy; which is made into spoons, forks, teapots, etc. British plate or German silver.	
albatross		A web-footed bird, of the genus Diomedea, of which there are several species.	Portuguese alcatraz, from Arabic قطرس.
albe	Obsolete	Although; albeit.	
albedo		Whiteness. Specifically: (Astron.) The ratio which the light reflected from an unpolished surface bears to the total light falling upon that surface.	Latin albedo.
albee	Obsolete	Although; albeit.	
albeit		Even though; although; notwithstanding.	
albertite		A bituminous mineral resembling asphaltum, found in the county of A.	
albertype		A picture printed from a kind of gelatine plate produced by means of a photographic negative.	
albescence		The act of becoming white; whitishness.	Latin albescens.
albescent		Becoming white or whitish; moderately white.	Latin albescens.
albicant		Growing or becoming white.	
albication		The process of becoming white, or developing white patches, or streaks.	
albicore		A name applied to several large fishes of the Mackerel family, esp. Orcynus alalonga.	French albicore.
albification	Obsolete	The act or process of making white.	
albigenses		A sect of reformers opposed to the church of Rome in the 12th centuries.	
albigensian		Of or pertaining to the Albigenses.	
albigeois		A sect of reformers opposed to the church of Rome in the 12th centuries.	
albiness		A female albino.	
albinism		The state or condition of being an albino: abinoism; leucopathy.	
albinistic		Affected with albinism.	
albino		A person, whether negro, Indian, or white, in whom by some defect of organization the substance which gives color to the skin, hair, and eyes is deficient or in a morbid state.	Portuguese albino.
albinoism		The state or condition of being an albino; albinism.	
albinotic		Affected with albinism.	
albion		An ancient name of England, still retained in poetry.	
albite		A mineral of the feldspar family, triclinic in crystallization, and in composition a silicate of alumina and soda.	
albolith		A kind of plastic cement, or artificial stone, consisting chiefly of magnesia and silica; -- called also albolite.	
alborak		The imaginary milk-white animal on which Mohammed was said to have been carried up to heaven; a white mule.	
albugineous		Of the nature of, or resembling, the white of the eye, or of an egg; albuminous; -- a term applied to textures, humors, etc., which are perfectly white.	
albugo		Same as Leucoma.	Latin albugo.
album		A register for visitors' names; a visitors' book.	Latin album.
albumen		(Bot.) Nourishing matter stored up within the integuments of the seed in many plants, but not incorporated in the embryo.	Latin albumen.
albumenize		To cover or saturate with albumen; to coat or treat with an albuminous solution; as, to albuminize paper.	
albumin		A thick, viscous nitrogenous substance, which is the chief and characteristic constituent of white of eggs and of the serum of blood, and is found in other animal substances, both fluid and solid, also in many plants.	
albuminate		A substance produced by the action of an alkali upon albumin, and resembling casein in its properties; also, a compound formed by the union of albumin with another substance.	
albuminiferous		Supplying albumen.	
albuminimeter		An instrument for ascertaining the quantity of albumen in a liquid.	Latin albumen.
albuminin		The substance of the cells which inclose the white of birds' eggs.	
albuminiparous		Producing albumin.	
albuminoid		Resembling albumin. -- n.	
albuminoidal		Of the nature of an albuminoid.	
albuminose		A diffusible substance formed from albumin by the action of natural or artificial gastric juice.	
albuminosis		A morbid condition due to excessive increase of albuminous elements in the blood.	
albuminous		Pertaining to, or containing, albumen; having the properties of, or resembling, albumen or albumin. -- Al*bu"mi*nous*ness, n.	
albuminuria		A morbid condition in which albumin is present in the urine.	
albumose		A compound or class of compounds formed from albumin by dilute acids or by an acid solution of pepsin.	
alburn		The bleak, a small European fish having scales of a peculiarly silvery color which are used in making artificial pearls.	
alburnous		Of or pertaining to alburnum; of the alburnum; as, alburnous substances.	
alburnum		The white and softer part of wood, between the inner bark and the hard wood or duramen; sapwood.	Latin alburnum.
albyn		Scotland; esp. the Highlands of Scotland.	
alcade		Same as Alcaid.	
alcahest		Same as Alkahest.	
alcaic		Pertaining to Alcæus, a lyric poet of Mitylene, about 6000 b. c. -- n.	Latin alcaicus.
alcaid		A commander of a castle or fortress among the Spaniards, Portuguese, and Moors.	
alcalde		A magistrate or judge in Spain and in Spanish America, etc. Prescott.	
alcaldia		The jurisdiction or office of an alcalde; also, the building or chamber in which he conducts the business of his office.	
alcalimeter		See Alkalimeter — an instrument to ascertain the strength of alkalies, or the quantity of alkali in a mixture.	
alcanna		An oriental shrub (Lawsonia inermis) from which henna is obtained.	Spanish alcana.
alcarraza		A vessel of porous earthenware, used for cooling liquids by evaporation from the exterior surface.	
alcayde		A commander of a castle or fortress among the Spaniards, Portuguese, and Moors.	Spanish alcaide, from Arabic قائد.
alcazar		A fortress; also, a royal palace.	Spanish alcázar, from Arabic قصر.
alcedo		A genus of perching birds, including the European kingfisher (Alcedo ispida).	
alchemic		Of or relating to alchemy.	
alchemical		Of or relating to alchemy.	
alchemically		In the manner of alchemy.	
alchemist		One who practices alchemy.	Old French alquemiste, from Latin alchimista.
alchemistic		Relating to or practicing alchemy.	
alchemistical		Relating to or practicing alchemy.	
alchemistry	Obsolete	Alchemy.	
alchemize		To change by alchemy; to transmute.	
alchemy		An imaginary art which aimed to transmute the baser metals into gold, to find the panacea, or universal remedy for diseases, etc. It led the way to modern chemistry.	Old French alkemie.
alchymic		See Alchemic, Alchemist, Alchemistic, Alchemy.	
alchymist		See Alchemic, Alchemist, Alchemistic, Alchemy.	
alchymistic		See Alchemic, Alchemist, Alchemistic, Alchemy.	
alchymy		See Alchemic, Alchemist, Alchemistic, Alchemy.	
alco		A small South American dog, domesticated by the aborigines.	
alcoate		Shortened forms of Alcoholate.	
alcohate		Shortened forms of Alcoholate.	
alcohol		Pure spirit of wine; pure or highly rectified spirit (called also ethyl alcohol); the spirituous or intoxicating element of fermented or distilled liquors, or more loosely a liquid containing it in considerable quantity.	
alcoholate		A crystallizable compound of a salt with alcohol, in which the latter plays a part analogous to that of water of crystallization.	
alcoholature		An alcoholic tincture prepared with fresh plants.	
alcoholic		Of or pertaining to alcohol, or partaking of its qualities; derived from, or caused by, alcohol; containing alcohol; as, alcoholic mixtures; alcoholic gastritis; alcoholic odor.	
alcoholism		A diseased condition of the system, brought about by the continued use of alcoholic liquors.	
alcoholization		The act rectifying spirit.	
alcoholize		To convert into alcohol; to rectify; also, to saturate with alcohol.	
alcoholmeter		An instrument for determining the strength of spirits, with a scale graduated so as to indicate the percentage of pure alcohol, either by weight or volume.	
alcoholmetrical		Relating to the alcoholometer or alcoholometry.	
alcoholometer		An instrument for determining the strength of spirits, with a scale graduated so as to indicate the percentage of pure alcohol, either by weight or volume.	
alcoholometric		Relating to the alcoholometer or alcoholometry.	
alcoholometrical		Relating to the alcoholometer or alcoholometry.	
alcoholometry		The process or method of ascertaining the proportion of pure alcohol which spirituous liquors contain.	
alcohometer		Same as Alcoholometer, Alcoholometric.	
alcohometric		Same as Alcoholometer, Alcoholometric.	
alcooemetry		See Alcoholometry — the process or method of ascertaining the proportion of pure alcohol which spirituous liquors contain.	
alcoometry		See Alcoholometry — the process or method of ascertaining the proportion of pure alcohol which spirituous liquors contain.	
alcoran		The Mohammedan Scriptures; the Koran (now the usual form).	
alcoranic		Of or pertaining to the Koran.	
alcoranist		One who adheres to the letter of the Koran, rejecting all traditions.	
alcornoque		The bark of several trees, esp. of Bowdichia virgilioides of Brazil, used as a remedy for consumption; of Byrsonima crassifolia, used in tanning; of Alchornea latifolia, used medicinally; or of Quercus ilex, the cork tree.	
alcove		(Arch.) A recessed portion of a room, or a small room opening into a larger one; especially, a recess to contain a bed; a lateral recess in a library.	French alcôve.
alcyon		See Halcyon — pertaining to, or resembling, the halcyon, which was anciently said to lay her eggs in nests on or near the sea during the calm weather about the winter solstice.	
alcyonacea		A group of soft-bodied Alcyonaria, of which Alcyonium is the type. See Illust. under Alcyonaria.	
alcyonaria		One of the orders of Anthozoa.	
alcyones		The kingfishers.	
alcyonic		Of or pertaining to the Alcyonaria.	
alcyonium		A genus of fleshy Alcyonaria, its polyps somewhat resembling flowers with eight fringed rays.	
alcyonoid		Like or pertaining to the Alcyonaria. -- n.	
alday	Obsolete	Continually.	
aldebaran		A red star of the first magnitude, situated in the eye of Taurus; the Bull's Eye.	
aldehyde		A colorless, mobile, and very volatile liquid obtained from alcohol by certain of oxidation.	
aldehydic		Of or pertaining to aldehyde; as, aldehydic acid.	
alder	Obsolete	A tree, usually growing in moist land, and belonging to the genus Alnus.	Middle English alder.
alder-liefest	Obsolete	Most beloved.	
alderman	Obsolete	A senior or superior; a person of rank or dignity.	
aldermancy		The office of an alderman.	
aldermanic		Relating to, becoming to, or like, an alderman; characteristic of an alderman.	
aldermanity		Aldermen collectively; the body of aldermen.	
aldermanlike		Like or suited to an alderman.	
aldermanly		Pertaining to, or like, an alderman.	
aldermanry		The district or ward of an alderman.	
aldermanship		The condition, position, or office of an alderman.	
aldern		Made of alder.	
alderney		One of a breed of cattle raised in Alderney, one of the Channel Islands.	
aldine		An epithet applied to editions (chiefly of the classics) which proceeded from the press of Aldus Manitius, and his family, of Venice, for the most part in the 16th century and known by the sign of the anchor and the dolphin.	
aldol		A colorless liquid, C4H8O2, obtained by condensation of two molecules of acetaldehyde: CH3CHO + CH3CHO = H3CH(OH)CH2CO; also, any of various derivatives of this.	
ale		An intoxicating liquor made from an infusion of malt by fermentation and the addition of a bitter, usually hops.	Old English ealu.
ale-knight	Obsolete	A pot companion.	
aleak		In a leaking condition.	
aleatory		Depending on some uncertain contingency; as, an aleatory contract.	Latin aleatorius.
alebench		A bench in or before an alehouse.	
aleberry		A beverage, formerly made by boiling ale with spice, sugar, and sops of bread.	
alecithal		Applied to those ova which segment uniformly, and which have little or no food yelk embedded in their protoplasm.	
aleconner		Orig., an officer appointed to look to the goodness of ale and beer; also, one of the officers chosen by the liverymen of London to inspect the measures used in public houses.	
alecost		The plant costmary, which was formerly much used for flavoring ale.	
alectorides		A group of birds including the common fowl and the pheasants.	
alectoromachy		Cockfighting.	
alectoromancy		See Alectryomancy — divination by means of a cock and grains of corn placed on the letters of the alphabet, the letters being put together in the order in which the grains were eaten.	
alectryomachy		Cockfighting.	
alectryomancy		Divination by means of a cock and grains of corn placed on the letters of the alphabet, the letters being put together in the order in which the grains were eaten.	Greek ἀλεκτρυών.
alee		On or toward the lee, or the side away from the wind; the opposite of aweather.	
alegar		Sour ale; vinegar made of ale.	
aleger	Obsolete	Gay; cheerful; sprightly.	French allègre, from Latin alacer.
alegge	Obsolete	To allay or alleviate; to lighten.	Old French alegier, from Latin alleviare.
alehoof		Ground ivy (Nepeta Glechoma).	
alehouse		A house where ale is retailed; hence, a tippling house.	
alem		The imperial standard of the Turkish Empire.	
alemannic		Belonging to the Alemanni, a confederacy of warlike German tribes.	
alembic		An apparatus formerly used in distillation, usually made of glass or metal.	French alambic.
alembroth		The salt of wisdom of the alchemists, a double salt composed of the chlorides of ammonium and mercury.	
alength		At full length; lenghtwise.	
alepidote		Not having scales. -- n.	
alepole	Obsolete	A pole set up as the sign of an alehouse.	
alert		Watchful; vigilant; active in vigilance.	French alerte.
alertly		In an alert manner; nimbly.	
alertness		The quality of being alert or on the alert; briskness; nimbleness; activity.	
alestake	Obsolete	A stake or pole projecting from, or set up before, an alehouse, as a sign; an alepole.	
aletaster		See Aleconner — orig., an officer appointed to look to the goodness of ale and beer; also, one of the officers chosen by the liverymen of London to inspect the measures used in public houses.	
alethiology		The science which treats of the nature of truth and evidence.	
alethoscope		An instrument for viewing pictures by means of a lens, so as to present them in their natural proportions and relations.	
aleuromancy		Divination by means of flour.	
aleurometer		An instrument for determining the expansive properties, or quality, of gluten in flour.	
aleuronat		Flour made of aleurone, used as a substitute for ordinary flour in preparing bread for diabetic persons.	
aleurone		An albuminoid substance which occurs in minute grains ( ) in maturing seeds and tubers; -- supposed to be a modification of protoplasm.	
aleuronic		Having the nature of aleurone.	
aleutian		Of or pertaining to a chain of islands between Alaska and Kamtchatka; also, designating these islands.	
aleutic		Of or pertaining to a chain of islands between Alaska and Kamtchatka; also, designating these islands.	
alevin		Young fish; fry.	
alewife		A woman who keeps an alehouse.	
alexanders		A name given to two species of the genus Smyrnium, formerly cultivated and used as celery now is; -- called also horse parsely.	
alexandrian		Of or pertaining to Alexandria in Egypt; as, the Alexandrian library.	
alexandrine		Belonging to Alexandria; Alexandrian.	
alexia		(a) As used by some, inability to read aloud, due to brain disease. (b) More commonly, inability, due to brain disease, to understand written or printed symbols although they can be seen, as in case of word blindness.	
alexipharmac	Obsolete	Alexipharmic.	
alexipharmacal	Obsolete	Alexipharmic.	
alexipharmic		An antidote against poison or infection; a counterpoison.	
alexipharmical		Expelling or counteracting poison; antidotal.	
alexipyretic		Serving to drive off fever; antifebrile. -- n.	
alexiteric		A preservative against contagious and infectious diseases, and the effects of poison in general.	
alexiterical		Resisting poison; obviating the effects of venom; alexipharmic.	
alfa		A plant (Macrochloa tenacissima) of North Africa; also, its fiber, used in paper making.	
alfalfa		The lucern (Medicago sativa); -- so called in California, Texas, etc.	Spanish alfalfez, from Arabic الفصفصة, from Persian اسپست, from Pahlavi 𐭠𐭮𐭯𐭮𐭲.
alfenide		An alloy of nickel and silver electroplated with silver.	
alferes	Obsolete	An ensign; a standard bearer.	
alfet		A caldron of boiling water into which an accused person plunged his forearm as a test of innocence or guilt.	Latin alfetum.
alfilaria		The pin grass (Erodium cicutarium), a weed in California.	
alfileria		Same as Alfilaria.	
alfilerilla		Same as Alfilaria.	
alfione		An edible marine fish of California (Rhacochilus toxotes).	
alforja		A saddlebag.	
alfresco		In the open-air.	
alga		A kind of seaweed; pl. the class of cellular cryptogamic plants which includes the black, red, and green seaweeds, as kelp, dulse, sea lettuce, also marine and fresh water confervæ, etc.	
algal		Pertaining to, or like, algæ.	
algaroba		(a) The Carob, a leguminous tree of the Mediterranean region; also, its edible beans or pods, called St. John's bread.	Spanish algarroba.
algarot		A term used for the Powder of Algaroth, a white powder which is a compound of trichloride and trioxide of antimony.	
algaroth		A term used for the Powder of Algaroth, a white powder which is a compound of trichloride and trioxide of antimony.	
algarovilla		The agglutinated seeds and husks of the legumes of a South American tree (Inga Marthæ).	
algate	Obsolete	Always; wholly; everywhere.	
algates	Obsolete	Always; wholly; everywhere.	
algazel		The true gazelle.	
algebra		(Math.) That branch of mathematics which treats of the relations and properties of quantity by means of letters and other symbols.	
algebraic		Of or pertaining to algebra; containing an operation of algebra, or deduced from such operation; as, algebraic characters; algebraical writings.	
algebraical		Of or pertaining to algebra; containing an operation of algebra, or deduced from such operation; as, algebraic characters; algebraical writings.	
algebraically		By algebraic process.	
algebraist		One versed in algebra.	
algebraize		To perform by algebra; to reduce to algebraic form.	
algerian		Of or pertaining to Algeria. -- n.	
algerine		Of or pertaining to Algiers or Algeria.	
algid		Cold; chilly.	
algidity		Chilliness; coldness; especially (Med.), coldness and collapse.	
algidness	Obsolete	Algidity.	
algific		Producing cold.	Latin algificus.
algin		A nitrogenous substance resembling gelatin, obtained from certain algæ.	
algoid		Of the nature of, or resembling, an alga.	
algol		A fixed star, in Medusa's head, in the constellation Perseus, remarkable for its periodic variation in brightness.	
algological		Of or pertaining to algology; as, algological specimens.	
algologist		One learned about algæ; a student of algology.	
algology		The study or science of algæ or seaweeds.	Latin alga.
algometer		An instrument for measuring sensations of pain due to pressure.	
algonkian		(Geol.) Pertaining to or designating a period or era recognized by the United States Geological Survey and some other authorities, between the Archæan and the Paleozoic…	
algonkin		One of a widely spread family of Indians, including many distinct tribes, which formerly occupied most of the northern and eastern part of North America.	
algonquian		Pertaining to or designating the most extensive of the linguistic families of North American Indians…	
algonquin		One of a widely spread family of Indians, including many distinct tribes, which formerly occupied most of the northern and eastern part of North America.	
algor		Cold; chilliness.	
algorism		The art of calculating by nine figures and zero.	Middle English algorisme, from Old French algorisme, from Latin algorismus, from Arabic الخوارزمي.
algorithm		The art of calculating by nine figures and zero.	
algous		Of or pertaining to the algæ, or seaweeds; abounding with, or like, seaweed.	Latin algosus.
alguazil		An inferior officer of justice in Spain; a warrant officer; a constable.	
algum		Same as Almug (and etymologically preferable). 2 Chron. ii. 8.	
alhambra		The palace of the Moorish kings at Granada.	
alhambraic		Made or decorated after the fanciful style of the ornamentation in the Alhambra, which affords an unusually fine exhibition of Saracenic or Arabesque architecture.	
alhambresque		Made or decorated after the fanciful style of the ornamentation in the Alhambra, which affords an unusually fine exhibition of Saracenic or Arabesque architecture.	
alhenna		See Henna — (Bot.) A thorny tree or shrub of the genus Lawsonia (L. alba).	
alias		(a) Otherwise; otherwise called; -- a term used in legal proceedings to connect the different names of any one who has gone by two or more, and whose true name is for any cause doubtful; as, Smith, alias Simpson.	Latin alias.
alibi		The plea or mode of defense under which a person on trial for a crime proves or attempts to prove that he was in another place when the alleged act was committed; as, to set up an alibi; to prove an alibi.	Latin alibi.
alibility		Quality of being alible.	
alible		Nutritive; nourishing.	
alicant		A kind of wine, formerly much esteemed; -- said to have been made near Alicant, in Spain.	
alidade		The portion of a graduated instrument, as a quadrant or astrolabe, carrying the sights or telescope, and showing the degrees cut off on the arc of the instrument Whewell.	French alidade, from Spanish alidada, from Arabic عِضَادة.
alien		Not belonging to the same country, land, or government, or to the citizens or subjects thereof; foreign; as, alien subjects, enemies, property, shores.	Old French alien, from Latin alienus.
alienability		Capability of being alienated.	
alienable		Capable of being alienated, sold, or transferred to another; as, land is alienable according to the laws of the state.	
alienage		The state or legal condition of being an alien.	
alienate		Estranged; withdrawn in affection; foreign; -- with from.	Latin alienatus.
alienation		The act of alienating, or the state of being alienated.	Old French alienacion, from Latin alienatio.
alienator		One who alienates.	
aliene		To alien or alienate; to transfer, as title or property; as, to aliene an estate.	
alienee		One to whom the title of property is transferred; -- opposed to alienor.	
alienism		The status or legal condition of an alien; alienage.	French aliénisme.
alienist		One who treats diseases of the mind.	French aliéniste.
alienor		One who alienates or transfers property to another.	
aliethmoid		Pertaining to expansions of the ethmoid bone or	
aliethmoidal		Pertaining to expansions of the ethmoid bone or	
alife	Obsolete	On my life; dearly. & Fl.	
aliferous		Having wings, winged; aligerous.	
aliform		Wing-shaped; winglike.	
aligerous		Having wings; winged.	
alight		To spring down, get down, or descend, as from on horseback or from a carriage; to dismount.	Middle English alighten, from Old English alihtan.
align		To adjust or form to a line; to range or form in line; to bring into line; to aline.	Middle English alynen.
alignment		The act of adjusting to a line; arrangement in a line or lines; the state of being so adjusted; a formation in a straight line; also, the line of adjustment; esp.…	French alignement.
alike		Having resemblance or similitude; similar; without difference.	Old English gelic.
alike-minded	Obsolete	Like-minded.	
alilonghi		The tunny. See Albicore.	
aliment		That which nourishes; food; nutriment; anything which feeds or adds to a substance in natural growth.	French aliment.
alimental		Supplying food; having the quality of nourishing; furnishing the materials for natural growth; as, alimental sap.	
alimentally		So as to serve for nourishment or food; nourishing quality.	
alimentariness		The quality of being alimentary; nourishing quality.	
alimentary		Pertaining to aliment or food, or to the function of nutrition; nutritious; alimental; as, alimentary substances.	
alimentation		The act or process of affording nutriment; the function of the alimentary canal.	
alimentiveness		The instinct or faculty of appetite for food.	
alimonious		Affording food; nourishing.	
alimony		Maintenance; means of living.	
alinasal		Pertaining to expansions of the nasal bone or cartilage.	
aline		To range or place in a line; to bring into line; to align.	Middle English aline.
alineation		See Allineation — alignment; position in a straight line, as of two planets with the sun.	
alineeation		Alignment; position in a straight line, as of two planets with the sun.	
alinement		Same as Alignment.	
aliner		One who adjusts things to a line or lines or brings them into line.	
alioth		A star in the tail of the Great Bear, the one next the bowl in the Dipper.	
aliped		Wing-footed, as the bat. -- n.	
aliphatic		Of, pertaining to, or derived from, fat; fatty; -- applied to compounds having an openc-hain structure.	Greek ἄλειφαρ.
aliquant		An aliquant part of a number or quantity is one which does not divide it without leaving a remainder; thus, 5 is an aliquant part of 16.	
aliquot		An aliquot part of a number or quantity is one which will divide it without a remainder; thus, 5 is an aliquot part of 15.	French aliquote, from Latin aliquot.
alisanders		A name given to two species of the genus Smyrnium, formerly cultivated and used as celery now is; -- called also horse parsely.	
aliseptal		Relating to expansions of the nasal septum.	
alish		Like ale; as, an alish taste.	
alisphenoid		The alisphenoid bone.	
alisphenoidal		Pertaining to or forming the wing of the sphenoid; relating to a bone in the base of the skull, which in the adult is often consolidated with the sphenoid; as, alisphenoid bone; alisphenoid canal.	
alitrunk		The segment of the body of an insect to which the wings are attached; the thorax.	
aliturgical		Applied to those days when the holy sacrifice is not offered.	
aliunde		From another source; from elsewhere; as, a case proved aliunde; evidence aliunde.	
alive		Having life, in opposition to dead; living; being in a state in which the organs perform their functions; as, an animal or a plant which is alive.	Old English on live.
alizari		The madder of the Levant.	
alizarin		A coloring principle, C14H6O2(OH)2, found in madder, and now produced artificially from anthracene.	Arabic عصارة.
alkahest		The fabled of the alchemists; a menstruum capable of dissolving all bodies. -- Al`ka*hes"tic, a.	
alkalamide		One of a series of compounds that may be regarded as ammonia in which a part of the hydrogen has been replaced by basic, and another part by acid, atoms or radicals.	
alkalescence		A tendency to become alkaline; or the state of a substance in which alkaline properties begin to be developed, or to predominant.	
alkalescency		A tendency to become alkaline; or the state of a substance in which alkaline properties begin to be developed, or to predominant.	
alkalescent		Tending to the properties of an alkali; slightly alkaline.	
alkali		Soda ash; caustic soda, caustic potash, etc.	French alcali.
alkalifiable		Capable of being alkalified, or converted into an alkali.	
alkalify		To convert into an alkali; to give alkaline properties to.	
alkalimeter		An instrument to ascertain the strength of alkalies, or the quantity of alkali in a mixture.	
alkalimetric		Of or pertaining to alkalimetry.	
alkalimetrical		Of or pertaining to alkalimetry.	
alkalimetry		The art or process of ascertaining the strength of alkalies, or the quantity present in alkaline mixtures.	
alkaline		Of or pertaining to an alkali or to alkalies; having the properties of an alkali.	
alkalinity		The quality which constitutes an alkali; alkaline property.	
alkalious	Obsolete	Alkaline.	
alkalizate	Obsolete	Alkaline.	
alkalization		The act rendering alkaline by impregnating with an alkali; a conferring of alkaline qualities.	
alkalize		To render alkaline; to communicate the properties of an alkali to.	
alkaloid		An organic base, especially one of a class of substances occurring ready formed in the tissues of plants and the bodies of animals.	
alkaloidal		Pertaining to, resembling, or containing, alkali.	
alkanet		(Chem.) A dyeing matter extracted from the roots of Alkanna tinctoria, which gives a fine deep red color.	
alkargen		Same as Cacodylic acid.	
alkarsin		A spontaneously inflammable liquid, having a repulsive odor, and consisting of cacodyl and its oxidation products; -- called also Cadel's fuming liquid.	
alkazar		See Alcazar — a fortress; also, a royal palace.	
alkekengi		An herbaceous plant of the nightshade family (Physalis alkekengi) and its fruit, which is a well flavored berry, the size of a cherry, loosely inclosed in a enlarged leafy calyx; -- also called winter cherry, ground cherry…	
alkermes		A compound cordial, in the form of a confection, deriving its name from the kermes insect, its principal ingredient.	Middle French alkermès.
alkoran		The Mohammedan Scriptures.	
alkoranic		Same as Alcoranic.	
alkoranist		Same as Alcoranist.	
all		Wholly; completely; altogether; entirely; quite; very; as, all bedewed; my friend is all for amusement.	
all-a-mort		See Alamort — to the death; mortally.	
all-hail		To salute; to greet.	
all-possessed	Colloquial	Controlled by an evil spirit or by evil passions; wild.	
allah		The name of the Supreme Being, in use among the Arabs and the Mohammedans generally.	
allanite		A silicate containing a large amount of cerium.	
allantoic		Pertaining to, or contained in, the allantois.	
allantoid		Of or pertaining to the allantois.	Greek ἀλλαντοειδής.
allantoidal		Of or pertaining to the allantois.	
allantoidea		The division of Vertebrata in which the embryo develops an allantois.	
allantoin		A crystalline, transparent, colorless substance found in the allantoic liquid of the fetal calf; -- formerly called allantoic acid and amniotic acid.	
allantois		A membranous appendage of the embryos of mammals, birds, and reptiles, -- in mammals serving to connect the fetus with the parent; the urinary vesicle.	
allatrate	Obsolete	To bark as a dog.	
allay		To make quiet or put at rest; to pacify or appease; to quell; to calm; as, to allay popular excitement; to allay the tumult of the passions.	Middle English alayen.
allayer		One who, or that which, allays.	
allayment	Obsolete	An allaying; that which allays; mitigation.	
allecret		A kind of light armor used in the sixteenth century, esp. by the Swiss.	Old French alecret.
allect	Obsolete	To allure; to entice.	Latin allectare.
allectation	Obsolete	Enticement; allurement.	Latin allectatio.
allective	Obsolete	Alluring.	
alledge	Obsolete	See Allege — to bring forward with positiveness; to declare; to affirm; to assert; as, to allege a fact.	
allegation		The act of alleging or positively asserting.	Middle French allégation, from Latin allegatio.
allege		To bring forward with positiveness; to declare; to affirm; to assert; as, to allege a fact.	Middle English aleggen, from Anglo-Norman aleger.
allegeable		Capable of being alleged or affirmed.	
allegeance	Obsolete	Allegation.	Old French alegeance.
allegement	Obsolete	Allegation.	
alleger		One who affirms or declares.	
allegge	Obsolete	See Alegge and Allay.	
alleghanian		Pertaining to or designating the humid division of the Transition zone extending across the northern United States from New England to eastern Dakota…	
alleghany		Of or pertaining to the Allegheny Mountains, or the region where they are situated.	
alleghenian		Pertaining to or designating the humid division of the Transition zone extending across the northern United States from New England to eastern Dakota…	
allegheny		Of or pertaining to the Allegheny Mountains, or the region where they are situated.	
allegiance		The tie or obligation, implied or expressed, which a subject owes to his sovereign or government; the duty of fidelity to one's king, government, or state.	Middle English aliegiaunce, from Old French legaunce.
allegoric		Belonging to, or consisting of, allegory; of the nature of an allegory; describing by resemblances; figurative.	
allegorical		Belonging to, or consisting of, allegory; of the nature of an allegory; describing by resemblances; figurative.	
allegorist		One who allegorizes; a writer of allegory.	
allegorization		The act of turning into allegory, or of understanding in an allegorical sense.	
allegorize		To form or turn into allegory; as, to allegorize the history of a people.	
allegorizer		One who allegorizes, or turns things into allegory; an allegorist.	
allegory		A figurative sentence or discourse, in which the principal subject is described by another subject resembling it in its properties and circumstances.	Middle English allegorie, from Old French allegorie, from Latin allegoria, from Greek ἀλληγορία.
allegresse		Joy; gladsomeness.	
allegretto		Quicker than andante, but not so quick as allegro. -- n.	
allegro		Brisk, lively. -- n.	Italian allegro, from Latin alacer.
allelomorph		One of the pure unit characters commonly existing singly or in pairs in the germ cells of Mendelian hybrids, and exhibited in varying proportion among the organisms themselves.	
alleluia		An exclamation signifying Praise ye Jehovah. Hence: A song of praise to God.	
alleluiah		An exclamation signifying Praise ye Jehovah. Hence: A song of praise to God.	
allemande		(Mus.) A dance in moderate twofold time, invented by the French in the reign of Louis XIV.; -- now mostly found in suites of pieces, like those of Bach and Handel.	
allemannic		See Alemannic — belonging to the Alemanni, a confederacy of warlike German tribes.	
allenarly	Scots	Solely; only.	
aller	Obsolete	Of all; -- used in composition; as, alderbest, best of all, alderwisest, wisest of all.	
allerion		Am eagle without beak or feet, with expanded wings.	
alleviate		To lighten or lessen (physical or mental troubles); to mitigate, or make easier to be endured; as, to alleviate sorrow, pain, care, etc.; -- opposed to aggravate.	
alleviation		The act of alleviating; a lightening of weight or severity; mitigation; relief.	
alleviative		Tending to alleviate. -- n.	
alleviator		One who, or that which, alleviaties.	
alleviatory		Alleviative.	
alley		A narrow passage; especially a walk or passage in a garden or park, bordered by rows of trees or bushes; a bordered way.	
alleyed		Furnished with alleys; forming an alley.	
alleyway		An alley.	
allfours		A game at cards, called	
allhallond	Obsolete	Allhallows.	
allhallow		The evening before Allhallows. See Halloween.	
allhallowmas		The feast of All Saints.	
allhallown	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to the time of Allhallows. (i. e., late summer; ).	
allhallows	Obsolete	All the saints (in heaven).	
allhallowtide		The time at or near All Saints, or November 1st.	
allheal		A name popularly given to the officinal valerian, and to some other plants.	
alliable		Able to enter into alliance.	
alliaceous		Of or pertaining to the genus Allium, or garlic, onions, leeks, etc.; having the smell or taste of garlic or onions.	
alliance		The state of being allied; the act of allying or uniting; a union or connection of interests between families, states, parties, etc., especially between families by marriage and states by compact, treaty, or league; as…	Old French aliance.
alliant	Obsolete	An ally; a confederate.	
allice		The European shad (Clupea vulgaris); allice shad. See Alose.	
alliciency	Obsolete	Attractive power; attractiveness.	
allicient	Rare or obs	That attracts; attracting. -- n.	
allied		United; joined; leagued; akin; related. See Ally.	
alligate		To tie; to unite by some tie.	Latin alligatus.
alligation		The act of tying together or attaching by some bond, or the state of being attached.	
alligator		(Zoöl.) A large carnivorous reptile of the Crocodile family, peculiar to America.	Latin alligator.
allignment		See Alignment — the act of adjusting to a line; arrangement in a line or lines; the state of being so adjusted; a formation in a straight line; also, the line of adjustment; esp.…	
allineate		To align.	
allineation		Alignment; position in a straight line, as of two planets with the sun.	
allis		The European shad (Clupea vulgaris); allice shad. See Alose.	
allision		The act of dashing against, or striking upon.	Latin allisio.
alliteral		Pertaining to, or characterized by alliteration.	
alliterate		To employ or place so as to make alliteration.	
alliteration		The repetition of the same letter at the beginning of two or more words immediately succeeding each other, or at short intervals; as in the following lines: - Behemoth, biggest born of earth, upheaved His vastness.	
alliterative		Pertaining to, or characterized by, alliteration; as, alliterative poetry. -- Al*lit er*a*tive*ness, n.	
alliterator		One who alliterates.	
allium		A genus of plants, including the onion, garlic, leek, chive, etc.	
allmouth		The angler.	
allness		Totality; completeness.	
allnight	Obsolete	Light, fuel, or food for the whole night.	
allocate		To distribute or assign; to allot.	Latin allocare.
allocation		The act of putting one thing to another; a placing; disposition; arrangement.	Middle French allocacion, from Latin allocatio.
allocatur		The word allocatur expresses the allowance of a proceeding, writ, order, etc., by a court, judge, or judicial officer.	
allochroic		Changeable in color.	
allochroite		See Garnet — a mineral having many varieties differing in color and in their constituents, but with the same crystallization (isometric), and conforming to the same general chemical formula.	
allochroous		Changing color.	
allocution		An address; a hortatory or authoritative address as of a pope to his clergy.	Latin allocutio.
allod		See Allodium — freehold estate; land which is the absolute property of the owner; real estate held in absolute independence, without being subject to any rent, service, or acknowledgment to a superior.	
allodial		Pertaining to allodium; freehold; free of rent or service; held independent of a lord paramount; -- opposed to feudal; as, allodial lands; allodial system.	
allodialism		The allodial system.	
allodialist		One who holds allodial land.	
allodially		By allodial tenure.	
allodiary		One who holds an allodium.	
allodium		Freehold estate; land which is the absolute property of the owner; real estate held in absolute independence, without being subject to any rent, service, or acknowledgment to a superior.	
allogamous		Characterized by allogamy.	
allogamy		Fertilization of the pistil of a plant by pollen from another of the same species; cross-fertilization.	
allogeneous		Different in nature or kind.	
allograph		A writing or signature made by some person other than any of the parties thereto; -- opposed to autograph.	
allomerism		Variability in chemical constitution without variation in crystalline form.	
allomerous		Characterized by allomerism.	
allomorph		(a) Any one of two or more distinct crystalline forms of the same substance; or the substance having such forms; -- as, carbonate of lime occurs in the allomorphs calcite and aragonite.	
allomorphic		Of or pertaining to allomorphism.	
allomorphism		The property which constitutes an allomorph; the change involved in becoming an allomorph.	
allonge		A slip of paper attached to a bill of exchange for receiving indorsements, when the back of the bill itself is already full; a rider.	
allonym		The name of another person assumed by the author of a work.	French allonyme.
allonymous		Published under the name of some one other than the author.	
alloo	Obsolete	To incite dogs by a call; to halloo.	
allopath		An allopathist.	
allopathic		Of or pertaining to allopathy.	
allopathically		In a manner conformable to allopathy; by allopathic methods.	
allopathist		One who practices allopathy; one who professes allopathy.	
allopathy		That system of medical practice which aims to combat disease by the use of remedies which produce effects different from those produced by the special disease treated…	
allophylian		Pertaining to a race or a language neither Aryan nor Semitic.	
allophylic		Pertaining to a race or a language neither Aryan nor Semitic.	
alloquy	Obsolete	A speaking to another; an address.	Latin alloquim.
allot		To distribute, or parcel out in parts or portions; or to distribute to each individual concerned; to assign as a share or lot; to set apart as one's share; to bestow on; to grant; to appoint; as…	Old French aloter.
allotheism		The worship of strange gods.	
allotment		The act of allotting; assignment.	Old French alotement.
allotriophagy		A depraved appetite; a desire for improper food.	
allotrophic		(a) (Physiol.) Changed or modified in nutritive power by the process of digestion.	
allotropic		Of or pertaining to allotropism. -- Al`lo*trop"ic*al*ly, adv.	
allotropical		Of or pertaining to allotropism. -- Al`lo*trop"ic*al*ly, adv.	
allotropicity		Allotropic property or nature.	
allotropism		The property of existing in two or more conditions which are distinct in their physical or chemical relations.	
allotropize		To change in physical properties but not in substance.	
allotropy		The property of existing in two or more conditions which are distinct in their physical or chemical relations.	
allottable		Capable of being allotted.	
allottee		One to whom anything is allotted; one to whom an allotment is made.	
allotter		One who allots.	
allottery	Obsolete	Allotment.	
allow		To grant, give, admit, accord, afford, or yield; to let one have; as, to allow a servant his liberty; to allow a free passage; to allow one day for rest.	Middle English allouen, from Old French alouer, from Latin allaudare.
allowable		Proper to be, or capable of being, allowed; permissible; admissible; not forbidden; not unlawful or improper; as, a certain degree of freedom is allowable among friends.	Old French alouable, from French allouer, from Latin allocare.
allowableness		The quality of being allowable; permissibleness; lawfulness; exemption from prohibition or impropriety.	
allowably		In an allowable manner.	
allowance		The act of allowing, granting, conceding, or admitting; authorization; permission; sanction; tolerance.	Old French alouance.
allowedly		By allowance; admittedly.	
allower		One who allows or permits.	
alloxan		An oxidation product of uric acid.	
alloxanate		A combination of alloxanic acid and a base or base or positive radical.	
alloxanic		Of or pertaining to alloxan; -- applied to an acid obtained by the action of soluble alkalies on alloxan.	
alloxantin		A substance produced by acting upon uric with warm and very dilute nitric acid.	
alloy		Any combination or compound of metals fused together; a mixture of metals; for example, brass, which is an alloy of copper and zinc.	Old French aloiier, from Latin alligare.
alloyage		The act or art of alloying metals; also, the combination or alloy.	French aloyage.
allspice		The berry of the pimento (Eugenia pimenta), a tree of the West Indies; a spice of a mildly pungent taste, and agreeably aromatic; Jamaica pepper; pimento.	
allthing	Obsolete	Altogether.	
allude	Obsolete	To refer to something indirectly or by suggestion; to have reference to a subject not specifically and plainly mentioned; -- followed by to; as, the story alludes to a recent transaction.	Middle French alluder, from Latin alludere.
allumette		A match for lighting candles, lamps, etc.	
alluminor	Obsolete	An illuminator of manuscripts and books; a limner.	Old French alumineor.
allurance		Allurement.	
allure		To attempt to draw; to tempt by a lure or bait, that is, by the offer of some good, real or apparent; to invite by something flattering or acceptable; to entice; to attract.	Old French aleurer.
allurement		The act alluring; temptation; enticement.	
allurer		One who, or that which, allures.	
alluring		That allures; attracting; charming; tempting. -- Al*lur ing*ness, n.	
allusion		A reference to something supposed to be known, but not explicitly mentioned; a covert indication; indirect reference; a hint.	Latin allusionem.
allusive		Figurative; symbolical.	
allusively	Obsolete	Figuratively; by way of allusion; by implication, suggestion, or insinuation.	
allusiveness		The quality of being allusive.	
allusory		Allusive.	
alluvial		Pertaining to, contained in, or composed of, alluvium; relating to the deposits made by flowing water; washed away from one place and deposited in another; as, alluvial soil, mud, accumulations, deposits.	Latin alluvius.
alluvion		Wash or flow of water against the shore or bank.	
alluvious		Alluvial.	Latin alluvius.
alluvium		Deposits of earth, sand, gravel, and other transported matter, made by rivers, floods, or other causes, upon land not permanently submerged beneath the waters of lakes or seas.	
allwhere	Archaic	Everywhere.	
allwork		Domestic or other work of all kinds; as, a maid of allwork, that is, a general servant.	
ally		To unite, or form a connection between, as between families by marriage, or between princes and states by treaty, league, or confederacy; -- often followed by to or with.	Middle English alien.
allyl		An organic radical, C3H5, existing especially in oils of garlic and mustard.	
allylene		A gaseous hydrocarbon, C3H4, homologous with acetylene; propine.	
alma		Same as Alme.	
almacantar		(a) Same as Almucantar. (b) A recently invented instrument for observing the heavenly bodies as they cross a given almacantar circle.	
almadia		(a) A bark canoe used by the Africans. (b) A boat used at Calicut, in India, about eighty feet long, and six or seven broad.	
almadie		(a) A bark canoe used by the Africans. (b) A boat used at Calicut, in India, about eighty feet long, and six or seven broad.	
almagest		The celebrated work of Ptolemy of Alexandria, which contains nearly all that is known of the astronomical observations and theories of the ancients.	Arabic المجسطي.
almagra		A fine, deep red ocher, somewhat purplish, found in Spain.	Spanish almagra.
almah		Same as Alme.	
almain		The German language.	
alman		The German language.	
almanac		A book or table, containing a calendar of days, and months, to which astronomical data and various statistics are often added, such as the times of the rising and setting of the sun and moon, eclipses, hours of full tide…	Old French almanach, from Latin almanachus.
almandine		The common red variety of garnet.	
almayne		The German language.	
alme		An Egyptian dancing girl; an Alma.	
almeh		An Egyptian dancing girl; an Alma.	
almendron		The lofty Brazil-nut tree.	
almery	Obsolete	See Ambry — in churches, a kind of closet, niche, cupboard, or locker for utensils, vestments, etc.	
almesse	Obsolete	See Alms — anything given gratuitously to relieve the poor, as money, food, or clothing; a gift of charity.	
almightful	Obsolete	All-powerful; almighty.	
almightiful	Obsolete	All-powerful; almighty.	
almightily		With almighty power.	
almightiness		Omnipotence; infinite or boundless power; unlimited might.	
almighty		Unlimited in might; omnipotent; all-powerful; irresistible.	
almner	Obsolete	An almoner.	
almond		The fruit of the almond tree.	Old French almande.
almondine		See Almandine — the common red variety of garnet.	
almoner		One who distributes alms, esp. the doles and alms of religious houses, almshouses, etc.; also, one who dispenses alms for another, as the almoner of a prince, bishop, etc.	Old English aumener.
almonership		The office of an almoner.	
almonry		The place where an almoner resides, or where alms are distributed.	
almost		Nearly; well nigh; all but; for the greatest part.	
almry	Obsolete	See Almonry — the place where an almoner resides, or where alms are distributed.	
alms		Anything given gratuitously to relieve the poor, as money, food, or clothing; a gift of charity.	Old English ælmesse, from Greek ἐλεημοσύνη.
almsdeed		An act of charity.	
almsfolk	Archaic	Persons supported by alms; almsmen.	
almsgiver		A giver of alms.	
almsgiving		The giving of alms.	
almshouse		A house appropriated for the use of the poor; a poorhouse.	
almsman		A recipient of alms.	
almucantar	Archaic	A small circle of the sphere parallel to the horizon; a circle or parallel of altitude.	
almuce		Same as Amice, a hood or cape.	
almude		A measure for liquids in several countries.	
almug		A tree or wood of the Bible (2 Chron. ii. 8; 1 K. x. 11).	
alnage		Measurement (of cloth) by the ell; also, a duty for such measurement.	Old French alnage.
alnager		A measure by the ell; formerly a sworn officer in England, whose duty was to inspect act measure woolen cloth, and fix upon it a seal.	
aloe		(Bot.) A genus of succulent plants, some classed as trees, others as shrubs, but the greater number having the habit and appearance of evergreen herbaceous plants…	Old English alwe, from Latin aloe, from Greek ἀλόη.
aloetic		Consisting chiefly of aloes; of the nature of aloes.	
aloft		On high; in the air; high above the ground.	
alogian		One of an ancient sect who rejected St. John's Gospel and the Apocalypse, which speak of Christ as the Logos.	
alogy	Obsolete	Unreasonableness; absurdity.	Latin alogia, from Greek ἀλογία.
aloin		A bitter purgative principle in aloes.	
alomancy		Divination by means of salt.	
alone		Quite by one's self; apart from, or exclusive of, others; single; solitary; -- applied to a person or thing.	Middle English al one.
alonely	Obsolete	Only; merely; singly.	Middle English aloonly.
aloneness		A state of being alone, or without company; solitariness.	
along		By the length; in a line with the length; lengthwise.	
alongshore		Along the shore or coast.	
alongshoreman		See Longshoreman — one of a class of laborers employed about the wharves of a seaport, especially in loading and unloading vessels.	
alongside		Along or by the side; side by side with; -- often with of; as, bring the boat alongside; alongside of him; alongside of the tree.	
aloof		At or from a distance, but within view, or at a small distance; apart; away.	
aloofness		State of being aloof.	
alopecia		Loss of the hair; baldness.	Latin alopecia.
alopecist		A practitioner who tries to prevent or cure baldness.	
alopecy		Loss of the hair; baldness.	
alose	Obsolete	To praise.	
alouatte		One of the several species of howling monkeys of South America. See Howler, 2.	
aloud		With a loud voice, or great noise; loudly; audibly.	Middle English aloud.
alow		Below; in a lower part.	
alp		A very high mountain. Specifically, in the plural, the highest chain of mountains in Europe, containing the lofty mountains of Switzerland, etc. Nor breath of vernal air from snowy alp.	
alpaca		(Zoöl.) An animal of Peru (Lama paco), having long, fine, wooly hair, supposed by some to be a domesticated variety of the llama.	
alpen		Of or pertaining to the Alps.	
alpenglow		A reddish glow seen near sunset or sunrise on the summits of mountains; specif., a reillumination sometimes observed after the summits have passed into shadow…	
alpenhorn		A curved wooden horn about three feet long, with a cupped mouthpiece and a bell, used by the Swiss to sound the ranz des vaches and other melodies.	
alpenstock		A long staff, pointed with iron, used in climbing the Alps.	
alpestrine		Pertaining to the Alps, or other high mountains; as, Alpestrine diseases, etc.	
alpha		The first letter in the Greek alphabet, answering to A, and hence used to denote the beginning.	
alphabet		The letters of a language arranged in the customary order; the series of letters or signs which form the elements of written language.	Latin alphabetum, from Greek αλφάβητος.
alphabetarian		A learner of the alphabet; an abecedarian.	
alphabetic	Obsolete	Pertaining to, furnished with, expressed by, or in the order of, the letters of the alphabet; as, alphabetic characters, writing, languages, arrangement. 2.	
alphabetical	Obsolete	Pertaining to, furnished with, expressed by, or in the order of, the letters of the alphabet; as, alphabetic characters, writing, languages, arrangement. 2.	
alphabetically		In an alphabetic manner; in the customary order of the letters.	
alphabetics		The science of representing spoken sounds by letters.	
alphabetism		The expression of spoken sounds by an alphabet.	
alphabetize		To arrange alphabetically; as, to alphabetize a list of words.	
alphol		A crystalline derivative of salicylic acid, used as an antiseptic and antirheumatic.	
alphonsine		Of or relating to Alphonso X., the Wise, King of Castile (1252- 1284).	
alphorn		A curved wooden horn about three feet long, with a cupped mouthpiece and a bell, used by the Swiss to sound the ranz des vaches and other melodies.	
alpia		The seed of canary grass (Phalaris Canariensis), used for feeding cage birds.	
alpigene		Growing in Alpine regions.	
alpine		Of or pertaining to the Alps, or to any lofty mountain; as, Alpine snows; Alpine plants.	Latin alpinus.
alpinist		A climber of the Alps.	
alpist		The seed of canary grass (Phalaris Canariensis), used for feeding cage birds.	
alquifou		A lead ore found in Cornwall, England, and used by potters to give a green glaze to their wares; potter's ore.	
already		Prior to some specified time, either past, present, or future; by this time; previously. i. 5.	Middle English alredy.
alsatian		Pertaining to Alsatia.	
alsike		A species of clover with pinkish or white flowers; Trifolium hybridum.	
also		In addition; besides; as well; further; too.	Middle English also.
alt		The higher part of the scale. See Alto.	
altaian		Of or pertaining to the Altai, a mountain chain in Central Asia.	
altaic		Of or pertaining to the Altai, a mountain chain in Central Asia.	
altar		A raised structure (as a square or oblong erection of stone or wood) on which sacrifices are offered or incense burned to a deity.	Latin altare.
altarage		The offerings made upon the altar, or to a church.	
altarist		(a) A chaplain. (b) A vicar of a church.	
altarpiece		The painting or piece of sculpture above and behind the altar; reredos.	
altarwise		In the proper position of an altar, that is, at the east of a church with its ends towards the north and south.	
altazimuth		An instrument for taking azimuths and altitudes simultaneously.	
alter		To make otherwise; to change in some respect, either partially or wholly; to vary; to modify.	Old French alterer, from Latin alterare.
alterability		The quality of being alterable; alterableness.	
alterable		Capable of being altered.	
alterableness		The quality of being alterable; variableness; alterability.	
alterably		In an alterable manner.	
alterant		Altering; gradually changing.	
alteration		The act of altering or making different.	Old French alteracion, from Latin alteratio.
alterative		Causing ateration. Specifically: Gradually changing, or tending to change, a morbid state of the functions into one of health.	Latin alterativum.
altercate		The contend in words; to dispute with zeal, heat, or anger; to wrangle.	
altercation		Warm contention in words; dispute carried on with heat or anger; controversy; wrangle; wordy contest. -- Altercation, Dispute, Wrangle.	French altercation, from Latin altercatio.
altercative		Characterized by wrangling; scolding.	
alterity		The state or quality of being other; a being otherwise.	
altern		Acting by turns; alternate.	
alternacy		Alternateness; alternation.	
alternant		Composed of alternate layers, as some rocks.	
alternat		A usage, among diplomats, of rotation in precedence among representatives of equal rank, sometimes determined by lot and at other times in regular order.	
alternate		Being or succeeding by turns; one following the other in succession of time or place; by turns first one and then the other; hence, reciprocal.	Latin alterno.
alternately		In reciprocal succession; succeeding by turns; in alternate order.	
alternateness		The quality of being alternate, or of following by turns.	
alternation		The reciprocal succession of things in time or place; the act of following and being followed by turns; alternate succession, performance, or occurrence; as, the alternation of day and night, cold and heat, summer and winter…	
alternative		Offering a choice of two things.	Middle French alternatif, from Latin alternativus.
alternatively		In the manner of alternatives, or that admits the choice of one out of two things.	
alternativeness		The quality of being alternative, or of offering a choice between two.	
alternator		An electric generator or dynamo for producing alternating currents.	
alternity		Succession by turns; alternation.	
althaea		(a) A genus of plants of the Mallow family.	
althea		(a) A genus of plants of the Mallow family.	
altheine		Asparagine.	
althing		The national assembly or parliament of Iceland. See Thing, n., 8.	
altho		Although.	
althorn		An instrument of the saxhorn family, used exclusively in military music, often replacing the French horn.	
although		Grant all this; be it that; supposing that; notwithstanding; though.	
altiloquence		Lofty speech; pompous language.	
altiloquent		High-sounding; pompous in speech.	
altimeter		An instrument for taking altitudes, as a quadrant, sextant, etc. Knight.	
altimetry		The art of measuring altitudes, or heights.	
altincar		See Tincal — crude native borax, formerly imported from Thibet.	
altiscope		An arrangement of lenses and mirrors which enables a person to see an object in spite of intervening objects.	
altisonant		High-sounding; lofty or pompous.	
altisonous		Altisonant.	Latin altisonus.
altissimo		The part or notes situated above F in alt.	Italian altissimo.
altitude		Space extended upward; height; the perpendicular elevation of an object above its foundation, above the ground, or above a given level, or of one object above another; as, the altitude of a mountain…	
altitudinal		Of or pertaining to height; as, altitudinal measurements.	
altitudinarian		Lofty in doctrine, aims, etc. Coleridge.	
altivolant	Obsolete	Flying high.	Latin altivolans.
alto		(Mus.) Formerly the part sung by the highest male, or counter-tenor, voices; now the part sung by the lowest female, or contralto, voices, between in tenor and soprano.	Italian alto, from Latin altus.
alto-cumulus		A fleecy cloud formation consisting of large whitish or grayish globular cloudlets with shaded portions, often grouped in flocks or rows.	
alto-relievo		Alto-rilievo.	
alto-rilievo		High relief; sculptured work in which the figures project more than half their thickness; as, this figure is an alto-rilievo or in alto-rilievo.	
alto-stratus		A cloud formation similar to cirro-stratus, but heavier and at a lower level.	
altogether		Without exception; wholly; completely.	Middle English altogeder.
altometer		A theodolite.	
altrical		Like the articles.	
altrices		Nursers, -- a term applied to those birds whose young are hatched in a very immature and helpless condition, so as to require the care of their parents for some time; -- opposed to præcoces.	
altruism		Regard for others, both natural and moral; devotion to the interests of others; brotherly kindness; -- opposed to egoism or selfishness.	
altruist		One imbued with altruism; -- opposed to egoist.	
altruistic		Regardful of others; beneficent; unselfish; -- opposed to Ant: egoistic or Ant: selfish.	
aludel		One of the pear-shaped pots open at both ends, and so formed as to be fitted together, the neck of one into the bottom of another in succession; -- used in the process of sublimation.	
alula		A false or bastard wing. See under Bastard.	
alular		Pertaining to the alula.	
alum		A double sulphate formed of aluminium and some other element (esp. an alkali metal) or of aluminium.	Anglo-Norman alum.
alumina		One of the earths, consisting of two parts of aluminium and three of oxygen, Al2O3.	
aluminate		A compound formed from the hydrate of aluminium by the substitution of a metal for the hydrogen.	
aluminated		Combined with alumina.	
alumine		Alumina.	
aluminic		Of or containing aluminium; as, aluminic phosphate.	
aluminiferous		Containing alum.	
aluminiform		pertaining the form of alumina.	
aluminium		The metallic base of alumina.	Latin alumen.
aluminize		To treat impregnate with alum; to alum.	
aluminography		Art or process of producing, and printing from, aluminium plates, after the manner of ordinary lithography. -- A*lu`mi*no*graph"ic (#), a.	
aluminous		Pertaining to or containing alum, or alumina; as, aluminous minerals, aluminous solution.	
aluminum		See Aluminium — the metallic base of alumina.	
alumish		Somewhat like alum.	
alumna		A female pupil; especially, a graduate of a school or college.	Latin alumna.
alumnus		A pupil; especially, a graduate of a college or other seminary of learning.	
alunite		Alum stone.	
alunogen		A white fibrous mineral frequently found on the walls of mines and quarries, chiefly hydrous sulphate of alumina; -- also called feather alum, and hair salt.	
alure		A walk or passage; -- applied to passages of various kinds.	Old French alure.
alutaceous		Of a pale brown color; leather-yellow.	Latin alutacius.
alutation	Obsolete	The tanning or dressing of leather.	
alveary		A beehive, or something resembling a beehive.	
alveated		Formed or vaulted like a beehive.	
alveolar		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, alveoli or little cells, sacs, or sockets.	
alveolary		Alveolar.	
alveolate		Deeply pitted, like a honeycomb.	
alveole		Same as Alveolus.	
alveoliform		Having the form of alveoli, or little sockets, cells, or cavities.	
alveolus		(Zoöl.) A small cavity in a coral, shell, or fossil	Latin alveolus.
alveus		The channel of a river.	
alvine		Of, from, in, or pertaining to, the belly or the intestines; as, alvine discharges; alvine concretions.	
always		At all times; ever; perpetually; throughout all time; continually; as, God is always the same.	
alyssum		A genus of cruciferous plants; madwort.	Greek ἄλυσσον.
