am		The first person singular of the verb be, in the indicative mode, present tense.	Middle English am.
amability		Lovableness.	Latin amabilitas.
amacratic		Amasthenic.	
amadavat		The strawberry finch, a small Indian song bird (Estrelda amandava), commonly caged and kept for fighting.	
amadou		A spongy, combustible substance, prepared from fungus (Boletus and Polyporus) which grows on old trees; German tinder; punk.	
amain		With might; with full force; vigorously; violently; exceedingly.	
amalgam		An alloy of mercury with another metal or metals; as, an amalgam of tin, bismuth, etc.	Latin amalgama, from Greek μάλαγμα.
amalgama		Same as Amalgam.	
amalgamate		To compound or mix, as quicksilver, with another metal; to unite, combine, or alloy with mercury.	
amalgamated		Coalesced; united; combined.	
amalgamation		The act or operation of compounding mercury with another metal; -- applied particularly to the process of separating gold and silver from their ores by mixing them with mercury.	Latin amalgamatio.
amalgamative		Characterized by amalgamation.	
amalgamator		One who, or that which, amalgamates. Specifically: A machine for separating precious metals from earthy particles by bringing them in contact with a body of mercury with which they form an amalgam.	
amalgamize		To amalgamate.	
amandine		The vegetable casein of almonds.	French amandine.
amanita		A genus of poisonous fungi of the family Agaricaceæ, characterized by having a volva, an annulus, and white spores.	
amanitine		The poisonous principle of some fungi.	
amanuensis		A person whose employment is to write what another dictates, or to copy what another has written.	Latin amanuensis.
amaracus		A fragrant flower.	
amarant		Amaranth,	
amarantaceous		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of which the amaranth is the type.	
amaranth	Poetic	An imaginary flower supposed never to fade.	Latin amarantus, from Greek ἀμάραντος.
amaranthine		Unfading, as the poetic amaranth; undying.	
amaranthus		Same as Amaranth.	
amarantus		Same as Amaranth.	
amarine		A characteristic crystalline substance, obtained from oil of bitter almonds.	
amaritude		Bitterness.	Latin amaritudo.
amaryllidaceous		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, an order of plants differing from the lily family chiefly in having the ovary below the	
amaryllideous		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, an order of plants differing from the lily family chiefly in having the ovary below the	
amaryllis		A pastoral sweetheart.	
amass	Obsolete	To collect into a mass or heap; to gather a great quantity of; to accumulate; as, to amass a treasure or a fortune; to amass words or phrases.	French amasser.
amassable		Capable of being amassed.	
amasser		One who amasses.	
amassette		An instrument of horn used for collecting painters' colors on the stone in the process of grinding.	
amassment		An amassing; a heap collected; a large quantity or number brought together; an accumulation.	
amasthenic		Uniting the chemical rays of light into one focus, as a certain kind of lens; amacratic.	
amate	Obsolete	To dismay; to dishearten; to daunt.	Old French amater.
amateur		A person attached to a particular pursuit, study, or science as to music or painting; esp. one who cultivates any study or art, from taste or attachment, without pursuing it professionally.	French amateur, from Latin amatorem.
amateurish		In the style of an amateur; superficial or defective like the work of an amateur. -- Am`a*teur ish*ness, n.	
amateurism		The practice, habit, or work of an amateur.	
amateurship		The quality or character of an amateur.	
amative		Full of love; amatory.	Latin amativus.
amativeness		The faculty supposed to influence sexual desire; propensity to love.	
amatorial		Of or pertaining to a lover or to love making; amatory; as, amatorial verses.	
amatorially		In an amatorial manner.	
amatorian		Amatory.	
amatorious	Obsolete	Amatory.	Latin amatorius.
amatory		Pertaining to, producing, or expressing, sexual love; as, amatory potions.	
amaurosis		A loss or decay of sight, from loss of power in the optic nerve, without any perceptible external change in the eye; -- called also gutta serena, the of Milton.	
amaurotic		Affected with amaurosis; having the characteristics of amaurosis.	
amaze	Obsolete	To bewilder; to stupefy; to bring into a maze.	Middle English amasen, from Old English amasian.
amazedly		In amazement; with confusion or astonishment.	
amazedness		The state of being amazed, or confounded with fear, surprise, or wonder.	
amazeful		Full of amazement.	
amazement	Obsolete	The condition of being amazed; bewilderment; overwhelming wonder, as from surprise, sudden fear, horror, or admiration.	
amazing		Causing amazement; very wonderful; as, amazing grace. -- A*maz"ing*ly, adv.	
amazon		One of a fabulous race of female warriors in Scythia; hence, a female warrior.	
amazonian		Pertaining to or resembling an Amazon; of masculine manners; warlike.	
amazonite		A variety of feldspar, having a verdigris-green color.	
amb-		A prefix meaning about, around; -- used in words derived from the Latin.	
ambages		A circuit; a winding. Hence: Circuitous way or proceeding; quibble; circumlocution; indirect mode of speech.	Old French ambages, from Latin ambages.
ambaginous		Ambagious.	
ambagious		Circumlocutory; circuitous.	
ambagitory		Ambagious.	
ambary		A valuable East Indian fiber plant (Hibiscus cannabinus), or its fiber, which is used throughout India for making ropes, cordage, and a coarse canvas and sackcloth; --called also brown Indian hemp.	
ambassade	Obsolete	The mission of an ambassador.	French ambassade, from Old French ambassade.
ambassador		A minister of the highest rank sent a foreign court to represent there his sovereign or country.	Middle English ambassadore, from Anglo-Norman ambassaduer.
ambassadorial		Of or pertaining to an ambassador.	
ambassadorship		The state, office, or functions of an ambassador.	
ambassadress		A female ambassador; also, the wife of an ambassador.	
ambassage	Obsolete	Same as Embassage.	
ambassy		See Embassy, the usual spelling.	
amber		(Min.) A yellowish translucent resin resembling copal, found as a fossil in alluvial soils, with beds of lignite, or on the seashore in many places.	Middle French ambre, from Arabic عنبر.
ambergrease		See Ambergris — a substance of the consistence of wax, found floating in the Indian Ocean and other parts of the tropics…	
ambergris		A substance of the consistence of wax, found floating in the Indian Ocean and other parts of the tropics, and also as a morbid secretion in the intestines of the sperm whale (Physeter macrocephalus)…	Old French ambre gris.
ambes-as	Obsolete	Ambs-ace.	
ambi-		A prefix meaning about, around; -- used in words derived from the Latin.	
ambidexter		Using both hands with equal ease.	Latin ambidexter.
ambidexterity		The quality of being ambidexas, ambidexterity of argumentation.	
ambidextral		Pertaining equally to the right-hand side and the left-hand side.	
ambidextrous		Pertaining the faculty of using both hands with equal ease.	
ambidextrously		In an ambidextrous manner; cunningly.	
ambidextrousness		The quality of being ambidextrous; ambidexterity.	
ambient		Encompassing on all sides; circumfused; investing.	Latin ambiens.
ambigenous		Of two kinds. (Bot.) Partaking of two natures, as the perianth of some endogenous plants, where the outer surface is calycine, and the inner petaloid.	
ambigu		An entertainment at which a medley of dishes is set on at the same time.	
ambiguity		The quality or state of being ambiguous; doubtfulness or uncertainty, particularly as to the signification of language, arising from its admitting of more than one meaning; an equivocal word or expression.	Middle English ambiguite, from Old French ambiguite, from Latin ambiguitas.
ambiguous		Doubtful or uncertain, particularly in respect to signification; capable of being understood in either of two or more possible senses; equivocal; as, an ambiguous course; an ambiguous expression.	Latin ambiguus.
ambiguously		In an ambiguous manner; with doubtful meaning.	
ambiguousness		Ambiguity.	
ambilevous		Left-handed on both sides; clumsy; -- opposed to ambidexter.	
ambiloquy	Obsolete	Doubtful or ambiguous language.	
ambiparous		Characterized by containing the rudiments of both flowers and leaves; -- applied to a bud.	
ambit		Circuit or compass.	Latin ambitus.
ambition		An eager, and sometimes an inordinate, desire for preferment, honor, superiority, power, or the attainment of something.	Middle English ambicion, from Old French ambition, from Latin ambitio.
ambitionist		One excessively ambitious.	
ambitionless		Devoid of ambition.	
ambitious		Possessing, or controlled by, ambition; greatly or inordinately desirous of power, honor, office, superiority, or distinction.	Middle English ambitious.
ambitiously		In an ambitious manner.	
ambitiousness		The quality of being ambitious; ambition; pretentiousness.	
ambitus		The exterior edge or border of a thing, as the border of a leaf, or the outline of a bivalve shell.	Latin ambitus.
amble		To go at the easy gait called an amble; -- applied to the horse or to its rider.	Old French ambler, from Latin ambulo.
ambler		A horse or a person that ambles.	
amblingly		With an ambling gait.	
amblotic		Tending to cause abortion.	
amblygon	Obsolete	An obtuse-angled figure, esp. and obtuse-angled triangle.	
amblygonal	Obsolete	Obtuse-angled.	
amblyopia		Weakness of sight, without and opacity of the cornea, or of the interior of the eye; the first degree of amaurosis.	
amblyopic		Of or pertaining to amblyopy.	
amblyopy		Weakness of sight, without and opacity of the cornea, or of the interior of the eye; the first degree of amaurosis.	
amblypoda		A group of large, extinct, herbivorous mammals, common in the Tertiary formation of the United States.	
ambo		A large pulpit or reading desk, in the early Christian churches.	Latin ambo, from Greek ἄμβων.
ambon		Same as Ambo.	
ambreate		A salt formed by the combination of ambreic acid with a base or positive radical.	
ambreic		Of or pertaining to ambrein; -- said of a certain acid produced by digesting ambrein in nitric acid.	
ambrein		A fragrant substance which is the chief constituent of ambergris.	
ambrite		A fossil resin occurring in large masses in New Zealand.	
ambrose		A sweet-scented herb; ambrosia. See Ambrosia, 3.	
ambrosia		(Myth.) (a) The fabled food of the gods (as nectar was their drink), which conferred immortality upon those who partook of it.	Latin ambrosia, from Greek ἀμβροσία.
ambrosiac		Having the qualities of ambrosia; delicious.	
ambrosial		Consisting of, or partaking of the nature of, ambrosia; delighting the taste or smell; delicious.	
ambrosially		After the manner of ambrosia; delightfully.	
ambrosian		Ambrosial..	
ambrosin		An early coin struck by the dukes of Milan, and bearing the figure of St. Ambrose on horseback.	
ambrotype		A picture taken on a place of prepared glass, in which the lights are represented in silver, and the shades are produced by a dark background visible through the unsilvered portions of the glass.	
ambry		In churches, a kind of closet, niche, cupboard, or locker for utensils, vestments, etc.	Anglo-Norman almarie.
ambs-ace		Double aces, the lowest throw of all at dice. Hence: Bad luck; anything of no account or value.	
ambulacral		Of or pertaining to ambulacra; avenuelike; as, the ambulacral ossicles, plates, spines, and suckers of echinoderms.	
ambulacriform		Having the form of ambulacra.	
ambulacrum		(a) One of the radical zones of echinoderms, along which run the principal nerves, blood vessels, and water tubes.	Latin ambulacrum.
ambulance		(a) A field hospital, so organized as to follow an army in its movements, and intended to succor the wounded as soon as possible.	French ambulance.
ambulant		Walking; moving from place to place.	Latin ambulans.
ambulate		To walk; to move about.	Latin ambulatus.
ambulation		The act of walking.	
ambulative		Walking.	
ambulator		One who walks about; a walker.	
ambulatorial		Ambulatory; fitted for walking.	
ambulatory		Of or pertaining to walking; having the faculty of walking; formed or fitted for walking; as, an ambulatory animal.	
amburry		Same as Anbury.	
ambury		(Far.) A soft tumor or bloody wart on horses or oxen.	
ambuscade		A lying in a wood, concealed, for the purpose of attacking an enemy by surprise.	French embuscade, from Italian imboscata.
ambuscado	Obsolete	Ambuscade.	
ambuscadoed	Obsolete	Posted in ambush; ambuscaded.	
ambush		A disposition or arrangement of troops for attacking an enemy unexpectedly from a concealed station.	Old French embusche.
ambusher		One lying in ambush.	
ambushment	Obsolete	An ambush. 2 Chron. xiii. 13.	
ambustion		A burn or scald.	Latin ambustio.
amebean		See Am — the first person singular of the verb be, in the indicative mode, present tense.	
ameer		One of the Mohammedan nobility of Afghanistan and Scinde.	
amelcorn		A variety of wheat from which starch is produced; -- called also French rice.	
ameliorable		Capable of being ameliorated.	
ameliorate		To make better; to improve; to meliorate.	
amelioration		The act of ameliorating, or the state of being ameliorated; making or becoming better; improvement; melioration.	French amélioration.
ameliorative		Tending to ameliorate; producing amelioration or improvement; as, ameliorative remedies, efforts.	
ameliorator		One who ameliorates.	
amen		An expression used at the end of prayers, and meaning, So be it.	Latin amen, from Greek ἀμήν, from Hebrew אמן.
amenability		The quality of being amenable; amenableness.	
amenable		Liable to be brought to account or punishment; answerable; responsible; accountable; as, amenable to law.	
amenableness		The quality or state of being amenable; liability to answer charges; answerableness.	
amenably		In an amenable manner.	
amenage	Obsolete	To manage.	
amenance	Obsolete	Behavior; bearing.	Old French amenance.
amend		To change or modify in any way for the better; as, (a) by simply removing what is erroneous, corrupt, superfluous, faulty, and the like; (b) by supplying deficiencies…	Old French amender, from Latin emendo.
amendable		Capable of being amended; as, an amendable writ or error. -- A*mend"a*ble*ness, n.	
amendatory		Supplying amendment; corrective; emendatory.	
amende		A pecuniary punishment or fine; a reparation or recantation.	
amender		One who amends.	
amendful	Obsolete	Much improving.	
amendment		An alteration or change for the better; correction of a fault or of faults; reformation of life by quitting vices.	French amendement, from Latin amendamentum.
amends		Compensation for a loss or injury; recompense; reparation.	French amendes.
amenity		The quality of being pleasant or agreeable, whether in respect to situation, climate, manners, or disposition; pleasantness; civility; suavity; gentleness.	French aménité, from Latin amoenitas.
amenorrhoea		Retention or suppression of the menstrual discharge.	
amenorrhoeal		Pertaining to amenorrhoea.	
ament		A species of inflorescence; a catkin.	
amentaceous		(a) Resembling, or consisting of, an ament or aments; as, the chestnut has an amentaceous inflorescence.	
amentia		Imbecility; total want of understanding.	Latin amentia.
amentiferous		Bearing catkins.	
amentiform		Shaped like a catkin.	
amentum		Same as Ament.	
amenuse	Obsolete	To lessen.	Old French amenuisier.
amerce		To punish by a pecuniary penalty, the amount of which is not fixed by law, but left to the discretion of the court; as, the amerced the criminal in the sum on the hundred dollars.	Anglo-Norman amercier.
amerceable		Liable to be amerced.	
amercement		The infliction of a penalty at the discretion of the court; also, a mulct or penalty thus imposed.	
amercer		One who amerces.	
amerciament		Same as Amercement.	Latin amerciamentum.
american		Of or pertaining to America; as, the American continent: American Indians.	
americanism		A custom peculiar to the United States or to America; an American characteristic or idea.	
americanization		The process of Americanizing.	
americanize		To render American; to assimilate to the Americans in customs, ideas, etc.; to stamp with American characteristics.	
ames-ace		Same as Ambs-ace.	
amess		Amice, a hood or cape. See 2d Amice.	
ametabola		A group of insects which do not undergo any metamorphosis.	
ametabolian		Of or pertaining to insects that do undergo any metamorphosis.	
ametabolic		Not undergoing any metamorphosis; as, ametabolic insects.	
ametabolous		Not undergoing any metamorphosis; as, ametabolic insects.	
amethodist	Obsolete	One without method; a quack.	
amethyst		(Min.) A variety of crystallized quartz, of a purple or bluish violet color, of different shades.	Middle English ametist, from Old French ametiste, from Greek ἀμέθυστος.
amethystine		Resembling amethyst, especially in color; bluish violet.	
ametropia		Any abnormal condition of the refracting powers of the eye. -- Am`e*trop"ic, a.	
amharic		Of or pertaining to Amhara, a division of Abyssinia; as, the Amharic language is closely allied to the Ethiopic. -- n.	
amia		A genus of fresh-water ganoid fishes, exclusively confined to North America; called bowfin in Lake Champlain, dogfish in Lake Erie, and mudfish in South Carolina, etc. See Bowfin.	
amiability		The quality of being amiable; amiableness; sweetness of disposition.	
amiable		Friendly; kindly; sweet; gracious; as, an amiable temper or mood; amiable ideas.	Middle English amyable, from Old French amiable, from Latin amicabilis.
amiableness		The quality of being amiable; amiability.	
amiably		In an amiable manner.	
amianth	Poetic	See Amianthus — earth flax, or mountain flax; a soft silky variety of asbestus.	
amianthiform		Resembling amianthus in form.	
amianthoid		Resembling amianthus.	
amianthus		Earth flax, or mountain flax; a soft silky variety of asbestus.	Greek ἀμίαντος.
amic		Related to, or derived, ammonia; -- used chiefly as a suffix; as, amic acid; phosphamic acid.	
amicability		The quality of being amicable; friendliness; amicableness.	
amicable		Friendly; proceeding from, or exhibiting, friendliness; after the manner of friends; peaceable; as, an amicable disposition, or arrangement.	
amicableness		The quality of being amicable; amicability.	
amicably		In an amicable manner.	
amice		A square of white linen worn at first on the head, but now about the neck and shoulders, by priests of the Roman Catholic Church while saying Mass.	
amid		See Amidst — in the midst or middle of; surrounded or encompassed by; among.	
amide		A compound formed by the union of amidogen with an acid element or radical.	
amidin		Start modified by heat so as to become a transparent mass, like horn.	
amido		Containing, or derived from, amidogen.	
amidogen		A compound radical, NH2, not yet obtained in a separate state, which may be regarded as ammonia from the molecule of which one of its hydrogen atoms has been removed; -- called also the amido group…	
amidol		A salt of a diamino phenol, C6H3(OH)(NH2)2, used as a developer.	
amidships		In the middle of a ship, with regard to her length, and sometimes also her breadth.	
amidst		In the midst or middle of; surrounded or encompassed by; among.	
amigo		A friend; -- a Spanish term applied in the Philippine Islands to friendly natives.	
amine		One of a class of strongly basic substances derived from ammonia by replacement of one or more hydrogen atoms by a basic atom or radical.	
aminol		A colorless liquid prepared from herring brine and containing amines, used as a local antiseptic.	
amioid		Like or pertaining to the Amioidei. -- n.	
amioidei		An order of ganoid fishes of which Amis is type. See Bowfin and Ganoidei.	
amir		One of the Mohammedan nobility of Afghanistan and Scinde.	Arabic أمِير.
amish		The Amish Mennonites.	
amiss	Obsolete	Astray; faultily; improperly; wrongly; ill.	
amissibility		The quality of being amissible; possibility of being lost.	
amissible		Liable to be lost.	
amission	Obsolete	Deprivation; loss.	
amit	Obsolete	To lose.	Latin amitto.
amitosis		Cell division in which there is first a simple cleavage of the nucleus without change in its structure (such as the formation of chromosomes), followed by the division of the cytoplasm; direct cell division; -- opposed to mitosis.	
amitotic		Of or pertaining to amitosis; karyostenotic; -- opposed to mitotic.	
amity		Friendship, in a general sense, between individuals, societies, or nations; friendly relations; good understanding; as, a treaty of amity and commerce; the amity of the Whigs and Tories.	Old French amitié.
amma		An abbes or spiritual mother.	Malayalam അമ്മ.
ammeter		A contraction of amperometer or ampèremeter.	
ammiral		An obsolete form of admiral.	
ammite	Obsolete	Oölite or roestone; -- written also hammite.	
ammodyte	Obsolete	(a) One of a genus of fishes; the sand eel. (b) A kind of viper in southern Europe.	Latin ammodytes.
ammonal		An explosive consisting of a mixture of powdered aluminium and nitrate of ammonium.	
ammonia		A gaseous compound of hydrogen and nitrogen, NH3, with a pungent smell and taste: -- often called volatile alkali, and spirits of hartshorn.	
ammoniac		Of or pertaining to ammonia, or possessing its properties; as, an ammoniac salt; ammoniacal gas.	
ammoniacal		Of or pertaining to ammonia, or possessing its properties; as, an ammoniac salt; ammoniacal gas.	
ammoniated		Combined or impregnated with ammonia.	
ammonic		Of or pertaining to ammonia.	
ammonite		A fossil cephalopod shell related to the nautilus.	French ammonite.
ammonitiferous		Containing fossil ammonites.	
ammonitoidea		An extensive group of fossil cephalopods often very abundant in Mesozoic rocks.	
ammonium		A compound radical, NH4, having the chemical relations of a strongly basic element like the alkali metals.	
ammunition		Articles used in charging firearms and ordnance of all kinds; as powder, balls, shot, shells, percussion caps, rockets, etc.	French amunition.
amnesia		Forgetfulness; also, a defect of speech, from cerebral disease, in which the patient substitutes wrong words or names in the place of those he wishes to employ.	
amnesic		Of or pertaining to amnesia.	
amnestic		Causing loss of memory.	
amnesty		Forgetfulness; cessation of remembrance of wrong; oblivion.	Middle French amnestie, from Latin amnestia, from Greek ἀμνηστία.
amnicolist	Obsolete	One who lives near a river.	
amnigenous	Obsolete	Born or bred in, of, or near a river.	
amnion		A thin membrane surrounding the embryos of mammals, birds, and reptiles.	
amnios		Same as Amnion.	
amniota		That group of vertebrates which develops in its embryonic life the envelope called the amnion.	
amniotic		Of or pertaining to the amnion; characterized by an amnion; as, the amniotic fluid; the amniotic sac.	
amoeba		A rhizopod. common in fresh water, capable of undergoing many changes of form at will.	Greek ἀμοιβή.
amoebaeum		A poem in which persons are represented at speaking alternately; as the third and seventh eclogues of Virgil.	
amoebea		That division of the Rhizopoda which includes the amoeba and similar forms.	
amoebean		Alternately answering.	
amoebian		One of the Amoebea.	
amoebiform		Resembling an amoeba; amoeba-shaped; changing in shape like an amoeba.	
amoeboid		Resembling an amoeba; amoeba-shaped; changing in shape like an amoeba.	
amoebous		Like an amoeba in structure.	
amole		Any detergent plant, or the part of it used as a detergent, as the roots of Agave Americana, Chlorogalum pomeridianum, etc.	
amolition	Obsolete	Removal; a putting away.	
amomum		A genus of aromatic plants.	
amoneste	Obsolete	To admonish.	
among		Mixed or mingled; surrounded by.	Old English ongemang.
amongst		Mixed or mingled; surrounded by.	
amontillado		A dry kind of cherry, of a light color.	
amoret	Obsolete	An amorous girl or woman; a wanton.	Old French amorette.
amorette	Obsolete	An amoret.	
amorist		A lover; a gallant.	
amorosa		A wanton woman; a courtesan.	Italian amoroso.
amorosity		The quality of being amorous; lovingness.	
amoroso		A lover; a man enamored.	
amorous		Inclined to love; having a propensity to love, or to sexual enjoyment; loving; fond; affectionate; as, an amorous disposition.	
amorously		In an amorous manner; fondly.	
amorousness		The quality of being amorous, or inclined to sexual love; lovingness.	
amorpha		A genus of leguminous shrubs, having long clusters of purple flowers; false or bastard indigo.	
amorphism		A state of being amorphous; esp. a state of being without crystallization even in the minutest particles, as in glass, opal, etc.	
amorphous		Having no determinate form; of irregular; shapeless.	
amorphozoa		Animals without a mouth or regular internal organs, as the sponges.	
amorphozoic		Of or pertaining to the Amorphozoa.	
amorphy	Obsolete	Shapelessness.	
amort		As if dead; lifeless; spiritless; dejected; depressed.	
amortisable		Same as Amortize, Amortization, etc.	
amortisation		Same as Amortize, Amortization, etc.	
amortise		Same as Amortize, Amortization, etc.	
amortisement		Same as Amortize, Amortization, etc.	
amortizable		Capable of being cleared off, as a debt.	
amortization		(Law) The act or right of alienating lands to a corporation, which was considered formerly as transferring them to dead hands, or in mortmain.	
amortize		(Law) To alienate in mortmain, that is, to convey to a corporation. See Mortmain.	
amortizement		Same as Amortization.	
amorwe	Obsolete	In the morning.	
amotion		Removal; ousting; especially, the removal of a corporate officer from his office.	Latin amotio.
amotus		Elevated, -- as a toe, when raised so high that the tip does not touch the ground.	
amount		To rise or reach by an accumulation of particular sums or quantities; to come (to) in the aggregate or whole; -- with to or unto.	Middle English amounten, from Old French amonter.
amour	Obsolete	Love; affection.	French amour.
amovability		Liability to be removed or dismissed from office.	
amovable		Removable.	
amove	Obsolete	To remove, as a person or thing, from a position.	Old French amover.
ampelite		An earth abounding in pyrites, used by the ancients to kill insects, etc., on vines; -- applied by Brongniart to a carbonaceous alum schist.	Latin ampelitis.
ampelopsis		A genus formerly including the Virginia creeper.	
amperage		The strength of a current of electricity carried by a conductor or generated by a machine, measured in ampères.	
ampere		The unit of electric current; -- defined by the International Electrical Congress in 1893 and by U.	
amperemeter		An instrument for measuring the strength of an electrical current in ampères.	
amperometer		An instrument for measuring the strength of an electrical current in ampères.	
ampersand		A word used to describe the character Halliwell.	
amphi-		A prefix in words of Greek origin, signifying both, of both kinds, on both sides, about, around.	Greek ἀμφί.
amphiarthrodial		Characterized by amphiarthrosis.	
amphiarthrosis		A form of articulation in which the bones are connected by intervening substance admitting slight motion; symphysis.	
amphiaster		The achromatic figure, formed in mitotic cell-division, consisting of two asters connected by a spindle-shaped bundle of rodlike fibers diverging from each aster, and called the spindle.	
amphibia		One of the classes of vertebrates.	
amphibial		Amphibian.	
amphibian		Of or pertaining to the Amphibia; as, amphibian reptiles.	Greek ἀμφίβιον.
amphibiological		Pertaining to amphibiology.	
amphibiology		A treatise on amphibious animals; the department of natural history which treats of the Amphibia.	
amphibiotica		A division of insects having aquatic larvæ.	
amphibious		Having the ability to live both on land and in water, as frogs, crocodiles, beavers, and some plants.	
amphibiously		Like an amphibious being.	
amphibium		An amphibian.	
amphiblastic		Segmenting unequally; -- said of telolecithal ova with complete segmentation.	
amphibole		A common mineral embracing many varieties varying in color and in composition.	
amphibolic		Of or pertaining to amphiboly; ambiguous; equivocal.	
amphibological		Of doubtful meaning; ambiguous. -- Am*phib`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.	Latin amphibologia.
amphibology		A phrase, discourse, or proposition, susceptible of two interpretations; and hence, of uncertain meaning.	French amphibologie.
amphibolous		(Logic) Capable of two meanings.	Latin amphibolus, from Greek ἀμφίβολος.
amphiboly		Ambiguous discourse; amphibology.	Old French amphibolie, from Latin amphibolia, from Greek ἀμφιβολία.
amphibrach		A foot of three syllables, the middle one long, the first and last short (as, h.	Latin amphibrachus, from Greek ἀμϕίβραχυς.
amphicarpic		Producing fruit of two kinds, either as to form or time of ripening.	
amphicarpous		Producing fruit of two kinds, either as to form or time of ripening.	
amphichroic		Exhibiting or producing two colors, as substances which in the color test may change red litmus to blue and blue litmus to red.	
amphicoelian		Having both ends concave; biconcave; -- said of vertebræ.	
amphicoelous		Having both ends concave; biconcave; -- said of vertebræ.	
amphicome	Obsolete	A kind of figured stone, rugged and beset with eminences, anciently used in divination.	
amphictyonic		Of or pertaining to the Amphictyons or their League or Council; as, an Amphictyonic town or state; the Amphictyonic body.	
amphictyons		Deputies from the confederated states of ancient Greece to a congress or council.	
amphictyony		A league of states of ancient Greece; esp. the celebrated confederation known as the Amphictyonic Council.	Greek ἀμφικτυονία.
amphid		A salt of the class formed by the combination of an acid and a base, or by the union of two oxides, two sulphides, selenides, or tellurides, as distinguished from a haloid compound.	
amphidisc		A peculiar small siliceous spicule having a denticulated wheel at each end; -- found in freshwater sponges.	
amphidromical		Pertaining to an Attic festival at the naming of a child; -- so called because the friends of the parents carried the child around the hearth and then named it.	
amphigamous		Having a structure entirely cellular, and no distinct sexual organs; -- a term applied by De Candolle to the lowest order of plants.	
amphigean		Extending over all the zones, from the tropics to the polar zones inclusive.	
amphigen		An element that in combination produces amphid salt; -- applied by Berzelius to oxygen, sulphur, selenium, and tellurium.	
amphigene		Leucite.	
amphigenesis		Sexual generation; amphigony.	
amphigenous		Increasing in size by growth on all sides, as the lichens.	
amphigonic		Pertaining to amphigony; sexual; as, amphigonic propagation.	
amphigonous		Relating to both parents.	
amphigony		Sexual propagation.	
amphigoric		Nonsensical; absurd; pertaining to an amphigory.	
amphigory		A nonsense verse; a rigmarole, with apparent meaning, which on further attention proves to be meaningless.	French amphigouri.
amphilogism		Ambiguity of speech; equivocation.	
amphilogy		Ambiguity of speech; equivocation.	
amphimacer		A foot of three syllables, the middle one short and the others long, as in cast.	
amphineura		A division of Mollusca remarkable for the bilateral symmetry of the organs and the arrangement of the nerves.	
amphioxus		A fishlike creature (Amphioxus lanceolatus), two or three inches long, found in temperature seas; -- also called the lancelet.	
amphipneust		One of a tribe of Amphibia, which have both lungs and gills at the same time, as the proteus and siren.	
amphipod		One of the Amphipoda.	
amphipoda		A numerous group of fourteen -- footed Crustacea, inhabiting both fresh and salt water.	
amphipodan		Of or pertaining to the Amphipoda.	
amphipodous		Of or pertaining to the Amphipoda.	
amphiprostyle		Doubly prostyle; having columns at each end, but not at the sides. -- n.	Latin amphiprostylos, from Greek ἀμφιπρόστυλος.
amphirhina		A name applied to the elasmobranch fishes, because the nasal sac is double.	
amphisbaena		A fabled serpent with a head at each end, moving either way.	Latin amphisbaena, from Greek ἀμφίσβαινα.
amphisbaenoid		Like or pertaining to the lizards of the genus Amphisbæna.	
amphiscians		The inhabitants of the tropic, whose shadows in one part of the year are cast to the north, and in the other to the south, according as the sun is south or north of their zenith.	
amphiscii		The inhabitants of the tropic, whose shadows in one part of the year are cast to the north, and in the other to the south, according as the sun is south or north of their zenith.	
amphistomous		Having a sucker at each extremity, as certain entozoa, by means of which they adhere.	
amphistylic		Having the mandibular arch articulated with the hyoid arch and the cranium, as in the cestraciont sharks; -- said of a skull.	
amphitheater		An oval or circular building with rising tiers of seats about an open space called the arena.	
amphitheatral		Amphitheatrical; resembling an amphitheater.	Latin amphitheatralis.
amphitheatre		An oval or circular building with rising tiers of seats about an open space called the arena.	Latin amphitheatrum, from Greek ἀμφιθέατρον.
amphitheatric		Of, pertaining to, exhibited in, or resembling, an amphitheater.	Latin amphitheatricus.
amphitheatrical		Of, pertaining to, exhibited in, or resembling, an amphitheater.	
amphitheatrically		In the form or manner of an amphitheater.	
amphitrocha		A kind of annelid larva having both a dorsal and a ventral circle of special cilia.	
amphitropal		Having the ovule inverted, but with the attachment near the middle of one side; half anatropous.	
amphitropous		Having the ovule inverted, but with the attachment near the middle of one side; half anatropous.	
amphiuma		A genus of amphibians, inhabiting the Southern United States, having a serpentlike form, but with four minute limbs and two persistent gill openings; the Congo snake.	
amphopeptone		A product of gastric digestion, a mixture of hemipeptone and antipeptone.	
amphora		Among the ancients, a two-handled vessel, tapering at the bottom, used for holding wine, oil, etc.	Latin amphora, from Greek ἀμφορεύς.
amphoral		Pertaining to, or resembling, an amphora.	
amphoric		Produced by, or indicating, a cavity in the lungs, not filled, and giving a sound like that produced by blowing into an empty decanter; as, amphoric respiration or resonance.	
amphoteric		Partly one and partly the other; neither acid nor alkaline; neutral.	Greek ἀμφότερος.
ample		Large; great in size, extent, capacity, or bulk; spacious; roomy; widely extended.	Middle French ample, from Latin amplus.
amplectant		Clasping a support; as, amplectant tendrils.	
ampleness		The state or quality of being ample; largeness; fullness; completeness.	
amplexation	Obsolete	An embrace.	
amplexicaul		Clasping or embracing a stem, as the base of some leaves.	
ampliate		To enlarge.	
ampliation		Enlargement; amplification.	
ampliative		Enlarging a conception by adding to that which is already known or received. is an ampliative judgment; because we can think of bodies without thinking of attraction as one of their immediate primary attribute.	
amplificate	Obsolete	To amplify.	
amplification		The act of amplifying or enlarging in dimensions; enlargement; extension.	Latin amplificatio.
amplificative		Amplificatory.	
amplificatory		Serving to amplify or enlarge; amplificative.	
amplifier		One who or that which amplifies.	
amplify		To render larger, more extended, or more intense, and the like; -- used especially of telescopes, microscopes, etc.	Middle English amplifyen, from Old French amplifier, from Latin amplificare.
amplitude		State of being ample; extent of surface or space; largeness of dimensions; size.	Middle French amplitude, from Latin amplitudo.
amply		In an ample manner.	
ampul		Same as Ampulla, 2.	Old French ampule, from Latin ampulla.
ampulla		(Eccl.) (a) A cruet for the wine and water at Mass. (b) The vase in which the holy oil for chrism, unction, or coronation is kept.	Latin ampulla.
ampullaceous		Like a bottle or inflated bladder; bottle-shaped; swelling.	
ampullar		Resembling an ampulla.	
ampullary		Resembling an ampulla.	
ampullate		Having an ampulla; flask-shaped; bellied.	
ampullated		Having an ampulla; flask-shaped; bellied.	
ampulliform		Flask-shaped; dilated.	
amputate		To prune or lop off, as branches or tendrils.	Latin amputo.
amputation		The act amputating; esp. the operation of cutting of a limb or projecting part of the body.	
amputator		One who amputates.	
ampyx		A woman's headband (sometimes of metal), for binding the front hair.	
amrita		Immorality; also, the nectar conferring immortality. -- a.	
amsel		The European ring ousel (Turdus torquatus).	
amt		An administrative territorial division in Denmark and Norway.	
amuck		In a frenzied and reckless.	
amulet		An ornament, gem, or scroll, or a package containing a relic, etc., worn as a charm or preservative against evils or mischief, such as diseases and witchcraft, and generally inscribed with mystic forms or characters.	Middle French amulette, from Latin amuletum.
amuletic		Of or pertaining to an amulet; operating as a charm.	
amurcous		Full off dregs; foul.	
amusable		Capable of being amused.	
amuse		To entertain or occupy in a pleasant manner; to stir with pleasing or mirthful emotions; to divert.	Middle English amusen, from Middle French amuser, from Old French amuser.
amused		Expressing amusement; as, an amused look.	
amusement		The state of being amused; pleasurable excitement; that which amuses; diversion.	
amuser		One who amuses.	
amusette		A light field cannon, or stocked gun mounted on a swivel.	
amusing		Giving amusement; diverting; as, an amusing story. -- A*mus"ing*ly, adv.	
amusive		Having power to amuse or entertain the mind; fitted to excite mirth. -- A*mu sive*ness, n.	
amvis		An explosive consisting of ammonium nitrate, a derivative of nitrobenzene, chlorated napthalene, and wood meal.	
amy	Obsolete	A friend.	
amyelous		Wanting the spinal cord.	
amygdala		(Anat.) (a) One of the tonsils of the pharynx. (b) One of the rounded prominences of the lower surface of the lateral hemispheres of the cerebellum, each side of the vallecula.	
amygdalaceous		Akin to, or derived from, the almond.	
amygdalate		(Med.) An emulsion made of almonds; milk of almonds.	
amygdalic		Of or pertaining to almonds; derived from amygdalin; as, amygdalic acid.	
amygdaliferous		Almond-bearing.	
amygdalin		A glucoside extracted from bitter almonds as a white, crystalline substance.	
amygdaline		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, almonds.	
amygdaloid		A variety of trap or basaltic rock, containing small cavities, occupied, wholly or in part, by nodules or geodes of different minerals, esp. agates, quartz, calcite, and the zeolites.	
amygdaloidal		Pertaining to, or having the nature of, the rock amygdaloid.	
amyl		A hydrocarbon radical, C5H11, of the paraffine series found in amyl alcohol or fusel oil, etc.	
amylaceous		Pertaining to starch; of the nature of starch; starchy.	Latin amylum, from Greek ἄμυλον.
amylate		A compound of the radical amyl with oxygen and a positive atom or radical.	
amylene		One of a group of metameric hydrocarbons, C5H10, of the ethylene series.	
amylic		Pertaining to, or derived from, amyl; as, amylic ether.	
amylobacter		A microörganism (Bacillus amylobacter) which develops in vegetable tissue during putrefaction.	
amylogen		That part of the starch granule or granulose which is soluble in water.	
amylogenesis		The formation of starch.	
amylogenic		Forming starch; -- applied specif. to leucoplasts.	
amyloid		A non-nitrogenous starchy food; a starchlike substance.	
amyloidal		Resembling or containing amyl; starchlike.	
amylolysis		The conversion of starch into soluble products, as dextrins and sugar, esp. by the action of enzymes. -- Am`y*lo*lyt"ic (#), a.	
amylolytic		Effecting the conversion of starch into soluble dextrin and sugar; as, an amylolytic ferment.	
amylometer		Instrument for determining the amount of starch in a substance.	
amyloplastic		Starch-forming; amylogenic.	
amylopsin		The diastase of the pancreatic juice.	
amylose		One of the starch group (C6H10O5)n of the carbohydrates; as, starch, arabin, dextrin, cellulose, etc.	
amyous		Wanting in muscle; without flesh.	
amyss		Same as Amice, a hood or cape.	
amzel		The European ring ousel (Turdus torquatus).	
