an		This word is properly an adjective, but is commonly called the indefinite article.
ana		Of each; an equal quantity; as, wine and honey, ana (or, contracted, aa),., that is, of wine and honey, each, two ounces.
ana-		A prefix in words from the Greek, denoting up, upward, throughout, backward, back, again, anew.
anabaptism		The doctrine of the Anabaptists.
anabaptist		A name sometimes applied to a member of any sect holding that rebaptism is necessary for those baptized in infancy.
anabaptistic		Relating or attributed to the Anabaptists, or their doctrines.
anabaptistical		Relating or attributed to the Anabaptists, or their doctrines.
anabaptistry		The doctrine, system, or practice, of Anabaptists.
anabaptize		To rebaptize; to rechristen; also, to rename.
anabas		A genus of fishes, remarkable for their power of living long out of water, and of making their way on land for considerable distances, and for climbing trees; the climbing fishes.
anabasis		A journey or expedition up from the coast, like that of the younger Cyrus into Central Asia, described by Xenophon in his work called The anabasis of Napoleon.
anabatic	Obsolete	Pertaining to anabasis; as, an anabatic fever.
anabolic		Pertaining to anabolism; an anabolic changes, or processes, more or less constructive in their nature.
anabolism		The constructive metabolism of the body, as distinguished from katabolism.
anabranch		A branch of a river that reënters, or anastomoses with, the main stream; also, less properly, a branch which loses itself in sandy soil.
anacamptic		Reflecting of reflected; as, an anacamptic sound (and echo).
anacamptically		By reflection; as, echoes are sound produced anacamptically.
anacamptics		The science of reflected light, now called catoptrics.
anacanthini		A group of teleostean fishes destitute of spiny fin-rays, as the cod.
anacanthous		Spineless, as certain fishes.
anacanths		A group of teleostean fishes destitute of spiny fin-rays, as the cod.
anacardiaceous		Belonging to, or resembling, a family, or order, of plants of which the cashew tree is the type, and the species of sumac are well known examples.
anacardic		Pertaining to, or derived from, the cashew nut; as, anacardic acid.
anacardium		A genus of plants including the cashew tree. See Cashew.
anacathartic		Producing vomiting or expectoration. -- n.
anacharis		A fresh-water weed of the frog's-bit family (Hydrocharidaceæ), native to America.
anachoret	Obsolete	See Anchoret, Anchoretic.
anachoretical	Obsolete	See Anchoret, Anchoretic.
anachorism		An error in regard to the place of an event or a thing; a referring something to a wrong place.
anachronic		Characterized by, or involving, anachronism; anachronistic.
anachronical		Characterized by, or involving, anachronism; anachronistic.
anachronism		A misplacing or error in the order of time; an error in chronology by which events are misplaced in regard to each other, esp. one by which an event is placed too early; falsification of chronological relation.
anachronistic		Erroneous in date; containing an anachronism.
anachronize		To refer to, or put into, a wrong time.
anachronous		Containing an anachronism; anachronistic. -- An*ach"ro*nous*ly, adv.
anaclastic		(Opt.) Produced by the refraction of light, as seen through water; as, anaclastic curves.
anaclastics		That part of optics which treats of the refraction of light; -- commonly called dioptrics.
anacoenosis		A figure by which a speaker appeals to his hearers or opponents for their opinion on the point in debate.
anacoluthic		Lacking grammatical sequence. -- An`a*co*lu"thic*al*ly, adv.
anacoluthon		A want of grammatical sequence or coherence in a sentence; an instance of a change of construction in a sentence so that the latter part does not syntactically correspond with the first part.
anaconda		A large South American snake of the Boa family (Eunectes murinus), which lives near rivers, and preys on birds and small mammals.
anacreontic		Pertaining to, after the manner of, or in the meter of, the Greek poet Anacreon; amatory and convivial.
anacrotic		Pertaining to anachronism.
anacrotism		A secondary notch in the pulse curve, obtained in a sphygmographic tracing.
anacrusis		A prefix of one or two unaccented syllables to a verse properly beginning with an accented syllable.
anadem		A garland or fillet; a chaplet or wreath.
anadiplosis		A repetition of the last word or any prominent word in a sentence or clause, at the beginning of the next, with an adjunct idea; as,
anadrom		A fish that leaves the sea and ascends rivers.
anadromous		(Zoöl.) Ascending rivers from the sea, at certain seasons, for breeding, as the salmon, shad, etc.
anaemia		A morbid condition in which the blood is deficient in quality or in quantity.
anaemic		Of or pertaining to anæmia.
anaerobes		Anaërobic bacteria.
anaerobia		Anaërobic bacteria.
anaerobic		Relating to, or like, anaërobies; araërobiotic.
anaerobies		Microörganisms which do not require oxygen, but are killed by it.
anaerobiotic		Related to, or of the nature of, anaërobies.
anaesthesia		Entire or partial loss or absence of feeling or sensation; a state of general or local insensibility produced by disease or by the inhalation or application of an anæsthetic.
anaesthesis		See Anæsthesia.
anaesthetic		(a) Capable of rendering insensible; as, anæsthetic agents. (b) Characterized by, or connected with, insensibility; as, an anæsthetic effect or operation.
anaesthetization		The process of anæsthetizing; also, the condition of the nervous system induced by anæsthetics.
anaesthetize		To render insensible by an anæsthetic.
anaglyph		Any sculptured, chased, or embossed ornament worked in low relief, as a cameo.
anaglyphic		Work chased or embossed relief.
anaglyphical		Pertaining to the art of chasing or embossing in relief; anaglyptic; -- opposed to diaglyptic or sunk work.
anaglyptic		Relating to the art of carving, enchasing, or embossing in low relief.
anaglyptics		The art of carving in low relief, embossing, etc.
anaglyptograph		An instrument by which a correct engraving of any embossed object, such as a medal or cameo, can be executed.
anaglyptographic		Of or pertaining to anaglyptography; as, analyptographic engraving.
anaglyptography		The art of copying works in relief, or of engraving as to give the subject an embossed or raised appearance; -- used in representing coins, bas-reliefs, etc.
anagnorisis		The unfolding or dénouement.
anagoge		An elevation of mind to things celestial.
anagogic		Mystical; having a secondary spiritual meaning; as, the rest of the Sabbath, in an anagogical sense, signifies the repose of the saints in heaven; an anagogical explication. -- An`a*gog"ic*al*ly, adv.
anagogical		Mystical; having a secondary spiritual meaning; as, the rest of the Sabbath, in an anagogical sense, signifies the repose of the saints in heaven; an anagogical explication. -- An`a*gog"ic*al*ly, adv.
anagogics		Mystical interpretations or studies, esp. of the Scriptures.
anagogy		Same as Anagoge.
anagram		Literally, the letters of a word read backwards, but in its usual wider sense, the change or one word or phrase into another by the transposition of its letters.
anagrammatic		Pertaining to, containing, or making, anagram. -- An`a*gram*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.
anagrammatical		Pertaining to, containing, or making, anagram. -- An`a*gram*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.
anagrammatism		The act or practice of making anagrams.
anagrammatist		A maker anagrams.
anagrammatize		To transpose, as the letters of a word, so as to form an anagram.
anagraph	Obsolete	An inventory; a record.
anakim		A race of giants living in Palestine.
anaks		A race of giants living in Palestine.
anal		Pertaining to, or situated near, the anus; as, the anal fin or glands.
analcime		A white or flesh-red mineral, of the zeolite, occurring in isometric crystals.
analcite		Analcime.
analecta		A collection of literary fragments.
analectic		Relating to analects; made up of selections; as, an analectic magazine.
analects		A collection of literary fragments.
analemma		(Chem.) An orthographic projection of the sphere on the plane of the meridian, the eye being supposed at an infinite distance, and in the east or west point of the horizon.
analepsis		(a) Recovery of strength after sickness. (b) A species of epileptic attack, originating from gastric disorder.
analepsy		(a) Recovery of strength after sickness. (b) A species of epileptic attack, originating from gastric disorder.
analeptic		Restorative; giving strength after disease. -- n.
analgen		A crystalline compound used as an antipyretic and analgesic, employed chiefly in rheumatism and neuralgia.
analgene		A crystalline compound used as an antipyretic and analgesic, employed chiefly in rheumatism and neuralgia.
analgesia		Absence of sensibility to pain.
anallagmatic		Not changed in form by inversion.
anallantoic		Without, or not developing, an allantois.
anallantoidea		The division of Vertebrata in which no allantois is developed.
analogal	Obsolete	Analogous.
analogic		Of or belonging to analogy.
analogical		Founded on, or of the nature of, analogy; expressing or implying analogy.
analogically		In an analogical sense; in accordance with analogy; by way of similitude.
analogicalness		Quality of being analogical.
analogism		Logic an argument from the cause to the effect; an a priori argument.
analogist		One who reasons from analogy, or represent, by analogy.
analogize		To employ, or reason by, analogy.
analogon		Analogue.
analogous		Having analogy; corresponding to something else; bearing some resemblance or proportion; -- often followed by to.
analogue		That which is analogous to, or corresponds with, some other thing.
analogy		A resemblance of relations; an agreement or likeness between things in some circumstances or effects, when the things are otherwise entirely different.
analyse		Same as Analyze, Analyzer, etc.
analyser		Same as Analyze, Analyzer, etc.
analysis		A resolution of anything, whether an object of the senses or of the intellect, into its constituent or original elements; an examination of the component parts of a subject, each separately, as the words which compose a sentence…
analyst		One who analyzes; formerly, one skilled in algebraical geometry; now commonly, one skilled in chemical analysis.
analytic		Of or pertaining to analysis; resolving into elements or constituent parts; as, an analytical experiment; analytic reasoning; -- opposed to synthetic.
analytical		Of or pertaining to analysis; resolving into elements or constituent parts; as, an analytical experiment; analytic reasoning; -- opposed to synthetic.
analytically		In an analytical manner.
analytics		The science of analysis.
analyzable		That may be analyzed.
analyzation		The act of analyzing, or separating into constituent parts; analysis.
analyze		To subject to analysis; to resolve (anything complex) into its elements; to separate into the constituent parts, for the purpose of an examination of each separately…
analyzer		One who, or that which, analyzes.
anamese		Of or pertaining to Anam, to southeastern Asia. -- n.
anamnesis		A recalling to mind; recollection.
anamnestic		Aiding the memory; as, anamnestic remedies.
anamniotic		Without, or not developing, an amnion.
anamorphism		A distorted image.
anamorphoscope		An instrument for restoring a picture or image distorted by anamorphosis to its normal proportions.
anamorphosis		(Persp.) A distorted or monstrous projection or representation of an image on a plane or curved surface, which, when viewed from a certain point, or as reflected from a curved mirror or through a polyhedron…
anamorphosy		Same as Anamorphosis.
anan	Obsolete	An expression equivalent to What did you say Sir Eh Shak.
ananas		The pineapple (Ananassa sativa).
anandrous		Destitute of stamen
anangular		Containing no angle.
anantherous		Destitute of anthers.
ananthous		Destitute of flowers; flowerless.
anapaest		Same as Anapest, Anapestic.
anapaestic		Same as Anapest, Anapestic.
anapest		(Pros.) A metrical foot consisting of three syllables, the first two short, or unaccented, the last long, or accented; the reverse of the dactyl.
anapestic		Pertaining to an anapest; consisting of an anapests; as, an anapestic meter, foot, verse. -- n.
anapestical		Anapestic.
anaphora		A repetition of a word or of words at the beginning of two or more successive clauses.
anaphrodisia		Absence of sexual appetite.
anaphrodisiac		Same as Antaphrodisiac.
anaphroditic		Produced without concourse of sexes.
anaplastic		Of or pertaining to anaplasty.
anaplasty		The art of operation of restoring lost parts or the normal shape by the use of healthy tissue.
anaplerotic		Filling up; promoting granulation of wounds or ulcers. -- n.
anapnograph		A form of spirometer.
anapnoic		Relating to respiration.
anapodeictic		Not apodeictic; undemonstrable.
anapophysis		An accessory process in many lumbar vertebræ.
anaptotic		Having lost, or tending to lose, inflections by phonetic decay; as, anaptotic languages.
anaptychus		One of a pair of shelly plates found in some cephalopods, as the ammonites.
anarch		The author of anarchy; one who excites revolt.
anarchal		Lawless; anarchical.
anarchic		Pertaining to anarchy; without rule or government; in political confusion; tending to produce anarchy; as, anarchic despotism; anarchical opinions.
anarchical		Pertaining to anarchy; without rule or government; in political confusion; tending to produce anarchy; as, anarchic despotism; anarchical opinions.
anarchism		The doctrine or practice of anarchists.
anarchist		An anarch; one who advocates anarchy of aims at the overthrow of civil government.
anarchize		To reduce to anarchy.
anarchy		Absence of government; the state of society where there is no law or supreme power; a state of lawlessness; political confusion.
anarthropoda		One of the divisions of Articulata in which there are no jointed legs, as the annelids; -- opposed to Arthropoda.
anarthropodous		Having no jointed legs; pertaining to Anarthropoda.
anarthrous		(Gr. Gram.) Used without the article; as, an anarthrous substantive.
anas		A genus of water fowls, of the order Anseres, including certain species of fresh-water ducks.
anasarca		Dropsy of the subcutaneous cellular tissue; an effusion of serum into the cellular substance, occasioning a soft, pale, inelastic swelling of the skin.
anasarcous		Belonging, or affected by, anasarca, or dropsy; dropsical.
anaseismic		Moving up and down; -- said of earthquake shocks.
anastaltic	Obsolete	Styptic.
anastate		One of a series of substances formed, in secreting cells, by constructive or anabolic processes, in the production of protoplasm; -- opposed to katastate.
anastatic		Pertaining to a process or a style of printing from characters in relief on zinc plates.
anastigmatic		Not astigmatic; --said esp. of a lens system which consists of a converging lens and a diverging lens of equal and opposite astigmatism but different focal lengths, and sensibly free from astigmatism.
anastomose		To inosculate; to intercommunicate by anastomosis, as the arteries and veins.
anastomosis		The inosculation of vessels, or intercommunication between two or more vessels or nerves, as the cross communication between arteries or veins.
anastomotic		Of or pertaining to anastomosis.
anastrophe		An inversion of the natural order of words; as, echoed the hills, for, the hills echoed.
anathema		A ban or curse pronounced with religious solemnity by ecclesiastical authority, and accompanied by excommunication.
anathematic		Pertaining to, or having the nature of, an anathema. -- A*nath`e*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.
anathematical		Pertaining to, or having the nature of, an anathema. -- A*nath`e*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.
anathematism	Obsolete	Anathematization.
anathematization		The act of anathematizing, or denouncing as accursed; imprecation.
anathematize		To pronounce an anathema against; to curse. Hence: To condemn publicly as something accursed.
anathematizer		One who pronounces an anathema.
anatifa		An animal of the barnacle tribe, of the genus Lepas, having a fleshy stem or peduncle; a goose barnacle.
anatifer		Same as Anatifa.
anatiferous		Producing ducks; -- applied to Anatifæ, under the absurd notion of their turning into ducks or geese.
anatine		Of or pertaining to the ducks; ducklike.
anatocism		Compound interest.
anatomic		Of or relating to anatomy or dissection; as, the anatomic art; anatomical observations.
anatomical		Of or relating to anatomy or dissection; as, the anatomic art; anatomical observations.
anatomically		In an anatomical manner; by means of dissection.
anatomism		The application of the principles of anatomy, as in art.
anatomist		One who is skilled in the art of anatomy, or dissection.
anatomization		The act of anatomizing.
anatomize		To dissect; to cut in pieces, as an animal vegetable body, for the purpose of displaying or examining the structure and use of the several parts.
anatomizer		A dissector.
anatomy		The art of dissecting, or artificially separating the different parts of any organized body, to discover their situation, structure, and economy; dissection.
anatreptic		Overthrowing; defeating; -- applied to Plato's refutative dialogues.
anatron		Native carbonate of soda; natron.
anatropal		Having the ovule inverted at an early period in its development, so that the chalaza is as the apparent apex; -- opposed to orthotropous.
anatropous		Having the ovule inverted at an early period in its development, so that the chalaza is as the apparent apex; -- opposed to orthotropous.
anatto		Same as Annotto.
anbury		(Far.) A soft tumor or bloody wart on horses or oxen.
ance		A suffix signifying action; also, quality or state; as, assistance, resistance, appearance, elegance.
ancestor		One from whom a person is descended, whether on the father's or mother's side, at any distance of time; a progenitor; a fore father.
ancestorial		Ancestral.
ancestorially		With regard to ancestors.
ancestral		Of, pertaining to, derived from, or possessed by, an ancestor or ancestors; as, an ancestral estate.
ancestress		A female ancestor.
ancestry		Condition as to ancestors; ancestral lineage; hence, birth or honorable descent.
anchor		A iron instrument which is attached to a ship by a cable (rope or chain), and which, being cast overboard, lays hold of the earth by a fluke or hook and thus retains the ship in a particular station.
anchor-hold		Hence: Firm hold: security.
anchorable		Fit for anchorage.
anchorage		The act of anchoring, or the condition of lying at anchor.
anchorate		Anchor-shaped.
anchored		Held by an anchor; at anchor; held safely; as, an anchored bark; also, shaped like an anchor; forked; as, an anchored tongue.
anchoress		A female anchoret.
anchoret		One who renounces the world and secludes himself, usually for religious reasons; a hermit; a recluse.
anchoretic		Pertaining to an anchoret or hermit; after the manner of an anchoret.
anchoretical		Pertaining to an anchoret or hermit; after the manner of an anchoret.
anchoretish		Hermitlike.
anchoretism		The practice or mode of life of an anchoret.
anchorite		One who renounces the world and secludes himself, usually for religious reasons; a hermit; a recluse.
anchoritess		An anchoress.
anchorless		Without an anchor or stay. Hence: Drifting; unsettled.
anchovy		A small fish, about three inches in length, of the Herring family (Engraulis encrasicholus), caught in vast numbers in the Mediterranean, and pickled for exportation.
anchusin		A resinoid coloring matter obtained from alkanet root.
anchylose		To affect or be affected with anchylosis; to unite or consolidate so as to make a stiff joint; to grow together into one.
anchylosis		(Med.) Stiffness or fixation of a joint; formation of a stiff joint.
anchylotic		Of or pertaining to anchylosis.
ancient		Old; that happened or existed in former times, usually at a great distance of time; belonging to times long past; specifically applied to the times before the fall of the Roman empire; -- opposed to modern; as, ancient authors…
anciently		In ancient times.
ancientness		The quality of being ancient; antiquity; existence from old times.
ancientry		Antiquity; what is ancient.
ancienty	Obsolete	Age; antiquity.
ancile		The sacred shield of the Romans, said to have-fallen from heaven in the reign of Numa.
ancillary		Subservient or subordinate, like a handmaid; auxiliary.
ancille	Obsolete	A maidservant; a handmaid.
ancipital		Two-edged instead of round; -- said of certain flattened stems, as those of blue grass, and rarely also of leaves.
ancipitous		Two-edged instead of round; -- said of certain flattened stems, as those of blue grass, and rarely also of leaves.
ancistroid		Hook-shaped.
ancle		See Ankle — the joint which connects the foot with the leg; the tarsus.
ancome	Obsolete	A small ulcerous swelling, coming suddenly; also, a whitlow.
ancon	Obsolete	The olecranon, or the elbow.
anconal		Of or pertaining to the ancon or elbow.
ancone	Obsolete	(a) The corner or quoin of a wall, cross-beam, or rafter.
anconeal		Of or pertaining to the ancon or elbow.
anconeus		A muscle of the elbow and forearm.
anconoid		Elbowlike; anconal.
ancony		A piece of malleable iron, wrought into the shape of a bar in the middle, but unwrought at the ends.
and		A particle which expresses the relation of connection or addition.
andabatism	Obsolete	Doubt; uncertainty.
andalusite		A silicate of aluminium, occurring usually in thick rhombic prisms, nearly square, of a grayish or pale reddish tint.
andante		Moving moderately slow, but distinct and flowing; quicker than larghetto, and slower than allegretto. -- n.
andantino		Rather quicker than andante; between that allegretto.
andarac		Red orpiment.
andean		Pertaining to the Andes.
andesine		A kind of triclinic feldspar found in the Andes.
andesite		An eruptive rock allied to trachyte, consisting essentially of a triclinic feldspar, with pyroxene, hornblende, or hypersthene.
andine		Andean; as, Andine flora.
andiron		A utensil for supporting wood when burning in a fireplace, one being placed on each side; a firedog; as, a pair of andirons.
andranatomy		The dissection of a human body, especially of a male; androtomy.
androcephalous		Having a human head (upon an animal's body), as the Egyptian sphinx.
androdiecious		Having perfect and staminate flowers on different plants. -- An`dro*di*o cism (#), n.
androdioecious		Having perfect and staminate flowers on different plants. -- An`dro*di*o cism (#), n.
androecium		The stamens of a flower taken collectively.
androgynal		Uniting both sexes in one, or having the characteristics of both; being in nature both male and female; hermaphroditic.
androgyne		(Bot.) An androgynous plant.
androgynism		Union of both sexes in one individual; hermaphroditism.
androgynous		Uniting both sexes in one, or having the characteristics of both; being in nature both male and female; hermaphroditic.
androgyny		Union of both sexes in one individual; hermaphroditism.
android		Resembling a man.
androides		A machine or automaton in the form of a human being.
andromed		A meteor appearing to radiate from a point in the constellation Andromeda, -- whence the name.
andromeda		(Astron.) A northern constellation, supposed to represent the mythical Andromeda.
andromede		A meteor appearing to radiate from a point in the constellation Andromeda, -- whence the name.
andron		The apartment appropriated for the males.
andropetalous		Produced by the conversion of the stamens into petals, as double flowers, like the garden ranunculus.
androphagi		Cannibals; man-eaters; anthropophagi.
androphagous		Anthropophagous.
androphore		(Bot.) A support or column on which stamens are raised.
andropogon		A very large and important genus of grasses, found in nearly all parts of the world.
androsphinx		A man sphinx; a sphinx having the head of a man and the body of a lion.
androspore		A spore of some algæ, which has male functions.
androtomous		Having the filaments of the stamens divided into two parts.
androtomy		Dissection of the human body, as distinguished from zoötomy; anthropotomy.
androus		A terminal combining form: Having a stamen or stamens; staminate; as, monandrous, with one stamen; polyandrous, with many stamens.
aneath	Scots	Beneath.
anecdotage		Anecdotes collectively; a collection of anecdotes.
anecdotal		Pertaining to, or abounding with, anecdotes; as, anecdotal conversation.
anecdote		pl. Unpublished narratives.
anecdotic		Pertaining to, consisting of, or addicted to, anecdotes.
anecdotical		Pertaining to, consisting of, or addicted to, anecdotes.
anecdotist		One who relates or collects anecdotes.
anelace		Same as Anlace.
anele	Obsolete	To give extreme unction to.
anelectric		Not becoming electrified by friction; -- opposed to idioelectric. -- n.
anelectrode		The positive pole of a voltaic battery.
anelectrotonus		The condition of decreased irritability of a nerve in the region of the positive electrode or anode on the passage of a current of electricity through it.
anemogram		A record made by an anemograph.
anemograph		An instrument for measuring and recording the direction and force of the wind.
anemographic		Produced by an anemograph; of or pertaining to anemography.
anemography		A description of the winds.
anemology		The science of the wind.
anemometer		An instrument for measuring the force or velocity of the wind; a wind gauge.
anemometric		Of or pertaining to anemometry.
anemometrical		Of or pertaining to anemometry.
anemometrograph		An anemograph.
anemometry		The act or process of ascertaining the force or velocity of the wind.
anemone		(Bot.) A genus of plants of the Ranunculus or Crowfoot family; windflower.
anemonic		An acrid, poisonous, crystallizable substance, obtained from, the anemone, or from anemonin.
anemonin		An acrid, poisonous, crystallizable substance, obtained from some species of anemone.
anemony		See Anemone — (Bot.) A genus of plants of the Ranunculus or Crowfoot family; windflower.
anemorphilous		Fertilized by the agency of the wind; -- said of plants in which the pollen is carried to the stigma by the wind; wind- Fertilized.
anemoscope		An instrument which shows the direction of the wind; a wind vane; a weathercock; -- usually applied to a contrivance consisting of a vane above…
anemosis		A condition in the wood of some trees in which the rings are separated, as some suppose, by the action of high winds upon the trunk; wind shake.
anencephalic		Without a brain; brainless.
anencephalous		Without a brain; brainless.
anenst		Over against; as, he lives anent the church.
anent		Over against; as, he lives anent the church.
anenterous		Destitute of a stomach or an intestine.
anergia		Lack of energy; inactivity. -- An*er"gic (#), a.
anergy		Lack of energy; inactivity. -- An*er"gic (#), a.
aneroid		Containing no liquid; -- said of kind of barometer.
anesthesia		Same as Anæsthesia, Anæsthetic.
anesthetic		Same as Anæsthesia, Anæsthetic.
anet		The herb dill, or dillseed.
anethol		A substance obtained from the volatile oils of anise, fennel, etc., in the form of soft shining scales; -- called also anise camphor.
anetic		Soothing.
aneurism		A soft, pulsating, hollow tumor, containing blood, arising from the preternatural dilation or rupture of the coats of an artery.
aneurismal		Of or pertaining to an aneurism; as, an aneurismal tumor; aneurismal diathesis.
anew		Over again; another time; in a new form; afresh; as, to arm anew; to create anew.
anfractuose		Anfractuous; as, anfractuose anthers.
anfractuosity		A state of being anfractuous, or full of windings and turnings; sinuosity.
anfractuous		Winding; full of windings and turnings; sinuous; tortuous; as, the anfractuous spires of a born. -- An*frac"tu*ous*ness, n.
anfracture		A mazy winding.
angariation	Obsolete	Exaction of forced service; compulsion.
angeiology		Same as Angiology, Angiotomy, etc.
angeiotomy		Same as Angiology, Angiotomy, etc.
angel		A spiritual, celestial being, superior to man in power and intelligence.
angelage		Existence or state of angels.
angelet		A small gold coin formerly current in England; a half angel.
angelhood		The state of being an angel; angelic nature.
angelic		Belonging to, or proceeding from, angels; resembling, characteristic of, or partaking of the nature of, an angel; heavenly; divine.
angelica		An aromatic umbelliferous plant (Archangelica officinalis or Angelica archangelica) the leaf stalks of which are sometimes candied and used in confectionery, and the roots and seeds as an aromatic tonic.
angelical		Belonging to, or proceeding from, angels; resembling, characteristic of, or partaking of the nature of, an angel; heavenly; divine.
angelically		Like an angel.
angelicalness		The quality of being angelic; excellence more than human.
angelify	Obsolete	To make like an angel; to angelize.
angelize		To raise to the state of an angel; to render angelic.
angellike		Resembling an angel.
angelolatry		Worship paid to angels.
angelology		A discourse on angels, or a body of doctrines in regard to angels.
angelophany		The actual appearance of an angel to man.
angelot		An instrument of music, of the lute kind, now disused.
angelus		(a) A form of devotion in which three Ave Marias are repeated.
anger		A strong passion or emotion of displeasure or antagonism, excited by a real or supposed injury or insult to one's self or others, or by the intent to do such injury.
angerly	Obsolete	Angrily.
angevine		Of or pertaining to Anjou in France. -- n.
angienchyma		Vascular tissue of plants, consisting of spiral vessels, dotted, barred, and pitted ducts, and laticiferous vessels.
angina		Any inflammatory affection of the throat or faces, as the quinsy, malignant sore throat, croup, etc., especially such as tends to produce suffocation, choking, or shortness of breath.
anginose		Pertaining to angina or angina pectoris.
anginous		Pertaining to angina or angina pectoris.
angio-		A prefix, or combining form, in numerous compounds, usually relating to seed or blood vessels, or to something contained in, or covered by, a vessel.
angiocarpous		(a) Having fruit inclosed within a covering that does not form a part of itself; as, the filbert covered by its husk, or the acorn seated in its cupule.
angiography		A description of blood vessels and lymphatics.
angiology		That part of anatomy which treats of blood vessels and lymphatics.
angioma		A tumor composed chiefly of dilated blood vessels.
angiomonospermous		Producing one seed only in a seed pod.
angioneurosis		Any disorder of the vasomotor system; neurosis of a blood vessel. --An`gi*o*neu*rot"ic (#), a.
angiopathy		Disease of the vessels, esp. the blood vessels.
angioscope		An instrument for examining the capillary vessels of animals and plants.
angiosperm		A plant which has its seeds inclosed in a pericarp.
angiospermatous		Same as Angiospermous.
angiospermous		Having seeds inclosed in a pod or other pericarp.
angiosporous		Having spores contained in cells or thecæ, as in the case of some fungi.
angiostomous		With a narrow mouth, as the shell of certain gastropods.
angiotomy		Dissection of the blood vessels and lymphatics of the body.
angle		The inclosed space near the point where two lines; a corner; a nook.
angled		Having an angle or angles; -- used in compounds; as, right- angled, many-angled, etc. The thrice three-angled beechnut shell.
anglemeter		An instrument to measure angles, esp. one used by geologists to measure the dip of strata.
angler		One who angles.
angles		An ancient Low German tribe, that settled in Britain, which came to be called Engla-land (Angleland or England).
anglesite		A native sulphate of lead.
anglewise		In an angular manner; angularly.
angleworm		A earthworm of the genus Lumbricus, frequently used by anglers for bait.
anglian		Of or pertaining to the Angles. -- n.
anglic		Anglian.
anglican		English; of or pertaining to England or the English nation; especially, pertaining to, or connected with, the established church of England; as, the Anglican church, doctrine, orders, ritual, etc.
anglicanism		Strong partiality to the principles and rites of the Church of England.
anglice		In English; in the English manner; as, Livorno, Anglice Leghorn.
anglicify		To anglicize.
anglicism		An English idiom; a phrase or form language peculiar to the English.
anglicity		The state or quality of being English.
anglicization		The act of anglicizing, or making English in character.
anglicize		To make English; to English; to anglify; render conformable to the English idiom, or to English analogies.
anglify		To convert into English; to anglicize.
angling		The act of one who angles; the art of fishing with rod and line.
anglo-		A combining form meaning the same as English; or English and, or English conjoined with; as, Anglo-Turkish treaty, Anglo-German, Anglo-Irish.
anglo-catholic		Of or pertaining to a church modeled on the English Reformation; Anglican; -- sometimes restricted to the ritualistic or High Church section of the Church of England.
anglo-catholicism		The belief of those in the Church of England who accept many doctrines and practices which they maintain were those of the primitive, or true, Catholic Church…
anglo-saxon		A Saxon of Britain, that is, an English Saxon, or one the Saxons who settled in England, as distinguished from a continental (or "Old") Saxon.
anglo-saxondom		The Anglo-Saxon domain (i. e., Great Britain and the United States, etc.); the Anglo-Saxon race.
anglo-saxonism		A characteristic of the Anglo-Saxon race; especially, a word or an idiom of the Anglo-Saxon tongue.
anglomania		A mania for, or an inordinate attachment to, English customs, institutions, etc.
anglomaniac		One affected with Anglomania.
anglophobia		Intense dread of, or aversion to, England or the English. -- An"glo*phobe, n.
angola		A fabric made from the wool of the Angora goat.
angor		Great anxiety accompanied by painful constriction at the upper part of the belly, often with palpitation and oppression.
angora		A city of Asia Minor (or Anatolia) which has given its name to a goat, a cat, etc. Angora cat (Zoöl.), a variety of the domestic cat with very long and silky hair, generally of the brownish white color.
angrily		In an angry manner; under the influence of anger.
angriness		The quality of being angry, or of being inclined to anger.
angry		Inflamed and painful, as a sore.
anguiform		Snake-shaped.
anguilliform		Eel-shaped.
anguine		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a snake or serpent.
anguineal		Anguineous.
anguineous		Snakelike.
anguish		Extreme pain, either of body or mind; excruciating distress.
angular		Relating to an angle or to angles; having an angle or angles; forming an angle or corner; sharp-cornered; pointed; as, an angular figure.
angularity		The quality or state of being angular; angularness.
angularly		In an angular manner; with of at angles or corners.
angularness		The quality of being angular.
angulate		To make angular.
angulated		Having angles or corners; angled; as, angulate leaves.
angulation		A making angular; angular formation.
angulo-dentate		Angularly toothed, as certain leaves.
angulometer		An instrument for measuring external angles.
angulose		Angulous.
angulosity	Obsolete	A state of being angulous or angular.
angulous		Angular; having corners; hooked.
angust	Obsolete	Narrow; strait.
angustate		Narrowed.
angustation		The act or making narrow; a straitening or contacting.
angusticlave		A narrow stripe of purple worn by the equites on each side of the tunic as a sign of rank.
angustifoliate		Having narrow leaves.
angustifolious		Having narrow leaves.
angwantibo		A small lemuroid mammal (Arctocebus Calabarensis) of Africa.
anhang	Obsolete	To hang.
anharmonic		Not harmonic.
anhelation		Short and rapid breathing; a panting; asthma.
anhele	Obsolete	To pant; to be breathlessly anxious or eager (for).
anhelose		Anhelous; panting.
anhelous		Short of breath; panting.
anhima		A South American aquatic bird; the horned screamer or kamichi (Palamedea cornuta).
anhinga		An aquatic bird of the southern United States (Platus anhinga); the darter, or snakebird.
anhistous		Without definite structure; as, an anhistous membrane.
anhungered	Archaic	Ahungered; longing.
anhydride		An oxide of a nonmetallic body or an organic radical, capable of forming an acid by uniting with the elements of water; -- so called because it may be formed from an acid by the abstraction of water.
anhydrite		A mineral of a white a slightly bluish color, usually massive.
anhydrous		Destitute of water; as, anhydrous salts or acids.
ani		A black bird of tropical America, the West Indies and Florida (Crotophaga ani), allied to the cuckoos, and remarkable for communistic nesting.
anicut		A dam or mole made in the course of a stream for the purpose of regulating the flow of a system of irrigation.
anidiomatic		Not idiomatic.
anidiomatical		Not idiomatic.
anient	Obsolete	To frustrate; to bring to naught; to annihilate.
anientise	Obsolete	To frustrate; to bring to naught; to annihilate.
anight	Archaic	In the night time; at night.
anights	Archaic	In the night time; at night.
anil		A West Indian plant (Indigofera anil), one of the original sources of indigo; also, the indigo dye.
anile		Old-womanish; imbecile.
anileness		Anility.
anilic		Pertaining to, or obtained from, anil; indigotic; -- applied to an acid formed by the action of nitric acid on indigo.
anilide		One of a class of compounds which may be regarded as amides in which more or less of the hydrogen has been replaced by phenyl.
aniline		An organic base belonging to the phenylamines.
anilinism		A disease due to inhaling the poisonous fumes present in the manufacture of aniline.
anility		The state of being and old woman; old-womanishness; dotage.
animadversal	Obsolete	The faculty of perceiving; a percipient.
animadversion		Remarks by way of criticism and usually of censure; adverse criticism; reproof; blame.
animadversive	Archaic	Having the power of perceiving; percipient.
animadvert		To take notice; to observe; -- commonly followed by that.
animadverter	Obsolete	One who animadverts; a censurer; also, a chastiser.
animal		An organized living being endowed with sensation and the power of voluntary motion, and also characterized by taking its food into an internal cavity or stomach for digestion…
animalcular		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, animalcules.
animalcule		(Zoöl.) An animal, invisible, or nearly so, to the naked eye. See Infusoria.
animalculine		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, animalcules.
animalculism		The theory which seeks to explain certain physiological and pathological by means of animalcules.
animalculist		One versed in the knowledge of animalcules.
animalculum		An animalcule.
animalish		Like an animal.
animalism		The state, activity, or enjoyment of animals; mere animal life without intellectual or moral qualities; sensuality.
animality		Animal existence or nature.
animalization		The act of animalizing; the giving of animal life, or endowing with animal properties.
animalize		To endow with the properties of an animal; to represent in animal form.
animally		Physically.
animalness		Animality.
animastic	Obsolete	Pertaining to mind or spirit; spiritual.
animate		To give natural life to; to make alive; to quicken; as, the soul animates the body.
animated		Endowed with life; full of life or spirit; indicating animation; lively; vigorous.
animatedly		With animation.
animater		One who animates.
animating		Causing animation; life-giving; inspiriting; rousing. -- An"i*ma`ting*ly, adv.
animation		The act of animating, or giving life or spirit; the state of being animate or alive.
animative		Having the power of giving life or spirit.
animator		One who, or that which, animates; an animater.
anime		Of a different tincture from the animal itself; -- said of the eyes of a rapacious animal.
animism		The doctrine, taught by Stahl, that the soul is the proper principle of life and development in the body.
animist		One who maintains the doctrine of animism.
animistic		Of or pertaining to animism.
animose	Obsolete	Full of spirit; hot; vehement; resolute.
animoseness	Obsolete	Vehemence of temper.
animosity		Violent hatred leading to active opposition; active enmity; energetic dislike.
animous	Obsolete	Full of spirit; hot; vehement; resolute.
animus		Animating spirit; intention; temper. nimus furandi Etym: (Law), intention of stealing.
anion		An electro-negative element, or the element which, in electro- chemical decompositions, is evolved at the anode; -- opposed to cation.
anise		(Bot.) An umbelliferous plant (Pimpinella anisum) growing naturally in Egypt, and cultivated in Spain, Malta, etc., for its carminative and aromatic seeds.
aniseed		The seed of the anise; also, a cordial prepared from it.
anisette		A French cordial or liqueur flavored with anise seeds.
anisic		Of or derived from anise; as, anisic acid; anisic alcohol.
anisocoria		Inequality of the pupils of the eye.
anisodactyla		(a) A group of herbivorous mammals characterized by having the hoofs in a single series around the foot, as the elephant, rhinoceros, etc. (b) A group of perching birds which are anisodactylous.
anisodactylous		Characterized by unequal toes, three turned forward and one backward, as in most passerine birds.
anisodactyls		(a) A group of herbivorous mammals characterized by having the hoofs in a single series around the foot, as the elephant, rhinoceros, etc. (b) A group of perching birds which are anisodactylous.
anisol		Methyl phenyl ether, C6H5OCH3, got by distilling anisic acid or by the action of methide on potassium phenolate.
anisomeric		Not isomeric; not made of the same components in the same proportions.
anisomerous		Having the number of floral organs unequal, as four petals and six stamens.
anisometric		Not isometric; having unsymmetrical parts; -- said of crystals with three unequal axes.
anisometropia		Unequal refractive power in the two eyes.
anisopetalous		Having unequal petals.
anisophyllous		Having unequal leaves.
anisopleura		A primary division of gastropods, including those having spiral shells.
anisopoda		A division of Crustacea, which, in some its characteristics, is intermediate between Amphipoda and Isopoda.
anisospore		A sexual spore in which the sexes differ in size; -- opposed to isospore.
anisostemonous		Having unequal stamens; having stamens different in number from the petals.
anisosthenic		Of unequal strength.
anisotrope		Not isotropic; having different properties in different directions; thus, crystals of the isometric system are optically isotropic, but all other crystals are anisotropic.
anisotropic		Not isotropic; having different properties in different directions; thus, crystals of the isometric system are optically isotropic, but all other crystals are anisotropic.
anisotropous		Anisotropic.
anisyl		(a) The univalent radical, CH3OC6H4, of which anisol is the hydride. (b) The univalent radical CH3OC6H4CH2; as, anisyl alcohol.
anito		In Guam and the Philippines, an idol, fetich, or spirit.
anker		A liquid measure in various countries of Europe.
ankerite		A mineral closely related to dolomite, but containing iron.
ankh		A tau cross with a loop at the top, used as an attribute or sacred emblem, symbolizing generation or enduring life.
ankle		The joint which connects the foot with the leg; the tarsus.
ankled		Having ankles; -- used in composition; as, well-ankled.
anklet		An ornament or a fetter for the ankle; an ankle ring.
ankus		An elephant goad with a sharp spike and hook, resembling a short-handled boat hook.
ankylose		Same as Anchylose.
ankylosis		(Med.) Stiffness or fixation of a joint; formation of a stiff joint.
ankylostomiasis		A disease due to the presence of the parasites Agchylostoma duodenale, Uncinaria (subgenus Necator) americana, or allied nematodes, in the small intestine.
anlace		A broad dagger formerly worn at the girdle.
anlaut		An initial sound, as of a word or syllable. -- Im anlaut, initially; when initial; --used of sounds.
ann		A half years's stipend, over and above what is owing for the incumbency, due to a minister's heirs after his decease.
anna		An East Indian money of account, the sixteenth of a rupee, or about 2
annal		See Annals — a relation of events in chronological order, each event being recorded under the year in which it happened.
annalist		A writer of annals.
annalistic		Pertaining to, or after the manner of, an annalist; as, the dry annalistic style.
annalize		To record in annals.
annals		A relation of events in chronological order, each event being recorded under the year in which it happened.
annat		A half years's stipend, over and above what is owing for the incumbency, due to a minister's heirs after his decease.
annates		The first year's profits of a spiritual preferment, anciently paid by the clergy to the pope; first fruits.
annats		The first year's profits of a spiritual preferment, anciently paid by the clergy to the pope; first fruits.
anneal		To subject to great heat, and then cool slowly, as glass, cast iron, steel, or other metal, for the purpose of rendering it less brittle; to temper; to toughen.
annealer		One who, or that which, anneals.
annealing		The process used to render glass, iron, etc., less brittle, performed by allowing them to cool very gradually from a high heat.
annectent		Connecting; annexing.
annelid		Of or pertaining to the Annelida. -- n.
annelida		A division of the Articulata, having the body formed of numerous rings or annular segments, and without jointed legs.
annelidan		Of or pertaining to the Annelida. -- n.
annelidous		Of the nature of an annelid.
annellata		See Annelida — a division of the Articulata, having the body formed of numerous rings or annular segments, and without jointed legs.
anneloid		An animal resembling an annelid.
annex		To join or attach; usually to subjoin; to affix; to append; -- followed by to.
annexation		The act of annexing; process of attaching, adding, or appending; the act of connecting; union; as, the annexation of Texas to the United States, or of chattels to the freehold.
annexationist		One who favors annexation.
annexer		One who annexes.
annexion		Annexation.
annexionist		An annexationist.
annexment		The act of annexing, or the thing annexed; appendage.
annicut		A dam or mole made in the course of a stream for the purpose of regulating the flow of a system of irrigation.
annihilable		Capable of being annihilated.
annihilate		To reduce to nothing or nonexistence; to destroy the existence of; to cause to cease to be.
annihilation		The act of reducing to nothing, or nonexistence; or the act of destroying the form or combination of parts under which a thing exists, so that the name can no longer be applied to it; as, the annihilation of a corporation.
annihilationist		One who believes that eternal punishment consists in annihilation or extinction of being; a destructionist.
annihilative		Serving to annihilate; destructive.
annihilator		One who, or that which, annihilates; as, a fire annihilator.
annihilatory		Annihilative.
anniversarily		Annually.
anniversary		Returning with the year, at a stated time; annual; yearly; as, an anniversary feast.
anniverse	Obsolete	Anniversary.
annodated		Curved somewhat in the form of the letter S.
annominate		To name.
annomination		Paronomasia; punning.
annotate		To explain or criticize by notes; as, to annotate the works of Bacon.
annotation		A note, added by way of comment, or explanation; -- usually in the plural; as, annotations on ancient authors, or on a word or a passage.
annotationist		An annotator.
annotative		Characterized by annotations; of the nature of annotation.
annotator		A writer of annotations; a commentator.
annotatory		Pertaining to an annotator; containing annotations.
annotine		A bird one year old, or that has once molted.
annotinous		A year old; in Yearly growths.
annotto		A red or yellowish-red dyeing material, prepared from the pulp surrounding the seeds of a tree (Bixa orellana) belonging to the tropical regions of America.
announce		To give public notice, or first notice of; to make known; to publish; to proclaim.
announcement		The act of announcing, or giving notice; that which announces; proclamation; publication.
announcer		One who announces.
annoy		A feeling of discomfort or vexation caused by what one dislikes; also, whatever causes such a feeling; as, to work annoy.
annoyance		The act of annoying, or the state of being annoyed; molestation; vexation; annoy.
annoyer		One who, or that which, annoys.
annoyful	Obsolete	Annoying.
annoying		That annoys; molesting; vexatious. -- An*noy"ing*ly, adv.
annoyous	Obsolete	Troublesome; annoying.
annual		Of or pertaining to a year; returning every year; coming or happening once in the year; yearly.
annualist		One who writes for, or who edits, an annual.
annually		Yearly; year by year.
annuary	Obsolete	Annual. -- n.
annueler	Obsolete	A priest employed in saying annuals, or anniversary Masses.
annuent		Nodding; as, annuent muscles (used in nodding).
annuitant		One who receives, or its entitled to receive, an annuity.
annuity		A sum of money, payable yearly, to continue for a given number of years, for life, or forever; an annual allowance.
annul		To make void or of no effect; to nullify; to abolish; to do away with; -- used appropriately of laws, decrees, edicts, decisions of courts, or other established rules, permanent usages, and the like…
annular		Pertaining to, or having the form of, a ring; forming a ring; ringed; ring-shaped; as, annular fibers.
annularity		Annular condition or form; as, the annularity of a nebula.
annularry		In an annular manner.
annulary		Having the form of a ring; annular.
annulata		A class of articulate animals, nearly equivalent to Annelida, including the marine annelids, earthworms, Gephyrea, Gymnotoma, leeches, etc. See Annelida.
annulate		Furnished with, or composed of, rings; ringed; surrounded by rings of color.
annulated		Furnished with, or composed of, rings; ringed; surrounded by rings of color.
annulation		A circular or ringlike formation; a ring or belt.
annulet		(Arch.) A small, flat fillet, encircling a column, etc., used by itself, or with other moldings.
annullable		That may be Annulled.
annuller		One who annuls.
annulment		The act of annulling; abolition; invalidation.
annuloid		Of or pertaining to the Annuloida.
annuloida		A division of the Articulata, including the annelids and allied groups; sometimes made to include also the helminths and echinoderms.
annulosa		A division of the Invertebrata, nearly equivalent to the Articulata.
annulosan		One of the Annulosa.
annulose		Furnished with, or composed of, rings or ringlike segments; ringed.
annulus		A ring; a ringlike part or space.
annumerate	Obsolete	To add on; to count in.
annumeration	Obsolete	Addition to a former number.
annunciable		That may be announced or declared; declarable.
annunciate	Obsolete	To announce.
annunciation		The act of announcing; announcement; proclamation; as, the annunciation of peace.
annunciative		Pertaining to annunciation; announcing.
annunciator		One who announces. Specifically: An officer in the church of Constantinople, whose business it was to inform the people of the festivals to be celebrated.
annunciatory		Pertaining to, or containing, announcement; making known.
ano		A black bird of tropical America, the West Indies and Florida (Crotophaga ani), allied to the cuckoos, and remarkable for communistic nesting.
anoa		A small wild ox of Celebes (Anoa depressicornis), allied to the buffalo, but having long nearly straight horns.
anode		The positive pole of an electric battery, or more strictly the electrode by which the current enters the electrolyte on its way to the other pole; -- opposed to cathode.
anodon		A genus of fresh-water bivalves, having to teeth at the hinge.
anodyne		Serving to assuage pain; soothing.
anodynous		Anodyne.
anoetic		(Psychol.) Not subject to conscious attention; having an indefinite, relatively passive, conscious being; characteristic of the or of consciousness.
anoil	Obsolete	The anoint with oil.
anoint		To smear or rub over with oil or an unctuous substance; also, to spread over, as oil.
anointer		One who anoints.
anointment		The act of anointing, or state of being anointed; also, an ointment.
anolis		A genus of lizards which belong to the family Iguanidæ.
anomal		Anything anomalous.
anomaliped		Having anomalous feet.
anomalipede		Having anomalous feet.
anomalism		An anomaly; a deviation from rule.
anomalistic		Irregular; departing from common or established rules.
anomalistical		Irregular; departing from common or established rules.
anomalistically		With irregularity.
anomaloflorous		Having anomalous flowers.
anomalous		Deviating from a general rule, method, or analogy; abnormal; irregular; as, an anomalous proceeding.
anomalously		In an anomalous manner.
anomalousness		Quality of being anomalous.
anomaly		Deviation from the common rule; an irregularity; anything anomalous.
anomia		A genus of bivalve shells, allied to the oyster, so called from their unequal valves, of which the lower is perforated for attachment.
anomophyllous		Having leaves irregularly placed.
anomoura		A group of decapod Crustacea, of which the hermit crab in an example.
anomura		A group of decapod Crustacea, of which the hermit crab in an example.
anomural		Irregular in the character of the tail or abdomen; as, the anomural crustaceans.
anomuran		Irregular in the character of the tail or abdomen; as, the anomural crustaceans.
anomy		Disregard or violation of law.
anon		Soon; in a little while.
anona		A genus of tropical or subtropical plants of the natural order Anonaceæ, including the soursop.
anonaceous		Pertaining to the order of plants including the soursop, custard apple, etc.
anonym		One who is anonymous; also sometimes used for
anonymity		The quality or state of being anonymous; anonymousness; also, that which anonymous.
anonymous		Nameless; of unknown name; also, of unknown /or unavowed authorship; as, an anonymous benefactor; an anonymous pamphlet or letter.
anonymously		In an anonymous manner; without a name.
anonymousness		The state or quality of being anonymous.
anopheles		A genus of mosquitoes which are secondary hosts of the malaria parasites, and whose bite is the usual, if not the only, means of infecting human beings with malaria.
anophyte		A moss or mosslike plant which cellular stems, having usually an upward growth and distinct leaves.
anopla		One of the two orders of Nemerteans. See Nemertina.
anoplothere		A genus of extinct quadrupeds of the order Ungulata, whose were first found in the gypsum quarries near Paris; characterized by the shortness and feebleness of their canine teeth (whence the name).
anoplotherium		A genus of extinct quadrupeds of the order Ungulata, whose were first found in the gypsum quarries near Paris; characterized by the shortness and feebleness of their canine teeth (whence the name).
anoplura		A group of insects which includes the lice.
anopsia		Want or defect of sight; blindness.
anopsy		Want or defect of sight; blindness.
anorexia		Want of appetite, without a loathing of food.
anorexy		Want of appetite, without a loathing of food.
anormal	Obsolete	Not according to rule; abnormal.
anorn	Obsolete	To adorn.
anorthic		Having unequal oblique axes; as, anorthic crystals.
anorthite		A mineral of the feldspar family, commonly occurring in small glassy crystals, also a constituent of some igneous rocks.
anorthoclase		A feldspar closely related to orthoclase, but triclinic.
anorthopia		Distorted vision, in which straight lines appear bent.
anorthoscope		An optical toy for producing amusing figures or pictures by means of two revolving disks, on one of which distorted figures are painted.
anorthosite		A granular igneous rock composed almost exclusively of a soda- lime feldspar, usually labradorite.
anosmia		Loss of the sense of smell.
another		One more, in addition to a former number; a second or additional one, similar in likeness or in effect.
another-gaines	Obsolete	Of another kind.
another-gates	Obsolete	Of another sort.
another-guess	Archaic	Of another sort.
anotta		See Annotto — a red or yellowish-red dyeing material, prepared from the pulp surrounding the seeds of a tree (Bixa orellana) belonging to the tropical regions of America.
anoura		See Anura — one of the orders of amphibians characterized by the absence of a tail, as the frogs and toads.
anourous		See Anurous — destitute of a tail, as the frogs and toads.
anoxaemia		An abnormal condition due to deficient aëration of the blood, as in balloon sickness, mountain sickness. -- An`ox*æ mic (#), a.
anoxemia		An abnormal condition due to deficient aëration of the blood, as in balloon sickness, mountain sickness. -- An`ox*æ mic (#), a.
ansa		A name given to either of the projecting ends of Saturn's ring.
ansated		Having a handle.
anserated		Having the extremities terminate in the heads of eagles, lions, etc.; as, an anserated cross.
anseres		A Linnæan order of aquatic birds swimming by means of webbed feet, as the duck, or of lobed feet, as the grebe.
anseriformes		A division of birds including the geese, ducks, and closely allied forms.
anserine		Pertaining to, or resembling, a goose, or the skin of a goose.
anserous		Resembling a goose; silly; simple.
answer		To speak in defense against; to reply to in defense; as, to answer a charge; to answer an accusation.
answerable		Obliged to answer; liable to be called to account; liable to pay, indemnify, or make good; accountable; amenable; responsible; as, an agent is answerable to his principal; to be answerable for a debt, or for damages.
answerableness		The quality of being answerable, liable, responsible, or correspondent.
answerably		In an answerable manner; in due proportion or correspondence; suitably.
answerer		One who answers.
answerless	Obsolete	Having no answer, or impossible to be answered.
ant		A hymenopterous insect of the Linnæan genus Formica, which is now made a family of several genera; an emmet; a pismire.
ant-		See Anti-, prefix.
ant-bear		An edentate animal of tropical America (the Tamanoir), living on ants.
ant-cattle		Various kinds of plant lice or aphids tended by ants for the sake of the honeydew which they secrete.
ant-eater		One of several species of edentates and monotremes that feed upon ants.
ant-hill		A mound thrown up by ants or by termites in forming their nests.
ant-lion		A neuropterous insect, the larva of which makes in the sand a pitfall to capture ants, etc. The common American species is Myrmeleon obsoletus, the European is M. formicarius.
anta		A species of pier produced by thickening a wall at its termination, treated architecturally as a pilaster, with capital and base.
antacid		A remedy for acidity of the stomach, as an alkali or absorbent. -- a.
antacrid		Corrective of acrimony of the humors.
antae		See Anta — a species of pier produced by thickening a wall at its termination, treated architecturally as a pilaster, with capital and base.
antaean		Pertaining to Antæus, a giant athlete slain by Hercules.
antagonism		Opposition of action; counteraction or contrariety of things or principles.
antagonist		One who contends with another, especially in combat; an adversary; an opponent.
antagonistic		Opposing in combat, combating; contending or acting against; as, antagonistic forces. -- An*tag`o*nis"tic*al*ly, adv.
antagonistical		Opposing in combat, combating; contending or acting against; as, antagonistic forces. -- An*tag`o*nis"tic*al*ly, adv.
antagonize		To contend with; to oppose actively; to counteract.
antagony	Obsolete	Contest; opposition; antagonism.
antalgic		Alleviating pain. -- n.
antalkali		Anything that neutralizes, or that counteracts an alkaline tendency in the system.
antalkaline		Anything that neutralizes, or that counteracts an alkaline tendency in the system.
antambulacral		Away from the ambulacral region.
antanaclasis		(a) A figure which consists in repeating the same word in a different sense; as, Learn some craft when young, that when old you may live without craft.
antanagoge		A figure which consists in answering the charge of an adversary, by a counter charge.
antaphrodisiac		Capable of blunting the venereal appetite. -- n.
antaphroditic		Antaphrodisiac.
antapoplectic		Good against apoplexy. -- n.
antarchism		Opposition to government in general.
antarchist		One who opposes all government.
antarchistic		Opposed to all human government.
antarchistical		Opposed to all human government.
antarctic		Opposite to the northern or arctic pole; relating to the southern pole or to the region near it, and applied especially to a circle, distant from the pole 23º 28min.
antares		The principal star in Scorpio: -- called also the Scorpion's Heart.
antarthritic		A remedy against gout.
antasthmatic		Opposing, or fitted to relieve, asthma. -- n.
ante		Each player's stake, which is put into the pool before (ante) the game begins.
ante-		A Latin preposition and prefix; akin to Gr. anti, Goth. and-, anda- (only in comp.), AS. and-, ond-, (only in comp.: cf. Answer, Along), G. ant-, ent- (in comp.).
anteact		A preceding act.
anteal		Being before, or in front.
antecedaneous		Antecedent; preceding in time.
antecede		To go before in time or place; to precede; to surpass.
antecedence		The act or state of going before in time; precedence.
antecedency		The state or condition of being antecedent; priority.
antecedent		Going before in time; prior; anterior; preceding; as, an event antecedent to the Deluge; an antecedent cause.
antecedently		Previously; before in time; at a time preceding; as, antecedently to conversion.
antecessor		One who goes before; a predecessor.
antechamber		A chamber or apartment before the chief apartment and leading into it, in which persons wait for audience; an outer chamber.
antechapel		The outer part of the west end of a collegiate or other chapel.
antechoir		(a) A space inclosed or reserved at the entrance to the choir, for the clergy and choristers.
antecians		See Ant — a hymenopterous insect of the Linnæan genus Formica, which is now made a family of several genera; an emmet; a pismire.
antecommunion		A name given to that part of the Anglican liturgy for the communion, which precedes the consecration of the elements.
antecursor	Obsolete	A forerunner; a precursor.
antedate		Prior date; a date antecedent to another which is the actual date.
antediluvial		Before the flood, or Deluge, in Noah's time.
antediluvian		Of or relating to the period before the Deluge in Noah's time; hence, antiquated; as, an antediluvian vehicle. -- n.
antefact	Obsolete	Something done before another act.
antefix		(a) An ornament fixed upon a frieze. (b) An ornament at the eaves, concealing the ends of the joint tiles of the roof.
anteflexion		A displacement forward of an organ, esp. the uterus, in such manner that its axis is bent upon itself.
antelope		One of a group of ruminant quadrupeds, intermediate between the deer and the goat.
antelucan		Held or being before light; -- a word applied to assemblies of Christians, in ancient times of persecution, held before light in the morning.
antemeridian		Being before noon; in or pertaining to the forenoon. (Abbrev. a. m.)
antemetic		Tending to check vomiting. -- n.
antemosaic		Being before the time of Moses.
antemundane		Being or occurring before the creation of the world.
antemural		An outwork of a strong, high wall, with turrets, in front gateway (as of an old castle), for defending the entrance.
antenatal		Before birth.
antenicene		Of or in the Christian church or era, anterior to the first council of Nice, held a. d. 325; as, antenicene faith.
antenna		A movable, articulated organ of sensation, attached to the heads of insects and Crustacea.
antennal		Belonging to the antennæ.
antenniferous		Bearing or having antennæ.
antenniform		Shaped like antennæ.
antennule		A small antenna; -- applied to the smaller pair of antennæ or feelers of Crustacea.
antenumber		A number that precedes another.
antenuptial		Preceding marriage; as, an antenuptial agreement.
anteorbital		Same as Antorbital.
antepaschal		Pertaining to the time before the Passover, or before Easter.
antepast		A foretaste.
antependium		The hangings or screen in front of the altar; an altar cloth; the frontal.
antepenult		The last syllable of a word except two, as -syl in monosyllable.
antepenultima		The last syllable of a word except two, as -syl in monosyllable.
antepenultimate		Of or pertaining to the last syllable but two. -- n.
antephialtic		Good against nightmare. -- n.
antepileptic		Good against epilepsy. -- n.
antepone	Obsolete	To put before; to prefer.
anteport		An outer port, gate, or door.
anteportico		An outer porch or vestibule.
anteposition		The placing of a before another, which, by ordinary rules, ought to follow it.
anteprandial		Preceding dinner.
antepredicament		A prerequisite to a clear understanding of the predicaments and categories, such as definitions of common terms.
anterior		Before in time; antecedent.
anteriority		The state of being anterior or preceding in time or in situation; priority.
anteriorly		In an anterior manner; before.
antero-		A combining form meaning anterior, front; as, antero-posterior, front and back; antero-lateral, front side, anterior and at the side.
anteroom		A room before, or forming an entrance to, another; a waiting room.
antes		See Anta — a species of pier produced by thickening a wall at its termination, treated architecturally as a pilaster, with capital and base.
antestature		A small intrenchment or work of palisades, or of sacks of earth.
antestomach		A cavity which leads into the stomach, as in birds.
antetemple		The portico, or narthex in an ancient temple or church.
anteversion		A displacement of an organ, esp. of the uterus, in such manner that its whole axis is directed further forward than usual.
antevert	Obsolete	To prevent.
anthelion		A halo opposite the sun, consisting of a colored ring or rings around the shadow of the spectator's own head, as projected on a cloud or on an opposite fog bank.
anthelix		Same as Antihelix.
anthelmintic		Good against intestinal worms. -- An anthelmintic remedy.
anthem		Formerly, a hymn sung in alternate parts, in present usage, a selection from the Psalms, or other parts of the Scriptures or the liturgy, set to sacred music.
anthemion		A floral ornament. See Palmette.
anthemis		Chamomile; a genus of composite, herbaceous plants.
anthemwise	Obsolete	Alternately.
anther		That part of the stamen containing the pollen, or fertilizing dust, which, when mature, is emitted for the impregnation of the ovary. -- An"ther*al, a.
antheridium		The male reproductive apparatus in the lower, consisting of a cell or other cavity in which spermatozoids are produced; -- called also spermary. -- An`ther*id"i*al, a.
antheriferous		(a) Producing anthers, as plants. (b) Supporting anthers, as a part of a flower.
antheriform		Shaped like an anther; anther-shaped.
antherogenous		Transformed from anthers, as the petals of a double flower.
antheroid		Resembling an anther.
antherozoid		One of the mobile male reproductive bodies in the antheridia of cryptogams.
antherozooid		One of the mobile male reproductive bodies in the antheridia of cryptogams.
anthesis		The period or state of full expansion in a flower.
anthobian		A beetle which feeds on flowers.
anthobranchia		A division of nudibranchiate Mollusca, in which the gills form a wreath or cluster upon the posterior part of the back.
anthocarpous		Having some portion of the floral envelopes attached to the pericarp to form the fruit, as in the checkerberry, the mulberry, and the pineapple.
anthocyanin		Same as Anthokyan.
anthodium		The inflorescence of a compound flower in which many florets are gathered into a involucrate head.
anthography		A description of flowers.
anthoid		Resembling a flower; flowerlike.
anthokyan		The blue coloring matter of certain flowers.
antholite		A fossil plant, like a petrified flower.
anthological		Pertaining to anthology; consisting of beautiful extracts from different authors, especially the poets.
anthologist		One who compiles an anthology.
anthology		A collection of flowers of literature, that is, beautiful passages from authors; a collection of poems or epigrams; -- particularly applied to a collection of ancient Greek epigrams.
anthomania		A extravagant fondness for flowers.
anthophagous		Eating flowers; -- said of certain insects.
anthophilous		Lit., fond of flowers; hence, feeding upon, or living among, flowers.
anthophore		The stipe when developed into an internode between calyx and corolla, as in the Pink family.
anthophorous		Flower bearing; supporting the flower.
anthophyllite		A mineral of the hornblende group, of a yellowish gray or clove brown color. -- An`tho*phyl*lit"ic, a.
anthorism		A description or definition contrary to that which is given by the adverse party.
anthotaxy		The arrangement of flowers in a cluster; the science of the relative position of flowers; inflorescence.
anthozoa		The class of the Coelenterata which includes the corals and sea anemones.
anthozoan		Pertaining to the Anthozoa. -- n.
anthozoic		Of or pertaining to the Anthozoa.
anthracene		A solid hydrocarbon, C6H4.C2H2.C6H4, which accompanies naphthalene in the last stages of the distillation of coal tar.
anthracic		Of or relating to anthrax; as, anthracic blood.
anthraciferous		Yielding anthracite; as, anthraciferous strata.
anthracite		A hard, compact variety of mineral coal, of high luster, differing from bituminous coal in containing little or no bitumen, in consequence of which it burns with a nearly non luminous flame.
anthracitic		Of, pertaining to, or like, anthracite; as, anthracitic formations.
anthracnose		Any one of several fungus diseases, caused by parasitic species of the series Melanconiales, attacking the bean, grape, melon, cotton, and other plants.
anthracoid		Resembling anthrax in action; of the nature of anthrax; as, an anthracoid microbe.
anthracomancy		Divination by inspecting a burning coal.
anthracometer		An instrument for measuring the amount of carbonic acid in a mixture.
anthracometric		Of or pertaining to an anthracometer.
anthraconite		A coal-black marble, usually emitting a fetid smell when rubbed; -- called also stinkstone and swinestone.
anthracosis		A chronic lung disease, common among coal miners, due to the inhalation of coal dust; -- called also collier's lung and miner's phthisis.
anthraquinone		A hydrocarbon, C6H4.C2O2.C6H4, subliming in shining yellow needles.
anthrax		(Med.) (a) A carbuncle. (b) A malignant pustule.
anthrenus		A genus of small beetles, several of which, in the larval state, are very destructive to woolen goods, fur, etc. The common is A. varius; the carpet beetle is A. scrophulariæ.
anthropic		Like or related to man; human.
anthropical		Like or related to man; human.
anthropidae		The group that includes man only.
anthropocentric		Assuming man as the center or ultimate end; -- applied to theories of the universe or of any part of it, as the solar system.
anthropogenic		Of or pertaining to anthropogeny.
anthropogeny		The science or study of human generation, or the origin and development of man.
anthropogeography		The science of the human species as to geographical distribution and environment.
anthropoglot		An animal which has a tongue resembling that of man, as the parrot.
anthropography		That branch of anthropology which treats of the actual distribution of the human race in its different divisions, as distinguished by physical character, language, institutions, and customs, in contradistinction to ethnography…
anthropoid		Resembling man; -- applied especially to certain apes, as the ourang or gorilla. -- n.
anthropoidal		Anthropoid.
anthropoidea		The suborder of primates which includes the monkeys, apes, and man.
anthropolatry		Man worship.
anthropolite		A petrifaction of the human body, or of any portion of it.
anthropologic		Pertaining to anthropology; belonging to the nature of man. -- An`thro*po*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
anthropological		Pertaining to anthropology; belonging to the nature of man. -- An`thro*po*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
anthropologist		One who is versed in anthropology.
anthropology		The science of the structure and functions of the human body.
anthropomancy		Divination by the entrails of human being.
anthropometric		Pertaining to anthropometry.
anthropometrical		Pertaining to anthropometry.
anthropometry		Measurement of the height and other dimensions of human beings, especially at different ages, or in different races, occupations, etc. Dunglison.
anthropomorpha		The manlike, or anthropoid, apes.
anthropomorphic		Of or pertaining to anthromorphism.
anthropomorphism		The representation of the Deity, or of a polytheistic deity, under a human form, or with human attributes and affections.
anthropomorphist		One who attributes the human form or other human attributes to the Deity or to anything not human.
anthropomorphite		One who ascribes a human form or human attributes to the Deity or to a polytheistic deity.
anthropomorphitic		to anthropomorphism.
anthropomorphitism		Anthropomorphism.
anthropomorphize		To attribute a human form or personality to.
anthropomorphology		The application to God of terms descriptive of human beings.
anthropomorphosis		Transformation into the form of a human being.
anthropomorphous		Having the figure of, or resemblance to, a man; as, an anthromorphous plant.
anthroponomics		The science of the laws of the development of the human organism in relation to other organisms and to environment. -- An`thro*po*nom"ic*al (#), a.
anthroponomy		The science of the laws of the development of the human organism in relation to other organisms and to environment. -- An`thro*po*nom"ic*al (#), a.
anthropopathic		Of or pertaining to anthropopathy. -- An`thro*po*path"ic*al*ly, adv.
anthropopathical		Of or pertaining to anthropopathy. -- An`thro*po*path"ic*al*ly, adv.
anthropopathism		The ascription of human feelings or passions to God, or to a polytheistic deity.
anthropopathite		One who ascribes human feelings to deity.
anthropopathy		The ascription of human feelings or passions to God, or to a polytheistic deity.
anthropophagi		Man eaters; cannibals.
anthropophagic		Relating to cannibalism or anthropophagy.
anthropophagical		Relating to cannibalism or anthropophagy.
anthropophaginian		One who east human flesh.
anthropophagite		A cannibal.
anthropophagous		Feeding on human flesh; cannibal.
anthropophagy		The eating of human flesh; cannibalism.
anthropophuism		Human nature.
anthroposcopy		The art of discovering or judging of a man's character, passions. and inclinations from a study of his visible features.
anthroposophy		Knowledge of the nature of man; hence, human wisdom.
anthropotomical		Pertaining to anthropotomy, or the dissection of human bodies.
anthropotomist		One who is versed in anthropotomy, or human anatomy.
anthropotomy		The anatomy or dissection of the human body; androtomy.
anthypnotic		See Antihypnotic — tending to prevent sleep. -- n.
anthypochondriac		See Antihypochondriac — counteractive of hypochondria. -- n.
anthysteric		See Antihysteric — counteracting hysteria. -- n.
anti		A prefix meaning against, opposite or opposed to, contrary, or in place of; -- used in composition in many English words.
anti-american		Opposed to the Americans, their aims, or interests, or to the genius of American institutions.
anti-federalist		One of party opposed to a federative government; -- applied particularly to the party which opposed the adoption of the constitution of the United States.
anti-gallican		Opposed to what is Gallic or French.
anti-imperialism		Opposition to imperialism; -- applied specif., in the United States, after the Spanish-American war (1898), to the attitude or principles of those opposing territorial expansion; in England, of those…
anti-semitism		Opposition to, or hatred of, Semites, esp. Jews. -- An`ti- Sem ic (#), a.
anti-trade		A tropical wind blowing steadily in a direction opposite to the trade wind.
antiae		The two projecting feathered angles of the forehead of some birds; the frontal points.
antialbumid		A body formed from albumin by pancreatic and gastric digestion.
antialbumose		See Albumose — a compound or class of compounds formed from albumin by dilute acids or by an acid solution of pepsin.
antiaphrodisiac		Same as Antaphrodisiac.
antiapoplectic		Same as Antapoplectic.
antiar		A Virulent poison prepared in Java from the gum resin of one species of the upas tree (Antiaris toxicaria).
antiarin		A poisonous principle obtained from antiar.
antiasthmatic		Same as Antasthmatic.
antiattrition		Anything to prevent the effects of friction, esp. a compound lubricant for machinery, etc., often consisting of plumbago, with some greasy material; antifriction grease.
antibacchius		A foot of three syllables, the first two long, and the last short.
antibacterial		(a) Inimical to bacteria; -- applied esp. to serum for protection against bacterial diseases.
antibillous		Counteractive of bilious complaints; tending to relieve biliousness.
antibody		Any of various bodies or substances in the blood which act in antagonism to harmful foreign bodies, as toxins or the bacteria producing the toxins.
antibrachial		Of or pertaining to the antibrachium, or forearm.
antibrachium		That part of the fore limb between the brachium and the carpus; the forearm.
antibromic		An agent that destroys offensive smells; a deodorizer.
antibubonic		Good or used against bubonic plague; as, antibubonic serum, obtained from immunized horses; antibubonic vaccine, a sterilized bouillon culture of the plague bacillus; antibubonic measures.
antiburgher		One who seceded from the Burghers (1747), deeming it improper to take the Burgess oath.
antic		Odd; fantastic; fanciful; grotesque; ludicrous.
antic-mask		An antimask.
anticatarrhal		Efficacious against catarrh. -- n.
anticathode		The part of a vacuum tube opposite the cathode.
anticausodic		Same as Anticausotic.
anticausotic		Good against an inflammatory fever. -- n.
antichamber		See Antechamber — a chamber or apartment before the chief apartment and leading into it, in which persons wait for audience; an outer chamber.
antichlor		Any substance (but especially sodium hyposulphite) used in removing the excess of chlorine left in paper pulp or stuffs after bleaching.
antichrist		A denier or opponent of Christ.
antichristian		Opposed to the Christian religion.
antichristianism		Opposition or contrariety to the Christian religion.
antichristianity		Opposition or contrariety to the Christian religion.
antichristianly		In an antichristian manner.
antichronical		Deviating from the proper order of time. -- An`ti*chron"ic*al*ly, adv.
antichronism		Deviation from the true order of time; anachronism.
antichthon		A hypothetical earth counter to ours, or on the opposite side of the sun.
anticipant		Anticipating; expectant; -- with of.
anticipate		To be before in doing; to do or take before another; to preclude or prevent by prior action.
anticipation		The act of anticipating, taking up, placing, or considering something beforehand, or before the proper time in natural order.
anticipative		Anticipating, or containing anticipation. -- An*tic"i*pa*tive*ly, adv.
anticipator		One who anticipates.
anticipatory		Forecasting; of the nature of anticipation.
anticivic		Opposed to citizenship.
anticivism	Obsolete	Opposition to the body politic of citizens.
anticlastic		Having to opposite curvatures, that is, curved longitudinally in one direction and transversely in the opposite direction, as the surface of a saddle.
anticlimax		A sentence in which the ideas fall, or become less important and striking, at the close; -- the opposite of climax.
anticlinal		The crest or line in which strata slope or dip in opposite directions.
anticline		A structure of bedded rocks in which the beds on both sides of an axis or axial plane dip away from the axis; an anticlinal.
anticlinorium		The upward elevation of the crust of the earth, resulting from a geanticlinal.
anticly		Oddly; grotesquely.
anticness		The quality of being antic.
anticoherer		A device, one form of which consists of a scratched deposit of silver on glass, used in connection with the receiving apparatus for reading wireless signals.
anticonstitutional		Opposed to the constitution; unconstitutional.
anticontagious		Opposing or destroying contagion.
anticonvulsive		Good against convulsions.
anticor		A dangerous inflammatory swelling of a horse's breast, just opposite the heart.
anticous		Facing toward the axis of the flower, as in the introrse anthers of the water lily.
anticyclone		A movement of the atmosphere opposite in character, as regards direction of the wind and distribution of barometric pressure, to that of a cyclone. -- An`ti*cy*clon ic*al*ly, adv.
antidiphtheritic		Destructive to, or hindering the growth of, diphtheria bacilli. -- n.
antidotal		Having the quality an antidote; fitted to counteract the effects of poison.
antidotary		Antidotal. -- n.
antidote		A remedy to counteract the effects of poison, or of anything noxious taken into the stomach; -- used with against, for, or to; as, an antidote against, for, or to, poison.
antidotical		Serving as an antidote. -- An`ti*dot"ic*al*ly, adv.
antidromous		Changing the direction in the spiral sequence of leaves on a stem.
antidysenteric		Good against dysentery. -- n.
antiemetic		Same as Antemetic.
antiephialtic		Same as Antephialtic.
antiepileptic		Same as Antepileptic.
antifebrile		Febrifuge.
antifebrine		Acetanilide.
antifriction		Something to lessea.
antigalastic		Causing a diminution or a suppression of the secretion of milk.
antigraph		A copy or transcript.
antiguggler		A crooked tube of metal, to be introduced into the neck of a bottle for drawing out the liquid without disturbing the sediment or causing a gurgling noise.
antihelix		The curved elevation of the cartilage of the ear, within or in front of the helix.
antihemorrhagic		Tending to stop hemorrhage. -- n.
antihydrophobic		Counteracting or preventing hydrophobia. -- n.
antihydropic		Good against dropsy. -- n.
antihypnotic		Tending to prevent sleep. -- n.
antihypochondriac		Counteractive of hypochondria. -- n.
antihysteric		Counteracting hysteria. -- n.
antiicteric		Good against jaundice. -- n.
antilegomena		Certain books of the New Testament which were for a time not universally received, but which are now considered canonical.
antilibration		A balancing; equipoise.
antilithic		Tending to prevent the formation of urinary calculi, or to destroy them when formed. -- n.
antilogarithm		The number corresponding to a logarithm.
antilogous		Of the contrary name or character; -- opposed to analogous.
antilogy		A contradiction between any words or passages in an author.
antiloimic		A remedy against the plague.
antilopine		Of or relating to the antelope.
antiloquist	Obsolete	A contradicter.
antiloquy	Obsolete	Contradiction.
antilyssic		Antihydrophobic.
antimacassar		A cover for the back or arms of a chair or sofa, etc., to prevent them from being soiled by macassar or other oil from the hair.
antimagistrical	Obsolete	Opposed to the office or authority of magistrates.
antimalarial		Good against malaria.
antimask		A secondary mask, or grotesque interlude, between the parts of a serious mask.
antimason		One opposed to Freemasonry. -- An`ti*ma*son"ic, a.
antimasonry		Opposition to Freemasonry.
antimephitic		Good against mephitic or deletplwious gases. -- n.
antimere		One of the two halves of bilaterally symmetrical animals; one of any opposite symmetrical or homotypic parts in animals and plants.
antimetabole		A figure in which the same words or ideas are repeated in transposed order.
antimetathesis		An antithesis in which the members are repeated in inverse order.
antimeter	Obsolete	A modification of the quadrant, for measuring small angles.
antimonarchic		Opposed to monarchial government.
antimonarchical		Opposed to monarchial government.
antimonarchist		An enemy to monarchial government.
antimonate		A compound of antimonic acid with a base or basic radical.
antimonial		Of or pertaining to antimony. -- n. (Med.) A preparation or medicine containing antimony.
antimoniated		Combined or prepared with antimony; as, antimoniated tartar.
antimonic		Pertaining to, or derived from, antimony; -- said of those compounds of antimony in which this element has its highest equivalence; as, antimonic acid.
antimonious		Pertaining to, or derived from, antimony; -- said of those compounds of antimony in which this element has an equivalence next lower than the highest; as, antimonious acid.
antimonite		(Chem.) A compound of antimonious acid and a base or basic radical.
antimoniureted		Combined with or containing antimony; as, antimoniureted hydrogen.
antimonsoon		The upper, contrary-moving current of the atmosphere over a monsoon.
antimony		An elementary substance, resembling a metal in its appearance and physical properties, but in its chemical relations belonging to the class of nonmetallic substances.
antinational		Antagonistic to one's country or nation, or to a national government.
antinephritic		Counteracting, or deemed of use in, diseases of the kidneys. -- n.
antinomian		Of or pertaining to the Antinomians; opposed to the doctrine that the moral law is obligatory.
antinomianism		The tenets or practice of Antinomians.
antinomist		An Antinomian.
antinomy		Opposition of one law or rule to another law or rule.
antiochian		Pertaining to Antiochus, a contemporary with Cicero, and the founder of a sect of philosophers.
antiodontalgic		Efficacious in curing toothache. -- n.
antiorgastic		Tending to allay venereal excitement or desire; sedative.
antipapal		Opposed to the pope or to popery.
antiparallel		Running in a contrary direction.
antiparallels		Straight lines or planes which make angles in some respect opposite in character to those made by parallel lines or planes.
antiparalytic		Good against paralysis. -- n.
antiparalytical		Antiparalytic.
antipasch		The Sunday after Easter; Low Sunday.
antipathetic		Having a natural contrariety, or constitutional aversion, to a thing; characterized by antipathy; -- often followed by to.
antipathetical		Having a natural contrariety, or constitutional aversion, to a thing; characterized by antipathy; -- often followed by to.
antipathic		Belonging to antipathy; opposite; contrary; allopathic.
antipathist		One who has an antipathy.
antipathize		To feel or show antipathy.
antipathous	Obsolete	Having a natural contrariety; adverse; antipathetic.
antipathy		Contrariety or opposition in feeling; settled aversion or dislike; repugnance; distaste.
antipeptone		A product of gastric and pancreatic digestion, differing from hemipeptone in not being decomposed by the continued action of pancreatic juice.
antiperiodic		A remedy possessing the property of preventing the return of periodic paroxysms, or exacerbations, of disease, as in intermittent fevers.
antiperistaltic		Opposed to, or checking motion; acting upward; -- applied to an inverted action of the intestinal tube.
antiperistasis		Opposition by which the quality opposed asquires strength; resistance or reaction roused by opposition or by the action of an opposite principle or quality.
antiperistatic		Pertaining to antiperistasis.
antipetalous		Standing before a petal, as a stamen.
antipharmic		Antidotal; alexipharmic.
antiphlogistian		An opposer of the theory of phlogiston.
antiphlogistic		(Chem.) Opposed to the doctrine of phlogiston.
antiphon		A musical response; alternate singing or chanting. See Antiphony, and Antiphone.
antiphonal		Of or pertaining to antiphony, or alternate singing; sung alternately by a divided choir or opposite choirs.
antiphonary		A book containing a collection of antiphons; the book in which the antiphons of the breviary, with their musical notes, are contained.
antiphone		The response which one side of the choir makes to the other in a chant; alternate chanting or signing.
antiphoner		A book of antiphons.
antiphonic		Antiphonal.
antiphony		A musical response; also, antiphonal chanting or signing.
antiphrasis		The use of words in a sense opposite to their proper meaning; as when a court of justice is called a court of vengeance.
antiphrastic		Pertaining to antiphrasis. -- An`ti*phras"tic*al*ly, adv.
antiphrastical		Pertaining to antiphrasis. -- An`ti*phras"tic*al*ly, adv.
antiphthisic		Relieving or curing phthisis, or consumption. -- n.
antiphysical		Contrary to nature; unnatural.
antiplastic		Diminishing plasticity.
antipodagric		Good against gout. -- n.
antipodal		Pertaining to the antipodes; situated on the opposite side of the globe.
antipode		One of the antipodes; anything exactly opposite.
antipodean		Pertaining to the antipodes, or the opposite side of the world; antipodal.
antipodes		Those who live on the side of the globe diametrically opposite.
antipole		The opposite pole; anything diametrically opposed.
antipope		One who is elected, or claims to be, pope in opposition to the pope canonically chosen; esp. applied to those popes who resided at Avignon during the Great Schism.
antipsoric		Of use in curing the itch. -- n.
antiptosis		The putting of one case for another.
antiputrefactive		Counteracting, or preserving from, putrefaction; antiseptic.
antiputrescent		Counteracting, or preserving from, putrefaction; antiseptic.
antipyic		Checking or preventing suppuration. -- n.
antipyresis		The condition or state of being free from fever.
antipyretic		Efficacious in preventing or allaying fever. -- n.
antipyrine		An artificial alkaloid, believed to be efficient in abating fever.
antipyrotic		Good against burns or pyrosis. -- n.
antiquarian		Pertaining to antiquaries, or to antiquity; as, antiquarian literature.
antiquarianism		Character of an antiquary; study or love of antiquities.
antiquarianize	Colloquial	To act the part of an antiquary.
antiquary		Pertaining to antiquity.
antiquate		To make old, or obsolete; to make antique; to make old in such a degree as to put out of use; hence, to make void, or abrogate.
antiquated		Grown old. Hence: Bygone; obsolete; out of use; old-fashioned; as, an antiquated law.
antiquatedness		Quality of being antiquated.
antiquateness	Obsolete	Antiquatedness.
antiquation		The act of making antiquated, or the state of being antiquated.
antique		Old; ancient; of genuine antiquity; as, an antique statue.
antiquely		In an antique manner.
antiqueness		The quality of being antique; an appearance of ancient origin and workmanship.
antiquist		An antiquary; a collector of antiques.
antiquitarian	Obsolete	An admirer of antiquity.
antiquity		The quality of being ancient; ancientness; great age; as, a statue of remarkable antiquity; a family of great antiquity.
antirachitic		Good against the rickets.
antirenter		One opposed to the payment of rent; esp. one of those who in 1840-47 resisted the collection of rents claimed by the patroons from the settlers on certain manorial lands in the State of New York. -- An`ti*rent"ism, n.
antisabbatarian		One of a sect which opposes the observance of the Christian Sabbath.
antisacerdotal		Hostile to priests or the priesthood.
antiscians		The inhabitants of the earth, living on different sides of the equator, whose shadows at noon are cast in opposite directions.
antiscii		The inhabitants of the earth, living on different sides of the equator, whose shadows at noon are cast in opposite directions.
antiscoletic		Anthelmintic.
antiscolic		Anthelmintic.
antiscorbutic		Counteracting scurvy. -- n.
antiscorbutical		Antiscorbutic.
antiscriptural		Opposed to, or not in accordance with, the Holy Scriptures.
antisepalous		Standing before a sepal, or calyx leaf.
antisepsis		Prevention of sepsis by excluding or destroying microorganisms.
antiseptic		Counteracting or preventing putrefaction, or a putrescent tendency in the system; antiputrefactive.
antiseptical		Counteracting or preventing putrefaction, or a putrescent tendency in the system; antiputrefactive.
antiseptically		By means of antiseptics.
antisialagogue		Checking the flow of saliva.
antislavery		Opposed to slavery. -- n.
antisocial		Tending to interrupt or destroy social intercourse; averse to society, or hostile to its existence; as, antisocial principles.
antisocialist		One opposed to the doctrines and practices of socialists or socialism.
antisolar		Opposite to the sun; -- said of the point in the heavens 180º distant from the sun.
antispasmodic		Good against spasms. -- n.
antispast		A foot of four syllables, the first and fourth short, and the second and third long.
antispastic	Obsolete	(a) Believed to cause a revulsion of fluids or of humors from one part to another.
antisplenetic		Good as a remedy against disease of the spleen. -- n.
antistrophe		In Greek choruses and dances, the returning of the chorus, exactly answering to a previous strophe or movement from right to left.
antistrophic		Of or pertaining to an antistrophe.
antistrophon		An argument retorted on an opponent.
antistrumatic		Antistrumous. -- n.
antistrumous		Good against scrofulous disorders.
antisyphilitic		Efficacious against syphilis. -- n.
antitheism		The doctrine of antitheists. -- An`ti*the*is"tic, a.
antitheist		A disbeliever in the existence of God.
antithesis		(Rhet.) An opposition or contrast of words or sentiments occurring in the same sentence; as,
antithet		An antithetic or contrasted statement.
antithetic		Pertaining to antithesis, or opposition of words and sentiments; containing, or of the nature of, antithesis; contrasted.
antithetical		Pertaining to antithesis, or opposition of words and sentiments; containing, or of the nature of, antithesis; contrasted.
antithetically		By way antithesis.
antitoxin		A substance (sometimes the product of a specific micro-organism and sometimes naturally present in the blood or tissues of an animal), capable of producing immunity from certain diseases…
antitoxine		A substance (sometimes the product of a specific micro-organism and sometimes naturally present in the blood or tissues of an animal), capable of producing immunity from certain diseases…
antitragus		A prominence on the lower posterior portion of the concha of the external ear, opposite the tragus.
antitrochanter		An articular surface on the ilium of birds against which the great trochanter of the femur plays.
antitropal		At the extremity most remote from the hilum, as the embryo, or inverted with respect to the seed, as the radicle.
antitropous		At the extremity most remote from the hilum, as the embryo, or inverted with respect to the seed, as the radicle.
antitypal		Antitypical.
antitype		That of which the type pattern or representation; that which is represented by the type or symbol.
antitypical		Of or pertaining to an antitype; explaining the type. -- An`ti*typ"ic*al*ly, adv.
antitypous	Obsolete	Resisting blows; hard.
antitypy		Opposition or resistance of matter to force.
antivaccination		Opposition to vaccination.
antivaccinationist		An antivaccinist.
antivaccinist		One opposed to vaccination.
antivariolous		Preventing the contagion of smallpox.
antivenereal		Good against venereal poison; antisyphilitic.
antivenin		The serum of blood rendered antitoxic to a venom by repeated injections of small doses of the venom.
antivivisection		Opposition to vivisection.
antivivisectionist		One opposed to vivisection
antizymic		Preventing fermentation.
antizymotic		Preventing fermentation or decomposition. -- n.
antler		The entire horn, or any branch of the horn, of a cervine animal, as of a stag.
antlered		Furnished with antlers.
antlia		The spiral tubular proboscis of lepidopterous insects. See Lepidoptera.
antoeci		Those who live under the same meridian, but on opposite parallels of latitude, north and south of the equator.
antoecians		Those who live under the same meridian, but on opposite parallels of latitude, north and south of the equator.
antonomasia		The use of some epithet or the name of some office, dignity, or the like, instead of the proper name of the person; as when his majesty is used for a king, or when, instead of Aristotle, we say, the philosopher; or, conversely…
antonomastic		Pertaining to, or characterized by, antonomasia. -- An`to*no*mas"tic*al*ly, adv.
antonomasy		Antonomasia.
antonym		A word of opposite meaning; a counterterm; -- used as a correlative of synonym.
antorbital		Pertaining to, or situated in, the region of the front of the orbit. -- n.
antorgastic		See Antiorgastic — tending to allay venereal excitement or desire; sedative.
antozone		A compound formerly supposed to be modification of oxygen, but now known to be hydrogen dioxide; -- so called because apparently antagonistic to ozone, converting it into ordinary oxygen.
antral		Relating to an antrum.
antre	Obsolete	A cavern.
antrorse		Forward or upward in direction.
antrovert		To bend forward.
antrum		A cavern or cavity, esp. an anatomical cavity or sinus.
antrustion		A vassal or voluntary follower of Frankish princes in their enterprises.
anubis		An Egyptian deity, the conductor of departed spirits, represented by a human figure with the head of a dog or fox.
anura		One of the orders of amphibians characterized by the absence of a tail, as the frogs and toads.
anurous		Destitute of a tail, as the frogs and toads.
anury		Nonsecretion or defective secretion of urine; ischury.
anus		The posterior opening of the alimentary canal, through which the excrements are expelled.
anvil		An iron block, usually with a steel face, upon which metals are hammered and shaped.
anxietude		The state of being anxious; anxiety.
anxiety		Concern or solicitude respecting some thing o
anxious		Full of anxiety or disquietude; greatly concerned or solicitous, esp. respecting future or unknown; being in painful suspense; -- applied to persons; as, anxious for the issue of a battle.
anxiously		In an anxious manner; with painful uncertainty; solicitously.
anxiousness		The quality of being anxious; great solicitude; anxiety.
any		One indifferently, out of an indefinite number; one indefinitely, whosoever or whatsoever it may be.
anybody		Any one out of an indefinite number of persons; anyone; any person.
anyhow		In any way or manner whatever; at any rate; in any event.
anyone		One taken at random rather than by selection; anybody.
anything		Any object, act, state, event, or fact whatever; thing of any kind; something or other; aught; as, I would not do it for anything.
anythingarian		One who holds to no particular creed or dogma.
anyway		Anywise; at all.
anyways		Anywise; at all.
anywhere		In any place.
anywhither	Archaic	To or towards any place.
anywise		In any wise or way; at all.
