apace		With a quick pace; quick; fast; speedily.	
apaches		A group of nomadic North American Indians including several tribes native of Arizona, New Mexico, etc.	
apagoge		An indirect argument which proves a thing by showing the impossibility or absurdity of the contrary.	Latin anxietas.
apagogic		Proving indirectly, by showing the absurdity, or impossibility of the contrary.	
apagogical		Proving indirectly, by showing the absurdity, or impossibility of the contrary.	
apaid	Obsolete	Paid; pleased.	
apair	Obsolete	To impair or become impaired; to injure.	
apalachian		See Appalachian — of or pertaining to a chain of mountains in the United States, commonly called the Allegheny mountains.	
apanage		Same as Appanage.	French apanage.
apanthropy		An aversion to the company of men; a love of solitude.	
apar		See Mataco — the three-banded armadillo (Tolypeutis tricinctus). See Illust. under Loricata.	
apara		See Mataco — the three-banded armadillo (Tolypeutis tricinctus). See Illust. under Loricata.	
aparejo		A kind of pack saddle used in the American military service and among the Spanish Americans.	
aparithmesis		Enumeration of parts or particulars.	
apart		Separately, in regard to space or company; in a state of separation as to place; aside.	
apartment		A room in a building; a division in a house, separated from others by partitions.	
apartness		The quality of standing apart.	
apastron		That point in the orbit of a double star where the smaller star is farthest from its primary.	
apathetic		Void of feeling; not susceptible of deep emotion; passionless; indifferent.	
apathetical		Void of feeling; not susceptible of deep emotion; passionless; indifferent.	
apathetically		In an apathetic manner.	
apathist		One who is destitute of feeling.	
apathistical		Apathetic; une motional.	
apathy		Want of feeling; privation of passion, emotion, or excitement; dispassion; -- applied either to the body or the mind.	French apathie, from Latin apathia, from Greek ἀπάθεια.
apatite		Native phosphate of lime, occurring usually in six-sided prisms, color often pale green, transparent or translucent.	
apaume		See Appaum.	
ape		(Zoöl.) A quadrumanous mammal, esp. of the family Simiadæ, having teeth of the same number and form as in man, having teeth of the same number and form as in man, and possessing neither a tail nor cheek pouches.	
apeak		In a vertical line.	
apehood		The state of being an ape.	
apellous		Destitute of skin.	
apennine		Of, pertaining to, or designating, the Apennines, a chain of mountains extending through Italy.	
apepsy		Defective digestion, indigestion.	
aper		One who apes.	
apercu		A first view or glance, or the perception or estimation so obtained; an immediate apprehension or insight, appreciative rather than analytic.	
aperea		The wild Guinea pig of Brazil (Cavia aperea).	
aperient		Gently opening the bowels; laxative. -- n.	
aperitive		Serving to open; aperient.	
apert	Archaic	Open; ev Fotherby.	
apertion	Archaic	The act of opening; an opening; an aperture.	
apertly	Archaic	Openly; clearly.	
apertness	Archaic	Openness; frankness.	
aperture		An opening; an open space; a gap, cleft, or chasm; a passage perforated; a hole; as, an aperture in a wall.	Latin apertura.
apery		A place where apes are kept.	
apetalous		Having no petals, or flower leaves..	
apetalousness		The state of being apetalous.	
apex		The tip, top, point, or angular summit of anything; as, the apex of a mountain, spire, or cone; the apex, or tip, of a leaf.	Latin apex.
aphaeresis		Same as Apheresis.	
aphakia		An anomalous state of refraction caused by the absence of the crystalline lens, as after operations for cataract.	
aphakial		Pertaining to aphakia; as, aphakial eyes.	
aphaniptera		A group of wingless insects, of which the flea in the type. See Flea.	
aphanipterous		Of or pertaining to the Aphaniptera.	
aphanite		A very compact, dark-colored	Greek ἀφανής.
aphanitic		Resembling aphanite; having a very fine-grained structure.	
aphasia		Loss of the power of speech, or of the appropriate use of words, the vocal organs remaining intact, and the intelligence being preserved.	
aphasic		Pertaining to, or affected by, aphasia; speechless.	
aphasy		Loss of the power of speech, or of the appropriate use of words, the vocal organs remaining intact, and the intelligence being preserved.	
aphelion		That point of a planet's or comet's orbit which is most distant from the sun, the opposite point being the perihelion.	
apheliotropic		Turning away from the sun; -- said of leaves, etc. Darwin.	
apheliotropism		The habit of bending from the sunlight; -- said of certain plants.	
aphemia		Loss of the power of speaking, while retaining the power of writing; -- a disorder of cerebral origin.	
apheresis		(Gram.) The dropping of a letter or syllable from the beginning of a word; e. g., cute for acute.	Latin aphaeresis, from Greek ἀφαίρεσις.
aphesis		The loss of a short unaccented vowel at the beginning of a word; -- the result of a phonetic process; as, squire for esquire.	Greek ἄφεσις.
aphetic		Shortened by dropping a letter or a syllable from the beginning of a word; as, an aphetic word or form. -- A*phet"ic*al*ly, adv.	
aphetism		An aphetized form of a word.	
aphetize		To shorten by aphesis.	
aphid		One of the genus Aphis; an aphidian.	
aphides		See Aphis — a genus of insects belonging to the order Hemiptera and family Aphidæ, including numerous species known as plant lice and green flies.	
aphidian		Of or pertaining to the family Aphidæ. -- n.	
aphidivorous		Devouring aphides; aphidophagous.	
aphidophagous		Feeding upon aphides, or plant lice, as do beetles of the family Coccinellidæ.	
aphilanthropy		Want of love to mankind; -- the opposite of philanthropy.	
aphis		A genus of insects belonging to the order Hemiptera and family Aphidæ, including numerous species known as plant lice and green flies.	
aphlogistic		Flameless; as, an aphlogistic lamp, in which a coil of wire is kept in a state of continued ignition by alcohol, without flame.	
aphonia		Loss of voice or vocal utterance.	
aphonic		Without voice; voiceless; nonvocal.	
aphonous		Without voice; voiceless; nonvocal.	
aphony		Loss of voice or vocal utterance.	
aphorism		A comprehensive maxim or principle expressed in a few words; a sharply defined sentence relating to abstract truth rather than to practical matters.	Middle French aphorisme, from Latin aphorismus, from Greek ἀφορισμός.
aphorismatic		Pertaining to aphorisms, or having the form of an aphorism.	
aphorismer		A dealer in aphorisms.	
aphorismic		Pertaining to aphorisms, or having the form of an aphorism.	
aphorist		A writer or utterer of aphorisms.	
aphoristic		In the form of, or of the nature of, an aphorism; in the form of short, unconnected sentences; as, an aphoristic style.	
aphoristical		In the form of, or of the nature of, an aphorism; in the form of short, unconnected sentences; as, an aphoristic style.	
aphoristically		In the form or manner of aphorisms; pithily.	
aphorize		To make aphorisms.	
aphotic		Without light.	
aphrasia		(a) = Dumbness. (b) A disorder of speech in which words can be uttered but not intelligibly joined together.	
aphrite		See under Calcite.	
aphrodisiac		Exciting venereal desire; provocative to venery.	Greek ἀφροδισιακός.
aphrodisiacal		Exciting venereal desire; provocative to venery.	
aphrodisian		Pertaining to Aphrodite or Venus..	
aphrodite		(Classic Myth.) The Greek goddess of love, corresponding to the Venus of the Romans.	
aphroditic		Venereal.	
aphtha		(a) One of the whitish specks called aphthæ. (b) The disease, also called thrush.	Greek ἄφθα.
aphthae		Roundish pearl-colored specks or flakes in the mouth, on the lips, etc., terminating in white sloughs.	
aphthoid		Of the nature of aphthæ; resembling thrush.	
aphthong		A letter, or a combination of letters, employed in spelling a word, but in the pronunciation having no sound. -- Aph*thon"gal, a.	
aphthous		Pertaining to, or caused by, aphthæ; characterized by aphtæ; as, aphthous ulcers; aphthous fever.	
aphyllous		Destitute of leaves, as the broom rape, certain euphorbiaceous plants, etc.	
apiaceous		Umbelliferous.	
apian		Belonging to bees.	
apiarian		Of or relating to bees.	
apiarist		One who keeps an apiary.	
apiary		A place where bees are kept; a stand or shed for bees; a beehouse.	
apical		At or belonging to an apex, tip, or summit.	
apices		See Apex — the tip, top, point, or angular summit of anything; as, the apex of a mountain, spire, or cone; the apex, or tip, of a leaf.	
apician		Belonging to Apicius, a notorious Roman epicure; hence applied to whatever is peculiarly refined or dainty and expensive in cookery.	
apicular		Situated at, or near, the apex; apical.	Latin apiculus.
apiculate		Terminated abruptly by a small, distinct point, as a leaf.	Latin apiculatus.
apiculated		Terminated abruptly by a small, distinct point, as a leaf.	
apiculture		Rearing of bees for their honey and wax.	
apiece		Each by itself; by the single one; to each; as the share of each; as, these melons cost a shilling apiece.	
apieces	Obsolete	In pieces or to pieces.	
apiked	Obsolete	Trimmed.	
apiol		An oily liquid derived from parsley.	
apiologist		A student of bees.	
apiology		The scientific or systematic study of honey bees.	
apis		A genus of insects of the order Hymenoptera, including the common honeybee (Apis mellifica) and other related species.	
apish		Having the qualities of an ape; prone to imitate in a servile manner. Hence: Apelike; fantastically silly; foppish; affected; trifling.	
apishly		In an apish manner; with servile imitation; foppishly.	
apishness		The quality of being apish; mimicry; foppery.	
apitpat		With quick beating or palpitation; pitapat.	
aplacental		Belonging to the Aplacentata; without placenta.	
aplacentata		Mammals which have no placenta.	
aplacophora		A division of Amphineura in which the body is naked or covered with slender spines or setæ, but is without shelly plates.	
aplanatic		Having two or more parts of different curvatures, so combined as to remove spherical aberration; -- said of a lens.	
aplanatism		Freedom from spherical aberration.	
aplanogamete		A nonmotile gamete, found in certain lower algæ.	
aplasia		Incomplete or faulty development.	
aplastic		Not plastic or easily molded.	
aplomb		Assurance of manner or of action; self-possession.	
aplotomy		Simple incision.	
aplustre		An ornamental appendage of wood at the ship's stern, usually spreading like a fan and curved like a bird's feather.	
aplysia		A genus of marine mollusks of the order Tectibranchiata; the sea hare.	
apnea		Partial privation or suspension of breath; suffocation.	
apneumatic		Devoid of air; free from air; as, an apneumatic lung; also, effected by or with exclusion of air; as, an apneumatic operation.	
apneumona		An order of holothurians in which the internal respiratory organs are wanting; -- called also Apoda or Apodes.	
apnoea		Partial privation or suspension of breath; suffocation.	
apo		A prefix from a Greek preposition.	
apocalypse		The revelation delivered to St. John, in the isle of Patmos, near the close of the first century, forming the last book of the New Testament.	Latin apocalypsis, from Greek ἀποκάλυψις.
apocalyptic		Of or pertaining to a revelation, or, specifically, to the Revelation of St. John; containing, or of the nature of, a prophetic revelation.	Greek ἀποκαλυπτικός.
apocalyptical		Of or pertaining to a revelation, or, specifically, to the Revelation of St. John; containing, or of the nature of, a prophetic revelation.	
apocalyptically		By revelation; in an apocalyptic manner.	
apocalyptist		The writer of the Apocalypse.	
apocarpous		Either entirely of partially separate, as the carpels of a compound pistil; -- opposed to syncarpous.	
apochromatic		Free from chromatic and spherical aberration; -- said esp. of a lens in which rays of three or more colors are brought to the same focus…	
apocodeine		An alkaloid,, prepared from codeine.	
apocopate		To cut off or drop; as, to apocopate a word, or the last letter, syllable, or part of a word.	Latin apocopo, from Greek ἀποκόπτω.
apocopated		Shortened by apocope; as, an apocopate form.	
apocopation		Shortening by apocope; the state of being apocopated.	
apocope		The cutting off, or omission, of the last letter, syllable, or part of a word.	
apocrisiarius		A delegate or deputy; especially, the pope's nuncio or legate at Constantinople.	
apocrisiary		A delegate or deputy; especially, the pope's nuncio or legate at Constantinople.	
apocrustic		Astringent and repellent. -- n.	
apocrypha		Specif.: Certain writings which are received by some Christians as an authentic part of the Holy Scriptures, but are rejected by others.	
apocryphal		Not canonical. Hence: Of doubtful authority; equivocal; mythic; fictitious; spurious; false.	
apocryphalist		One who believes in, or defends, the Apocrypha.	
apocryphally		In an apocryphal manner; mythically; not indisputably.	
apocryphalness		The quality or state of being apocryphal; doubtfulness of credit or genuineness.	
apocynaceous		Belonging to, or resembling, a family of plants, of which the dogbane (Apocynum) is the type.	
apocyneous		Belonging to, or resembling, a family of plants, of which the dogbane (Apocynum) is the type.	
apocynin		A bitter principle obtained from the dogbane (Apocynum cannabinum).	
apod		Without feet; footless.	
apoda		(a) A group of cirripeds, destitute of footlike organs. (b) An order of Amphibia without feet.	
apodal		Without feet; footless.	
apode		One of certain animals that have no feet or footlike organs; esp. one of certain fabulous birds which were said to have no feet.	
apodeictic		Self-evident; intuitively true; evident beyond contradiction.	Greek ἀποδεικτικός.
apodeictical		Self-evident; intuitively true; evident beyond contradiction.	
apodeictically		So as to be evident beyond contradiction.	
apodeme		One of the processes of the shell which project inwards and unite with one another, in the thorax of many Crustacea.	
apodes		(a) An order of fishes without ventral fins, including the eels. (b) A group of holothurians destitute of suckers.	
apodictic		Self-evident; intuitively true; evident beyond contradiction.	
apodictical		Self-evident; intuitively true; evident beyond contradiction.	
apodictically		So as to be evident beyond contradiction.	
apodixis		Full demonstration.	
apodosis		The consequent clause or conclusion in a conditional sentence, expressing the result, and thus distinguished from the protasis or clause which expresses a condition.	
apodous		Apodal; apod.	
apodyterium		The apartment at the entrance of the baths, or in the palestra, where one stripped; a dressing room.	
apogaic		Apogean.	
apogamic		Relating to apogamy.	
apogamy		The formation of a bud in place of a fertilized ovule or oöspore.	
apogeal		Apogean.	
apogean		Connected with the apogee; as, apogean (neap) tides, which occur when the moon has passed her apogee.	
apogee		(Astron.) That point in the orbit of the moon which is at the greatest distance from the earth.	
apogeotropic		Bending away from the ground; -- said of leaves, etc. Darwin.	
apogeotropism		The apogeotropic tendency of some leaves, and other parts.	
apograph		A copy or transcript.	Greek ἀπόγραφον.
apohyal		Of or pertaining to a portion of the horn of the hyoid bone.	
apoise		Balanced.	
apolar		Having no radiating processes; -- applied particularly to certain nerve cells.	
apolaustic		Devoted to enjoyment.	
apollinarian		In honor of Apollo; as, the Apollinarian games.	
apollo		A deity among the Greeks and Romans.	
apollonian		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, Apollo.	
apollonic		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, Apollo.	
apollyon		The Destroyer; -- a name used (Rev. ix. 11) for the angel of the bottomless pit, answering to the Hebrew Abaddon.	
apologer	Obsolete	A teller of apologues.	
apologetic		Defending by words or arguments; said or written in defense, or by way of apology; regretfully excusing; as, an apologetic essay.	French apologétique, from Greek ἀπολογητικός.
apologetical		Defending by words or arguments; said or written in defense, or by way of apology; regretfully excusing; as, an apologetic essay.	
apologetically		By way of apology.	
apologetics		That branch of theology which defends the Holy Scriptures, and sets forth the evidence of their divine authority.	Latin apologia, from Greek ἀπολογία.
apologist		One who makes an apology; one who speaks or writes in defense of a faith, a cause, or an institution; especially, one who argues in defense of Christianity.	
apologize	Obsolete	To make an apology or excuse; to make acknowledgment of some fault or offense, with expression of regret for it, by way of amends; -- with for; as, my correspondent apologized for not answering my letter.	
apologizer		One who makes an apology; an apologist.	
apologue		A story or relation of fictitious events, intended to convey some moral truth; a moral fable.	French apologue.
apology		Something said or written in defense or justification of what appears to others wrong, or of what may be liable to disapprobation; justification; as, Tertullian's Apology for Christianity.	French apologie, from Latin apologia, from Greek ἀπολογία.
apomecometer		An instrument for measuring the height of objects.	
apomecometry	Obsolete	The art of measuring the distance of objects afar off.	
apomorphia		A crystalline alkaloid obtained from morphia.	
apomorphine		A crystalline alkaloid obtained from morphia.	
aponeurosis		Any one of the thicker and denser of the deep fasciæ which cover, invest, and the terminations and attachments of, many muscles.	
aponeurotic		Of or pertaining to an aponeurosis.	
aponeurotomy		Dissection of aponeuroses.	
apopemptic		Sung or addressed to one departing; valedictory; as, apoplectic songs or hymns.	
apophasis		A figure by which a speaker formally declines to take notice of a favorable point, but in such a manner as to produce the effect desired.	Greek ἀπόφασις.
apophlegmatic		Designed to facilitate discharges of phlegm or mucus from mouth or nostrils. -- n.	
apophlegmatism		(Med.) The action of apophlegmatics.	
apophlegmatizant	Obsolete	An apophlegmatic.	
apophthegm		See Apothegm — a short, pithy, and instructive saying; a terse remark, conveying some important truth; a sententious precept or maxim.	
apophthegmatic		Same as Apothegmatic.	
apophthegmatical		Same as Apothegmatic.	
apophyge		The small hollow curvature given to the top or bottom of the shaft of a column where it expands to meet the edge of the fillet; -- called also the scape.	Greek αποφυγή.
apophyllite		A mineral relating to the zeolites, usually occurring in square prisms or octahedrons with pearly luster on the cleavage surface.	
apophysis		(Anat.) A marked prominence or process on any part of a bone.	
apoplectic		Relating to apoplexy; affected with, inclined to, or symptomatic of, apoplexy; as, an apoplectic person, medicine, habit or temperament, symptom, fit, or stroke.	French apoplectique, from Latin apoplecticus, from Greek ἀποπληκτικός.
apoplectical		Relating to apoplexy; affected with, inclined to, or symptomatic of, apoplexy; as, an apoplectic person, medicine, habit or temperament, symptom, fit, or stroke.	
apoplectiform		Resembling apoplexy.	
apoplectoid		Resembling apoplexy.	
apoplex	Obsolete	Apoplexy.	
apoplexed	Obsolete	Affected with apoplexy.	
apoplexy		Sudden diminution or loss of consciousness, sensation, and voluntary motion, usually caused by pressure on the brain.	Old English poplexye.
aporetical	Obsolete	Doubting; skeptical.	
aporia		A figure in which the speaker professes to be at a loss what course to pursue, where to begin to end, what to say, etc.	Latin aporia, from Greek ἀπορία.
aporosa		A group of corals in which the coral is not porous; -- opposed to Perforata.	
aporose		Without pores.	
aport		On or towards the port or left side; -- said of the helm.	
aposematic		Having or designating conspicuous or warning colors or structures indicative of special means of defense against enemies, as in the skunk.	
aposiopesis		A figure of speech in which the speaker breaks off suddenly, as if unwilling or unable to state what was in his mind; as,	Latin aposiopesis, from Greek ἀποσιώπησις.
apositic		Destroying the appetite, or suspending hunger.	
apostasy		An abandonment of what one has voluntarily professed; a total desertion of departure from one's faith, principles, or party; esp., the renunciation of a religious faith; as, Julian's apostasy from Christianity.	Latin apostasia, from Greek ἀποστασία.
apostate		One who has forsaken the faith, principles, or party, to which he before adhered; esp., one who has forsaken his religion for another; a pervert; a renegade.	Latin apostata, from Greek ἀποστασία.
apostatic		Apostatical.	Latin apostaticus.
apostatical		Apostate.	
apostatize		To renounce totally a religious belief once professed; to forsake one's church, the faith or principles once held, or the party to which one has previously adhered.	
apostemate		To form an abscess; to swell and fill with pus.	
apostemation		The formation of an aposteme; the process of suppuration.	
apostematous		Pertaining to, or partaking of the nature of, an aposteme.	
aposteme		An abscess; a swelling filled with purulent matter.	
apostil		A marginal note on a letter or other paper; an annotation.	French postille, from verba) (Latin post illa.
apostille		A marginal note on a letter or other paper; an annotation.	French apostille.
apostle		Literally: One sent forth; a messenger. Specifically: One of the twelve disciples of Christ, specially chosen as his companions and witnesses, and sent forth to preach the gospel.	Old French apostle, from Greek ἀπόστολος.
apostleship		The office or dignity of an apostle.	
apostolate		The dignity, office, or mission, of an apostle; apostleship.	
apostolic		Pertaining to an apostle, or to the apostles, their times, or their peculiar spirit; as, an apostolical mission; the apostolic age.	Latin apostolicus, from Greek ἀποστολικός.
apostolical		Pertaining to an apostle, or to the apostles, their times, or their peculiar spirit; as, an apostolical mission; the apostolic age.	
apostolically		In an apostolic manner.	
apostolicalness		Apostolicity.	
apostolicism		The state or quality of being apostolical.	
apostolicity		The state or quality of being apostolical.	
apostrophe		(Rhet.) A figure of speech by which the orator or writer suddenly breaks off from the previous method of his discourse, and addresses, in the second person, some person or thing, absent or present; as…	French apostrophe, from Latin apostrophus, from Greek ἀπόστροφος.
apostrophic		Pertaining to an apostrophe, grammatical or rhetorical.	
apostrophize		To contract by omitting a letter or letters; also, to mark with an apostrophe (') or apostrophes.	
apostume	Obsolete	See Aposteme — an abscess; a swelling filled with purulent matter.	
apotactite		One of a sect of ancient Christians, who, in supposed imitation of the first believers, renounced all their possessions.	
apotelesm	Obsolete	(Astrol.) The calculation and explanation of a nativity.	
apotelesmatic	Archaic	Relating to the casting of horoscopes.	
apothecary		One who prepares and sells drugs or compounds for medicinal purposes.	Old French apotecaire, from Latin apothecarius.
apothecium		The ascigerous fructification of lichens, forming masses of various shapes.	
apothegm		A short, pithy, and instructive saying; a terse remark, conveying some important truth; a sententious precept or maxim.	
apothegmatic		Pertaining to, or in the manner of, an apotghem; sententious; pithy.	Greek ἀποφθεγματικός.
apothegmatical		Pertaining to, or in the manner of, an apotghem; sententious; pithy.	
apothegmatist		A collector or maker of apothegms.	
apothegmatize		To utter apothegms, or short and sententious sayings.	
apothem		(Math.) The perpendicular from the center to one of the sides of a regular polygon.	
apotheosis		The act of elevating a mortal to the rank of, and placing him among, deification.	Greek ἀποθέωσις.
apotheosize		To exalt to the dignity of a deity; to declare to be a god; to deify; to glorify.	
apothesis		(a) A place on the south side of the chancel in the primitive churches, furnished with shelves, for books, vestments, etc. Weale.	Greek ἀπόθεσις.
apotome		(Math.) The difference between two quantities commensurable only in power, as between sq. root2 and 1, or between the diagonal and side of a square.	Greek ἀποτομή.
apozem	Obsolete	A decoction or infusion.	Latin apozema.
apozemical	Obsolete	Pertaining to, or resembling, a decoction.	
appair	Obsolete	To impair; to grow worse.	Old French empeirier.
appalachian		Of or pertaining to a chain of mountains in the United States, commonly called the Allegheny mountains.	
appall		To depress or discourage with fear; to impress with fear in such a manner that the mind shrinks, or loses its firmness; to overcome with sudden terror or horror; to dismay; as, the sight appalled the stoutest heart.	
appalling		Such as to appall; as, an appalling accident. -- Ap*pall"ing*ly, adv.	
appallment	Obsolete	Depression occasioned by terror; dismay.	
appanage		The portion of land assigned by a sovereign prince for the subsistence of his younger sons.	French apanage.
appanagist		A prince to whom an appanage has been granted.	French apanagiste.
apparaillyng	Obsolete	Preparation.	
apparatus		Things provided as means to some end.	Latin apparatus.
apparel		External clothing; vesture; garments; dress; garb; external habiliments or array.	Old French appareiller.
apparence	Obsolete	Appearance.	
apparency		Apparentness; state of being apparent.	
apparent		Capable of being seen, or easily seen; open to view; visible to the eye; within sight or view.	French apparent.
apparently		Plainly; clearly; manifestly; evidently.	
apparentness		Plainness to the eye or the mind; visibleness; obviousness.	
apparition		The act of becoming visible; appearance; visibility.	French apparition, from Latin apparitio.
apparitional		Pertaining to an apparition or to apparitions; spectral.	
apparitor		Formerly, an officer who attended magistrates and judges to execute their orders.	Latin apparitor.
appaume		A hand open and extended so as to show the palm.	
appay	Obsolete	To pay; to satisfy or appease.	
appeach	Obsolete	To impeach; to accuse; to asperse; to inform against; to reproach.	Anglo-Norman enpecher.
appeacher	Obsolete	An accuser.	
appeachment	Obsolete	Accusation.	
appeal		(Law) (a) To make application for the removal of (a cause) from an inferior to a superior judge or court for a rehearing or review on account of alleged injustice or illegality in the trial below.	Old French apeler, from Latin appello.
appealable		Capable of being appealed against; that may be removed to a higher tribunal for decision; as, the cause is appealable.	
appealant	Obsolete	An appellant.	
appealer		One who makes an appeal.	
appealing		That appeals; imploring. -- Ap*peal ing*ness, n.	
appear		To come or be in sight; to be in view; to become visible.	Middle English apperen.
appearance		The act of appearing or coming into sight; the act of becoming visible to the eye; as, his sudden appearance surprised me.	French apparence, from Latin apparentia.
appearer		One who appears.	
appearingly	Obsolete	Apparently.	
appeasable		Capable of being appeased or pacified; placable. -- Ap*peas"a*ble*ness, n.	
appease		To make quiet; to calm; to reduce to a state of peace; to still; to pacify; to dispel (anger or hatred); as, to appease the tumult of the ocean, or of the passions; to appease hunger or thirst.	Middle English apesen, from Old French apeser.
appeasement		The act of appeasing, or the state of being appeased; pacification.	Old French apaisement.
appeaser		One who appeases; a pacifier.	
appeasive		Tending to appease.	
appel		A tap or stamp of the foot as a warning of intent to attack; -- called also attack.	
appellable		Appealable.	
appellancy		Capability of appeal.	
appellant		Relating to an appeal; appellate.	
appellate	Obsolete	Pertaining to, or taking cognizance of, appeals.	Latin appellatus.
appellation		The word by which a particular person or thing is called and known; name; title; designation.	
appellative		Pertaining to a common name; serving as a distinctive denomination; denominative; naming.	
appellatively		After the manner of nouns appellative; in a manner to express whole classes or species; as, Hercules is sometimes used appellatively, that is, as a common name, to signify a strong man.	
appellativeness		The quality of being appellative.	
appellatory		Containing an appeal.	Latin appellatorius.
appellee		(a) The defendant in an appeal; -- opposed to appellant. (b) The person who is appealed against, or accused of crime; -- opposed to appellor.	
appellor		(a) The person who institutes an appeal, or prosecutes another for a crime.	
appenage		See Appanage — the portion of land assigned by a sovereign prince for the subsistence of his younger sons.	
append		To hang or attach to, as by a string, so that the thing is suspended; as, a seal appended to a record; the inscription was appended to the column.	
appendage		Something appended to, or accompanying, a principal or greater thing, though not necessary to it, as a portico to a house.	
appendaged		Furnished with, or supplemented by, an appendage.	
appendance		Something appendant.	
appendant		Hanging; annexed; adjunct; concomitant; as, a seal appendant to a paper.	
appendectomy		Excision of the vermiform appendix.	
appendence	Obsolete	State of being appendant; appendance.	
appendency	Obsolete	State of being appendant; appendance.	
appendical		Of or like an appendix.	
appendicate	Obsolete	To append.	
appendication	Obsolete	An appendage.	
appendicectomy		Excision of the vermiform appendix.	
appendicitis		Inflammation of the vermiform appendix.	
appendicle		A small appendage.	Latin appendicula.
appendicular		Relating to an appendicle; appendiculate.	
appendicularia		A genus of small free-swimming Tunicata, shaped somewhat like a tadpole, and remarkable for resemblances to the larvæ of other Tunicata.	
appendiculata		An order of annelids; the Polychæta.	
appendiculate		Having small appendages; forming an appendage.	
appendix		Something appended or added; an appendage, adjunct, or concomitant.	Latin appendix.
appension	Obsolete	The act of appending.	
apperceive		To perceive; to comprehend.	Old French aperceveir.
apperception		The mind's perception of itself as the subject or actor in its own states; perception that reflects upon itself; sometimes, intensified or energetic perception.	
appertain		To belong or pertain, whether by right, nature, appointment, or custom; to relate.	Middle English apperteinen.
appertainment	Obsolete	That which appertains to a person; an appurtenance.	
appertinance		See Appurtenance — that which belongs to something else; an adjunct; an appendage; an accessory; something annexed to another thing more worthy; in common parlance and legal acceptation…	
appertinence		See Appurtenance — that which belongs to something else; an adjunct; an appendage; an accessory; something annexed to another thing more worthy; in common parlance and legal acceptation…	
appertinent	Obsolete	Belonging; appertaining.	
appete	Obsolete	To seek for; to desire.	
appetence		A longing; a desire; especially an ardent desire; appetite; appetency.	French appétence, from Latin appetentia.
appetency		Fixed and strong desire; esp. natural desire; a craving; an eager appetite.	
appetent		Desiring; eagerly desirous.	
appetibility		The quality of being desirable.	
appetible		Desirable; capable or worthy of being the object of desire.	Latin appetibilis.
appetite		The desire for some personal gratification, either of the body or of the mind.	Old English appetit, from Old French apetit, from Latin appetitus.
appetition		Desire; a longing for, or seeking after, something.	Latin appetitio.
appetitive		Having the quality of desiring gratification; as, appetitive power or faculty.	
appetize		To make hungry; to whet the appetite of.	
appetizer		Something which creates or whets an appetite.	
appetizing		Exciting appetite; as, appetizing food.	
appian		Of or pertaining to Appius.	
applaud		To show approval of by clapping the hands, acclamation, or other significant sign.	Latin applaudere.
applauder		One who applauds.	
applausable	Obsolete	Worthy pf applause; praiseworthy.	
applause		The act of applauding; approbation and praise publicly expressed by clapping the hands, stamping or tapping with the feet, acclamation, huzzas, or other means; marked commendation.	
applausive		Expressing applause; approbative. -- Ap*plau"sive*ly, adv.	
apple		The fleshy pome or fruit of a rosaceous tree (Pyrus malus) cultivated in numberless varieties in the temperate zones.	Middle English appel, from Old English æppel.
apple-faced		Having a round, broad face, like an apple.	
apple-jack		Apple brandy.	
apple-john		A kind of apple which by keeping becomes much withered; -- called also Johnapple.	
apple-squire	Obsolete	A pimp; a kept gallant.	
appliable	Obsolete	Applicable; also, compliant.	
appliance		The thing applied or used as a means to an end; an apparatus or device; as, to use various appliances; a mechanical appliance; a machine with its appliances.	
applicability		The quality of being applicable or fit to be applied.	
applicable		Capable of being applied; fit or suitable to be applied; having relevance; as, this observation is applicable to the case under consideration. -- Ap pli*ca*bly, adv.	Latin applicabilis.
applicancy		The quality or state of being applicable.	
applicant		One who apples for something; one who makes request; a petitioner.	Latin applicans.
applicate	Obsolete	Applied or put to some use.	
application		The act of applying or laying on, in a literal sense; as, the application of emollients to a diseased limb.	Latin applicatio.
applicative		Having of being applied or used; applying; applicatory; practical.	
applicatorily		By way of application.	
applicatory		Having the property of applying; applicative; practical. -- n.	
appliedly		By application.	
applier		He who, or that which, applies.	
appliment	Obsolete	Application.	
applique		Ornamented with a pattern (which has been cut out of another color or stuff) applied or transferred to a foundation; as, appliqué lace; appliqué work.	French appliqué.
applot		To divide into plots or parts; to apportion.	
applotment		Apportionment.	
apply		To lay or place; to put or adjust (one thing to another); -- with to; as, to apply the hand to the breast; to apply medicaments to a diseased part of the body.	Old French aplier.
appoggiatura		A passing tone preceding an essential tone, and borrowing the time it occupies from that; a short auxiliary or grace note one degree above or below the principal note unless it be of the same harmony…	
appoint		To fix with power or firmness; to establish; to mark out.	Middle English apointen, from Old French apointier.
appointable		Capable of being appointed or constituted.	
appointee		A person appointed.	French appointé.
appointer		One who appoints, or executes a power of appointment.	
appointive		Subject to appointment; as, an appointive office.	
appointment		The act of appointing; designation of a person to hold an office or discharge a trust; as, he erred by the appointment of unsuitable men.	Middle French apointement.
appointor		The person who selects the appointee. See Appointee, 2.	
apporter	Obsolete	A bringer in; an importer.	
apportion		To divide and assign in just proportion; to divide and distribute proportionally; to portion out; to allot; as, to apportion undivided rights; to apportion time among various employments.	Middle French apportionner, from Old French aporcioner, from Latin apportionare.
apportionateness	Obsolete	The quality of being apportioned or in proportion.	
apportioner		One who apportions.	
apportionment		The act of apportioning; a dividing into just proportions or shares; a division or shares; a division and assignment, to each proprietor, of his just portion of an undivided right or property.	
apposable		Capable of being apposed, or applied one to another, as the thumb to the fingers of the hand.	
appose		To place opposite or before; to put or apply (one thing to another).	French apposer, from Latin apponere.
apposed		Placed in apposition; mutually fitting, as the mandibles of a bird's beak.	
apposer		An examiner; one whose business is to put questions.	
apposite		Very applicable; well adapted; suitable or fit; relevant; pat; -- followed by to; as, this argument is very apposite to the case. -- Ap po*site*ness, n.	Latin appositus.
apposition		The act of adding; application; accretion.	
appositional		Pertaining to apposition; put in apposition syntactically.	
appositive		Of or relating to apposition; in apposition. -- n.	
appraisable		Capable of being appraised.	
appraisal		A valuation by an authorized person; an appraisement.	
appraise		To set a value; to estimate the worth of, particularly by persons appointed for the purpose; as, to appraise goods and chattels.	Old French aprisier, from Latin appretiare.
appraisement		The act of setting the value; valuation by an appraiser; estimation of worth.	
appraiser		One who appraises; esp., a person appointed and sworn to estimate and fix the value of goods or estates.	
apprecation	Obsolete	Earnest prayer; devout wish.	
apprecatory	Obsolete	Praying or wishing good.	
appreciable		Capable of being appreciated or estimated; large enough to be estimated; perceptible; as, an appreciable quantity. -- Ap*pre"ci*a*bly, adv.	French appréciable.
appreciant		Appreciative.	
appreciate		To set a price or value on; to estimate justly; to value.	
appreciatingly		In an appreciating manner; with appreciation.	
appreciation		A just valuation or estimate of merit, worth, weight, etc.; recognition of excellence.	French appréciation.
appreciative		Having or showing a just or ready appreciation or perception; as, an appreciative audience. -- Ap*pre"ci*a*tive*ly, adv.	
appreciativeness		The quality of being appreciative; quick recognition of excellence.	
appreciator		One who appreciates.	
appreciatory		Showing appreciation; appreciative; as, appreciatory commendation. -- Ap*pre"ci*a*to*ri*ly, adv.	
apprehend		Hence: To take or seize (a person) by legal process; to arrest; as, to apprehend a criminal.	
apprehender		One who apprehends.	
apprehensibiity		The quality of being apprehensible.	
apprehensible		Capable of being apprehended or conceived. -- Ap`*pre*hen"si*bly, adv.	
apprehension		The act of seizing or taking hold of; seizure; as, the hand is an organ of apprehension.	Latin apprehensio.
apprehensive		Capable of apprehending, or quick to do so; apt; discerning.	
apprehensively		In an apprehensive manner; with apprehension of danger.	
apprehensiveness		The quality or state of being apprehensive.	
apprentice		One who is bound by indentures or by legal agreement to serve a mechanic, or other person, for a certain time, with a view to learn the art, or trade, in which his master is bound to instruct him.	Old French aprentis.
apprenticeage	Obsolete	Apprenticeship.	French apprentissage.
apprenticehood	Obsolete	Apprenticeship.	
apprenticeship		The service or condition of an apprentice; the state in which a person is gaining instruction in a trade or art, under legal agreement.	
appressed		Pressed close to, or lying against, something for its whole length, as against a stem, Gray.	
apprest		Pressed close to, or lying against, something for its whole length, as against a stem, Gray.	
apprise	Obsolete	To give notice, verbal or written; to inform; -- followed by of; as, we will apprise the general of an intended attack; he apprised the commander of what he had done.	French appris, from Latin apprensus.
apprizal		See Appraisal — a valuation by an authorized person; an appraisement.	
apprize		To appraise; to value; to appreciate.	
apprizement		Appraisement.	
apprizer		(Scots Law) A creditor for whom an appraisal is made.	
approach		To come or go near, in place or time; to draw nigh; to advance nearer.	Middle English approchen.
approachability		The quality of being approachable; approachableness.	
approachable		Capable of being approached; accessible; as, approachable virtue.	
approachableness		The quality or state of being approachable; accessibility.	
approacher		One who approaches.	
approaching		The act of ingrafting a sprig or shoot of one tree into another, without cutting it from the parent stock; -- called, also, inarching and grafting by approach.	
approachless		Impossible to be approached.	
approachment	Archaic	Approach.	
approbate	Obsolete	Approved.	
approbation		The act of approving; an assenting to the propriety of a thing with some degree of pleasure or satisfaction; approval; sanction; commendation.	
approbative		Approving, or implying approbation.	Latin approbativus.
approbativeness		The quality of being approbative.	
approbator		One who approves.	
approbatory		Containing or expressing approbation; commendatory.	
appromt	Obsolete	To quicken; to prompt.	
approof		Approval; commendation.	
appropinquate	Archaic	To approach.	
appropinquation		A drawing nigh; approach.	Latin appropinquatio.
appropinquity		Nearness; propinquity.	
appropre	Obsolete	To appropriate.	
appropriable		Capable of being appropriated, set apart, sequestered, or assigned exclusively to a particular use.	
appropriament	Obsolete	What is peculiarly one's own; peculiar qualification.	
appropriate		Set apart for a particular use or person. Hence: Belonging peculiarly; peculiar; suitable; fit; proper.	Middle English appropriaten, from Latin appropriatus.
appropriately		In an appropriate or proper manner; fitly; properly.	
appropriateness		The state or quality of being appropriate; peculiar fitness.	
appropriation		The act of setting apart or assigning to a particular use or person, or of taking to one's self, in exclusion of all others; application to a special use or purpose, as of a piece of ground for a park…	
appropriative		Appropriating; making, or tending to, appropriation; as, an appropriative act. -- Ap*pro"pri*a*tive*ness, n.	
appropriator		One who appropriates.	
approvable		Worthy of being approved; meritorious. -- Ap*prov"a*ble*ness, n.	
approval		Approbation; sanction.	
approvance	Archaic	Approval.	Old French aprovance.
approve		To make proof of; to demonstrate; to prove or show practically.	
approvedly		So as to secure approbation; in an approved manner.	
approvement		(Eng. Law) a confession of guilt by a prisoner charged with treason or felony, together with an accusation of his accomplish and a giving evidence against them in order to obtain his own pardon.	
approver		One who approves.	
approving		Expressing approbation; commending; as, an approving smile. -- Ap*prov"ing*ly, adv.	
approximate		Approaching; proximate; nearly resembling.	Latin approximatus.
approximately		With approximation; so as to approximate; nearly.	
approximation		The act of approximating; a drawing, advancing or being near; approach; also, the result of approximating.	
approximative		Approaching; approximate. -- Ap*prox i*ma*tive*ness, n.	
approximator		One who, or that which, approximates.	
appui	Obsolete	A support or supporter; a stay; a prop.	
appulse		A driving or running towards; approach; impulse; also, the act of striking against.	
appulsion		A driving or striking against; an appulse.	
appulsive		Striking against; impinging; as, the appulsive influence of the planets.	
appulsively		By appulsion.	
appurtenance		That which belongs to something else; an adjunct; an appendage; an accessory; something annexed to another thing more worthy; in common parlance and legal acceptation, something belonging to another thing as principal…	Anglo-Norman apurtenance, from Old French apartenance.
appurtenant		Annexed or pertaining to some more important thing; accessory; incident; as, a right of way appurtenant to land or buildings.	
apricate		To bask in the sun.	
aprication		Basking in the sun.	
apricot		A fruit allied to the plum, of an orange color, oval shape, and delicious taste; also, the tree (Prunus Armeniaca of Linnæus) which bears this fruit.	
april		The fourth month of the year.	
apriorism		An a priori principle.	
apriority		The quality of being innate in the mind, or prior to experience; a priori reasoning.	
aprocta		A group of Turbellaria in which there is no anal aperture.	
aproctous		Without an anal office.	
apron		An article of dress, of cloth, leather, or other stuff, worn on the fore part of the body, to keep the clothes clean, to defend them from injury, or as a covering.	
aproned		Wearing an apron.	
apronful		The quality an apron can hold.	
apronless		Without an apron.	
apropos		Opportunely or opportune; seasonably or seasonable.	French à propos.
apse		(Arch.) (a) A projecting part of a building, esp. of a church, having in the plan a polygonal or semicircular termination, and, most often, projecting from the east end.	
apsidal		(Astron.) Of or pertaining to the apsides of an orbit.	
apsides		See Apsis — (Astron.) One of the two points of an orbit, as of a planet or satellite, which are at the greatest and least distance from the central body…	
apsis		(Astron.) One of the two points of an orbit, as of a planet or satellite, which are at the greatest and least distance from the central body, corresponding to the aphelion and perihelion of a planet…	
apt		Fit or fitted; suited; suitable; appropriate.	French apte, from Latin aptus.
aptable	Obsolete	Capable of being adapted.	Latin aptabilis.
aptate	Obsolete	To make fit.	
aptera		Insects without wings, constituting the seventh Linnæn order of insects, an artificial group, which included Crustacea, spiders, centipeds, and even worms.	
apteral		(Arch.) Without lateral columns; -- applied to buildings which have no series of columns along their sides, but are either prostyle or amphiprostyle, and opposed to peripteral.	
apteran		One of the Aptera.	
apteria		Naked spaces between the feathered areas of birds. See Pteryliæ.	
apterous		(Zoöl.) Destitute of wings; apteral; as, apterous insects.	
apteryges		An order of birds, including the genus Apteryx.	
apteryx		A genus of New Zealand birds about the size of a hen, with only short rudiments of wings, armed with a claw and without a tail; the kiwi.	
aptitude		A natural or acquired disposition or capacity for a particular purpose, or tendency to a particular action or effect; as, oil has an aptitude to burn.	Latin aptitudo.
aptitudinal	Obsolete	Suitable; fit.	
aptly		In an apt or suitable manner; fitly; properly; pertinently; appropriately; readily.	
aptness		Fitness; suitableness; appropriateness; as, the aptness of things to their end.	
aptote		A noun which has no distinction of cases; an indeclinable noun.	Latin aptotum.
aptotic		Pertaining to, or characterized by, aptotes; uninflected; as, aptotic languages.	
aptychus		A shelly plate found in the terminal chambers of ammonite shells.	
apus		A genus of fresh-water phyllopod crustaceans. See Phyllopod.	
apyretic		Without fever; -- applied to days when there is an intermission of fever.	
apyrexia		The absence or intermission of fever.	
apyrexial		Relating to apyrexy.	
apyrexy		The absence or intermission of fever.	
apyrous		Incombustible; capable of sustaining a strong heat without alteration of form or properties.	Greek ἄπυρος.
