aqua		Water; -- a word much used in pharmacy and the old chemistry, in various signification, determined by the word or words annexed.	Latin aqua.
aquamarine		A transparent, pale green variety of beryl, used as a gem. See Beryl.	
aquapuncture		The introduction of water subcutaneously for the relief of pain.	
aquarelle		A design or painting in thin transparent water colors; also, the mode of painting in such colors.	French aquarelle, from Italian acquarello.
aquarellist		A painter in thin transparent water colors.	
aquarial		Of or pertaining to an aquarium.	
aquarian		Of or pertaining to an aquarium.	
aquarium		An artificial pond, or a globe or tank (usually with glass sides), in which living specimens of aquatic animals or plants are kept.	Latin aquarium.
aquarius		(a) The Water-bearer; the eleventh sign in the zodiac, which the sun enters about the 20th of January; -- so called from the rains which prevail at that season in Italy and the East.	
aquatic		Pertaining to water growing in water; living in, swimming in, or frequenting the margins of waters; as, aquatic plants and fowls.	Middle French aquatique, from Latin aquaticus.
aquatical		Aquatic.	
aquatile		Inhabiting the water.	
aquatint		A kind of etching in which spaces are bitten by the use of aqua fortis, by which an effect is produced resembling a drawing in water colors or India ink; also, the engraving produced by this method.	
aquatinta		A kind of etching in which spaces are bitten by the use of aqua fortis, by which an effect is produced resembling a drawing in water colors or India ink; also, the engraving produced by this method.	
aqueduct		A conductor, conduit, or artificial channel for conveying water, especially one for supplying large cities with water.	
aqueity	Obsolete	Wateriness.	
aqueous		Partaking of the nature of water, or abounding with it; watery.	Middle French aqueux, from Latin aqueus.
aqueousness		Wateriness.	
aquiferous		Consisting or conveying water or a watery fluid; as, aquiferous vessels; the aquiferous system.	
aquiform		Having the form of water.	
aquila		(Astron.) A northern constellation southerly from Lyra and Cygnus and preceding the Dolphin; the Eagle.	
aquilated		Adorned with eagles' heads.	
aquiline		Curving; hooked; prominent, like the beak of an eagle; -- applied particularly to the nose Terribly arched and aquiline his nose.	Latin aquilinus.
aquilon	Obsolete	The north wind.	
aquiparous		Secreting water; -- applied to certain glands.	
aquitanian		Of or pertaining to Aquitania, now called Gascony.	
aquose		Watery; aqueous.	
aquosity		The condition of being wet or watery; wateriness.	
