ar	Obsolete	Ere; before.	
ara		The Altar; a southern constellation, south of the tail of the Scorpion.	
arab		One of a swarthy race occupying Arabia, and numerous in Syria, Northern Africa, etc. Street Arab, a homeless vagabond in the streets of a city, particularly and outcast boy or girl.	
araba		A wagon or cart, usually heavy and without springs, and often covered.	Russian арба, from Turkish araba.
arabesque		Relating to, or exhibiting, the style of ornament called arabesque; as, arabesque frescoes.	French arabesque, from Italian arabesco.
arabesqued		Ornamented in the style of arabesques.	
arabian		Of or pertaining to Arabia or its inhabitants.	
arabic		Of or pertaining to Arabia or the Arabians.	
arabical		Relating to Arabia; Arabic. -- A*rab"ic*al*ly, adv.	
arabin		(Chem.) A carbohydrate, isomeric with cane sugar, contained in gum arabic, from which it is extracted as a white, amorphous substance.	
arabinose		A sugar of the composition C5H10O5, obtained from cherry gum by boiling it with dilute sulphuric acid.	
arabism		An Arabic idiom peculiarly of language.	
arabist		One well versed in the Arabic language or literature; also, formerly, one who followed the Arabic system of surgery.	
arable		Fit for plowing or tillage; -- hence, often applied to land which has been plowed or tilled.	Old French arable.
araby	Archaic & poetic	The country of Arabia.	
aracanese		Of or pertaining to Aracan, a province of British Burmah. -- n. sing. & pl. A native or natives of Aracan.	
aracari		A South American bird, of the genus Pleroglossius, allied to the toucans.	
arace	Obsolete	To tear up by the roots; to draw away.	
araceous		Of or pertaining to an order of plants, of which the genus Arum is the type.	
arachnid		An arachnidan.	French arachnide, from Greek ἀράχνη.
arachnida		One of the classes of Arthropoda. See Illustration in Appendix.	
arachnidan		One of the Arachnida.	
arachnidial		(a) Of or pertaining to the Arachnida. (b) Pertaining to the arachnidium.	
arachnidium		The glandular organ in which the material for the web of spiders is secreted.	
arachnitis		Inflammation of the arachnoid membrane.	
arachnoid		Resembling a spider's web; cobweblike.	
arachnoidal		Pertaining to the arachnoid membrane; arachnoid.	
arachnoidea		Same as Arachnida.	
arachnological		Of or pertaining to arachnology.	
arachnologist		One who is versed in, or studies, arachnology.	
arachnology		The department of zoölogy which treats of spiders and other Arachnida.	
araeometer		See Areometer — an instrument for measuring the specific gravity of fluids; a form hydrometer.	
araeostyle		See Intercolumniation — the clear space between two columns, measured at the bottom of their shafts.	Latin araeostylos.
araeosystyle		See Intercolumniation — the clear space between two columns, measured at the bottom of their shafts.	
aragonese		Of or pertaining to Aragon, in Spain, or to its inhabitants. -- n. sing. & pl. A native or natives of Aragon, in Spain.	
aragonite		A mineral identical in composition with calcite or carbonate of lime, but differing from it in its crystalline form and some of its physical characters.	
araguato		A South American monkey, the ursine howler (Mycetes ursinus). See Howler, n., 2.	
araise	Obsolete	To raise.	
arak		Same as Arrack.	Arabic عرق.
aramaean		Of or pertaining to the Syrians and Chaldeans, or to their language; Aramaic. -- n.	
aramaic		Pertaining to Aram, or to the territory, inhabitants, language, or literature of Syria and Mesopotamia; Aramæan; -- specifically applied to the northern branch of the Semitic family of languages…	
aramaism		An idiom of the Aramaic.	
aramean		Of or pertaining to the Syrians and Chaldeans, or to their language; Aramaic. -- n.	
araneida		See Araneina — the order of Arachnida that includes the spiders.	
araneidan		Of or pertaining to the Araneina or spiders. -- n.	
araneiform		Having the form of a spider.	
araneina		The order of Arachnida that includes the spiders.	
araneoidea		See Araneina — the order of Arachnida that includes the spiders.	
araneose		Of the aspect of a spider's web; arachnoid.	
araneous		Cobweblike; extremely thin and delicate, like a cobweb; as, the araneous membrane of the eye.	Latin araneosus.
arango		A bead of rough carnelian.	
arapaima		A large fresh-water food fish of South America.	
arara		The palm (or great black) cockatoo, of Australia (Microglossus aterrimus).	
araroba		A fabaceous tree of Brazil (Centrolobium robustum) having handsomely striped wood; --called also zebrawood.	
aration		Plowing; tillage.	
aratory		Contributing to tillage.	
araucaria		A genus of tall conifers of the pine family.	
araucarian		Relating to, or of the nature of, the Araucaria.	
arbalest		A crossbow, consisting of a steel bow set in a shaft of wood, furnished with a string and a trigger, and a mechanical device for bending the bow.	Middle English arblast, from Old French arbaleste, from Latin arcuballista.
arbalester	Obsolete	A crossbowman.	
arbalist		A crossbow, consisting of a steel bow set in a shaft of wood, furnished with a string and a trigger, and a mechanical device for bending the bow.	
arbalister	Obsolete	A crossbowman.	Old French arblastere.
arbiter		A person appointed, or chosen, by parties to determine a controversy between them.	Old French arbitre, from Latin arbiter.
arbitrable	Archaic	Capable of being decided by arbitration; determinable.	
arbitrage		(Com) A traffic in bills of exchange (see Arbitration of Exchange); also, a traffic in stocks which bear differing values at the same time in different markets.	French arbitrage.
arbitral		Of or relating to an arbiter or an arbitration.	French arbitral, from Latin arbitralis.
arbitrament		Determination; decision; arbitration.	
arbitrarily		In an arbitrary manner; by will only; despotically; absolutely.	
arbitrariness		The quality of being arbitrary; despoticalness; tyranny.	
arbitrarious	Obsolete	Arbitrary; despotic. -- Ar`bi*tra"*ri*ous*ly, adv.	
arbitrary		Depending on will or discretion; not governed by any fixed rules; as, an arbitrary decision; an arbitrary punishment.	Middle English arbitrarie.
arbitrate		To hear and decide, as arbitrators; as, to choose to arbitrate a disputed case.	Latin arbitratus.
arbitration		The hearing and determination of a cause between parties in controversy, by a person or persons chosen by the parties.	Middle English arbitracion, from Old French arbitration, from Latin arbitratio.
arbitrator		A person, or one of two or more persons, chosen by parties who have a controversy, to determine their differences.	
arbitratrix		A female who arbitrates or judges.	
arbitress		A female arbiter; an arbitratrix.	
arblast		A crossbow. See Arbalest.	Old French arbaleste, from Latin arcuballista.
arbor		A kind of latticework formed of, or covered with, vines, branches of trees, or other plants, for shade; a bower.	Middle English arbour, from Old French erbier.
arborary		Of or pertaining to trees; arboreal.	Latin arborarius.
arborator	Obsolete	One who plants or who prunes trees.	
arboreal		Attached to, found in or upon, or frequenting, woods or trees; as, arboreal animals.	Latin arbor.
arbored		Furnished with an arbor; lined with trees.	
arboreous		Having the form, constitution, or habits, of a proper tree, in distinction from a shrub.	
arborescence		The state of being arborescent; the resemblance to a tree in minerals, or crystallizations, or groups of crystals in that form; as, the arborescence produced by precipitating silver.	French arborescence.
arborescent		Resembling a tree; becoming woody in stalk; dendritic; having crystallizations disposed like the branches and twigs of a tree.	
arboret	Obsolete	A small tree or shrub.	
arboretum		A place in which a collection of rare trees and shrubs is cultivated for scientific or educational purposes.	Latin arboretum.
arborical	Obsolete	Relating to trees.	
arboricole		Tree-inhabiting; -- said of certain birds.	
arboricultural		Pertaining to arboriculture.	
arboriculture		The cultivation of trees and shrubs, chiefly for timber or for ornamental purposes.	
arboriculturist		One who cultivates trees.	
arboriform		Treelike in shape.	
arborist		One who makes trees his study, or who is versed in the knowledge of trees.	
arborization		The appearance or figure of a tree or plant, as in minerals or fossils; a dendrite.	
arborized		Having a treelike appearance.	
arborous	Obsolete	Formed by trees.	
arbuscle		A dwarf tree, one in size between a shrub and a tree; a treelike shrub.	
arbuscular		Of or pertaining to a dwarf tree; shrublike.	
arbustive		Containing copses of trees or shrubs; covered with shrubs.	Latin arbustivus.
arbute		The strawberry tree, a genus of evergreen shrubs, of the Heath family.	
arbutus		The strawberry tree, a genus of evergreen shrubs, of the Heath family.	
arc		(Geom.) A portion of a curved line; as, the arc of a circle or of an ellipse.	Latin arcus.
arcade		(Arch.) (a) A series of arches with the columns or piers which support them, the spandrels above, and other necessary appurtenances; sometimes open, serving as an entrance or to give light…	French arcade, from Italian arcata, from Latin arcus.
arcaded		Furnished with an arcade.	
arcadia		A mountainous and picturesque district of Greece, in the heart of the Peloponnesus, whose people were distinguished for contentment and rural happiness.	
arcadian		Of or pertaining to Arcadia; pastoral; ideally rural; as, Arcadian simplicity or scenery.	
arcadic		Of or pertaining to Arcadia; pastoral; ideally rural; as, Arcadian simplicity or scenery.	
arcane	Obsolete	Hidden; secret.	Latin arcanus.
arcanum		A secret; a mystery; -- generally used in the plural.	
arcboutant		A flying buttress.	
arch		(Geom.) Any part of a curved line.	
arch-		A prefix signifying chief, as in archbuilder, archfiend.	
archaean		Ancient; pertaining to the earliest period in geological history.	
archaeography		A description of, or a treatise on, antiquity or antiquities.	
archaeolithic		Of or pertaining to the earliest Stone age; -- applied to a prehistoric period preceding the Paleolithic age.	
archaeologian		An archæologist.	
archaeologic		Relating to archæology, or antiquities; as, archæological researches. -- Ar`*chæ*o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.	
archaeological		Relating to archæology, or antiquities; as, archæological researches. -- Ar`*chæ*o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.	
archaeologist		One versed in archæology; an antiquary.	
archaeology		The science or study of antiquities, esp. prehistoric antiquities, such as the remains of buildings or monuments of an early epoch, inscriptions, implements, and other relics, written manuscripts, etc.	Greek ἀρχαιολογία.
archaeopteryx		A fossil bird, of the Jurassic period, remarkable for having a long tapering tail of many vertebræ with feathers along each side, and jaws armed with teeth, with other reptilian characteristics.	
archaeostomatous		Applied to a gastrula when the blastorope does not entirely up.	
archaeozoic		Like or belonging to the earliest forms of animal life.	
archaic		Of or characterized by antiquity or archaism; antiquated; obsolescent.	
archaical		Archaic. -- Ar*cha"ic*al*ly, adv.	
archaism		An ancient, antiquated, or old-fashioned, word, expression, or idiom; a word or form of speech no longer in common use.	
archaist		One who uses archaisms.	
archaistic		Like, or imitative of, anything archaic; pertaining to an archaism.	
archaize		To make appear archaic or antique.	
archangel		A chief angel; one high in the celestial hierarchy.	Latin archangelus, from Greek ἀρχάγγελος.
archangelic		Of or pertaining to archangels; of the nature of, or resembling, an archangel.	
archbishop		A chief bishop; a church dignitary of the first class (often called a metropolitan or primate) who superintends the conduct of the suffragan bishops in his province, and also exercises episcopal authority in his own diocese.	
archbishopric		The jurisdiction or office of an archbishop; the see or province over which archbishop exercises archiepiscopal authority.	
archbutler		A chief butler; -- an officer of the German empire.	
archchamberlain		A chief chamberlain; -- an officer of the old German empire, whose office was similar to that of the great chamberlain in England.	
archchancellor		A chief chancellor; -- an officer in the old German empire, who presided over the secretaries of the court.	
archchemic		Of supreme chemical powers.	
archdeacon		In England, an ecclesiastical dignitary, next in rank below a bishop, whom he assists, and by whom he is appointed, though with independent authority.	
archdeaconry		The district, office, or residence of an archdeacon. See Benefice.	
archdeaconship		The office of an archdeacon.	
archdiocese		The diocese of an archbishop.	
archducal		Of or pertaining to an archduke or archduchy.	
archduchess		The consort of an archduke; also, a princess of the imperial family of Austria.	
archduchy		The territory of an archduke or archduchess.	French archiduché.
archduke		A prince of the imperial family of Austria.	
archdukedom		An archduchy.	
archebiosis		To origination of living matter from non-living. See Abiogenesis.	
arched		Made with an arch or curve; covered with an arch; as, an arched door.	
archegonial		Relating to the archegonium.	
archegonium		The pistillidium or female organ in the higher cryptogamic plants, corresponding to the pistil in flowering plants.	
archegony		Spontaneous generation; abiogenesis.	
archelogy		The science of, or a treatise on, first principles.	
archencephala		The division that includes man alone.	
archenemy		A principal enemy. Specifically, Satan, the grand adversary of mankind.	
archenteric		Relating to the archenteron; as, archenteric invagination.	
archenteron		The primitive enteron or undifferentiated digestive sac of a gastrula or other embryo.	
archeological		Same as Archæology, etc.	
archeology		Same as Archæology, etc.	Middle French archéologie, from Greek ἀρχαιολογία.
archer		A bowman, one skilled in the use of the bow and arrow.	
archeress		A female archer.	
archership		The art or skill of an archer.	
archery		The use of the bow and arrows in battle, hunting, etc.; the art, practice, or skill of shooting with a bow and arrows.	Old French archerie.
arches		pl. of Arch, n.	
archetypal		Of or pertaining to an archetype; consisting a model (real or ideal) or pattern; original.	
archetypally		With reference to the archetype; originally.	
archetype		The original pattern or model of a work; or the model from which a thing is made or formed.	Old French architipe, from Latin archetypum.
archetypical		Relating to an archetype; archetypal.	
archeus	Obsolete	The vital principle or force which (according to the Paracelsians) presides over the growth and continuation of living beings; the anima mundi or plastic power of the old philosophers.	
archi-		A prefix signifying chief, arch; as, architect, archiepiscopal.	
archiannelida		A group of Annelida remarkable for having no external segments or distinct ventral nerve ganglions.	
archiater		Chief physician; -- a term applied, on the continent of Europe, to the first or body physician of princes and to the first physician of some cities.	
archiblastula		A hollow blastula, supposed to be the primitive form; a c	
archical	Obsolete	Chief; primary; primordial.	
archidiaconal		Of or pertaining to an archdeacon.	Latin archidiaconus.
archiepiscopacy		That form of episcopacy in which the chief power is in the hands of archbishops.	
archiepiscopal		Of or pertaining to an archbishop; as, Canterbury is an archiepiscopal see.	
archiepiscopality		The station or dignity of an archbishop; archiepiscopacy.	
archiepiscopate		The office of an archbishop; an archbishopric.	
archierey		The higher order of clergy in Russia, including metropolitans, archbishops, and bishops.	
archil		A violet dye obtained from several species of lichen (Roccella tinctoria, etc.), which grow on maritime rocks in the Canary and Cape Verd Islands, etc. Tomlinson.	
archilochian		Of or pertaining to the satiric Greek poet Archilochus; as, Archilochian meter.	
archilute		A large theorbo, or double-necked lute, formerly in use, having the bass strings doubled with an octave, and the higher strings with a unison.	
archimage		The high priest of the Persian Magi, or worshipers of fire.	
archimagus		The high priest of the Persian Magi, or worshipers of fire.	
archimandrite		(a) A chief of a monastery, corresponding to abbot in the Roman Catholic church.	Latin archimandrita, from Greek ἀρχιμανδρίτης.
archimedean		Of or pertaining to Archimedes, a celebrated Greek philosopher; constructed on the principle of Archimedes' screw; as, Archimedean drill, propeller, etc. Archimedean screw, or Archimedes' screw, an instrument…	
archimedes		An extinct genus of Bryzoa characteristic of the subcarboniferous rocks.	
arching		The arched part of a structure.	
archipelagic		Of or pertaining to an archipelago.	
archipelago		The Grecian Archipelago, or Ægean Sea, separating Greece from Asia Minor.	Italian arcipelago.
archipterygium		The primitive form of fin, like that of Ceratodus.	
architect		A person skilled in the art of building; one who understands architecture, or makes it his occupation to form plans and designs of buildings, and to superintend the artificers employed.	French architecte, from Greek ἀρχιτέκτων.
architective		Used in building; proper for building.	
architectonic		Pertaining to a master builder, or to architecture; evincing skill in designing or construction; constructive.	
architectonical		Pertaining to a master builder, or to architecture; evincing skill in designing or construction; constructive.	
architectonics		The science of architecture.	
architector	Obsolete	An architect.	
architectress		A female architect.	
architectural		Of or pertaining to the art of building; conformed to the rules of architecture. -- Ar`chi*tec"tur*al*ly, adv.	
architecture		The art or science of building; especially, the art of building houses, churches, bridges, and other structures, for the purposes of civil life; -- often called civil architecture.	
architeuthis		A genus of gigantic cephalopods, allied to the squids, found esp. in the North Atlantic and about New Zealand.	
architrave		(a) The lower division of an entablature, or that part which rests immediately on the column, esp. in classical architecture.	
architraved		Furnished with an architrave.	
archival		Pertaining to, or contained in, archives or records.	
archive		pl. The place in which public records or historic documents are kept.	French archives.
archivist		A keeper of archives or records.	
archivolt		(a) The architectural member surrounding the curved opening of an arch, corresponding to the architrave in the case of a square opening.	
archlute		A large theorbo, or double-necked lute, formerly in use, having the bass strings doubled with an octave, and the higher strings with a unison.	
archly		In an arch manner; with attractive slyness or roguishness; slyly; waggishly.	
archmarshal		The grand marshal of the old German empire, a dignity that to the Elector of Saxony.	
archness		The quality of being arch; cleverness; sly humor free from malice; waggishness.	
archon		One of the chief magistrates in ancient Athens, especially, by preëminence, the first of the nine chief magistrates. -- Ar*chon"tic, a.	Greek ἄρχων.
archonship		The office of an archon.	
archontate		An archon's term of office.	
archonts		The group including man alone.	
archoplasm		The substance from which attraction spheres develop in mitotic cell division, and of which they consist.	
archprelate		An archbishop or other chief prelate.	
archpresbyter		Same as Archpriest.	
archpresbytery		The absolute dominion of presbytery.	
archpriest		A chief priest; also, a kind of vicar, or a rural dean.	
archprimate		The chief primate.	
archtraitor		A chief or transcendent traitor.	
archtreasurer		A chief treasurer. Specifically, the great treasurer of the German empire.	
archway		A way or passage under an arch.	
archwife	Obsolete	A big, masculine wife.	
archwise		Arch-shaped.	
archy		Arched; as, archy brows.	
arciform		Having the form of an arch; curved.	
arcograph		An instrument for drawing a circular arc without the use of a central point; a cyclograph.	
arctation		Constriction or contraction of some natural passage, as in constipation from inflammation.	
arctic		Pertaining to, or situated under, the northern constellation called the Bear; northern; frigid; as, the arctic pole, circle, region, ocean; an arctic expedition, night, temperature.	French artique, from Greek ἀρκτικός.
arctisca		A group of Arachnida. See Illust. in Appendix.	
arctogeal		Of or pertaining to arctic lands; as, the arctogeal fauna.	
arctoidea		A group of the Carnivora, that includes the bears, weasels, etc.	
arcturus		A fixed star of the first magnitude in the constellation Boötes.	
arcual		Of or pertaining to an arc.	
arcuate		Bent or curved in the form of a bow.	
arcuated		Bent or curved in the form of a bow.	
arcuately		In the form of a bow.	
arcuation		The act of bending or curving; incurvation; the state of being bent; crookedness.	Latin arcuatio.
arcubalist		A crossbow.	
arcubalister		A crossbowman; one who used the arcubalist.	Latin arcuballistarius.
arcubus	Obsolete	See Arquebus — a sort of hand gun or firearm a contrivance answering to a trigger, by which the burning match was applied.	
ardassine		A very fine sort of Persian silk.	
ardency		Warmth of passion or affection; ardor; vehemence; eagerness; as, the ardency of love or zeal.	
ardent		Hot or burning; causing a sensation of burning; fiery; as, ardent spirits, that is, distilled liquors; an ardent fever.	
ardently		In an ardent manner; eagerly; with warmth; affectionately; passionately.	
ardentness		Ardency.	
ardor		Heat, in a literal sense; as, the ardor of the sun's rays.	Anglo-Norman ardour, from Latin ardor.
arduous		Steep and lofty, in a literal sense; hard to climb.	Latin arduus.
arduously		In an arduous manner; with difficulty or laboriousness.	
arduousness		The quality of being arduous; difficulty of execution.	
ardurous		Burning; ardent.	
are		The present indicative plural of the substantive verb to be; but etymologically a different word from be, or was.	Middle English aren, from Old English earun.
area		Any plane surface, as of the floor of a room or church, or of the ground within an inclosure; an open space in a building.	Latin area.
aread		To counsel, advise, warn, or direct.	Old English aredan.
areal		Of or pertaining to an area; as, areal interstices (the areas or spaces inclosed by the reticulate vessels of leaves).	
arear	Obsolete	To raise; to set up; to stir up.	
areca		A genus of palms, one species of which produces the areca nut, or betel nut, which is chewed in India with the leaf of the Piper Betle and lime.	
arecolin		An oily liquid substance, C8H13O2N, the chief alkaloid of the betel nut, to which the latter owes its anthelmintic action.	
arecoline		An oily liquid substance, C8H13O2N, the chief alkaloid of the betel nut, to which the latter owes its anthelmintic action.	
areed		To counsel, advise, warn, or direct.	
areek		In a reeking condition.	
arefaction		The act of drying, or the state of growing dry.	Latin arefacere.
arefy		To dry, or make dry.	
arena		Any place of public contest or exertion; any sphere of action; as, the arenaof debate; the arena of life.	Latin arena.
arenaceous		Sandy or consisting largely of sand; of the nature of sand; easily disintegrating into sand; friable; as, arenaceous limestone.	Latin arenaceus.
arenarious		Sandy; as, arenarious soil.	Latin arenarius.
arenation		A sand bath; application of hot sand to the body.	
arendator		In some provinces of Russia, one who farms the rents or revenues.	Latin arendator.
areng		A palm tree (Saguerus saccharifer) which furnishes sago, wine, and fibers for ropes; the gomuti palm.	
arenga		A palm tree (Saguerus saccharifer) which furnishes sago, wine, and fibers for ropes; the gomuti palm.	
arenicolite		An ancient wormhole in sand, preserved in the rocks.	
arenilitic		Of or pertaining to sandstone; as, arenilitic mountains.	
arenose		Sandy; full of sand.	Latin arenosus.
arenulous	Obsolete	Full of fine sand; like sand.	
areola		An interstice or small space, as between the cracks of the surface in certain crustaceous lichens; or as between the fibers composing organs or vessels that interlace; or as between the nervures of an insect's wing.	Latin areola.
areolar		Pertaining to, or like, an areola; filled with interstices or areolæ. reolar tissue (Anat.), a form of fibrous connective tissue in which the fibers are loosely arranged with numerous spaces, or areolæ, between them.	
areolate		Divided into small spaces or areolations, as the wings of insects, the leaves of plants, or the receptacle of compound flowers.	
areolated		Divided into small spaces or areolations, as the wings of insects, the leaves of plants, or the receptacle of compound flowers.	
areolation		Division into areolæ.	
areole		Same as Areola.	
areolet		A small inclosed area; esp. one of the small spaces on the wings of insects, circumscribed by the veins.	
areometer		An instrument for measuring the specific gravity of fluids; a form hydrometer.	
areometric		Pertaining to, or measured by, an areometer.	
areometrical		Pertaining to, or measured by, an areometer.	
areometry		The art or process of measuring the specific gravity of fluids.	
areopagist		See Areopagite — a member of the Areopagus.	
areopagite		A member of the Areopagus.	
areopagitic		Pertaining to the Areopagus.	
areopagus		The highest judicial court at Athens.	
areostyle		See Intercolumniation, and Aræostyle.	
areosystyle		See Intercolumniation, and Aræosystyle.	
arere	Obsolete	See Arear — to raise; to set up; to stir up.	
arest	Obsolete	A support for the spear when couched for the attack.	
aret	Obsolete	To reckon; to ascribe; to impute.	Old French areter.
aretaics		The ethical theory which excludes all relations between virtue and happiness; the science of virtue; -- contrasted with eudemonics.	
arete		An acute and rugged crest of a mountain range or a subsidiary ridge between two mountain gorges.	Greek ἀρετή.
aretology		That part of moral philosophy which treats of virtue, its nature, and the means of attaining to it.	
arew	Obsolete	In a row.	
argal		Crude tartar. See Argol.	
argala		The adjutant bird.	
argali		A species of wild sheep (Ovis ammon, or O. argali), remarkable for its large horns.	
argas		A genus of venomous ticks which attack men and animals.	
argean		Pertaining to the ship Argo. See Argo.	
argent		(Fig. & Poet.) Whiteness; anything that is white.	Old French argent, from Latin argentum.
argental		Of or pertaining to silver; resembling, containing, or combined with, silver.	
argentalium		A (patented) alloy of aluminium and silver, with a density of about 2.9.	
argentamin		A solution of silver phosphate in an aqueous solution of ethylene diamine, used as an antiseptic astringent and as a disinfectant.	
argentamine		A solution of silver phosphate in an aqueous solution of ethylene diamine, used as an antiseptic astringent and as a disinfectant.	
argentan		An alloy of nicked with copper and zinc; German silver.	
argentate		Silvery white.	Latin argentatus.
argentation		A coating or overlaying with silver.	
argentic		Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, silver; -- said of certain compounds of silver in which this metal has its lowest proportion; as, argentic chloride.	
argentiferous		Producing or containing silver; as, argentiferous lead ore or veins.	
argentine		Pertaining to, or resembling, silver; made of, or sounding like, silver; silvery.	Old French argentin, from Latin argentum.
argentite		Sulphide of silver; -- also called vitreous silver, or silver glance.	
argentous		Of, pertaining to, or containing, silver; -- said of certain silver compounds in which silver has a higher proportion than in argentic compounds; as, argentous chloride.	
argentry	Obsolete	Silver plate or vessels.	French argenterie.
argil		Clay, or potter's earth; sometimes pure clay, or alumina. See Clay.	
argillaceous		Of the nature of clay; consisting of, or containing, argil or clay; clayey.	
argilliferous		Producing clay; -- applied to such earths as abound with argil.	
argillite		Argillaceous schist or slate; clay slate.	
argillo-areenaceous		Consisting of, or containing, clay and sand, as a soil.	
argillo-calcareous		Consisting of, or containing, clay and calcareous earth.	
argillo-ferruginous		Containing clay and iron.	
argillous		Argillaceous; clayey.	Latin argillosus.
argive		Of or performance to Argos, the capital of Argolis in Greece. -- n.	
argo		(Myth.) The name of the ship which carried Jason and his fifty-four companions to Colchis, in quest of the Golden Fleece.	
argoan		Pertaining to the ship Argo.	
argoile	Obsolete	Potter's clay.	
argol		Crude tartar; an acidulous salt from which cream of tartar is prepared.	
argolic		Pertaining to Argolis, a district in the Peloponnesus.	
argon		A substance regarded as an element, contained in the atmosphere and remarkable for its chemical inertness.	Greek ἀργόν.
argonaut		Any one of the legendary Greek heroes who sailed with Jason, in the Argo, in quest of the Golden Fleece.	
argonauta		A genus of Cephalopoda.	
argonautic		Of or pertaining to the Argonauts.	
argosy		A large ship, esp. a merchant vessel of the largest size.	
argot		A secret language or conventional slang peculiar to thieves, tramps, and vagabonds; flash.	French argot.
arguable		Capable of being argued; admitting of debate.	
argue		To invent and offer reasons to support or overthrow a proposition, opinion, or measure; to use arguments; to reason.	Old French arguer, from Latin arguere.
arguer		One who argues; a reasoner; a disputant.	
argufy	Colloquial	To argue pertinaciously.	
argulus		A genus of copepod Crustacea, parasitic of fishes; a fish louse. See Branchiura.	
argument		A reason or reasons offered in proof, to induce belief, or convince the mind; reasoning expressed in words; as, an argument about, concerning, or regarding a proposition, for or in favor of it, or against it.	
argumentable		Admitting of argument.	Latin argumentabilis.
argumental		Of, pertaining to, or containing, argument; argumentative.	
argumentation		The act of forming reasons, making inductions, drawing conclusions, and applying them to the case in discussion; the operation of inferring propositions, not known or admitted as true, from facts or principles known, admitted…	
argumentative		Consisting of, or characterized by, argument; containing a process of reasoning; as, an argumentative discourse.	
argumentize	Obsolete	To argue or discuss.	
argus		(Myth.) A fabulous being of antiquity, said to have had a hundred eyes, who has placed by Juno to guard Io.	
argus-eyed		Extremely observant; watchful; sharp-sighted.	
argutation	Obsolete	Caviling; subtle disputation.	Latin argutatio.
argute		Sagacious; acute; subtle; shrewd.	Latin argutus.
argutely		In a subtle; shrewdly.	
arguteness		Acuteness.	
arhizal		See Arrhizal, Arrhizous, Arrhythmic, Arrhythmous.	
arhizous		See Arrhizal, Arrhizous, Arrhythmic, Arrhythmous.	
arhythmic		See Arrhizal, Arrhizous, Arrhythmic, Arrhythmous.	
arhythmous		See Arrhizal, Arrhizous, Arrhythmic, Arrhythmous.	
aria		An air or song; a melody; a tune.	Italian aria, from Latin aer, from Greek ἀήρ.
arian		See Aryan — one of a primitive people supposed to have lived in prehistoric times, in Central Asia, east of the Caspian Sea, and north of the Hindoo	
arianism		The doctrines of the Arians.	
arianize		To admit or accept the tenets of the Arians; to become an Arian.	
aricine		An alkaloid, first found in white cinchona bark.	
arid		Exhausted of moisture; parched with heat; dry; barren.	
aridity		The state or quality of being arid or without moisture; dryness.	French aridité.
aridness		Aridity; dryness.	
ariel		A variety of the gazelle (Antilope, or Gazella, dorcas), found in Arabia and adjacent countries.	
aries		(Astron.) (a) The Ram; the first of the twelve signs in the zodiac, which the sun enters at the vernal equinox, about the 21st of March.	
arietate	Obsolete	To butt, as a ram.	
arietation	Obsolete	The act of butting like a ram; act of using a battering-ram.	Latin arietatio.
arietta		A short aria, or air.	Italian breeze.
ariette		A short aria, or air.	French ariette, from Italian arietta.
aright		Rightly; correctly; in a right way or form; without mistake or crime; as, to worship God aright.	Middle English arighten.
aril		A exterior covering, forming a false coat or appendage to a seed, as the loose, transparent bag inclosing the seed or the white water lily.	
ariled		Having an aril.	
arillate		Having an aril.	
arillated		Having an aril.	
arillode		A false aril; an aril originating from the micropyle instead of from the funicle or chalaza of the ovule.	
arillus		A exterior covering, forming a false coat or appendage to a seed, as the loose, transparent bag inclosing the seed or the white water lily.	
ariman		See Ahriman — the evil Principle or Being of the ancient Persians; the Prince of Darkness as opposer to Ormuzd, the King of Light.	
ariolation	Obsolete	A soothsaying; a foretelling.	
ariose		Characterized by melody, as distinguished from harmony.	Italian arioso.
arioso		In the smooth and melodious style of an air; ariose.	
arise		To come up from a lower to a higher position; to come above the horizon; to come up from one's bed or place of repose; to mount; to ascend; to rise; as, to arise from a kneeling posture; a cloud arose; the sun ariseth…	Middle English arisen, from Old English arisan.
arist	Obsolete	of Arise, for ariseth.	
aristarch		A severe critic.	
aristarchian		Severely critical.	
aristarchy	Obsolete	Severely criticism.	
aristate		(Bot.) Having a pointed, beardlike process, as the glumes of wheat; awned.	
aristocracy		Government by the best citizens.	Old French aristocracie.
aristocrat		One of the aristocracy or people of rank in a community; one of a ruling class; a noble.	French aristocrate.
aristocratic		Of or pertaining to an aristocracy; consisting in, or favoring, a government of nobles, or principal men; as, an aristocratic constitution.	French aristocratique, from Greek ἀριστοκρατικός.
aristocratical		Of or pertaining to an aristocracy; consisting in, or favoring, a government of nobles, or principal men; as, an aristocratic constitution.	
aristocratism		Aristocrats, collectively.	
aristology		The science of dining.	
aristophanic		Of or pertaining to Aristophanes, the Athenian comic poet.	
aristotelian		Of or pertaining to Aristotle, the famous Greek philosopher (384-322 b. c.). -- n.	
aristotelianism		The philosophy of Aristotle, otherwise called the Peripatetic philosophy.	
aristotelic		Pertaining to Aristotle or to his philosophy.	
aristotype		Orig., a printing-out process using paper coated with silver chloride in gelatin; now, any such process using silver salts in either collodion or gelatin; also, a print so made.	
aristulate		Pertaining a short beard or awn.	
arithmancy		Divination by means of numbers.	
arithmetic		The science of numbers; the art of computation by figures.	Middle English arsmetike, from Old French arismetique, from Latin arithmetica.
arithmetical		Of or pertaining to arithmetic; according to the rules or method of arithmetic.	
arithmetically		Conformably to the principles or methods of arithmetic.	
arithmetician		One skilled in arithmetic.	
arithmomancy		Arithmancy.	
arithmometer		A calculating machine.	
ark		(Jewish Hist.) The oblong chest of acacia wood, overlaid with gold, which supported the mercy seat with its golden cherubs, and occupied the most sacred place in the sanctuary.	Old English ærc, from Latin arca.
arkite		Belonging to the ark.	
arkose		A sandstone derived from the disintegration of granite or gneiss, and characterized by feldspar fragments. -- Ar*kos"ic (#), a.	
arles	Scots	An earnest; earnest money; money paid to bind a bargain.	
arm		The limb of the human body which extends from the shoulder to the hand; also, the corresponding limb of a monkey.	Middle English arm, from Old English earm.
arm-gret	Obsolete	Great as a man's arm.	
armada		A fleet of armed ships; a squadron. Specifically, the Spanish fleet which was sent to assail England, a. d. 1558.	
armadillo		(a) Any edentate animal if the family Dasypidæ, peculiar to America.	
armament		A body of forces equipped for war; -- used of a land or naval force.	Latin armamenta.
armamentary		An armory; a magazine or arsenal.	Latin armamentarium.
armature		Armor; whatever is worn or used for the protection and defense of the body, esp. the protective outfit of some animals and plants.	Middle French armature, from Latin armatura.
armchair		A chair with arms to support the elbows or forearms.	
armed		Furnished with weapons of offense or defense; furnished with the means of security or protection.	
armenian		A native or one of the people of Armenia; also, the language of the Armenians.	
armet		A kind of helmet worn in the 14th, 15th, and 16th centuries.	
armful		As much as the arm can hold.	
armgaunt		With gaunt or slender legs.	
armhole		The cavity under the shoulder; the armpit.	
armiferous		Bearing arms or weapons.	
armiger		Formerly, an armor bearer, as of a knight, an esquire who bore his shield and rendered other services.	Latin armiger.
armigerous		Bearing arms.	
armil		An ancient astronomical instrument.	
armilla		(Zoöl.) A ring of hair or feathers on the legs.	
armillary		Pertaining to, or resembling, a bracelet or ring; consisting of rings or circles.	
arming		The act of furnishing with, or taking, arms.	
arminian		Of or pertaining to Arminius of his followers, or to their doctrines. See note under Arminian, n.	
arminianism		The religious doctrines or tenets of the Arminians.	
armipotence		Power in arms.	Latin armipotentia.
armipotent		Powerful in arms; mighty in battle.	Latin armipotens.
armisonant	Obsolete	Rustling in arms; resounding with arms.	
armisonous	Obsolete	Rustling in arms; resounding with arms.	
armistice		A cessation of arms for a short time, by convention; a temporary suspension of hostilities by agreement; a truce.	French armistice.
armless		Without any arm or branch.	
armlet		A small arm; as, an armlet of the sea.	
armoniac	Obsolete	Ammoniac.	
armor		Defensive arms for the body; any clothing or covering worn to protect one's person in battle.	Middle English armour, from Anglo-Norman armure, from Old French armure, from Latin armatura.
armor-bearer		One who carries the armor or arms of another; an armiger.	
armor-plated		Covered with defensive plates of metal, as a ship of war; steel-clad.	
armored		Clad with armor.	
armorer		One who makes or repairs armor or arms.	Middle English armurer, from Old French armurier.
armorial		Belonging to armor, or to the heraldic arms or escutcheon of a family.	
armoric		Of or pertaining to the northwestern part of France (formerly called Armorica, now Bretagne or Brittany), or to its people. -- n.	
armorican		Of or pertaining to the northwestern part of France (formerly called Armorica, now Bretagne or Brittany), or to its people. -- n.	
armorist		One skilled in coat armor or heraldry.	
armory		A place where arms and instruments of war are deposited for safe keeping.	
armozeen		A thick plain silk, generally black, and used for clerical.	French armoisin.
armozine		A thick plain silk, generally black, and used for clerical.	
armpit		The hollow beneath the junction of the arm and shoulder; the axilla.	
armrack		A frame, generally vertical, for holding small arms.	
arms		The deeds or exploits of war; military service or science.	
armure		A variety of twilled fabric ribbed on the surface.	Anglo-Norman armure, from Old French armure, from Latin armatura.
army		A collection or body of men armed for war, esp. one organized in companies, battalions, regiments, brigades, and divisions, under proper officers.	
arna		The wild buffalo of India (Bos, or Bubalus, arni), larger than the domestic buffalo and having enormous horns.	
arnaout		An inhabitant of Albania and neighboring mountainous regions, specif. one serving as a soldier in the Turkish army.	
arnatto		See Annotto — a red or yellowish-red dyeing material, prepared from the pulp surrounding the seeds of a tree (Bixa orellana) belonging to the tropical regions of America.	
arnaut		An inhabitant of Albania and neighboring mountainous regions, specif. one serving as a soldier in the Turkish army.	
arnee		The wild buffalo of India (Bos, or Bubalus, arni), larger than the domestic buffalo and having enormous horns.	
arnica		A genus of plants; also, the most important species (Arnica montana), native of the mountains of Europe, used in medicine as a narcotic and stimulant.	Latin Arnica.
arnicin		An active principle of Arnica montana.	
arnicine		An alkaloid obtained from the arnica plant.	
arnot	Obsolete	The earthnut.	
arnotto		A red or yellowish-red dyeing material, prepared from the pulp surrounding the seeds of a tree (Bixa orellana) belonging to the tropical regions of America.	
arnut	Obsolete	The earthnut.	
aroid		Belonging to, or resembling, the Arum family of plants.	
aroideous		Belonging to, or resembling, the Arum family of plants.	
aroint	Obsolete	Stand off, or begone.	
arolla		The stone pine (Pinus Cembra).	
aroma		The quality or principle of plants or other substances which constitutes their fragrance; agreeable odor; as, the aroma of coffee.	
aromatic		Pertaining to, or containing, aroma; fragrant; spicy; strong- scented; odoriferous; as, aromatic balsam.	Middle French aromatique.
aromatical		Pertaining to, or containing, aroma; fragrant; spicy; strong- scented; odoriferous; as, aromatic balsam.	
aromatization		The act of impregnating or secting with aroma.	
aromatize		To impregnate with aroma; to render aromatic; to give a spicy scent or taste to; to perfume.	
aromatizer		One who, or that which, aromatizes or renders aromatic.	
aromatous	Obsolete	Aromatic.	
aroph	Obsolete	A barbarous word used by the old chemists to designate various medical remedies.	
arose		The past or preterit tense of Arise.	
around		In a circle; circularly; on every side; round.	Middle English around.
arousal		The act of arousing, or the state of being aroused.	
arouse		To excite to action from a state of rest; to stir, or put in motion or exertion; to rouse; to excite; as, to arouse one from sleep; to arouse the dormant faculties.	
arow		In a row, line, or rank; successively; in order.	
aroynt		See Aroint — stand off, or begone.	
arpeggio		The production of the tones of a chord in rapid succession, as in playing the harp, and not simultaneously; a strain thus played.	
arpen		Formerly, a measure of land in France, varying in different parts of the country.	
arpent		Formerly, a measure of land in France, varying in different parts of the country.	
arpentator		The Anglicized form of the French arpenteur, a land surveyor.	
arpine	Obsolete	An arpent.	
arquated		Shaped like a bow; arcuate; curved.	
arquebus		A sort of hand gun or firearm a contrivance answering to a trigger, by which the burning match was applied.	
arquebusade		A distilled water from a variety of aromatic plants, as rosemary, millefoil, etc.; -- originally used as a vulnerary in gunshot wounds.	
arquebuse		A sort of hand gun or firearm a contrivance answering to a trigger, by which the burning match was applied.	
arquebusier		A soldier armed with an arquebus.	
arquifoux		Same as Alquifou.	
arrach		See Orach — a genus (Atriplex) of herbs or low shrubs of the Goosefoot family, most of them with a mealy surface.	
arrack		A name in the East Indies and the Indian islands for all ardent spirits.	Arabic عرق.
arragonite		See Aragonite — a mineral identical in composition with calcite or carbonate of lime, but differing from it in its crystalline form and some of its physical characters.	
arraign		(Law) To call or set as a prisoner at the bar of a court to answer to the matter charged in an indictment or complaint.	French arraisonner.
arraigner		One who arraigns.	
arraignment		(Law) The act of arraigning, or the state of being arraigned; the act of calling and setting a prisoner before a court to answer to an indictment or complaint.	
arraiment	Obsolete	Clothes; raiment.	
arrange		To put in proper order; to dispose (persons, or parts) in the manner intended, or best suited for the purpose; as, troops arranged for battle.	Middle English arengen.
arrangement		The act of arranging or putting in an orderly condition; the state of being arranged or put in order; disposition in suitable form.	French arrangement.
arranger		One who arranges.	
arrant		Notoriously or preëminently bad; thorough or downright, in a bad sense; shameless; unmitigated; as, an arrant rogue or coward.	
arrantly		Notoriously, in an ill sense; infamously; impudently; shamefully.	
arras		Tapestry; a rich figured fabric; especially, a screen or hangings of heavy cloth with interwoven figures.	
arrasene		A material of wool or silk used for working the figures in embroidery.	
arrastre		A rude apparatus for pulverizing ores, esp. those containing free gold.	
arrasways		Placed in such a position as to exhibit the top and two sides, the corner being in front; -- said of a rectangular form.	
arraswise		Placed in such a position as to exhibit the top and two sides, the corner being in front; -- said of a rectangular form.	
arraught		Obtained; seized.	
array		Order; a regular and imposing arrangement; disposition in regular lines; hence, order of battle; as, drawn up in battle array.	Middle English arrayen, from Anglo-Norman arayer, from Latin arredo.
arrayer		One who arrays.	
arrayment	Obsolete	Clothes; raiment.	
arrear	Obsolete	To or in the rear; behind; backwards.	Old French arere.
arrearage		That which remains unpaid and overdue, after payment of a part; arrears.	Old French arierage.
arrect		Lifted up; raised; erect.	
arrectary	Obsolete	An upright beam.	
arrected		Lifted up; raised; erect.	
arrenotokous		Producing males from unfertilized eggs, as certain wasps and bees.	
arrentation		A letting or renting, esp. a license to inclose land in a forest with a low hedge and a ditch, under a yearly rent.	
arreption	Obsolete	The act of taking away.	Latin arripere.
arreptitious	Obsolete	Snatched away; seized or possessed, as a demoniac; raving; mad; crack-brained.	
arrest		To stop; to check or hinder the motion or action of; as, to arrest the current of a river; to arrest the senses.	Old French arester, from Latin arresto.
arrestee		The person in whose hands is the property attached by arrestment.	
arrester		One who arrests.	
arresting		Striking; attracting attention; impressive.	
arrestive		Tending to arrest.	
arrestment		(Scots Law) The arrest of a person, or the seizure of his effects; esp., a process by which money or movables in the possession of a third party are attached.	
arret	Obsolete	(a) A judgment, decision, or decree of a court or high tribunal; also, a decree of a sovereign.	
arrha		Money or other valuable thing given to evidence a contract; a pledge or earnest.	
arrhaphostic		Seamless.	
arrhizal		Destitute of a true root, as a parasitical plant.	
arrhizous		Destitute of a true root, as a parasitical plant.	
arrhythmic		Being without rhythm or regularity, as the pulse.	
arrhythmous		Being without rhythm or regularity, as the pulse.	
arrhytmy		Want of rhythm.	
arride	Archaic	To please; to gratify.	
arriere		; the rear; -- chiefly used as an adjective in the sense of behind, rear, subordinate.	French arrière.
arriere-ban		A proclamation, as of the French kings, calling not only their immediate feudatories, but the vassals of these feudatories, to take the field for war; also, the body of vassals called or liable to be called to arms…	
arris		The sharp edge or salient angle formed by two surfaces meeting each other, whether plane or curved; -- applied particularly to the edges in moldings, and to the raised edges which separate the flutings in a Doric column.	Old French areste, from Latin arista.
arrish		The stubble of wheat or grass; a stubble field; eddish.	
arriswise		Diagonally laid, as tiles; ridgewise.	
arrival		The act of arriving, or coming; the act of reaching a place from a distance, whether by water (as in its original sense) or by land.	
arrivance	Obsolete	Arrival.	
arrive		To come to the shore or bank.	Old French ariver.
arriver		One who arrives.	
arroba		A Spanish weight used in Mexico and South America = 25.36 lbs. avoir.; also, an old Portuguese weight, used in Brazil = 32.38 lbs. avoir.	
arrogance		The act or habit of arrogating, or making undue claims in an overbearing manner; that species of pride which consists in exorbitant claims of rank, dignity, estimation, or power…	
arrogancy		Arrogance.	Latin arrogantia.
arrogant		Making, or having the disposition to make, exorbitant claims of rank or estimation; giving one's self an undue degree of importance; assuming; haughty; -- applied to persons.	Old French arrogant, from Latin arrogans.
arrogantly		In an arrogant manner; with undue pride or self-importance.	
arrogantness		Arrogance.	
arrogate		To assume, or claim as one's own, unduly, proudly, or presumptuously; to make undue claims to, from vanity or baseless pretensions to right or merit; as, the pope arrogated dominion over kings.	Latin arrogatus.
arrogation		The act of arrogating, or making exorbitant claims; the act of taking more than one is justly entitled to.	
arrogative		Making undue claims and pretension; prone to arrogance.	
arrondissement		A subdivision of a department.	French arrondissement.
arrose	Obsolete	To drench; to besprinkle; to moisten.	French arroser.
arrosion	Obsolete	A gnawing.	Latin arrodere.
arrow		A missile weapon of offense, slender, pointed, and usually feathered and barbed, to be shot from a bow.	Old English earh.
arrowhead		(Bot.) An aquatic plant of the genus Sagittaria, esp. S. sagittifolia, -- named from the shape of the leaves.	
arrowheaded		Shaped like the head of an arow; cuneiform.	
arrowroot		(Bot.) A west Indian plant of the genus Maranta, esp. M. arundinacea, now cultivated in many hot countries.	
arrowwood		A shrub (Viburnum dentatum) growing in damp woods and thickets; -- so called from the long, straight, slender shoots.	
arrowworm		A peculiar transparent worm of the genus Sagitta, living at the surface of the sea.	
arrowy		Formed or moving like, or in any respect resembling, an arrow; swift; darting; piercing.	
arroyo		A water course; a rivulet.	Spanish arroyo.
arschin		See Arshine — a russian measure of length = 2 ft. 4.246 inches.	
arse		The buttocks, or hind part of an animal; the posteriors; the fundament; the bottom.	Old English ærs.
arsenal		A public establishment for the storage, or for the manufacture and storage, of arms and all military equipments, whether for land or naval service.	Italian arzenale.
arsenate		A salt of arsenic acid.	
arseniate		See Arsenate — a salt of arsenic acid.	
arsenic		(Chem.) One of the elements, a solid substance resembling a metal in its physical properties, but in its chemical relations ranking with the nonmetals.	Middle English arsenik, from Middle French arsenic, from Latin arsenicum, from Greek ἀρσενικόν.
arsenical		Of or pertaining to, or containing, arsenic; as, arsenical vapor; arsenical wall papers.	
arsenicate		To combine with arsenic; to treat or impregnate with arsenic.	
arsenicism		A diseased condition produced by slow poisoning with arsenic.	
arsenide		A compound of arsenic with a metal, or positive element or radical; -- formerly called arseniuret.	
arseniferous		Containing or producing arsenic.	
arsenious		Pertaining to, consisting of, or containing, arsenic; as, arsenious powder or glass.	
arsenite		A salt formed by the union of arsenious acid with a base.	
arseniuret		See Arsenide — a compound of arsenic with a metal, or positive element or radical; -- formerly called arseniuret.	
arseniureted		Combined with arsenic; -- said some elementary substances or radicals; as, arseniureted hydrogen.	
arsenopyrite		A mineral of a tin-white color and metallic luster, containing arsenic, sulphur, and iron; -- also called arsenical pyrites and mispickel.	
arsesmart		Smartweed; water pepper.	
arshine		A Russian measure of length = 2 ft. 4.246 inches.	
arsine		A compound of arsenic and hydrogen, AsH3, a colorless and exceedingly poisonous gas, having and odor like garlic; arseniureted hydrogen.	
arsis		(Pros.) (a) That part of a foot where the ictus is put, or which is distinguished from the rest (known as the thesis) of the foot by a greater stress of voice.	Greek ἄρσις.
arsmetrike	Obsolete	Arithmetic.	
arson		The malicious burning of a dwelling house or outhouse of another man, which by the common law is felony; the malicious and voluntary firing of a building or ship.	
art		The second person singular, indicative mode, present tense, of the substantive verb Be; but formed after the analogy of the plural are, with the ending -t, as in thou shalt, wilt, orig. an ending of the second person sing. pret.	
artemia		A genus of phyllopod Crustacea found in salt lakes and brines; the brine shrimp.	
artemisia		A genus of plants including the plants called mugwort, southernwood, and wormwood.	Latin Artemisia, from Greek ἀρτεμισία.
arteriac		Of or pertaining to the windpipe.	Latin arteriacus.
arterial		Of or pertaining to an artery, or the arteries; as, arterial action; the arterial system.	
arterialization		The process of converting venous blood into arterial blood during its passage through the lungs, oxygen being absorbed and carbonic acid evolved; -- called also aëration and hematosis.	
arterialize		To transform, as the venous blood, into arterial blood by exposure to oxygen in the lungs; to make arterial.	
arteriography		A systematic description of the arteries.	
arteriole		A small artery.	
arteriology		That part of anatomy which treats of arteries.	
arteriosclerosis		Abnormal thickening and hardening of the walls of the arteries, esp. of the intima, occurring mostly in old age. -- Ar*te`ri*o*scle*rot"ic (#), a.	
arteriotomy		(Med.) The opening of an artery, esp. for bloodletting.	Latin arteriotomia.
arteritis		Inflammation of an artery or arteries.	
artery		(Anat.) One of the vessels or tubes which carry either venous or arterial blood from the heart.	Old French artaire, from Latin arteria, from Greek ἀρτηρία.
artesian		Of or pertaining to Artois (anciently called Artesium), in France.	French puits artésien.
artful		Artificial; imitative.	
artfully		In an artful manner; with art or cunning; skillfully; dexterously; craftily.	
artfulness		The quality of being artful; art; cunning; craft.	
arthen	Obsolete	Same as Earthen.	
arthritic		Of or pertaining to arthritis; gouty.	Latin arthriticus.
arthritical		Of or pertaining to arthritis; gouty.	
arthritis		Any inflammation of the joints, particularly the gout.	
arthrochondritis		Chondritis of a joint.	
arthroderm		The external covering of an Arthropod.	
arthrodesis		Surgical fixation of joints.	
arthrodia		A form of diarthrodial articulation in which the articular surfaces are nearly flat, so that they form only an imperfect ball and socket.	Greek ἀρθρωδία.
arthrodial		Of or pertaining to arthrodia.	
arthrodic		Of or pertaining to arthrodia.	
arthrodynia		An affection characterized by pain in or about a joint, not dependent upon structural disease.	
arthrodynic		Pertaining to arthrodynia, or pain in the joints; rheumatic.	
arthrogastra		A division of the Arachnida, having the abdomen annulated, including the scorpions, harvestmen, etc.; pedipalpi.	
arthrography		The description of joints.	
arthrology		That part of anatomy which treats of joints.	
arthromere		One of the body segments of Arthropods. See Arthrostraca.	
arthropathy		Any disease of the joints.	
arthropleura		The side or limb-bearing portion of an arthromere.	
arthropod		One of the Arthropoda.	Latin arthropoda.
arthropoda		A large division of Articulata, embracing all those that have jointed legs.	
arthropomata		One of the orders of Branchiopoda. See Branchiopoda.	
arthrosis		Articulation.	
arthrospore		A bacterial resting cell, -- formerly considered a spore, but now known to occur even in endosporous bacteria. -- Ar`thro*spor po*rous (#), a.	
arthrostraca		One of the larger divisions of Crustacea, so called because the thorax and abdomen are both segmented; Tetradecapoda.	
arthrotome		A strong scalpel used in the dissection of joints.	
arthrozoic		Of or pertaining to the Articulata; articulate.	
arthurian		Of or pertaining to King Arthur or his knights.	
artiad		Even; not odd; -- said of elementary substances and of radicals the valence of which is divisible by two without a remainder.	
artichoke		The Cynara scolymus, a plant somewhat resembling a thistle, with a dilated, imbricated, and prickly involucre.	
article		A distinct portion of an instrument, discourse, literary work, or any other writing, consisting of two or more particulars, or treating of various topics; as, an article in the Constitution.	
articled		Bound by articles; apprenticed; as, an articled clerk.	
articular		Of or pertaining to the joints; as, an articular disease; an articular process.	
articularly		In an articular or an articulate manner.	
articulary		A bone in the base of the lower jaw of many birds, reptiles, amphibians, and fishes.	
articulata		One of the four subkingdoms in the classification of Cuvier.	
articulate		Jointed; formed with joints; consisting of segments united by joints; as, articulate animals or plants.	Latin articulatus.
articulated		United by, or provided with, articulations; jointed; as, an articulated skeleton.	
articulately		After the manner, or in the form, of a joint.	
articulateness		Quality of being articulate.	
articulation		(Anat.) A joint or juncture between bones in the skeleton.	Old French articulacion, from Latin articulatio.
articulative		Of or pertaining to articulation.	
articulator		One who, or that which, articulates; as: (a) One who enunciates distinctly.	
articulus		A joint of the cirri of the Crinoidea; a joint or segment of an arthropod appendage.	
artifact		(Archæol.) A product of human workmanship; -- applied esp. to the simpler products of aboriginal art as distinguished from natural objects.	
artifice		Workmanship; a skillfully contrived work.	French artifice, from Latin artificium.
artificer		An artistic worker; a mechanic or manufacturer; one whose occupation requires skill or knowledge of a particular kind, as a silversmith.	French artificier, from Latin artificiarius.
artificial		Made or contrived by art; produced or modified by human skill and labor, in opposition to natural; as, artificial heat or light, gems, salts, minerals, fountains, flowers.	
artificiality		The quality or appearance of being artificial; that which is artificial.	
artificialize		To render artificial.	
artificially		In an artificial manner; by art, or skill and contrivance, not by nature.	
artificialness		The quality of being artificial.	
artificious	Obsolete	Artificial.	Latin artificiosus.
artilize	Obsolete	To make resemble.	
artillerist		A person skilled in artillery or gunnery; a gunner; an artilleryman.	
artillery		Cannon; great guns; ordnance, including guns, mortars, howitzers, etc., with their equipment of carriages, balls, bombs, and shot of all kinds.	Middle English artillerie, from Old French artillerie.
artilleryman		A man who manages, or assists in managing, a large gun in firing.	
artiodactyla		One of the divisions of the ungulate animals.	
artiodactyle		One of the Artiodactyla.	
artiodactylous		Even-toed.	
artisan		One trained to manual dexterity in some mechanic art or trade; and handicraftsman; a mechanic.	French artisan.
artist		One who professes and practices an art in which science and taste preside over the manual execution.	French artiste, from Italian artista.
artiste		One peculiarly dexterous and tasteful in almost any employment, as an opera dancer, a hairdresser, a cook.	
artistic		Of or pertaining to art or to artists; made in the manner of an artist; conformable to art; characterized by art; showing taste or skill. -- Ar*tis"tic*al*ly, adv.	French artistique.
artistical		Of or pertaining to art or to artists; made in the manner of an artist; conformable to art; characterized by art; showing taste or skill. -- Ar*tis"tic*al*ly, adv.	
artistry		Works of art collectively.	
artless		Wanting art, knowledge, or skill; ignorant; unskillful.	
artlessly		In an artless manner; without art, skill, or guile; unaffectedly.	
artlessness		The quality of being artless, or void of art or guile; simplicity; sincerity.	
artly	Obsolete	With art or skill.	
artocarpeous		Of or pertaining to the breadfruit, or to the genus Artocarpus.	
artocarpous		Of or pertaining to the breadfruit, or to the genus Artocarpus.	
artotype		A kind of autotype.	
artotyrite		One of a sect in the primitive church, who celebrated the Lord's Supper with bread and cheese, alleging that the first oblations of men not only of the fruit of the earth, but of their flocks.	
artow	Obsolete	A contraction of art thou.	
artsman	Obsolete	A man skilled in an art or in arts.	
arum		A genus of plants found in central Europe and about the Mediterranean, having flowers on a spadix inclosed in a spathe.	
arundelian		Pertaining to an Earl of Arundel; as, Arundel or Arundelian marbles, marbles from ancient Greece, bought by the Earl of Arundel in 1624.	
arundiferous		Producing reeds or canes.	
arundinaceous		Of or pertaining to a reed; resembling the reed or cane.	
arundineous		Abounding with reeds; reedy.	Latin arundineus.
aruspex		One of the class of diviners among the Etruscans and Romans, who foretold events by the inspection of the entrails of victims offered on the altars of the gods.	
aruspice		A soothsayer of ancient Rome.	
aruspicy		Prognostication by inspection of the entrails of victims slain sacrifice.	
arval		A funeral feast.	Middle English arvell.
arvicole		A mouse of the genus Arvicola; the meadow mouse.	
aryan		One of a primitive people supposed to have lived in prehistoric times, in Central Asia, east of the Caspian Sea, and north of the Hindoo	
aryanize		To make Aryan (a language, or in language).	
arytenoid		Ladle-shaped; -- applied to two small cartilages of the larynx, and also to the glands, muscles, etc., connected with them.	
