as		Denoting equality or likeness in kind, degree, or manner; like; similar to; in the same manner with or in which; in accordance with; in proportion to; to the extent or degree in which or to which; equally; no less than; as…
asa		An ancient name of a gum.
asafetida		The fetid gum resin or inspissated juice of a large umbelliferous plant (Ferula asafoetida) of Persia and the East India.
asafoetida		The fetid gum resin or inspissated juice of a large umbelliferous plant (Ferula asafoetida) of Persia and the East India.
asaphus		A genus of trilobites found in the Lower Silurian formation. See Illust. in Append.
asarabacca		An acrid herbaceous plant (Asarum Europæum), the leaves and roots of which are emetic and cathartic.
asarone		A crystallized substance, resembling camphor, obtained from the Asarum Europæum; -- called also camphor of asarum.
asbestic		Of, pertaining to, or resembling asbestus; inconsumable; asbestine.
asbestiform		Having the form or structure of asbestus.
asbestine		Of or pertaining to asbestus, or partaking of its nature; incombustible; asbestic.
asbestos		A variety of amphibole or of pyroxene, occurring in long and delicate fibers, or in fibrous masses or seams, usually of a white, gray, or green-gray color.
asbestous		Asbestic.
asbestus		A variety of amphibole or of pyroxene, occurring in long and delicate fibers, or in fibrous masses or seams, usually of a white, gray, or green-gray color.
asbolin		A peculiar acrid and bitter oil, obtained from wood soot.
ascariasis		A disease, usually accompanied by colicky pains and diarrhea, caused by the presence of ascarids in the gastrointestinal canal.
ascarid		A parasitic nematoid worm, espec. the roundworm, Ascaris lumbricoides, often occurring in the human intestine and allied species found in domestic animals; also commonly applied to the pinworm (Oxyuris)…
ascend		To move upward; to mount; to go up; to rise; -- opposed to Ant: descend.
ascendable		Capable of being ascended.
ascendance		Same as Ascendency.
ascendancy		Same as Ascendency.
ascendant		Ascent; height; elevation.
ascendency		Governing or controlling influence; domination; power.
ascendent		Rising toward the zenith; above the horizon.
ascendible		Capable of being ascended; climbable.
ascending		Rising; moving upward; as, an ascending kite. -- As*cend"ing*ly, adv.
ascension		The act of ascending; a rising; ascent.
ascensional		Relating to ascension; connected with ascent; ascensive; tending upward; as, the ascensional power of a balloon.
ascensive		Rising; tending to rise, or causing to rise.
ascent		The act of rising; motion upward; rise; a mounting upward; as, he made a tedious ascent; the ascent of vapors from the earth.
ascertain		To find out or learn for a certainty, by trial, examination, or experiment; to get to know; as, to ascertain the weight of a commodity, or the purity of a metal.
ascertainable		That may be ascertained. -- As`cer*tain a*bly, adv.
ascertainer		One who ascertains.
ascertainment		The act of ascertaining; a reducing to certainty; a finding out by investigation; discovery.
ascessancy	Obsolete	See Acescency, Acescent.
ascessant	Obsolete	See Acescency, Acescent.
ascetic		Extremely rigid in self-denial and devotions; austere; severe.
asceticism		The condition, practice, or mode of life, of ascetics.
ascham		A sort of cupboard, or case, to contain bows and other implements of archery.
asci		See Ascus — a small membranous bladder or tube in which are inclosed the seedlike reproductive particles or sporules of lichens and certain fungi.
ascian		One of the Ascii.
ascians		Persons who, at certain times of the year, have no shadow at noon; -- applied to the inhabitants of the torrid zone, who have, twice a year, a vertical sun.
ascidian		One of the Ascidioidea, or in a more general sense, one of the Tunicata.
ascidiarium		The structure which unites together the ascidiozooids in a compound ascidian.
ascidiform		Shaped like an ascidian.
ascidioidea		A group of Tunicata, often shaped like a two-necked bottle.
ascidiozooid		One of the individual members of a compound ascidian. See Ascidioidea.
ascidium		(Bot.) A pitcher-shaped, or flask-shaped, organ or appendage of a plant, as the leaves of the pitcher plant, or the little bladderlike traps of the bladderwort (Utricularia).
ascigerous		Having asci.
ascii		Persons who, at certain times of the year, have no shadow at noon; -- applied to the inhabitants of the torrid zone, who have, twice a year, a vertical sun.
ascites		A collection of serous fluid in the cavity of the abdomen; dropsy of the peritoneum.
ascitic		Of, pertaining to, or affected by, ascites; dropsical.
ascitical		Of, pertaining to, or affected by, ascites; dropsical.
ascititious		Supplemental; not inherent or original; adscititious; additional; assumed.
asclepiad		A choriambic verse, first used by the Greek poet Asclepias, consisting of four feet, viz., a spondee, two choriambi, and an iambus.
asclepiadaceous		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, plants of the Milkweed family.
asclepias		A genus of plants including the milkweed, swallowwort, and some other species having medicinal properties.
ascocarp		In ascomycetous fungi, the spherical, discoid, or cup-shaped body within which the asci are collected, and which constitutes the mature fructification.
ascococcus		A form of micrococcus, found in putrid meat infusions, occurring in peculiar masses, each of which is inclosed in a hyaline capsule and contains a large number of spherical micrococci.
ascomycetes		A large class of higher fungi distinguished by septate hyphæ, and by having their spores formed in asci, or spore sacs.
ascospore		One of the spores contained in the asci of lichens and fungi.
ascribable		Capable of being ascribed; attributable.
ascribe		To attribute, impute, or refer, as to a cause; as, his death was ascribed to a poison; to ascribe an effect to the right cause; to ascribe such a book to such an author.
ascript	Obsolete	See Adscript — held to service as attached to the soil; -- said of feudal serfs.
ascription		The act of ascribing, imputing, or affirming to belong; also, that which is ascribed.
ascriptitious	Obsolete	Added; additional.
ascus		A small membranous bladder or tube in which are inclosed the seedlike reproductive particles or sporules of lichens and certain fungi.
asemia		Loss of power to express, or to understand, symbols or signs of thought.
asepsis		State of being aseptic; the methods or processes of asepticizing.
aseptic		Not liable to putrefaction; nonputrescent. -- n.
asexual		Having no distinct; without sexual action; as, asexual reproduction. See Fission and Gemmation.
asexualization		The act or process of sterilizing an animal or human being, as by vasectomy.
asexually		In an asexual manner; without sexual agency.
ash		(Bot.) A genus of trees of the Olive family, having opposite pinnate leaves, many of the species furnishing valuable timber, as the European ash (Fraxinus excelsior) and the white ash (F.
ash-colored		Of the color of ashes; a whitish gray or brownish gray.
ash-fire		A low fire used in chemical operations.
ash-furnace		A furnace or oven for fritting materials for glass making.
ash-oven		A furnace or oven for fritting materials for glass making.
ashame		To shame.
ashamed		Affected by shame; abashed or confused by guilt, or a conviction or consciousness of some wrong action or impropriety.
ashamedly		Bashfully.
ashantee		A native or an inhabitant of Ashantee in Western Africa.
ashen		Of or pertaining to the ash tree.
ashery		A depository for ashes.
ashes		The earthy or mineral particles of combustible substances remaining after combustion, as of wood or coal.
ashine		Shining; radiant.
ashlar		(Masonry) (a) Hewn or squared stone; also, masonry made of squared or hewn stone.
ashlaring		The act of bedding ashlar in mortar.
ashler		(Masonry) (a) Hewn or squared stone; also, masonry made of squared or hewn stone.
ashlering		The act of bedding ashlar in mortar.
ashore		On shore or on land; on the land adjacent to water; to the shore; to the land; aground (when applied to a ship); -- sometimes opposed to aboard or afloat.
ashtoreth		The principal female divinity of the Phoenicians, as Baal was the principal male divinity.
ashweed		Goutweed.
ashy		Pertaining to, or composed of, ashes; filled, or strewed with, ashes.
asian		Of or pertaining to Asia; Asiatic. -- n.
asiarch		One of the chiefs or pontiffs of the Roman province of Asia, who had the superintendence of the public games and religious rites.
asiatic		Of or pertaining to Asia or to its inhabitants. -- n.
asiaticism		Something peculiar to Asia or the Asiatics.
aside		On, or to, one side; out of a straight line, course, or direction; at a little distance from the rest; out of the way; apart.
asilus		A genus of large and voracious two-winged flies, including the bee killer and robber fly.
asinego	Obsolete	A stupid fellow.
asinine		Of or belonging to, or having the qualities of, the ass, as stupidity and obstinacy.
asininity		The quality of being asinine; stupidity combined with obstinacy.
asiphonata		A group of bivalve mollusks destitute of siphons, as the oyster; the asiphonate mollusks.
asiphonate		Destitute of a siphon or breathing tube; -- said of many bivalve shells. -- n.
asiphonea		A group of bivalve mollusks destitute of siphons, as the oyster; the asiphonate mollusks.
asiphonida		A group of bivalve mollusks destitute of siphons, as the oyster; the asiphonate mollusks.
asitia		Want of appetite; loathing of food.
ask		To request; to seek to obtain by words; to petition; to solicit; - - often with of, in the sense of from, before the person addressed.
askance		Sideways; obliquely; with a side glance; with disdain, envy, or suspicion.
askant		Sideways; obliquely; with a side glance; with disdain, envy, or suspicion.
asker	Local eng	One who asks; a petitioner; an inquirer.
askew		Awry; askance; asquint; oblique or obliquely; -- sometimes indicating scorn, or contempt, or entry.
asking		The act of inquiring or requesting; a petition; solicitation.
aslake	Archaic	To mitigate; to moderate; to appease; to abate; to diminish.
aslant		Toward one side; in a slanting direction; obliquely. drove through his neck aslant.
asleep		In a state of sleep; in sleep; dormant.
aslope		Slopingly; aslant; declining from an upright direction; sloping.
aslug	Obsolete	Sluggishly.
asmear		Smeared over.
asmonean		Of or pertaining to the patriotic Jewish family to which the Maccabees belonged; Maccabean; as, the Asmonean dynasty.
asoak		Soaking.
asomatous		Without a material body; incorporeal.
asonant		Not sounding or sounded.
asp		Same as Aspen.
aspalathus		(a) A thorny shrub yielding a fragrant oil.
asparagine		A white, nitrogenous, crystallizable substance, C4H8N2O3+H2O, found in many plants, and first obtained from asparagus.
asparaginous		Pertaining or allied to, or resembling, asparagus; having shoots which are eaten like asparagus; as, asparaginous vegetables.
asparagus		(Bot.) A genus of perennial plants belonging to the natural order Liliaceæ, and having erect much branched stems, and very slender branchlets which are sometimes mistaken for leaves.
aspartic		Pertaining to, or derived, asparagine; as, aspartic acid.
aspect		The act of looking; vision; gaze; glance.
aspectable		Capable of being; visible.
aspectant		Facing each other.
aspected	Obsolete	Having an aspect.
aspection	Obsolete	The act of viewing; a look.
aspen		One of several species of poplar bearing this name, especially the Populus tremula, so called from the trembling of its leaves, which move with the slightest impulse of the air.
asper	Archaic	Rough; rugged; harsh; bitter; stern; fierce.
asperate		To make rough or uneven.
asperation		The act of asperating; a making or becoming rough.
asperges		(a) The service or ceremony of sprinkling with holy water. (b) The brush or instrument used in sprinkling holy water; an aspergill.
aspergill		The brush used in the Roman Catholic church for sprinkling holy water on the people.
aspergilliform		Resembling the aspergillum in form; as, an aspergilliform stigma.
aspergillum		The brush used in the Roman Catholic church for sprinkling holy water on the people.
asperifoliate		Having rough leaves.
asperifolious		Having rough leaves.
asperity		Roughness of surface; unevenness; -- opposed to smoothness.
aspermatous		Aspermous.
aspermous		Destitute of seeds; aspermatous.
asperne	Obsolete	To spurn; to despise.
asperous		Rough; uneven.
asperse		To sprinkle, as water or dust, upon anybody or anything, or to besprinkle any one with a liquid or with dust.
aspersed		(Her.) Having an indefinite number of small charges scattered or strewed over the surface.
asperser		One who asperses; especially, one who vilifies another.
aspersion		A sprinkling, as with water or dust, in a literal sense.
aspersive		Tending to asperse; defamatory; slanderous. -- As*pers"ive*ly, adv.
aspersoir		An aspergill.
aspersorium		The stoup, basin, or other vessel for holy water in Roman Catholic churches.
asphalt		Mineral pitch, Jews' pitch, or compact native bitumen.
asphalte		Asphaltic mastic or cement. See Asphalt, 2.
asphaltic		Pertaining to, of the nature of, or containing, asphalt; bituminous.
asphaltite		Asphaltic.
asphaltum		Mineral pitch, Jews' pitch, or compact native bitumen.
asphaltus		See Asphalt — mineral pitch, Jews' pitch, or compact native bitumen.
asphodel		A general name for a plant of the genus Asphodelus.
asphyctic		Pertaining to asphyxia.
asphyxia		Apparent death, or suspended animation; the condition which results from interruption of respiration, as in suffocation or drowning, or the inhalation of irrespirable gases.
asphyxial		Of or relating to asphyxia; as, asphyxial phenomena.
asphyxiate		To bring to a state of asphyxia; to suffocate.
asphyxiated		In a state of asphyxia; suffocated.
asphyxiation		The act of causing asphyxia; a state of asphyxia.
asphyxied		In a state of asphyxia; suffocated.
asphyxy		Apparent death, or suspended animation; the condition which results from interruption of respiration, as in suffocation or drowning, or the inhalation of irrespirable gases.
aspic		The venomous asp.
aspidobranchia		A group of Gastropoda, with limpetlike shells, including the abalone shells and keyhole limpets.
aspirant		Aspiring.
aspirate		To pronounce with a breathing, an aspirate, or an h sound; as, we aspirate the words horse and house; to aspirate a vowel or a liquid consonant.
aspirated		Pronounced with the h sound or with audible breath.
aspiration		The act of aspirating; the pronunciation of a letter with a full or strong emission of breath; an aspirated sound.
aspirator		(Chem.) An apparatus for passing air or gases through or over certain liquids or solids, or for exhausting a closed vessel, by means of suction.
aspiratory		Of or pertaining to breathing; suited to the inhaling of air
aspire		To desire with eagerness; to seek to attain something high or great; to pant; to long; -- followed by to or after, and rarely by at; as, to aspire to a crown; to aspire after immorality.
aspirement	Obsolete	Aspiration.
aspirer		One who aspires.
aspirin		A white crystalline compound of acetyl and salicylic acid used as a drug for the salicylic acid liberated from it in the intestines.
aspiring		That aspires; as, an Aspiring mind. -- As*pir ing*ness, n.
aspish		Pertaining to, or like, an asp.
asportation		The felonious removal of goods from the place where they were deposited.
asprawl		Sprawling.
asquat		Squatting.
asquint		With the eye directed to one side; not in the straight line of vision; obliquely; awry, so as to see distortedly; as, to look asquint.
ass		(Zoöl.) A quadruped of the genus Equus (E. asinus), smaller than the horse, and having a peculiarly harsh bray and long ears.
assafoetida		Same as Asafetida.
assagai		A spear used by tribes in South Africa as a missile and for stabbing, a kind of light javelin.
assai		A direction equivalent to very; as, adagio assai, very slow.
assail		To attack with violence, or in a vehement and hostile manner; to assault; to molest; as, to assail a man with blows; to assail a city with artillery.
assailable		Capable of being assailed.
assailant		Assailing; attacking.
assailer		One who assails.
assailment		The act or power of assailing; attack; assault.
assamar		The peculiar bitter substance, soft or liquid, and of a yellow color, produced when meat, bread, gum, sugar, starch, and the like, are roasted till they turn brown.
assamese		Of or pertaining to Assam, a province of British India, or to its inhabitants. -- n. sing. & pl. A native or natives of Assam.
assapan		The American flying squirrel (Pteromys volucella).
assapanic		The American flying squirrel (Pteromys volucella).
assart		(Old Law) The act or offense of grubbing up trees and bushes, and thus destroying the tickets or coverts of a forest.
assassin	Obsolete	One who kills, or attempts to kill, by surprise or secret assault; one who treacherously murders any one unprepared for defense.
assassinate		To kill by surprise or secret assault; to murder by treacherous violence.
assassination		The act of assassinating; a killing by treacherous violence.
assassinator		An assassin.
assassinous		Murderous.
assastion	Obsolete	Roasting.
assault		A violent onset or attack with physical means, as blows, weapons, etc.; an onslaught; the rush or charge of an attacking force; onset; as, to make assault upon a man, a house, or a town.
assaultable		Capable of being assaulted.
assaulter		One who assaults, or violently attacks; an assailant.
assay		(Metallurgy) The act or process of ascertaining the proportion of a particular metal in an ore or alloy; especially, the determination of the proportion of gold or silver in bullion or coin.
assayable		That may be assayed.
assayer		One who assays. Specifically: One who examines metallic ores or compounds, for the purpose of determining the amount of any particular metal in the same, especially of gold or silver.
assaying		The act or process of testing, esp. of analyzing or examining metals and ores, to determine the proportion of pure metal.
asse		A small foxlike animal (Vulpes cama) of South Africa, valued for its fur.
assecuration	Obsolete	Assurance; certainty.
assecure	Obsolete	To make sure or safe; to assure.
assecution	Obsolete	An obtaining or acquiring.
assegai		A spear used by tribes in South Africa as a missile and for stabbing, a kind of light javelin.
assemblage		The act of assembling, or the state o In sweet assemblage every blooming grace.
assemblance	Obsolete	Resemblance; likeness; appearance.
assemble		To collect into one place or body; to bring or call together; to convene; to congregate.
assembler		One who assembles a number of individuals; also, one of a number assembled.
assembly		A company of persons collected together in one place, and usually for some common purpose, esp. for deliberation and legislation, for worship, or for social entertainment.
assemblyman		A member of an assembly, especially of the lower branch of a state legislature.
assent		To admit a thing as true; to express one's agreement, acquiescence, concurrence, or concession.
assentation		Insincere, flattering, or obsequious assent; hypocritical or pretended concurrence.
assentator		An obsequious; a flatterer.
assentatory	Obsolete	Flattering; obsequious. -- As*sent"a*to*ri*ly, adv.
assenter		One who assents.
assentient		Assenting.
assenting		Giving or implying assent. -- As*sent"ing*ly, adv.
assentive		Giving assent; of the nature of assent; complying. -- As*sent"ive*ness, n.
assentment	Obsolete	Assent; agreement.
assert		To affirm; to declare with assurance, or plainly and strongly; to state positively; to aver; to asseverate.
asserter		One who asserts; one who avers pr maintains; an assertor.
assertion		The act of asserting, or that which is asserted; positive declaration or averment; affirmation; statement asserted; position advanced.
assertive		Positive; affirming confidently; affirmative; peremptory.
assertor		One who asserts or avers; one who maintains or vindicates a claim or a right; an affirmer, supporter, or vindicator; a defender; an asserter.
assertorial		Asserting that a thing is; -- opposed to problematical and apodeictical.
assertory		Affirming; maintaining.
assess		To value; to make a valuation or official estimate of for the purpose of taxation.
assessable		Liable to be assessed or taxed; as, assessable property.
assessee		One who is assessed.
assession		A sitting beside or near.
assessment		The act of assessing; the act of determining an amount to be paid; as, an assessment of damages, or of taxes; an assessment of the members of a club.
assessor		One appointed or elected to assist a judge or magistrate with his special knowledge of the subject to be decided; as legal assessors, nautical assessors.
assessorial		Of or pertaining to an assessor, or to a court of assessors.
assessorship		The office or function of an assessor.
asset		Any article or separable part of one's assets.
assets		(Law) (a) Property of a deceased person, subject by law to the payment of his debts and legacies; -- called assets because sufficient to render the executor or administrator liable to the creditors and legatees…
assever	Archaic	See Asseverate — to affirm or aver positively, or with solemnity.
asseverate		To affirm or aver positively, or with solemnity.
asseveration		The act of asseverating, or that which is asseverated; positive affirmation or assertion; solemn declaration.
asseverative		Characterized by asseveration; asserting positively.
asseveratory		Asseverative.
assibilate		To make sibilant; to change to a sibilant.
assibilation		Change of a non-sibilant letter to a sibilant, as of -tion to - shun, duke to ditch.
assidean		One of a body of devoted Jews who opposed the Hellenistic Jews, and supported the Asmoneans.
assident		Usually attending a disease, but not always; as, assident signs, or symptoms.
assiduate	Obsolete	Unremitting; assiduous.
assiduity		Constant or close application or attention, particularly to some business or enterprise; diligence.
assiduous		Constant in application or attention; devoted; attentive; unremitting.
assiege	Obsolete	To besiege.
assientist		A shareholder of the Assiento company; one of the parties to the Assiento contract.
assiento		A contract or convention between Spain and other powers for furnishing negro slaves for the Spanish dominions in America, esp. the contract made with Great Britain in 1713.
assign		To appoint; to allot; to apportion; to make over.
assignability		The quality of being assignable.
assignable		Capable of being assigned, allotted, specified, or designated; as, an assignable note or bill; an assignable reason; an assignable quantity.
assignat		One of the notes, bills, or bonds, issued as currency by the revolutionary government of France (1790-1796), and based on the security of the lands of the church and of nobles which had been appropriated by the state.
assignation		The act of assigning or allotting; apportionment.
assignee		(a) A person to whom an assignment is made; a person appointed or deputed by another to do some act, perform some business, or enjoy some right, privilege, or property; as, an assignee of a bankrupt.
assigner		One who assigns, appoints, allots, or apportions.
assignment		An allotting or an appointment to a particular person or use; or for a particular time, as of a cause or causes in court.
assignor		An assigner; a person who assigns or transfers an interest; as, the assignor of a debt or other chose in action.
assimilability		The quality of being assimilable.
assimilable		That may be assimilated; that may be likened, or appropriated and incorporated.
assimilate		To bring to a likeness or to conformity; to cause a resemblance between.
assimilation		The act or process of assimilating or bringing to a resemblance, likeness, or identity; also, the state of being so assimilated; as, the assimilation of one sound to another.
assimilative		Tending to, or characterized by, assimilation; that assimilates or causes assimilation; as, an assimilative process or substance.
assimilatory		Tending to assimilate, or produce assimilation; as, assimilatory organs.
assimulate	Obsolete	To feign; to counterfeit; to simulate; to resemble.
assimulation	Obsolete	Assimilation.
assinego	Obsolete	A stupid fellow.
assish		Resembling an ass; asinine; stupid or obstinate.
assist		To give support to in some undertaking or effort, or in time of distress; to help; to aid; to succor.
assistance		The act of assisting; help; aid; furtherance; succor; support.
assistant		Helping; lending aid or support; auxiliary.
assistantly		In a manner to give aid.
assister		An assistant; a helper.
assistful		Helpful.
assistive		Lending aid, helping.
assistless		Without aid or help.
assistor		A assister.
assithment	Obsolete	See Assythment — indemnification for injury; satisfaction.
assize		(Law) (a) A special kind of jury or inquest. (b) A kind of writ or real action.
assizer		An officer who has the care or inspection of weights and measures, etc.
assizor		A juror.
assober	Obsolete	To make or keep sober.
associability		The quality of being associable, or capable of association; associableness.
associable		Capable of being associated or joined.
associableness		Associability.
associate		To join with one, as a friend, companion, partner, or confederate; as, to associate others with.
associated		Joined as a companion; brought into association; accompanying; combined.
associateship		The state of an associate, as in Academy or an office.
association		The act of associating, or state of being associated; union; connection, whether of persons of things.
associational		Pertaining to the theory held by the associationists.
associationism		The doctrine or theory held by associationists.
associationist		One who explains the higher functions and relations of the soul by the association of ideas; e. g., Hartley, J.
associative		Having the quality of associating; tending or leading to association; as, the associative faculty.
associator		An associate; a confederate or partner in any scheme.
assoil	Archaic	To set free; to release.
assoilment		Act of assoiling, or state of being assoiled; absolution; acquittal.
assoilyie		To absolve; to acquit by sentence of court.
assoilzie		To absolve; to acquit by sentence of court.
assonance		(Pros.) A peculiar species of rhyme, in which the last accented vowel and those which follow it in one word correspond in sound with the vowels of another word, while the consonants of the two words are unlike in sound; as…
assonant		(Pros.) Pertaining to the peculiar species of rhyme called assonance; not consonant.
assonantal		Assonant.
assonate		To correspond in sound.
assort	Rarely applied to persons	To separate and distribute into classes, as things of a like kind, nature, or quality, or which are suited to a like purpose; to classify; as, to assort goods.
assorted		Selected; culled.
assortment		Act of assorting, or distributing into sorts, kinds, or classes.
assot	Obsolete	To besot; to befool; to beguile; to infatuate.
assuage		The plague being come to a crisis, its fury began to assuage.
assuagement		Mitigation; abatement.
assuager		One who, or that which, assuages.
assuasive		Mitigating; tranquilizing; soothing.
assubjugate	Obsolete	To bring into subjection.
assuefaction	Obsolete	The act of accustoming, or the state of being accustomed; habituation.
assuetude		Accustomedness; habit; habitual use.
assumable		That may be assumed.
assumably		By way of assumption.
assume		To take to or upon one's self; to take formally and demonstratively; sometimes, to appropriate or take unjustly.
assumed		Pretended; hypocritical; make-believe; as, an assumed character.
assumedly		By assumption.
assument	Obsolete	A patch; an addition; a piece put on.
assumer		One who assumes, arrogates, pretends, or supposes.
assuming		Pretentious; taking much upon one's self; presumptuous.
assumpsit		(a) A promise or undertaking, founded on a consideration.
assumpt	Obsolete	To take up; to elevate; to assume.
assumption		The act of assuming, or taking to or upon one's self; the act of taking up or adopting.
assumptive		Assumed, or capable of being assumed; characterized by assumption; making unwarranted claims. -- As*sump"tive*ly, adv.
assurance		The act of assuring; a declaration tending to inspire full confidence; that which is designed to give confidence.
assure		To make sure or certain; to render confident by a promise, declaration, or other evidence.
assured		Made sure; safe; insured; certain; indubitable; not doubting; bold to excess.
assuredly		Certainly; indubitably.
assuredness		The state of being assured; certainty; full confidence.
assurer		One who assures. Specifically: One who insures against loss; an insurer or underwriter.
assurgency		Act of rising.
assurgent		Ascending; (Bot.) rising obliquely; curving upward.
assuring		That assures; tending to assure; giving confidence. -- As*sur"ing*ly, adv.
asswage		See Assuage — the plague being come to a crisis, its fury began to assuage.
assyrian		Of or pertaining to Assyria, or to its inhabitants. -- n.
assyriological		Of or pertaining to Assyriology; as, Assyriological studies.
assyriologist		One versed in Assyriology; a student of Assyrian archæology.
assyriology		The science or study of the antiquities, language, etc., of ancient Assyria.
assythment		Indemnification for injury; satisfaction.
astacus		A genus of crustaceans, containing the crawfish of fresh-water lobster of Europe, and allied species of western North America.
astarboard		Over to the starboard side; -- said of the tiller.
astart	Obsolete	Same as Astert.
astarte		A genus of bivalve mollusks, common on the coasts of America and Europe.
astate	Obsolete	Estate; state.
astatic		Having little or no tendency to take a fixed or definite position or direction: thus, a suspended magnetic needle, when rendered astatic, loses its polarity, or tendency to point in a given direction.
astatically		In an astatic manner.
astaticism		The state of being astatic.
astatize		To render astatic.
astatki		A thick liquid residuum obtained in the distillation of Russian petroleum, much used as fuel.
astay		An anchor is said to be astay, in heaving it, an acute angle is formed between the cable and the surface of the water.
asteism		Genteel irony; a polite and ingenious manner of deriding another.
astel		An arch, or ceiling, of boards, placed over the men's heads in a mine.
aster		(Bot.) A genus of herbs with compound white or bluish flowers; starwort; Michaelmas daisy.
asterias		A genus of echinoderms.
asteriated		Radiated, with diverging rays; as, asteriated sapphire.
asteridea		A class of Echinodermata including the true starfishes.
asteridian		Of or pertaining to the Asterioidea. -- n.
asterioidea		A class of Echinodermata including the true starfishes.
asterion		The point on the side of the skull where the lambdoid, parieto- mastoid and occipito-mastoid sutures.
asteriscus		The smaller of the two otoliths found in the inner ear of many fishes.
asterisk		The figure of a star, thus,
asterism		(Printing) (a) An asterisk, or mark of reference. (b) Three asterisks placed in this manner, *, to direct attention to a particular passage.
astern		In or at the hinder part of a ship; toward the hinder part, or stern; backward; as, to go astern.
asternal		Not sternal; -- said of ribs which do not join the sternum.
asteroid		A starlike body; esp. one of the numerous small planets whose orbits lie between those of Mars and Jupiter; -- called also planetoids and minor planets.
asteroidal		Of or pertaining to an asteroid, or to the asteroids.
asterolepis		A genus of fishes, some of which were eighteen or twenty feet long, found in a fossil state in the Old Red Sandstone.
asterope		(Myth.) One of the Pleiades; -- called also Sterope.
asterophyllite		A fossil plant from the coal formations of Europe and America, now regarded as the branchlets and foliage of calamites.
astert	Obsolete	To start up; to befall; to escape; to shun.
asthenia		Want or loss of strength; debility; diminution of the vital forces.
asthenic		Characterized by, or pertaining to, debility; weak; debilitating.
asthenopia		Weakness of sight.
astheny		Want or loss of strength; debility; diminution of the vital forces.
asthma		A disease, characterized by difficulty of breathing (due to a spasmodic contraction of the bronchi), recurring at intervals, accompanied with a wheezing sound, a sense of constriction in the chest, a cough, and expectoration.
asthmatic		Of or pertaining to asthma; as, an asthmatic cough; liable to, or suffering from, asthma; as, an asthmatic patient. -- Asth*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.
asthmatical		Of or pertaining to asthma; as, an asthmatic cough; liable to, or suffering from, asthma; as, an asthmatic patient. -- Asth*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.
astigmatic		Affected with, or pertaining to, astigmatism; as, astigmatic eyes; also, remedying astigmatism; as, astigmatic lenses.
astigmatism		A defect of the eye or of a lens, in consequence of which the rays derived from one point are not brought to a single focal point, thus causing imperfect images or indistictness of vision.
astipulate	Obsolete	To assent.
astipulation	Obsolete	Stipulation; agreement.
astir		Stirring; in a state of activity or motion; out of bed.
astomatous		Not possessing a mouth.
astomous		Not possessing a mouth.
aston	Obsolete	To stun; to astonish; to stupefy.
astone	Obsolete	To stun; to astonish; to stupefy.
astonied	Archaic	Stunned; astonished. See Astony.
astonish		To strike with sudden fear, terror, or wonder; to amaze; to surprise greatly, as with something unaccountable; to confound with some sudden emotion or passion.
astonishedly		In an astonished manner.
astonishing		Very wonderful; of a nature to excite astonishment; as, an astonishing event.
astonishment		The overpowering emotion excited when something unaccountable, wonderful, or dreadful is presented to the mind; an intense degree of surprise; amazement.
astony	Archaic	To stun; to bewilder; to astonish; to dismay.
astoop		In a stooping or inclined position.
astound		To astonish; to strike with amazement; to confound with wonder, surprise, or fear.
astounding		Of a nature to astound; astonishing; amazing; as, an astounding force, statement, or fact. -- As*tound"ing*ly, adv.
astoundment		Amazement.
astrachan		See Astrakhan — of or pertaining to Astrakhan in Russia or its products; made of an Astrakhan skin. -- n.
astraddle		In a straddling position; astride; bestriding; as, to sit astraddle a horse.
astraean		Pertaining to the genus Astræa or the family Astræidæ. -- n.
astragal		(Arch.) A convex molding of rounded surface, generally from half to three quarters of a circle.
astragalar		Of or pertaining to the astragalus.
astragaloid		Resembling the astragalus in form.
astragalomancy		Divination by means of small bones or dice.
astragalus		(Anat.) The ankle bone, or hock bone; the bone of the tarsus which articulates with the tibia at the ankle.
astrakhan		Of or pertaining to Astrakhan in Russia or its products; made of an Astrakhan skin. -- n.
astral		Pertaining to, coming from, or resembling, the stars; starry; starlike.
astrand		Stranded.
astray		Out of the right, either in a literal or in a figurative sense; wandering; as, to lead one astray.
astrict	Obsolete	(Scots Law) To restrict the tenure of; as, to astrict lands. See Astriction, 4.
astriction		The act of binding; restriction; also, obligation.
astrictive		Binding; astringent. -- n.
astrictory		Astrictive.
astride		With one leg on each side, as a man when on horseback; with the legs stretched wide apart; astraddle.
astriferous		Bearing stars.
astringe		To bind fast; to constrict; to contract; to cause parts to draw together; to compress.
astringency		The quality of being astringent; the power of contracting the parts of the body; that quality in medicines or other substances which causes contraction of the organic textures; as, the astringency of tannin.
astringent		Drawing together the tissues; binding; contracting; -- opposed to laxative; as, astringent medicines; a butter and astringent taste; astringent fruit.
astringently		In an astringent manner.
astringer	Obsolete	A falconer who keeps a goschawk.
astro-		The combining form of the Greek word 'a`stron, meaning star.
astrofel		A bitter herb, probably the same as aster, or starwort.
astrofell		A bitter herb, probably the same as aster, or starwort.
astrogeny		The creation or evolution of the stars or the heavens.
astrognosy		The science or knowledge of the stars, esp. the fixed stars.
astrogony		Same as Astrogeny. -- As`*tro*gon"ic, a.
astrography		The art of describing or delineating the stars; a description or mapping of the heavens.
astroite	Obsolete	A radiated stone or fossil; star-stone.
astrolabe		(Astron.) An instrument for observing or showing the positions of the stars.
astrolater		A worshiper of the stars.
astrolatry		The worship of the stars.
astrolithology		The science of aërolites.
astrologer		One who practices astrology; one who professes to foretell events by the aspects and situation of the stars.
astrologian	Obsolete	An astrologer.
astrologic		Of or pertaining to astrology; professing or practicing astrology. -- As`tro*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
astrological		Of or pertaining to astrology; professing or practicing astrology. -- As`tro*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
astrologize		To apply astrology to; to study or practice astrology.
astrology		In its etymological signification, the science of the stars; among the ancients, synonymous with astronomy; subsequently, the art of judging of the influences of the stars upon human affairs…
astromantic		Of or pertaining to divination by means of the stars; astrologic.
astrometeorology		The investigation of the relation between the sun, moon, and stars, and the weather. -- As`*tro*me`te*or`o*log o*gist, n.
astrometer		An instrument for comparing the relative amount of the light of stars.
astrometry		The art of making measurements among the stars, or of determining their relative magnitudes.
astronomer		One who is versed in astronomy; one who has a knowledge of the laws of the heavenly orbs, or the principles by which their motions are regulated, with their various phenomena.
astronomian	Obsolete	An astrologer.
astronomic		Astronomical.
astronomical		Of or pertaining to astronomy; in accordance with the methods or principles of astronomy. -- As`tro*nom"ic*al*ly, adv.
astronomize		To study or to talk astronomy.
astronomy		The science which treats of the celestial bodies, of their magnitudes, motions, distances, periods of revolution, eclipses, constitution, physical condition, and of the causes of their various phenomena.
astrophel	Obsolete	See Astrofel — a bitter herb, probably the same as aster, or starwort.
astrophotography		The application of photography to the delineation of the sun, moon, and stars.
astrophotometer		A photometer for measuring the brightness of stars.
astrophotometry		The determination of the brightness of stars, and also of the sun, moon, and planets. --As`tro*pho`to*met"ric*al (#), a.
astrophysical		Pertaining to the physics of astronomical science.
astrophysics		The science treating of the physical characteristics of the stars and other heavenly bodies, their chemical constitution, light, heat, atmospheres, etc. Its observations are made with the spectroscope, bolometer, etc.…
astrophyton		A genus of ophiurans having the arms much branched.
astroscope		An old astronomical instrument, formed of two cones, on whose surface the constellations were delineated.
astroscopy	Obsolete	Observation of the stars.
astrotheology		Theology founded on observation or knowledge of the celestial bodies.
astructive	Obsolete	Building up; constructive; -- opposed to destructive.
astrut		In a strutting manner; with a strutting gait.
astucious		Subtle; cunning; astute.
astucity		Craftiness; astuteness.
astun	Obsolete	To stun.
asturian		Of or pertaining to Asturias in Spain. -- n.
astute		Critically discerning; sagacious; shrewd; subtle; crafty.
astylar		Without columns or pilasters.
astyllen		A small dam to prevent free passage of water in an adit or level.
asunder		Apart; separate from each other; into parts; in two; separately; into or in different pieces or places.
asura		An enemy of the gods, esp. one of a race of demons and giants.
aswail		The sloth bear (Melursus labiatus) of India.
asweve	Obsolete	To stupefy.
aswing		In a state of swinging.
aswoon		In a swoon.
aswooned		In a swoon.
asylum		A sanctuary or place of refuge and protection, where criminals and debtors found shelter, and from which they could not be forcibly taken without sacrilege.
asymmetral	Obsolete	Incommensurable; also, unsymmetrical.
asymmetric		Not symmetrical; wanting proportion; esp., not bilaterally symmetrical.
asymmetrical		Not symmetrical; wanting proportion; esp., not bilaterally symmetrical.
asymmetrous	Obsolete	Asymmetrical.
asymmetry		Want of symmetry, or proportion between the parts of a thing, esp. want of bilateral symmetry.
asymptote		A line which approaches nearer to some curve than assignable distance, but, though infinitely extended, would never meet it.
asynartete		Disconnected; not fitted or adjusted. -- A*syn ic, a.
asynchronous		Not simultaneous; not concurrent in time; --opposed to synchronous.
asyndetic		Characterized by the use of asyndeton; not connected by conjunctions. -- As`yn*det"ic*al*ly, adv.
asyndeton		A figure which omits the connective; as, I came, I saw, I conquered.
asystole		A weakening or cessation of the contractile power of the heart.
asystolism		The state or symptoms characteristic of asystole.
