at		Primarily, this word expresses the relations of presence, nearness in place or time, or direction toward; as, at the ninth hour; at the house; to aim at a mark.
atabal		A kettledrum; a kind of tabor, used by the Moors.
atacamite		An oxychloride of copper, usually in emerald-green prismatic crystals.
ataghan		See Yataghan — a long knife, or short saber, common among Mohammedan nations, usually having a double curve, sometimes nearly straight.
atake	Obsolete	To overtake.
ataman		A hetman, or chief of the Cossacks.
ataraxia		Perfect peace of mind, or calmness.
ataraxy		Perfect peace of mind, or calmness.
ataunt		Fully rigged, as a vessel; with all sails set; set on end or set right.
ataunto		Fully rigged, as a vessel; with all sails set; set on end or set right.
atavic		Pertaining to a remote ancestor, or to atavism.
atavism		(a) The recurrence, or a tendency to a recurrence, of the original type of a species in the progeny of its varieties; resemblance to remote rather than to near ancestors; reversion to the original form.
ataxia		(Med.) (a) Irregularity in disease, or in the functions. (b) The state of disorder that characterizes nervous fevers and the nervous condition.
ataxic		Characterized by ataxy, that is, (a) by great irregularity of functions or symptoms, or (b) by a want of coordinating power in movements.
ataxy		(Med.) (a) Irregularity in disease, or in the functions. (b) The state of disorder that characterizes nervous fevers and the nervous condition.
atazir	Obsolete	The influence of a star upon other stars or upon men.
ate		the preterit of Eat.
atechnic		Without technical or artistic knowledge.
ateles		A genus of American monkeys with prehensile tails, and having the thumb wanting or rudimentary.
atelier		A workshop; a studio.
atellan		Of or pertaining to Atella, in ancient Italy; as, Atellan plays; farcical; ribald. -- n.
athalamous		Not furnished with shields or beds for the spores, as the thallus of certain lichens.
athamaunt	Obsolete	Adamant.
athanasia		The quality of being deathless; immortality.
athanasian		Of or pertaining to Athanasius, bishop of Alexandria in the 4th century.
athanasy		The quality of being deathless; immortality.
athanor		A digesting furnace, formerly used by alchemists.
athecata		A division of Hydroidea in which the zooids are naked, or not inclosed in a capsule.
atheism		The disbelief or denial of the existence of a God, or supreme intelligent Being.
atheist		One who disbelieves or denies the existence of a God, or supreme intelligent Being.
atheistic		Pertaining to, implying, or containing, atheism; -- applied to things; as, atheistic doctrines, opinions, or books.
atheistical		Pertaining to, implying, or containing, atheism; -- applied to things; as, atheistic doctrines, opinions, or books.
atheize		To render atheistic or godless.
atheling		An Anglo-Saxon prince or nobleman; esp., the heir apparent or a prince of the royal family.
athenaeum		A temple of Athene, at Athens, in which scholars and poets were accustomed to read their works and instruct students.
atheneum		A temple of Athene, at Athens, in which scholars and poets were accustomed to read their works and instruct students.
athenian		Of or pertaining to Athens, the metropolis of Greece. -- n.
atheological		Opposed to theology; atheistic.
atheology		Antagonism to theology.
atheous		Without God, neither accepting nor denying him.
atherine		A small marine fish of the family Atherinidæ, having a silvery stripe along the sides.
athermancy		Inability to transmit radiant; impermeability to heat.
athermanous		Not transmitting heat; -- opposed to diathermanous.
athermous		Athermanous.
atheroid		Shaped like an ear of grain.
atheroma		(a) An encysted tumor containing curdy matter. (b) A disease characterized by thickening and fatty degeneration of the inner coat of the arteries.
atheromatous		Of, pertaining to, or having the nature of, atheroma.
athetize		To set aside or reject as spurious, as by marking with an obelus.
athetosis		A variety of chorea, marked by peculiar tremors of the fingers and toes.
athink	Obsolete	To repent; to displease; to disgust.
athirst		Wanting drink; thirsty.
athlete		(Antiq.) One who contended for a prize in the public games of ancient Greece or Rome.
athletic		Of or pertaining to athletes or to the exercises practiced by them; as, athletic games or sports.
athleticism		The practice of engaging in athletic games; athletism.
athletics		The art of training by athletic exercises; the games and sports of athletes.
athletism		The state or practice of an athlete; the characteristics of an athlete.
athrepsia		Profound debility of children due to lack of food and to unhygienic surroundings. --A*threp"tic (#), a.
athwart		Across; from side to side of.
atilt		In the manner of a tilter; in the position, or with the action, of one making a thrust.
atimy		Public disgrace or stigma; infamy; loss of civil rights.
atlanta		A genus of small glassy heteropod mollusks found swimming at the surface in mid ocean.
atlantal		(a) Relating to the atlas. (b) Anterior; cephalic.
atlantean		Of or pertaining to the isle Atlantis, which the ancients allege was sunk, and overwhelmed by the ocean.
atlantes		Figures or half figures of men, used as columns to support an entablature; -- called also telamones.
atlantic		Of or pertaining to the isle of Atlantis.
atlantides		The Pleiades or seven stars, fabled to have been the daughters of Atlas.
atlas		One who sustains a great burden.
atman		(a) The life principle, soul, or individual essence. (b) The universal ego from whom all individual atmans arise.
atmiatry		Treatment of disease by vapors or gases, as by inhalation.
atmidometer		An instrument for measuring the evaporation from water, ice, or snow.
atmo		The standard atmospheric pressure used in certain physical measurements calculations; conventionally, that pressure under which the barometer stands at 760 millimeters, at a temperature of 0º Centigrade, at the level of the sea…
atmologic		Of or pertaining to atmology.
atmological		Of or pertaining to atmology.
atmologist		One who is versed in atmology.
atmology		That branch of science which treats of the laws and phenomena of aqueous vapor.
atmolysis		The act or process of separating mingled gases of unequal diffusibility by transmission through porous substances.
atmolyzation		Separation by atmolysis.
atmolyze		To subject to atmolysis; to separate by atmolysis.
atmolyzer		An apparatus for effecting atmolysis.
atmometer		An instrument for measuring the rate of evaporation from a moist surface; an evaporometer.
atmosphere		(Physics) (a) The whole mass of aëriform fluid surrounding the earth; -- applied also to the gaseous envelope of any celestial orb, or other body; as, the atmosphere of Mars.
atmospheric		Of or pertaining to the atmosphere; of the nature of, or resembling, the atmosphere; as, atmospheric air; the atmospheric envelope of the earth.
atmospherical		Of or pertaining to the atmosphere; of the nature of, or resembling, the atmosphere; as, atmospheric air; the atmospheric envelope of the earth.
atmospherically		In relation to the atmosphere.
atmospherology		The science or a treatise on the atmosphere.
atokous		Producing only asexual individuals, as the eggs of certain annelids.
atole		A porridge or gruel of maize meal and water, milk, or the like.
atoll		A coral island or islands, consisting of a belt of coral reef, partly submerged, surrounding a central lagoon or depression; a lagoon island.
atom		(Physics) (a) An ultimate indivisible particle of matter. (b) An ultimate particle of matter not necessarily indivisible; a molecule.
atomic		Extremely minute; tiny.
atomical		Extremely minute; tiny.
atomically		In an atomic manner; in accordance with the atomic philosophy.
atomician		An atomist.
atomicism	Obsolete	Atomism.
atomicity		Degree of atomic attraction; equivalence; valence; also (a later use) the number of atoms in an elementary molecule.
atomism		The doctrine of atoms. See Atomic philosophy, under Atomic.
atomist		One who holds to the atomic philosophy or theory.
atomistic		Of or pertaining to atoms; relating to atomism.
atomization		The act of reducing to atoms, or very minute particles; or the state of being so reduced.
atomize		To reduce to atoms, or to fine spray.
atomizer		One who, or that which, atomizes; esp., an instrument for reducing a liquid to spray for disinfecting, cooling, or perfuming.
atomology		The doctrine of atoms.
atomy		An atom; a mite; a pigmy.
atonable		Admitting an atonement; capable of being atoned for; expiable.
atone		To make satisfaction for; to expiate.
atonement		Satisfaction or reparation made by giving an equivalent for an injury, or by doing of suffering that which will be received in satisfaction for an offense or injury; expiation; amends; -- with for.
atoner		One who makes atonement.
atones	Obsolete	Etym: Down he fell atones as a stone.
atonic		(Med.) Characterized by atony, or want of vital energy; as, an atonic disease.
atony		Want of tone; weakness of the system, or of any organ, especially of such as are contractile.
atop		On or at the top.
atrabilarian		Affected with melancholy; atrabilious.
atrabilarious		Affected with melancholy; atrabilious.
atrabiliar		Melancholy; atrabilious.
atrabiliary		Of or pertaining to atra bilis or black bile, a fluid formerly supposed to be produced by the kidneys.
atrabilious		Melancholic or hypochondriac; atrabiliary.
atramentaceous	Obsolete	Black, like ink; inky; atramental.
atramental		Of or pertaining to ink; inky; black, like ink; as, atramental galls; atramentous spots.
atramentarious		Like ink; suitable for making ink.
atramentous		Of or pertaining to ink; inky; black, like ink; as, atramental galls; atramentous spots.
atrede	Obsolete	To surpass in council.
atrenne	Obsolete	To outrun.
atresia		Absence or closure of a natural passage or channel of the body; imperforation.
atrial		Of or pertaining to an atrium.
atrip		(a) Just hove clear of the ground; -said of the anchor. (b) Sheeted home, hoisted taut up and ready for trimming; -- said of sails.
atrium		(Arch.) (a) A square hall lighted from above, into which rooms open at one or more levels.
atrocha		A kind of chætopod larva in which no circles of cilia are developed.
atrocious		Extremely heinous; full of enormous wickedness; as, atrocious quilt or deeds.
atrocity		Enormous wickedness; extreme heinousness or cruelty.
atrophic		Relating to atrophy.
atrophied		Affected with atrophy, as a tissue or organ; arrested in development at a very early stage; rudimentary.
atrophy		A wasting away from want of nourishment; diminution in bulk or slow emaciation of the body or of any part.
atropia		Same as Atropine.
atropine		A poisonous, white, crystallizable alkaloid, extracted from the Atropa belladonna, or deadly nightshade, and the Datura Stramonium, or thorn apple.
atropism		A condition of the system produced by long use of belladonna.
atropous		Not inverted; orthotropous.
atrous		Coal-black; very black.
atrypa		A extinct genus of Branchiopoda, very common in Silurian limestones.
attabal		See Atabal — a kettledrum; a kind of tabor, used by the Moors.
attacca		Attack at once; -- a direction at the end of a movement to show that the next is to follow immediately, without any pause.
attach		To bind, fasten, tie, or connect; to make fast or join; as, to attach one thing to another by a string, by glue, or the like.
attachable		Capable of being attached; esp., liable to be taken by writ or precept.
attache		One attached to another person or thing, as a part of a suite or staff.
attachment		The act attaching, or state of being attached; close adherence or affection; fidelity; regard; anas, an attachment to a friend, or to a party.
attack		To fall upon with force; to assail, as with force and arms; to assault.
attackable		Capable of being attacked.
attacker		One who attacks.
attagas		A species of sand grouse (Syrrghaptes Pallasii) found in Asia and rarely in southern Europe.
attagen		A species of sand grouse (Syrrghaptes Pallasii) found in Asia and rarely in southern Europe.
attaghan		See Yataghan — a long knife, or short saber, common among Mohammedan nations, usually having a double curve, sometimes nearly straight.
attain		To achieve or accomplish, that is, to reach by efforts; to gain; to compass; as, to attain rest.
attainability		The quality of being attainable; attainbleness.
attainable		Capable of being attained or reached by efforts of the mind or body; capable of being compassed or accomplished by efforts directed to the object.
attainableness		The quality of being attainable; attainability.
attainder		The act of attainting, or the state of being attainted; the extinction of the civil rights and capacities of a person, consequent upon sentence of death or outlawry; as, an act of attainder.
attainment		The act of attaining; the act of arriving at or reaching; hence, the act of obtaining by efforts.
attaint		(Law) To subject (a person) to the legal condition formerly resulting from a sentence of death or outlawry, pronounced in respect of treason or felony; to affect by attainder.
attaintment		Attainder; attainture; conviction.
attainture		Attainder; disgrace.
attal		Same as Attle.
attame	Obsolete	To pierce; to attack.
attaminate	Obsolete	To corrupt; to defile; to contaminate.
attar		A fragrant essential oil; esp., a volatile and highly fragrant essential oil obtained from the petals of roses.
attask		To take to task; to blame.
attaste	Obsolete	To taste or cause to taste.
attemper		To reduce, modify, or moderate, by mixture; to temper; to regulate, as temperature.
attemperament		A tempering, or mixing in due proportion.
attemperance	Obsolete	Temperance; attemperament.
attemperate	Archaic	Tempered; proportioned; properly adapted.
attemperation	Archaic	The act of attempering or regulating.
attemperly	Obsolete	Temperately.
attemperment		Attemperament.
attempt		To make trial or experiment of; to try; to endeavor to do or perform (some action); to assay; as, to attempt to sing; to attempt a bold flight.
attemptable		Capable of being attempted, tried, or attacked.
attempter		One who attempts; one who essays anything.
attemptive	Obsolete	Disposed to attempt; adventurous.
attend		To care for; to look after; to take charge of; to watch over.
attendance		The act of attending; state of being in waiting; service; ministry; the fact of being present; presence.
attendancy	Obsolete	The quality of attending or accompanying; attendance; an attendant.
attendant		Being present, or in the train; accompanying; in waiting.
attender		One who, or that which, attends.
attendment	Obsolete	An attendant circumstance.
attent	Archaic	Attentive; heedful.
attentat		(Law) (a) A proceeding in a court of judicature, after an inhibition is decreed.
attentate		(Law) (a) A proceeding in a court of judicature, after an inhibition is decreed.
attention		The act or state of attending or heeding; the application of the mind to any object of sense, representation, or thought; notice; exclusive or special consideration; earnest consideration, thought, or regard…
attentive		Heedful; intent; observant; regarding with care or attention.
attently	Obsolete	Attentively.
attenuant		Making thin, as fluids; diluting; rendering less dense and viscid; diluent. -- n.
attenuate		To make thin or slender, as by mechanical or chemical action upon inanimate objects, or by the effects of starvation, disease, etc., upon living bodies.
attenuated		Made thin or slender.
attenuation		The act or process of making slender, or the state of being slender; emaciation.
atter	Obsolete	Poison; venom; corrupt matter from a sore.
attercop		A peevish, ill-natured person.
atterrate	Obsolete	To fill up with alluvial earth.
atterration	Obsolete	The act of filling up with earth, or of forming land with alluvial earth.
attest		To bear witness to; to certify; to affirm to be true or genuine; as, to attest the truth of a writing, a copy of record.
attestation		The act of attesting; testimony; witness; a solemn or official declaration, verbal or written, in support of a fact; evidence.
attestative		Of the nature of attestation.
attester		One who attests.
attestive		Attesting; furnishing evidence.
attestor		One who attests.
attic		Of or pertaining to Attica, in Greece, or to Athens, its principal city; marked by such qualities as were characteristic of the Athenians; classical; refined.
atticism		The style and idiom of the Greek language, used by the Athenians; a concise and elegant expression.
atticize		To conform or make conformable to the language, customs, etc., of Attica.
attiguous	Obsolete	Touching; bordering; contiguous. -- At*tig"u*ous*ness, n.
attinge	Obsolete	To touch lightly.
attire		To dress; to array; to adorn; esp., to clothe with elegant or splendid garments.
attired		Provided with antlers, as a stag.
attirement		Attire; adornment.
attirer		One who attires.
attitude		(Paint. & Sculp.) The posture, action, or disposition of a figure or a statue.
attitudinal		Relating to attitude.
attitudinarian		One who attitudinizes; a posture maker.
attitudinarianism		A practicing of attitudes; posture making.
attitudinize		To assume affected attitudes; to strike an attitude; to pose.
attitudinizer		One who practices attitudes.
attle		Rubbish or refuse consisting of broken rock containing little or no ore.
attollent		Lifting up; raising; as, an attollent muscle.
attonce	Obsolete	At once; together.
attone	Obsolete	See At one.
attorn		(Feudal Law) To turn, or transfer homage and service, from one lord to another.
attorney	Obsolete	(Law) (a) One who is legally appointed by another to transact any business for him; an attorney in fact.
attorney-general		The chief law officer of the state, empowered to act in all litigation in which the law-executing power is a party, and to advise this supreme executive whenever required.
attorneyism		The practice or peculiar cleverness of attorneys.
attorneyship		The office or profession of an attorney; agency for another.
attornment		The act of a feudatory, vassal, or tenant, by which he consents, upon the alienation of an estate, to receive a new lord or superior, and transfers to him his homage and service…
attract		To draw to, or cause to tend to; esp. to cause to approach, adhere, or combine; or to cause to resist divulsion, separation, or decomposition.
attractability		The quality or fact of being attractable.
attractable		Capable of being attracted; subject to attraction. -- At*tract"a*ble*ness, n.
attracter		One who, or that which, attracts.
attractile		Having power to attract.
attracting		That attracts. -- At*tract"ing*ly, adv.
attraction		(Physics) An invisible power in a body by which it draws anything to itself; the power in nature acting mutually between bodies or ultimate particles, tending to draw them together, or to produce their cohesion or combination…
attractive		Having the power or quality of attracting or drawing; as, the attractive force of bodies.
attractivity		The quality or degree of attractive power.
attractor		One who, or that which, attracts.
attrahent		Attracting; drawing; attractive.
attrap	Obsolete	To entrap; to insnare.
attrectation	Obsolete	Frequent handling or touching.
attributable		Capable of being attributed; ascribable; imputable.
attribute		That which is attributed; a quality which is considered as belonging to, or inherent in, a person or thing; an essential or necessary property or characteristic.
attribution		The act of attributing or ascribing, as a quality, character, or function, to a thing or person, an effect to a cause.
attributive		Attributing; pertaining to, expressing, or assigning an attribute; of the nature of an attribute.
attributively		In an attributive manner.
attrite		Rubbed; worn by friction.
attrition		The act of rubbing together; friction; the act of wearing by friction, or by rubbing substances together; abrasion.
attritus		Matter pulverized by attrition.
attry	Obsolete	Poisonous; malignant; malicious.
attune		To tune or put in tune; to make melodious; to adjust, as one sound or musical instrument to another; as, to attune the voice to a harp.
atwain	Obsolete	In twain; asunder.
atween	Archaic	Between.
atwirl		Twisted; distorted; awry.
atwite	Obsolete	To speak reproachfully of; to twit; to upbraid.
atwixt	Obsolete	Betwixt.
atwo	Obsolete	In two; in twain; asunder.
atypic		That has no type; devoid of typical character; irregular; unlike the type.
atypical		That has no type; devoid of typical character; irregular; unlike the type.
