aubade		An open air concert in the morning, as distinguished from an evening serenade; also, a pianoforte composition suggestive of morning.
aubaine		Succession to the goods of a stranger not naturalized.
aubin		A broken gait of a horse, between an amble and a gallop; -- commonly called a Canterbury gallop.
auburn	Obsolete	Flaxen-colored.
auchenium		The part of the neck nearest the back.
aucht	Scots	Property; possession.
auctary	Obsolete	That which is superadded; augmentation.
auction		A public sale of property to the highest bidder, esp. by a person licensed and authorized for the purpose; a vendue.
auctionary		Of or pertaining to an auction or an auctioneer.
auctioneer		A person who sells by auction; a person whose business it is to dispose of goods or lands by public sale to the highest or best bidder.
aucupation	Obsolete	Birdcatching; fowling.
audacious		Daring; spirited; adventurous.
audaciously		In an audacious manner; with excess of boldness; impudently.
audaciousness		The quality of being audacious; impudence; audacity.
audacity		Daring spirit, resolution, or confidence; venturesomeness.
audibility		The quality of being audible; power of being heard; audible capacity.
audible	Obsolete	Capable of being heard; loud enough to be heard; actually heard; as, an audible voice or whisper.
audibleness		The quality of being audible.
audibly		So as to be heard.
audience		The act of hearing; attention to sounds.
audient	Obsolete	Listening; paying attention; as, audient souls.
audile		One whose thoughts take the form of mental sounds or of internal discourse rather than of visual or motor images.
audiometer		An instrument by which the power of hearing can be gauged and recorded on a scale.
audiphone		An instrument which, placed against the teeth, conveys sound to the auditory nerve and enables the deaf to hear more or less distinctly; a dentiphone.
audit		An examination in general; a judicial examination.
audition		The act of hearing or listening; hearing.
auditive		Of or pertaining to hearing; auditory.
auditor		A person appointed and authorized to audit or examine an account or accounts, compare the charges with the vouchers, examine the parties and witnesses, allow or reject charges, and state the balance.
auditorial		Auditory.
auditorium		The part of a church, theater, or other public building, assigned to the audience.
auditorship		The office or function of auditor.
auditory		Of or pertaining to hearing, or to the sense or organs of hearing; as, the auditory nerve.
auditress		A female hearer.
auditual		Auditory.
auf	Obsolete	A changeling or elf child, -- that is, one left by fairies; a deformed or foolish child; a simpleton; an oaf.
aufklarung		A philosophic movement of the 18th century characterized by a lively questioning of authority, keen interest in matters of politics and general culture, and an emphasis on empirical method in science.
augean		Hence: Exceedingly filthy or corrupt.
auger		A carpenter's tool for boring holes larger than those bored by a gimlet.
auget		A priming tube connecting the charge chamber with the gallery, or place where the slow match is applied.
aught	Scots	Property; possession.
augite		A variety of pyroxene, usually of a black or dark green color, occurring in igneous rocks, such as basalt; -- also used instead of the general term pyroxene.
augitic		Pertaining to, or like, augite; containing augite as a principal constituent; as, augitic rocks.
augment		To enlarge or increase in size, amount, or degree; to swell; to make bigger; as, to augment an army by reëforcements; rain augments a stream; impatience augments an evil.
augmentable		Capable of augmentation.
augmentation		The act or process of augmenting, or making larger, by addition, expansion, or dilation; increase.
augmentative		Having the quality or power of augmenting; expressing augmentation. -- Aug*ment"a*tive*ly, adv.
augmenter		One who, or that which, augments or increases anything.
augrim	Obsolete	See Algorism — the art of calculating by nine figures and zero.
augur		One who foretells events by omens; a soothsayer; a diviner; a prophet.
augural		Of or pertaining to augurs or to augury; betokening; ominous; significant; as, an augural staff; augural books.
augurate	Obsolete	To make or take auguries; to augur; to predict.
auguration		The practice of augury.
augurer	Obsolete	An augur.
augurial		Relating to augurs or to augury.
augurist		An augur.
augurize	Obsolete	To augur.
augurous	Obsolete	Full of augury; foreboding.
augurship		The office, or period of office, of an augur.
augury		The art or practice of foretelling events by observing the actions of birds, etc.; divination.
august		Of a quality inspiring mingled admiration and reverence; having an aspect of solemn dignity or grandeur; sublime; majestic; having exalted birth, character, state, or authority.
augustan		Of or pertaining to Augustus Cæsar or to his times.
augustine		A member of one of the religious orders called after St. Augustine; an Austin friar.
augustinian		A member of one of the religious orders called after St. Augustine; an Austin friar.
augustinianism		The doctrines held by Augustine or by the Augustinians.
augustinism		The doctrines held by Augustine or by the Augustinians.
augustly		In an august manner.
augustness		The quality of being august; dignity of mien; grandeur; magnificence.
auk		A name given to various species of arctic sea birds of the family Alcidæ.
aukward	Obsolete	See Awkward — wanting dexterity in the use of the hands, or of instruments; not dexterous; without skill; clumsy; wanting ease, grace, or effectiveness in movement; ungraceful; as…
aularian		Relating to a hall.
auld	Scots	Old; as, Auld Reekie (old smoky), i. e., Edinburgh.
auletic		Of or pertaining to a pipe (flute) or piper.
aulic		Pertaining to a royal court.
auln	Obsolete	An ell. See Aune.
aulnage		See Alnage and Alnager.
aulnager		See Alnage and Alnager.
aum		Same as Aam.
aumail	Obsolete	To figure or variegate.
aumbry		Same as Ambry.
aumery		A form of Ambry, a closet; but confused with Almonry, as if a place for alms.
auncel		A rude balance for weighing, and a kind of weight, formerly used in England.
auncetry	Obsolete	Ancestry.
aune		A French cloth measure, of different parts of the country (at Paris, 0.95 of an English ell); -- now superseded by the meter.
aunt	Obsolete	An old woman; and old gossip.
aunter	Obsolete	Adventure; hap.
auntie		A familiar name for an aunt.
auntre	Obsolete	To venture; to dare.
auntrous	Obsolete	Adventurous.
aunty		A familiar name for an aunt.
aura		Any subtile, invisible emanation, effluvium, or exhalation from a substance, as the aroma of flowers, the odor of the blood, a supposed fertilizing emanation from the pollen of flowers, etc.
aural		Of or pertaining to the air, or to an aura.
aurantiaceous		Pertaining to, or resembling, the Aurantiaceæ, an order of plants (formerly considered natural), of which the orange is the type.
aurate		A combination of auric acid with a base; as, aurate or potassium.
aurated		Resembling or containing gold; gold-colored; gilded.
aureate		Golden; gilded.
aurelia		(a) The chrysalis, or pupa of an insect, esp. when reflecting a brilliant golden color, as that of some of the butterflies.
aurelian		Of or pertaining to the aurelia.
aureola		The circle of rays, or halo of light, with which painters surround the figure and represent the glory of Christ, saints, and others held in special reverence.
aureole		The circle of rays, or halo of light, with which painters surround the figure and represent the glory of Christ, saints, and others held in special reverence.
auric		(Chem.) Pertaining to, or derived from, gold; -- said of those compounds of gold in which this element has its higher valence; as, auric oxide; auric chloride.
aurichalceous		Brass-colored.
aurichalcite		A hydrous carbonate of copper and zinc, found in pale green or blue crystalline aggregations.
auricle		(Anat.) (a) The external ear, or that part of the ear which is prominent from the head.
auricled		Having ear-shaped appendages or lobes; auriculate; as, auricled leaves.
auricula		(Bot.) (a) A species of Primula, or primrose, called also, from the shape of its leaves, bear's-ear.
auricular		Of or pertaining to the ear, or to the sense of hearing; as, auricular nerves.
auricularia		A kind of holothurian larva, with soft, blunt appendages. See Illustration in Appendix.
auricularly		In an auricular manner.
auriculars		A circle of feathers surrounding the opening of the ear of birds.
auriculate		Having ears or appendages like ears; eared. Esp.: (a) (Bot.) Having lobes or appendages like the ear; shaped like the ear; auricled.
auriculated		Having ears or appendages like ears; eared. Esp.: (a) (Bot.) Having lobes or appendages like the ear; shaped like the ear; auricled.
auriferous		Gold-bearing; containing or producing gold.
auriflamme		See Oriflamme — the ancient royal standard of France.
auriform		Having the form of the human ear; ear-shaped.
auriga		The Charioteer, or Wagoner, a constellation in the northern hemisphere, situated between Perseus and Gemini.
aurigal		Of or pertaining to a chariot.
aurigation		The act of driving a chariot or a carriage.
aurigraphy		The art of writing with or in gold.
aurilave		An instrument for cleansing the ear, consisting of a small piece of sponge on an ivory or bone handle.
aurin		A red coloring matter derived from phenol; -- called also, in commerce, yellow coralin.
auriphrygiate		Embroidered or decorated with gold.
auripigment	Obsolete	See Orpiment — arsenic sesquisulphide, produced artificially as an amorphous lemonyellow powder, and occurring naturally as a yellow crystalline mineral; -- formerly called auripigment.
auriscalp		An earpick.
auriscope		An instrument for examining the condition of the ear.
auriscopy		Examination of the ear by the aid of the auriscope.
aurist		One skilled in treating and curing disorders of the ear.
aurited		Having lobes like the ear; auriculate.
aurivorous		Gold-devouring.
aurocephalous		Having a gold-colored head.
aurochloride		The trichloride of gold combination with the chloride of another metal, forming a double chloride; -- called also chloraurate.
aurochs		The European bison (Bison bonasus, or Europæus), once widely distributed, but now nearly extinct, except where protected in the Lithuanian forests, and perhaps in the Caucasus.
aurocyanide		A double cyanide of gold and some other metal or radical; -- called also cyanaurate.
aurora		The rising light of the morning; the dawn of day; the redness of the sky just before the sun rises.
auroral		Belonging to, or resembling, the aurora (the dawn or the northern lights); rosy.
aurous		Containing gold.
auscult		To auscultate.
auscultate		To practice auscultation; to examine by auscultation.
auscultation		(Med.) An examination by listening either directly with the ear (immediate auscultation) applied to parts of the body, as the abdomen; or with the stethoscope (mediate ~)…
auscultator		One who practices auscultation.
auscultatory		Of or pertaining to auscultation.
ausonian		Italian.
auspicate		To give a favorable turn to in commencing; to inaugurate; -- a sense derived from the Roman practice of taking the auspicium, or inspection of birds, before undertaking any important business.
auspice		A divining or taking of omens by observing birds; an omen as to an undertaking, drawn from birds; an augury; an omen or sign in general; an indication as to the future.
auspicial		Of or pertaining to auspices; auspicious.
auspicious		Having omens or tokens of a favorable issue; giving promise of success, prosperity, or happiness; predicting good; as, an auspicious beginning.
auster		The south wind.
austere		Sour and astringent; rough to the state; having acerbity; as, an austere crab apple; austere wine.
austerely		Severely; rigidly; sternly.
austereness		Harshness or astringent sourness to the taste; acerbity.
austerity		Severity of manners or life; extreme rigor or strictness; harsh discipline.
austin		Augustinian; as, Austin friars.
austral		Southern; lying or being in the south; as, austral land; austral ocean.
australasian		Of or pertaining to Australasia; as, Australasian regions. -- n.
australian		Of or pertaining to Australia. -- n.
australize	Obsolete	To tend toward the south pole, as a magnet.
austrian		Of or pertaining to Austria, or to its inhabitants. -- n.
austrine	Obsolete	Southern; southerly; austral.
austro-hungarian		Of or pertaining to the monarchy composed of Austria and Hungary.
austromancy		Soothsaying, or prediction of events, from observation of the winds.
auszug		See Army organization, Switzerland.
autarchy	Obsolete	Self-sufficiency.
authentic		Having a genuine original or authority, in opposition to that which is false, fictitious, counterfeit, or apocryphal; being what it purports to be; genuine; not of doubtful origin; real; as, an authentic paper or register.
authentical	Archaic	Authentic.
authentically		In an authentic manner; with the requisite or genuine authority.
authenticalness		The quality of being authentic; authenticity.
authenticate		To render authentic; to give authority to, by the proof, attestation, or formalities required by law, or sufficient to entitle to credit.
authenticity		The quality of being authentic or of established authority for truth and correctness.
authenticly		Authentically.
authenticness		The quality of being authentic; authenticity.
authentics		A collection of the Novels or New Constitutions of Justinian, by an anonymous author; -- so called on account of its authencity.
authochthonic		Aboriginal; indigenous; native.
author		The beginner, former, or first mover of anything; hence, the efficient cause of a thing; a creator; an originator.
authoress		A female author.
authorial		Of or pertaining to an author.
authorism		Authoriship.
authoritative		Having, or proceeding from, due authority; entitled to obedience, credit, or acceptance; determinate; commanding.
authority		Legal or rightful power; a right to command or to act; power exercised buy a person in virtue of his office or trust; dominion; jurisdiction; authorization; as, the authority of a prince over subjects…
authorizable		Capable of being authorized.
authorization		The act of giving authority or legal power; establishment by authority; sanction or warrant.
authorize		To clothe with authority, warrant, or legal power; to give a right to act; to empower; as, to authorize commissioners to settle a boundary.
authorized		Possessed of or endowed with authority; as, an authorized agent.
authorizer		One who authorizes.
authorless		Without an author; without authority; anonymous.
authorly		Authorial.
authorship		The quality or state of being an author; function or dignity of an author.
authotype		A type or block containing a facsimile of an autograph.
auto-		A combining form, with the meaning of self, one's self, one's own, itself, its own.
auto-da-fe		A judgment of the Inquisition in Spain and Portugal condemning or acquitting persons accused of religious offenses.
auto-de-fe		Same as Auto-da-fé.
auto-infection		Poisoning caused by a virus that originates and develops in the organism itself.
auto-inoculation		Inoculation of a person with virus from his own body.
auto-intoxication		Poisoning, or the state of being poisoned, from toxic substances produced within the body; autotoxæmia.
autobiographer		One who writers his own life or biography.
autobiographic		Pertaining to, or containing, autobiography; as, an autobiographical sketch. -- Au`to*bi`o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.
autobiographical		Pertaining to, or containing, autobiography; as, an autobiographical sketch. -- Au`to*bi`o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.
autobiographist		One who writes his own life; an autobiographer.
autobiography		A biography written by the subject of it; memoirs of one's life written by one's self.
autocarpian		Consisting of the pericarp of the ripened pericarp with no other parts adnate to it, as a peach, a poppy capsule, or a grape.
autocarpous		Consisting of the pericarp of the ripened pericarp with no other parts adnate to it, as a peach, a poppy capsule, or a grape.
autocatalysis		Self-catalysis; catalysis of a substance by one of its own products, as of silver oxide by the silver formed by reduction of a small portion of it. -- Au`to*cat`a*lyt"ic (#), a.
autocephalous		Having its own head; independent of episcopal or patriarchal jurisdiction, as certain Greek churches.
autochronograph		An instrument for the instantaneous self-recording or printing of time.
autochthon		One who is supposed to rise or spring from the ground or the soil he inhabits; one of the original inhabitants or aborigines; a native; -- commonly in the plural.
autochthonal		Aboriginal; indigenous; native.
autochthonism		The state of being autochthonal.
autochthonous		Aboriginal; indigenous; native.
autochthony		An aboriginal or autochthonous condition.
autoclastic		Broken in place; -- said of rocks having a broken or brecciated structure due to crushing, in contrast to those of brecciated materials brought from a distance.
autoclave		A kind of French stewpan with a steamtight lid.
autocoherer		A self-restoring coherer, as a microphonic detector.
autocracy		Independent or self-derived power; absolute or controlling authority; supremacy.
autocrat		An absolute sovereign; a monarch who holds and exercises the powers of government by claim of absolute right, not subject to restriction; as, Autocrat of all the Russias (a title of the Czar).
autocratic		Of or pertaining to autocracy or to an autocrat; absolute; holding independent and arbitrary powers of government. -- Au`to*crat"ic*al*ly, adv.
autocratical		Of or pertaining to autocracy or to an autocrat; absolute; holding independent and arbitrary powers of government. -- Au`to*crat"ic*al*ly, adv.
autocrator	Archaic	An autocrat.
autocratorical	Obsolete	Pertaining to an autocrator; absolute.
autocratrix		A female sovereign who is independent and absolute; -- a title given to the empresses of Russia.
autocratship		The office or dignity of an autocrat.
autodidact		One who is self-taught; an automath.
autodynamic		Supplying its own power; -- applied to an instrument of the nature of a water-ram.
autoecious		Passing through all its stages on one host, as certain parasitic fungi; -- contrasted with heterocious.
autoecism		Quality of being autocious.
autofecundation		Self-impregnation.
autogamous		Characterized by autogamy; self-fertilized.
autogamy		Self-fertilization, the fertilizing pollen being derived from the same blossom as the pistil acted upon.
autogeneal		Self-produced; autogenous.
autogenesis		Spontaneous generation.
autogenetic		Relating to autogenesis; self-generated.
autogenous		(Biol.) Self-generated; produced independently.
autogenously		In an autogenous manner; spontaneously.
autograph		That which is written with one's own hand; an original manuscript; a person's own signature or handwriting.
autographal	Obsolete	Autographic.
autographic		Pertaining to an autograph, or one's own handwriting; of the nature of an autograph.
autographical		Pertaining to an autograph, or one's own handwriting; of the nature of an autograph.
autography		The science of autographs; a person's own handwriting; an autograph.
autoharp		A zitherlike musical instrument, provided with dampers which, when depressed, deaden some strings, leaving free others that form a chord.
autohypnotic		Pert. to autohypnotism; self-hypnotizing. -- n.
autohypnotism		Hypnotism of one's self by concentration of the attention on some object or idea.
autokinesis		Spontaneous or voluntary movement; movement due to an internal cause.
autokinetic		Self-moving; moving automatically.
autolatry		Self-worship.
automath		One who is self-taught.
automatic		Having an inherent power of action or motion.
automatical		Having an inherent power of action or motion.
automatically		In an automatic manner.
automatism		The state or quality of being automatic; the power of self- moving; automatic, mechanical, or involuntary action.
automaton		Any thing or being regarded as having the power of spontaneous motion or action.
automatous	Obsolete	Automatic.
automobile		An automobile vehicle or mechanism; esp., a self-propelled vehicle suitable for use on a street or roadway.
automobilism		The use of automobiles, or the practices, methods, or the like, of those who use them. -- Au`to*mo"bil*ist, n.
automorphic		Patterned after one's self.
automorphism		Automorphic characterization.
autonomasy		The use of a word of common or general signification for the name of a particular thing; as, for,
autonomic		Having the power of self-government; autonomous.
autonomist		One who advocates autonomy.
autonomous		Independent in government; having the right or power of self- government.
autonomy		The power or right of self-government; self-government, or political independence, of a city or a state.
autopathic		Dependent upon, or due or relating to, the structure and characteristics of the diseased organism; endopathic; as, an autopathic disease; an autopathic theory of diseases.
autophagi		Birds which are able to run about and obtain their own food as soon as hatched.
autophagy		The feeding of the body upon itself, as in fasting; nutrition by consumption of one's own tissues.
autophoby		Fear of one's self; fear of being egotistical.
autophony		An auscultatory process, which consists in noting the tone of the observer's own voice, while he speaks, holding his head close to the patient's chest.
autoplastic		Of or pertaining to autoplasty.
autoplasty		The process of artificially repairing lesions by taking a piece of healthy tissue, as from a neighboring part, to supply the deficiency caused by disease or wounds.
autopneumatic		Acting or moving automatically by means of compressed air.
autopsic	Obsolete	Pertaining to autopsy; autoptical.
autopsical	Obsolete	Pertaining to autopsy; autoptical.
autopsorin		That which is given under the doctrine of administering a patient's own virus.
autopsy		Personal observation or examination; seeing with one's own eyes; ocular view.
autoptic		Seen with one's own eyes; belonging to, or connected with, personal observation; as, autoptic testimony or experience.
autoptical		Seen with one's own eyes; belonging to, or connected with, personal observation; as, autoptic testimony or experience.
autoptically		By means of ocular view, or one's own observation.
autoschediastic		Extemporary; offhand.
autoschediastical		Extemporary; offhand.
autostability		Automatic stability; also, inherent stability.
autostylic		Having the mandibular arch articulated directly to the cranium, as in the skulls of the Amphibia.
autosuggestion		Self-suggestion as distinguished from suggestion coming from another, esp. in hypnotism.
autotheism		Deification of one's self; self-worship.
autotheist		One given to self-worship.
autotoxaemia		Self-intoxication. See Auto-intoxication.
autotoxemia		Self-intoxication. See Auto-intoxication.
autotoxic		Pertaining to, or causing, autotoxæmia.
autotoxication		Same as Auto-intoxication.
autotransformer		A transformer in which part of the primary winding is used as a secondary winding, or vice versa; -- called also a compensator or balancing coil.
autotrophic		Capable of self-nourishment; -- said of all plants in which photosynthetic activity takes place, as opposed to parasitism or saprophytism.
autotropism		The tendency of plant organs to grow in a straight line when uninfluenced by external stimuli.
autotype		A photographic picture produced in sensitized pigmented gelatin by exposure to light under a negative; and subsequent washing out of the soluble parts; a kind of picture in ink from a gelatin plate.
autotypography		A process resembling by which drawings executed on gelatin are impressed into a soft metal plate, from which the printing is done as from copperplate.
autotypy		The art or process of making autotypes.
autumn		The third season of the year, or the season between summer and winter, often called Astronomically, it begins in the northern temperate zone at the autumnal equinox, about September 23, and ends at the winter solstice…
autumnal		Of, belonging to, or peculiar to, autumn; as, an autumnal tint; produced or gathered in autumn; as, autumnal fruits; flowering in autumn; as, an autumnal plant.
autunite		A lemon-yellow phosphate of uranium and calcium occurring in tabular crystals with basal cleavage, and in micalike scales.
auxanometer		An instrument to measure the growth of plants.
auxesis		A figure by which a grave and magnificent word is put for the proper word; amplification; hyperbole.
auxetic		Pertaining to, or containing, auxesis; amplifying.
auxetophone		A pneumatic reproducer for a phonograph, controlled by the recording stylus on the principle of the relay.
auxiliar	Archaic	Auxiliary.
auxiliarly		By way of help.
auxiliary		Conferring aid or help; helping; aiding; assisting; subsidiary; as auxiliary troops.
auxiliatory	Obsolete	Auxiliary; helping.
auxometer		An instrument for measuring the magnifying power of a lens or system of lenses.
