ava		Same as Kava.	
avadavat		Same as Amadavat.	
avail		To turn to the advantage of; to be of service to; to profit; to benefit; to help; as, artifices will not avail the sinner in the day of judgment.	Middle English vailen, from Old French valoir, from Latin valere.
availability		The quality of being available; availableness.	
available		Such as one may avail one's self of; capable of being used for the accomplishment of a purpose; usable; profitable; advantageous; convertible into a resource; as, an available measure; an available candidate.	
availableness		Quality of being available; capability of being used for the purpose intended.	
availably		In an available manner; profitably; advantageously; efficaciously.	
availment	Obsolete	Profit; advantage.	
avalanche		A large mass or body of snow and ice sliding swiftly down a mountain side, or falling down a precipice.	
avale	Obsolete	To cause to descend; to lower; to let fall; to doff.	French avaler.
avant	Obsolete	The front of an army. See Van.	
avant-courier		A person dispatched before another person or company, to give notice of his or their approach.	
avant-guard		The van or advanced body of an army. See Vanguard.	
avarice		An excessive or inordinate desire of gain; greediness after wealth; covetousness; cupidity.	
avaricious		Actuated by avarice; greedy of gain; immoderately desirous of accumulating property.	Old French avaricios.
avarous	Obsolete	Avaricious.	Latin avarus.
avast		Cease; stop; stay.	
avatar		(Hindoo Myth.) The descent of a deity to earth, and his incarnation as a man or an animal; -- chiefly associated with the incarnations of Vishnu.	
avaunce		To advance; to profit.	
avaunt		Begone; depart; -- a word of contempt or abhorrence, equivalent to the phrase	
avauntour	Obsolete	A boaster.	
ave		A reverential salutation.	Latin ave.
avel	Obsolete	To pull away.	
avellane		In the form of four unhusked filberts; as, an avellane cross.	Italian avellana.
avena		A genus of grasses, including the common oat (Avena sativa); the oat grasses.	
avenaceous		Belonging to, or resembling, oats or the oat grasses.	
avenage		A quantity of oats paid by a tenant to a landlord in lieu of rent.	Old French avenage.
avenalin		A crystalline globulin, contained in oat kernels, very similar in composition to excelsin, but different in reactions and crystalline form.	
avener	Obsolete	An officer of the king's stables whose duty it was to provide oats for the horses.	
avenge		To take vengeance for; to exact satisfaction for by punishing the injuring party; to vindicate by inflicting pain or evil on a wrongdoer.	Old French avengier.
avengeance	Obsolete	Vengeance.	
avengeful	Obsolete	Vengeful.	
avengement		The inflicting of retributive punishment; satisfaction taken.	
avenger		One who avenges or vindicates; as, an avenger of blood.	
avengeress	Obsolete	A female avenger.	
avenious		Being without veins or nerves, as the leaves of certain plants.	
avenor	Obsolete	See Avener — an officer of the king's stables whose duty it was to provide oats for the horses.	
avens		A plant of the genus Geum, esp. Geum urbanum, or herb bennet.	
aventail		The movable front to a helmet; the ventail.	Middle English aventayle.
aventine	Poetic	Pertaining to Mons Aventinus, one of the seven hills on which Rome stood.	
aventre	Obsolete	To thrust forward (at a venture), as a spear.	
aventure		(Old Law) A mischance causing a person's death without felony, as by drowning, or falling into the fire.	
aventurine		A kind of glass, containing gold-colored spangles.	
avenue		A way or opening for entrance into a place; a passage by which a place may by reached; a way of approach or of exit.	French avenue, from Old French avenue.
aver		To affirm with confidence; to declare in a positive manner, as in confidence of asserting the truth.	French avérer.
average		(OLd Eng. Law) That service which a tenant owed his lord, to be done by the work beasts of the tenant, as the carriage of wheat, turf, etc.	Old French avarie, from Italian avaria, from Arabic عوارية.
avercorn		A reserved rent in corn, formerly paid to religious houses by their tenants or farmers.	
averment		The act of averring, or that which is averred; affirmation; positive assertion.	
avernal		Of or pertaining to Avernus, a lake of Campania, in Italy, famous for its poisonous vapors, which ancient writers fancied were so malignant as to kill birds flying over it.	
avernian		Of or pertaining to Avernus, a lake of Campania, in Italy, famous for its poisonous vapors, which ancient writers fancied were so malignant as to kill birds flying over it.	
averpenny		Money paid by a tenant in lieu of the service of average.	
averroism		The tenets of the Averroists.	
averroist		One of a sect of peripatetic philosophers, who appeared in Italy before the restoration of learning; so denominated from Averroes, or Averrhoes, a celebrated Arabian philosopher.	
averruncate	Obsolete	To avert; to ward off.	
averruncation	Obsolete	The act of averting.	
averruncator		An instrument for pruning trees, consisting of two blades, or a blade and a hook, fixed on the end of a long rod.	
aversation	Obsolete	A turning from with dislike; aversion.	
averse	Obsolete	Turned away or backward.	Latin aversus.
aversely		Backward; in a backward direction; as, emitted aversely.	
averseness		The quality of being averse; opposition of mind; unwillingness.	
aversion		Opposition or repugnance of mind; fixed dislike; antipathy; disinclination; reluctance.	Latin aversio.
avert	Archaic	To turn aside, or away; as, to avert the eyes from an object; to ward off, or prevent, the occurrence or effects of; as…	Latin avertere.
averted		Turned away, esp. as an expression of feeling; also, offended; unpropitious.	
averter		One who, or that which, averts.	
avertible		Capable of being averted; preventable.	
avertiment	Obsolete	Advertisement.	
aves		The class of Vertebrata that includes the birds.	
avesta		The Zoroastrian scriptures. See Zend-Avesta.	
avestan		Of or pertaining to the Avesta or the language of the Avesta. - -n.	
aviado		One who works a mine with means provided by another.	
avian		Of or instrument to birds.	Latin avis.
aviary		A house, inclosure, large cage, or other place, for keeping birds confined; a bird house.	Latin aviarium.
aviate	Colloquial	To fly, or navigate the air, in an aëroplane or heavier-than- air flying machine.	
aviation		The art or science of flying.	French aviation, from Latin avis.
aviator		(a) An experimenter in aviation. (b) A flying machine.	French aviateur.
aviatress		A woman aviator.	
aviatrix		A woman aviator.	
avicula		A genus of marine bivalves, having a pearly interior, allied to the pearl oyster; -- so called from a supposed resemblance of the typical species to a bird.	
avicular		Of or pertaining to a bird or to birds.	
avicularia		See prehensile processes on the cells of some Bryozoa, often having the shape of a bird's bill.	
aviculture		Rearing and care of birds.	
avid		Longing eagerly for; eager; greedy.	Latin avidus.
avidiously		Eagerly; greedily.	
avidity		Greediness; strong appetite; eagerness; intenseness of desire; as, to eat with avidity.	
avie	Obsolete	Emulously.	
aviette		A heavier-than-air flying machine in which the motive power is furnished solely by the aviator.	
avifauna		The birds, or all the kinds of birds, inhabiting a region.	
avigato		See Avocado — the pulpy fruit of Persea gratissima, a tree of tropical America.	
avile	Obsolete	To abase or debase; to vilify; to depreciate.	
avis	Obsolete	Advice; opinion; deliberation.	
avise	Obsolete	To look at; to view; to think of.	
aviseful	Obsolete	Watchful; circumspect.	
avisely	Obsolete	Advisedly.	
avisement	Obsolete	Advisement; observation; deliberation.	
aviso		Information; advice.	Spanish aviso.
avocado		The pulpy fruit of Persea gratissima, a tree of tropical America.	Spanish aguacate, from Nahuatl languages ahuacatl.
avocat		An advocate.	
avocate	Obsolete	To call off or away; to withdraw; to transfer to another tribunal.	
avocation		That which calls one away from one's regular employment or vocation.	Latin avocationem.
avocative	Obsolete	Calling off.	
avocet		A grallatorial bird, of the genus Recurvirostra; the scooper.	Italian avosetta.
avoid		To make void; to annul or vacate; to refute.	Middle English avoiden, from Anglo-Norman avoider.
avoidable		Capable of being vacated; liable to be annulled or made invalid; voidable.	
avoidance		The act of annulling; annulment.	
avoider		The person who carries anything away, or the vessel in which things are carried away.	
avoidless		Unavoidable; inevitable.	
avoirdupois		Avoirdupois weight.	
avoke	Obsolete	To call from or back again.	
avolate	Obsolete	To fly away; to escape; to exhale.	Latin avolo.
avolation	Obsolete	The act of flying; flight; evaporation.	Latin avolatio.
avoset		A grallatorial bird, of the genus Recurvirostra; the scooper.	
avouch		To maintain a just or true; to vouch for.	Old French avouchier, from Latin advocāre.
avouchable		Capable of being avouched.	
avoucher		One who avouches.	
avouchment	Obsolete	The act of avouching; positive declaration.	
avoutrer	Obsolete	See Advoutrer — an adulterer.	
avoutrie	Obsolete	Adultery.	
avow		To declare openly, as something believed to be right; to own or acknowledge frankly; as, a man avows his principles or his crimes.	Old French avouer, from Latin advocare.
avowable		Capable of being avowed, or openly acknowledged, with confidence.	
avowal		An open declaration; frank acknowledgment; as, an avowal of such principles.	
avowance		Act of avowing; avowal.	
avowant		The defendant in replevin, who avows the distress of the goods, and justifies the taking.	
avowed		Openly acknowledged or declared; admitted. -- A*vow"ed*ly (, adv.	
avowee		The person who has a right to present to a benefice; the patron; an advowee.	French avoué.
avower		One who avows or asserts.	
avowry		The act of the distrainer of goods, who, in an action of replevin, avows and justifies the taking in his own right.	
avowtry		Adultery. See Advoutry.	
avoyer	Obsolete	A chief magistrate of a free imperial city or canton of Switzerland.	
avulse		To pluck or pull off.	
avulsion		A tearing asunder; a forcible separation.	
avuncular		Of or pertaining to an uncle.	Latin avunculus.
