await		To wait for; to stay for; to expect. See Expect.	Middle English awaiten.
awake		To rouse from sleep.; to wake; to awaken.	Middle English awaken, from Old English awacan.
awaken		To rouse from sleep or torpor; to awake; to wake. is dispatched Already to awaken whom thou nam'st.	
awakener		One who, or that which, awakens.	
awakening		Rousing from sleep, in a natural or a figurative sense; rousing into activity; exciting; as, the awakening city; an awakening discourse; the awakening dawn. -- A*wak"en*ing*ly, adv.	
awakenment		An awakening.	
awanting		Missing; wanting.	
award		To give by sentence or judicial determination; to assign or apportion, after careful regard to the nature of the case; to adjudge; as, the arbitrators awarded damages to the complainant.	Middle English awarden, from Anglo-Norman awarder.
awarder		One who awards, or assigns by sentence or judicial determination; a judge.	
aware		Watchful; vigilant or on one's guard against danger or difficulty.	Old English gewær.
awarn	Obsolete	To warn.	
awash		Washed by the waves or tide; -- said of a rock or strip of shore, or (Naut.) of an anchor, etc., when flush with the surface of the water, so that the waves break over it.	
away		From a place; hence.	Old English onweg.
away-going		Sown during the last years of a tenancy, but not ripe until after its expiration; -- said of crops.	
awayward	Obsolete	Turned away; away.	
awe		The emotion inspired by something dreadful and sublime; an undefined sense of the dreadful and the sublime; reverential fear, or solemn wonder; profound reverence.	Old English ege.
awe-stricken		Awe-struck.	
awe-struck		Struck with awe.	
awearied	Poetic	Wearied.	
aweather		On the weather side, or toward the wind; in the direction from which the wind blows; -- opposed to alee; as, helm aweather !	
aweigh		Just drawn out of the ground, and hanging perpendicularly; atrip; -- said of the anchor.	
aweless		See Awless — wanting reverence; void of respectful fear.	
awesome		Causing awe; appalling; awful; as, an awesome sight.	
awesomeness		The quality of being awesome.	
awful		Oppressing with fear or horror; appalling; terrible; as, an awful scene.	
awfully		In an awful manner; in a manner to fill with terror or awe; fearfully; reverently.	
awfulness		The quality of striking with awe, or with reverence; dreadfulness; solemnity; as, the awfulness of this sacred place.	
awhape	Obsolete	To confound; to terrify; to amaze.	
awhile		For a while; for some time; for a short time.	
awing		On the wing; flying; fluttering.	
awk	Obsolete	Odd; out of order; perverse.	
awkly	Obsolete	In an unlucky (left-handed) or perverse manner.	
awkward		Wanting dexterity in the use of the hands, or of instruments; not dexterous; without skill; clumsy; wanting ease, grace, or effectiveness in movement; ungraceful; as, he was awkward at a trick; an awkward boy.	
awl		A pointed instrument for piercing small holes, as in leather or wood; used by shoemakers, saddlers, cabinetmakers, etc. The blade is differently shaped and pointed for different uses, as in the brad awl, saddler's awl…	Middle English aul.
awl-shaped		Shaped like an awl.	
awless		Wanting reverence; void of respectful fear.	
awlessness		The quality of being awless.	
awlwort		A plant (Subularia aquatica), with awl-shaped leaves.	
awm		See Aam — a dutch and German measure of liquids, varying in different cities, being at Amsterdam about 41 wine gallons, at Antwerp 36½, at Hamburg 38¼.	
awn		The bristle or beard of barley, oats, grasses, etc., or any similar bristlelike appendage; arista.	
awned		Furnished with an awn, or long bristle-shaped tip; bearded.	
awning		A rooflike cover, usually of canvas, extended over or before any place as a shelter from the sun, rain, or wind.	
awninged		Furnished with an awning.	
awnless		Without awns or beard.	
awny		Having awns; bearded.	
awork		At work; in action.	
aworking	Archaic or colloq	At work; in action.	
awreak	Obsolete	To avenge. See Wreak.	Old English awrecan.
awreke	Obsolete	To avenge. See Wreak.	
awrong		Wrongly.	
awry		Turned or twisted toward one side; not in a straight or true direction, or position; out of the right course; distorted; obliquely; asquint; with oblique vision; as, to glance awry.	
awsome		Same as Awesome.	
