ax		A tool or instrument of steel, or of iron with a steel edge or blade, for felling trees, chopping and splitting wood, hewing timber, etc. It is wielded by a wooden helve or handle…	Old English acsian.
axe		A tool or instrument of steel, or of iron with a steel edge or blade, for felling trees, chopping and splitting wood, hewing timber, etc. It is wielded by a wooden helve or handle…	
axeman		See Ax, Axman.	
axial		Of or pertaining to an axis; of the nature of, or resembling, an axis; around an axis.	
axially		In relation to, or in a line with, an axis; in the axial (magnetic) line.	
axil		The angle or point of divergence between the upper side of a branch, leaf, or petiole, and the stem or branch from which it springs.	Latin axilla.
axile		Situated in the axis of anything; as an embryo which lies in the axis of a seed.	
axilla		The armpit, or the cavity beneath the junction of the arm and shoulder.	Latin axilla.
axillar		Axillary.	
axillaries		Feathers connecting the under surface of the wing and the body, and concealed by the closed wing.	
axillars		Feathers connecting the under surface of the wing and the body, and concealed by the closed wing.	
axillary		(Anat.) Of or pertaining to the axilla or armpit; as, axillary gland, artery, nerve.	
axinite		A borosilicate of alumina, iron, and lime, commonly found in glassy, brown crystals with acute edges.	
axinomancy		A species of divination, by means of an ax or hatchet.	Latin axinomantia, from Greek ἀξινομαντεία.
axiom		(Logic & Math.) A self-evident and necessary truth, or a proposition whose truth is so evident as first sight that no reasoning or demonstration can make it plainer; a proposition which it is necessary to take for granted; as,	Middle French axiome, from Greek ἀξίωμα.
axiomatic		Of or pertaining to an axiom; having the nature of an axiom; self-evident; characterized by axioms.	Greek ἀξιωματικός.
axiomatical		Of or pertaining to an axiom; having the nature of an axiom; self-evident; characterized by axioms.	
axiomatically		By the use of axioms; in the form of an axiom.	
axis		The spotted deer (Cervus axis or Axis maculata) of India, where it is called hog deer and parrah (Moorish name).	Latin axis.
axle		The pin or spindle on which a wheel revolves, or which revolves with a wheel.	Middle English axle.
axled		Having an axle; -- used in composition.	
axletree		A bar or beam of wood or iron, connecting the opposite wheels of a carriage, on the ends of which the wheels revolve.	
axman		One who wields an ax.	
axminster		An Axminster carpet, an imitation Turkey carpet, noted for its thick and soft pile; -- so called from Axminster, Eng. (a) A variety of Turkey carpet, woven by machine or, when more than 27 inches wide, on a hand loom…	
axolotl		An amphibian of the salamander tribe found in the elevated lakes of Mexico; the siredon.	Nahuatl languages axolotl.
axstone		A variety of jade.	
axtree	Obsolete	Axle or axletree.	
axunge		Fat; grease; esp. the fat of pigs or geese; usually (Pharm.), lard prepared for medical use.	
