azalea		A genus of showy flowering shrubs, mostly natives of China or of North America; false honeysuckle.
azarole		The Neapolitan medlar (Cratægus azarolus), a shrub of southern Europe; also, its fruit.
azedarach		(Bot.) A handsome Asiatic tree (Melia azedarach), common in the southern United States; -- called also, Pride of India, Pride of China, and Bead tree.
azimuth		(a) The quadrant of an azimuth circle. (b) An arc of the horizon intercepted between the meridian of the place and a vertical circle passing through the center of any object; as, the azimuth of a star…
azimuthal		Of or pertaining to the azimuth; in a horizontal circle.
azo-		A combining form of azote; (a) Applied loosely to compounds having nitrogen variously combined, as in cyanides, nitrates…
azobenzene		A substance (C6H5.N2.C6H5) derived from nitrobenzene, forming orange red crystals which are easily fusible.
azogue		Lit.: Quicksilver; hence: pl. (Mining) Silver ores suitable for treatment by amalgamation with mercury.
azoic		Destitute of any vestige of organic life, or at least of animal life; anterior to the existence of animal life; formed when there was no animal life on the globe; as, the azoic. rocks.
azole		Any of a large class of compounds characterized by a five- membered ring which contains an atom of nitrogen and at least one other noncarbon atom (nitrogen, oxygen, sulphur).
azoleic		Pertaining to an acid produced by treating oleic with nitric acid.
azonic		Confined to no zone or region; not local.
azorian		Of or pertaining to the Azores. -- n.
azote		Same as Nitrogen.
azoted		Nitrogenized; nitrogenous.
azoth		(a) The first principle of metals, i. e., mercury, which was formerly supposed to exist in all metals, and to be extractable from them.
azotic		Pertaining to azote, or nitrogen; formed or consisting of azote; nitric; as, azotic gas; azotic acid.
azotin		An explosive consisting of sodium nitrate, charcoal, sulphur, and petroleum.
azotine		An explosive consisting of sodium nitrate, charcoal, sulphur, and petroleum.
azotite		A salt formed by the combination of azotous, or nitrous, acid with a base; a nitrite.
azotize		To impregnate with azote, or nitrogen; to nitrogenize.
azotometer		An apparatus for measuring or determining the proportion of nitrogen; a nitrometer.
azotous		: Nitrous; as, azotous acid.
azoturia		Excess of urea or other nitrogenous substances in the urine.
aztec		Of or relating to one of the early races in Mexico that inhabited the great plateau of that country at the time of the Spanish conquest in 1519. -- n.
azure		Sky-blue; resembling the clear blue color of the unclouded sky; cerulean; also, cloudless.
azured		Of an azure color; sky-blue.
azureous		Of a fine blue color; azure.
azurite		Blue carbonate of copper; blue malachite.
azygous		Odd; having no fellow; not one of a pair; single; as, the azygous muscle of the uvula.
azym		Unleavened bread.
azyme		Unleavened bread.
azymic		Azymous.
azymite		One who administered the Eucharist with unleavened bread; -- a name of reproach given by those of the Greek church to the Latins.
azymous		Unleavened; unfermented.
