ba	Obsolete	To kiss.	Egyptian (Ancient 𓅽𓏤.
baa		To cry baa, or bleat as a sheep.	
baaing		The bleating of a sheep.	
baal		(Myth.) The supreme male divinity of the Phoenician and Canaanitish nations.	
baalism		Worship of Baal; idolatry.	
baalist		A worshiper of Baal; a devotee of any false religion; an idolater.	
baalite		A worshiper of Baal; a devotee of any false religion; an idolater.	
bab		Lit., gate; -- a title given to the founder of Babism, and taken from that of Bab-ud-Din, assumed by him.	
baba		A kind of plum cake.	
babbitt		To line with Babbitt metal.	
babble		To utter words indistinctly or unintelligibly; to utter inarticulate sounds; as a child babbles.	Middle English babelen.
babbler		An idle talker; an irrational prater; a teller of secrets.	
babe		An infant; a young child of either sex; a baby.	Middle English babe.
babehood		Babyhood.	
babel		The city and tower in the land of Shinar, where the confusion of languages took place.	
babery	Obsolete	Finery of a kind to please a child.	
babian	Obsolete	A baboon.	
babiism		The doctrine of a modern religious pantheistical sect in Persia, which was founded, about 1844, by Mirza Ali Mohammed ibn Rabhik (1820 -- 1850), who assumed the title of Bab-ed-Din (Per., Gate of the Faith).	
babillard		The lesser whitethroat of Europe; -- called also babbling warbler.	
babingtonite		A mineral occurring in triclinic crystals approaching pyroxene in angle, and of a greenish black color.	
babion	Obsolete	A baboon.	
babiroussa		A large hoglike quadruped (Sus, or Porcus, babirussa) of the East Indies, sometimes domesticated; the Indian hog.	French babiroussa, from Malay (macrolanguage babi rusa.
babirussa		A large hoglike quadruped (Sus, or Porcus, babirussa) of the East Indies, sometimes domesticated; the Indian hog.	
babish		Like a babe; a childish; babyish. -- Bab ish*ness, n.	
babism		The doctrine of a modern religious sect, which originated in Persia in 1843, being a mixture of Mohammedan, Christian, Jewish and Parsee elements.	
babist		A believer in Babism.	
bablah		The ring of the fruit of several East Indian species of acacia; neb-neb.	
baboo		A Hindoo gentleman; native clerk who writes English; also, a Hindoo title answering to Mr. or Esquire.	
babool		Any one of several species of Acacia, esp. A.	
baboon		One of the Old World Quadrumana, of the genera Cynocephalus and Papio; the dog-faced ape.	Middle English babewin.
baboonery		Baboonish behavior.	
baboonish		Like a baboon.	
babu		A Hindoo gentleman; native clerk who writes English; also, a Hindoo title answering to Mr. or Esquire.	Hindi बाबू.
babul		Any one of several species of Acacia, esp. A.	
baby		An infant or young child of either sex; a babe.	Middle English babee.
babyhood		The state or period of infancy.	
babyhouse		A place for children's dolls and dolls' furniture.	
babyish		Like a baby; childish; puerile; simple. -- Ba by*ish*ness, n.	
babyism		A babyish manner of acting or speaking.	
babylonian		Of or pertaining to the real or to the mystical Babylon, or to the ancient kingdom of Babylonia; Chaldean.	
babylonic		Pertaining to Babylon, or made there; as Babylonic garments,carpets, or hangings.	
babylonical		Pertaining to Babylon, or made there; as Babylonic garments,carpets, or hangings.	
babylonish		Pertaining to the Babylon of Revelation xiv.8.	
babyroussa		See Babyroussa.	
babyrussa		See Babyroussa.	
babyship		The quality of being a baby; the personality of an infant.	
bac		A broad, flatbottomed ferryboat, usually worked by a rope.	
baccalaureate		The degree of bachelor of arts. (B.A. or A.B.), the first or lowest academical degree conferred by universities and colleges.	French baccalauréat, from Latin baccalaureatus.
baccara		A French game of cards, played by a banker and punters.	
baccarat		A French game of cards, played by a banker and punters.	
baccare		Stand back! give place! -- a cant word of the Elizabethan writers, probably in ridicule of some person who pretended to a knowledge of Latin which he did not possess.	
baccate		Pulpy throughout, like a berry; -- said of fruits.	Latin baccatus.
baccated		Having many berries.	
bacchanal		Relating to Bacchus or his festival.	Latin Bacchanalis.
bacchanalia		Hence: A drunken feast; drunken reveler.	
bacchanalian		Of or pertaining to the festival of Bacchus; relating to or given to reveling and drunkenness.	
bacchanalianism		The practice of bacchanalians; bacchanals; drunken revelry.	
bacchant		A priest of Bacchus.	Latin bacchantem.
bacchante		A female bacchanal.	
bacchantic		Bacchanalian.	
bacchic		Of or relating to Bacchus; hence, jovial, or riotous,with intoxication.	
bacchical		Of or relating to Bacchus; hence, jovial, or riotous,with intoxication.	
bacchius		A metrical foot composed of a short syllable and two long ones; according to some, two long and a short.	
bacchus		The god of wine, son of Jupiter and Semele.	
bacciferous		Producing berries.	
bacciform		Having the form of a berry.	
baccivorous		Eating, or subsisting on, berries; as, baccivorous birds.	
bace	Obsolete	See Base — of little comparative value, as metal inferior to gold and silver, the precious metals.	
bacharach		A kind of wine made at Bacharach on the Rhine.	
bachelor		A man of any age who has not been married.	Middle English bacheler, from Old French bacheler.
bachelordom		The state of bachelorhood; the whole body of bachelors.	
bachelorhood		The state or condition of being a bachelor; bachelorship.	
bachelorism		Bachelorhood; also, a manner or peculiarity belonging to bachelors.	
bachelorship		The state of being a bachelor.	
bachelry	Obsolete	The body of young aspirants for knighthood.	Old French bachelerie.
bacillar		Shaped like a rod or staff.	
bacillariae		See Diatom — (Bot.) One of the Diatomaceæ, a family of minute unicellular Algæ having a siliceous covering of great delicacy, each individual multiplying by spontaneous division.	
bacillary		Of or pertaining to little rods; rod-shaped.	
bacilliform		Rod-shaped.	
bacillus		A variety of bacterium; a microscopic, rod-shaped vegetable organism.	Latin bacillus.
back		A large shallow vat; a cistern, tub, or trough, used by brewers, distillers, dyers, picklers, gluemakers, and others, for mixing or cooling wort, holding water, hot glue, etc. Hop back, Jack back…	Middle English bak, from Old English bæc.
back-fire		(Engin.) To have or experience a back fire or back fires; -- said of an internal-combustion engine.	
backarack		A kind of wine made at Bacharach on the Rhine. See Bacharach.	
backare		Stand back! give place! -- a cant word of the Elizabethan writers, probably in ridicule of some person who pretended to a knowledge of Latin which he did not possess.	
backband		The band which passes over the back of a horse and holds up the shafts of a carriage.	
backbite		To wound by clandestine detraction; to censure meanly or spitefully (as absent person); to slander or speak evil of (one absent).	Middle English bakbiten.
backbiter		One who backbites; a secret calumniator or detractor.	
backbiting		Secret slander; detraction.	Middle English bacbiting.
backboard		A board which supports the back wen one is sitting;	
backbond		An instrument which, in conjunction with another making an absolute disposition, constitutes a trust.	
backbone		The column of bones in the back which sustains and gives firmness to the frame; the spine; the vertebral or spinal column.	
backboned		Vertebrate.	
backcast	Scots	Anything which brings misfortune upon one, or causes failure in an effort or enterprise; a reverse.	
backdoor		Acting from behind and in concealment; as backdoor intrigues.	
backdown	Colloquial	A receding or giving up; a complete surrender.	
backed		Having a back; fitted with a back; as, a backed electrotype or stereotype plate.	
backer		One who, or that which, backs; especially one who backs a person or thing in a contest.	
backfall		A fall or throw on the back in wrestling.	
backfriend	Obsolete	A secret enemy.	
backgammon		A game of chance and skill, played by two persons on a "board points men tables table".	
background		Ground in the rear or behind, or in the distance, as opposed to the foreground, or the ground in front.	
backhand		A kind of handwriting in which the downward slope of the letters is from left to right.	
backhanded		With the hand turned backward; as, a backhanded blow.	
backhandedness		State of being backhanded; the using of backhanded or indirect methods.	
backhander		A backhanded blow.	
backheel		A method of tripping by getting the leg back of the opponent's heel on the outside and pulling forward while pushing his body back; a throw made in this way. -- v. t.	
backhouse		A building behind the main building. Specifically: A privy; a necessary.	
backing		The act of moving backward, or of putting or moving anything backward.	
backjoint		A rebate or chase in masonry left to receive a permanent slab or other filling.	
backlash		The distance through which one part of connected machinery, as a wheel, piston, or screw, can be moved without moving the connected parts, resulting from looseness in fitting or from wear; also…	
backless		Without a back.	
backlog		A large stick of wood, forming the of a fire on the hearth.	
backpiece		A piece, or plate which forms the back of anything, or which covers the back; armor for the back.	
backplate		A piece, or plate which forms the back of anything, or which covers the back; armor for the back.	
backrack		See Bacharach — a kind of wine made at Bacharach on the Rhine.	
backrag		See Bacharach — a kind of wine made at Bacharach on the Rhine.	
backs		Among leather dealers, the thickest and stoutest tanned hides.	
backsaw		A saw (as a tenon saw) whose blade is stiffened by an added metallic back.	
backset		Whatever is thrown back in its course, as water.	
backsettler		One living in the back or outlying districts of a community.	
backsheesh		In Egypt and the Turkish empire, a gratuity; a "tip".	
backshish		In Egypt and the Turkish empire, a gratuity; a "tip".	
backside		The hinder part, posteriors, or rump of a person or animal.	
backsight		The reading of the leveling staff in its unchanged position when the leveling instrument has been taken to a new position; a sight directed backwards to a station previously occupied.	
backslide		To slide back; to fall away; esp. to abandon gradually the faith and practice of a religion that has been professed.	
backslider		One who backslides.	
backsliding		Slipping back; falling back into sin or error; sinning.	
backstaff		An instrument formerly used for taking the altitude of the heavenly bodies, but now superseded by the quadrant and sextant; -- so called because the observer turned his back to the body observed.	
backstair		Private; indirect; secret; intriguing; as if finding access by the back stairs.	
backstairs		Private; indirect; secret; intriguing; as if finding access by the back stairs.	
backstay		(Naut.) A rope or stay extending from the masthead to the side of a ship, slanting a little aft, to assist the shrouds in supporting the mast.	
backster	Obsolete	A backer.	
backstitch		A stitch made by setting the needle back of the end of the last stitch, and bringing it out in front of the end.	
backstop		In baseball, a fence, prop. at least 90 feet behind the home base, to stop the balls that pass the catcher; also, the catcher himself.	
backstress	Obsolete	A female baker.	
backsword		A sword with one sharp edge.	
backward		With the back in advance or foremost; as, to ride backward.	Old English abakward.
backwardation		The seller's postponement of delivery of stock or shares, with the consent of the buyer, upon payment of a premium to the latter; -- also, the premium so paid.	
backwardly	Obsolete	Reluctantly; slowly; aversely.	
backwardness		The state of being backward.	
backwards		With the back in advance or foremost; as, to ride backward.	
backwash		To clean the oil from (wood) after combing.	
backwater		Water turned back in its course by an obstruction, an opposing current, or the flow of the tide, as in a sewer or river channel, or across a river bar.	
backwoods		The forests or partly cleared grounds on the frontiers.	
backwoodsman		A men living in the forest in or beyond the new settlements, especially on the western frontiers of the older portions of the United States.	
backworm		A disease of hawks. See Filanders.	
bacon	Colloquial	The back and sides of a pig salted and smoked; formerly, the flesh of a pig salted or fresh.	Middle English bacon, from Anglo-Norman bacon.
baconian		Of or pertaining to Lord Bacon, or to his system of philosophy.	
bacteria		See Bacterium — a microscopic vegetable organism, belonging to the class Algæ, usually in the form of a jointed rodlike filament, and found in putrefying organic infusions.	Latin bacteria, from Greek βακτηρία.
bacterial		Of or pertaining to bacteria.	
bactericidal		Destructive of bacteria.	
bactericide		Same as Germicide.	
bacterin		A bacterial vaccine.	
bacteriological		Of or pertaining to bacteriology; as, bacteriological studies.	
bacteriologist		One skilled in bacteriology.	
bacteriology		The science relating to bacteria.	
bacteriolysis		Chemical decomposition brought about by bacteria without the addition of oxygen.	
bacterioscopic		Relating to bacterioscopy; as, a bacterioscopic examination.	
bacterioscopist		One skilled in bacterioscopic examinations.	
bacterioscopy		The application of a knowledge of bacteria for their detection and identification, as in the examination of polluted water.	
bacterium		A microscopic vegetable organism, belonging to the class Algæ, usually in the form of a jointed rodlike filament, and found in putrefying organic infusions.	
bacteroid		Resembling bacteria; as, bacteroid particles.	
bacteroidal		Resembling bacteria; as, bacteroid particles.	
bactrian		Of or pertaining to Bactria in Asia. -- n.	
bacule		See Bascule — in mechanics an apparatus on the principle of the seesaw, in which one end rises as the other falls.	
baculine		Of or pertaining to the rod or punishment with the rod.	
baculite		A cephalopod of the extinct genus Baculites, found fossil in the Cretaceous rocks.	
baculometry		Measurement of distance or altitude by a staff or staffs.	
bad	Obsolete	of Bid — to make an offer of; to propose. Specifically : To offer to pay ( a certain price, as for a thing put up at auction), or to take (a certain price, as for work to be done under a contract).	Middle English bad, from Old English bæd.
badaud		A person given to idle observation of everything, with wonder or astonishment; a credulous or gossipy idler.	
badder	Obsolete	compar. of Bad, a.	
badderlocks		A large black seaweed (Alaria esculenta) sometimes eaten in Europe; -- also called murlins, honeyware, and henware.	
baddish		Somewhat bad; inferior.	
bade		A form of the pat tense of Bid.	
badge		A distinctive mark, token, sign, or cognizance, worn on the person; as, the badge of a society; the badge of a policeman.	Latin bagea.
badgeless		Having no badge.	
badger		An itinerant licensed dealer in commodities used for food; a hawker; a huckster; -- formerly applied especially to one who bought grain in one place and sold it in another.	Middle English bageard.
badger-legged		Having legs of unequal length, as the badger was thought to have.	
badgerer		One who badgers.	
badgering		The act of one who badgers.	
badiaga		A fresh-water sponge (Spongilla), common in the north of Europe, the powder of which is used to take away the livid marks of bruises.	
badian		An evergreen Chinese shrub of the Magnolia family (Illicium anisatum), and its aromatic seeds; Chinese anise; star anise.	
badigeon		A cement or paste (as of plaster and freestone, or of sawdust and glue or lime) used by sculptors, builders, and workers in wood or stone, to fill holes, cover defects, or finish a surface.	
badinage		Playful raillery; banter.	French badinage.
badly		In a bad manner; poorly; not well; unskillfully; imperfectly; unfortunately; grievously; so as to cause harm; disagreeably; seriously.	
badminton		A game, similar to lawn tennis, played with shuttlecocks.	
badness		The state of being bad.	
baenomere		One of the somites (arthromeres) that make up the thorax of Arthropods.	
baenopod		One of the thoracic legs of Arthropods.	
baenosome		The thorax of Arthropods.	
baetulus		A meteorite, or similar rude stone artificially shaped, held sacred or worshiped as of divine origin.	
baff	Scots	A blow; a stroke.	Middle English baffen.
baffle		To check by shifts and turns; to elude; to foil.	
bafflement		The process or act of baffling, or of being baffled; frustration; check.	
baffler		One who, or that which, baffles.	
baffling		Frustrating; discomfiting; disconcerting; as, baffling currents, winds, tasks. -- Bafflingly, adv. -- Bafflingness, n.	
baffy		A short wooden club having a deeply concave face, seldom used.	
baft		Same as Bafta.	
bafta		A coarse stuff, usually of cotton, originally made in India.	
bag		A sack or pouch, used for holding anything; as, a bag of meal or of money.	Middle English bagge, from Old Norse baggi.
bagasse		Sugar cane, as it	
bagatelle		A game played on an oblong board, having, at one end, cups or arches into or through which balls are to be driven by a rod held in the hand of the player.	French bagatelle, from Italian bagattella.
baggage		The clothes, tents, utensils, and provisions of an army.	Middle English bagage, from Old French bagage.
baggager	Obsolete	One who takes care of baggage; a camp follower.	
baggala		A two-masted Arab or Indian trading vessel, used in Indian Ocean.	
baggily		In a loose, baggy way.	
bagging		Cloth or other material for bags.	
baggy		Resembling a bag; loose or puffed out, or pendent, like a bag; flabby; as, baggy trousers; baggy cheeks.	
bagman		A commercial traveler; one employed to solicit orders for manufacturers and tradesmen.	
bagnio	Obsolete	A house for bathing, sweating, etc.; -- also, in Turkey, a prison for slaves.	Italian bagno, from Latin balneum.
bagpipe		A musical wind instrument, now used chiefly in the Highlands of Scotland.	
bagpiper		One who plays on a bagpipe; a piper.	
bagreef		The lower reef of fore and aft sails; also, the upper reef of topsails.	
bague		The annular molding or group of moldings dividing a long shaft or clustered column into two or more parts.	
baguet		(Arch.) A small molding, like the astragal, but smaller; a bead.	
baguette		(Arch.) A small molding, like the astragal, but smaller; a bead.	
bagwig		A wig, in use in the 18th century, with the hair at the back of the head in a bag.	
bagworm		One of several lepidopterous insects which construct, in the larval state, a baglike case which they carry about for protection.	
bah		An exclamation expressive of extreme contempt.	
bahadur		A title of respect or honor given to European officers in East Indian state papers, and colloquially, and among the natives, to distinguished officials and other important personages.	
bahai		A member of the sect of the Babis consisting of the adherents of Baha (Mirza Husain Ali, entitled or, ), the elder half brother of Mirza Yahya of Nur, who succeeded the Bab as the head of the Babists.	
bahaism		The religious tenets or practices of the Bahais.	
bahar		A weight used in certain parts of the East Indies, varying considerably in different localities, the range being from 223 to 625 pounds.	
bahaudur		A title of respect or honor given to European officers in East Indian state papers, and colloquially, and among the natives, to distinguished officials and other important personages.	
baigne	Obsolete	To soak or drench.	
baignoire		A box of the lowest tier in a theater.	
bail		To lade; to dip and throw; -- usually with out; as, to bail water out of a boat.	French baillier.
bailable		Having the right or privilege of being admitted to bail, upon bond with sureties; -- used of persons.	
bailee		The person to whom goods are committed in trust, and who has a temporary possession and a qualified property in them, for the purposes of the trust.	
bailer		See Bailor — one who delivers goods or money to another in trust.	
bailey		A prison or court of justice; -- used in certain proper names; as, the Old Bailey in London; the New Bailey in Manchester.	
bailie		An officer in Scotland, whose office formerly corresponded to that of sheriff, but now corresponds to that of an English alderman.	
bailiff		Originally, a person put in charge of something especially, a chief officer, magistrate, or keeper, as of a county, town, hundred, or castle; one to whom power Abbott.	
bailiffwick	Obsolete	See Bailiwick — the precincts within which a bailiff has jurisdiction; the limits of a bailiff's authority.	
bailiwick		The precincts within which a bailiff has jurisdiction; the limits of a bailiff's authority.	
baillie	Obsolete	Bailiff.	
bailment		(Law) The action of bailing a person accused.	
bailor		One who delivers goods or money to another in trust.	
bailpiece		A piece of parchment, or paper, containing a recognizance or bail bond.	
bain	Obsolete	A bath; a bagnio.	Middle English bayne.
bain-marie		A vessel for holding hot water in which another vessel may be heated without scorching its contents; -- used for warming or preparing food or pharmaceutical preparations.	
bairam		The name of two Mohammedan festivals, of which one is held at the close of the fast called Ramadan, and the other seventy days after the fast.	Turkish bayram.
bairn	Scots	A child.	Middle English barn.
baisemains	Obsolete	Respects; compliments.	
bait		Any substance, esp. food, used in catching fish, or other animals, by alluring them to a hook, snare, inclosure, or net.	Middle English baiten.
baiter		One who baits; a tormentor.	
baize		A coarse woolen stuff with a long nap; -- usually dyed in plain colors.	
bajocco		A small cooper coin formerly current in the Roman States, worth about a cent and a half.	
bake		To prepare, as food, by cooking in a dry heat, either in an oven or under coals, or on heated stone or metal; as, to bake bread, meat, apples.	Middle English baken, from Old English bacan.
baked-meat	Obsolete	A pie; baked food.	
bakehouse		A house for baking; a bakery.	Middle English bakhous.
bakemeat	Obsolete	A pie; baked food.	
baken	Obsolete	p. p. of Bake — to prepare, as food, by cooking in a dry heat, either in an oven or under coals, or on heated stone or metal; as, to bake bread, meat, apples.	Middle English baken, from Old English bacan.
baker		One whose business it is to bake bread, biscuit, etc.	
baker-legged		Having legs that bend inward at the knees.	
bakery		The place for baking bread; a bakehouse.	
baking		The act or process of cooking in an oven, or of drying and hardening by heat or cold.	
bakingly		In a hot or baking manner.	
bakistre	Obsolete	A baker.	
baksheesh		Same as Backsheesh.	Turkish bahşiş.
bakshish		Same as Backsheesh.	
balaam		A paragraph describing something wonderful, used to fill out a newspaper column; -- an allusion to the miracle of Balaam's ass speaking.	
balachong		A condiment formed of small fishes or shrimps, pounded up with salt and spices, and then dried.	
balaenoidea		A division of the Cetacea, including the right whale and all other whales having the mouth fringed with baleen.	
balance		An apparatus for weighing.	Middle French balance.
balanceable		Such as can be balanced.	
balancement		The act or result of balancing or adjusting; equipoise; even adjustment of forces.	
balancer		One who balances, or uses a balance.	
balancereef		The last reef in a fore-and-aft sail, taken to steady the ship.	
balaniferous		Bearing or producing acorns.	
balanite		A fossil balanoid shell.	
balanoglossus		A peculiar marine worm. See Enteropneusta, and Tornaria.	
balanoid		Resembling an acorn; -- applied to a group of barnacles having shells shaped like acorns.	
balata		A West Indian sapotaceous tree (Bumelia retusa).	
balaustine		The pomegranate tree (Punica granatum).	Latin balaustinus.
balayeuse		A protecting ruffle or frill, as of silk or lace, sewed close to the lower edge of a skirt on the inside.	
balbucinate	Obsolete	To stammer.	
balbutiate	Obsolete	To stammer.	
balbuties		The defect of stammering; also, a kind of incomplete pronunciation.	
balcon	Obsolete	A balcony.	
balconied		Having balconies.	
balcony		(Arch.) A platform projecting from the wall of a building, usually resting on brackets or consoles, and inclosed by a parapet; as, a balcony in front of a window.	
bald		Destitute of the natural or common covering on the head or top, as of hair, feathers, foliage, trees, etc.; as, a bald head; a bald oak.	Middle English balled.
bald-faced		Having a white face or a white mark on the face, as a stag.	
baldachin		(Arch.) A structure in form of a canopy, sometimes supported by columns, and sometimes suspended from the roof or projecting from the wall; generally placed over an altar; as, the baldachin in St. Peter's.	
balder		The most beautiful and beloved of the gods; the god of peace; the son of Odin and Freya.	
balderdash		A worthless mixture, especially of liquors.	
baldhead		A person whose head is bald. 2 Kings ii. 23.	
baldheaded		Having a bald head.	
baldly		Nakedly; without reserve; inelegantly.	
baldness		The state or condition of being bald; as, baldness of the head; baldness of style.	
baldpate		A baldheaded person.	
baldpated		Destitute of hair on the head; baldheaded.	
baldrib		A piece of pork cut lower down than the sparerib, and destitute of fat.	
baldric		A broad belt, sometimes richly ornamented, worn over one shoulder, across the breast, and under the opposite arm; less properly, any belt.	
baldwin		A kind of reddish, moderately acid, winter apple.	
bale		Misery; Let now your bliss be turned into bale.	Old English bealo.
balearic		Of or pertaining to the isles of Majorca, Minorca, Ivica, etc., in the Mediterranean Sea, off the coast of Valencia.	
baleen		Plates or blades of from two to twelve feet long, and sometimes a foot wide, which in certain whales (Balænoidea) are attached side by side along the upper jaw…	Latin balaena, from Greek φάλαινα.
balefire		A signal fire; an alarm fire.	Old English bœlfyr.
baleful		Full of deadly or pernicious influence; destructive.	Old English bealofull.
balefully		In a baleful manner; perniciously.	
balefulness		The quality or state of being baleful.	
balisaur		A badgerlike animal of India (Arcionyx collaris).	
balister	Obsolete	A crossbow.	Old French balestre.
balistoid		Like a fish of the genus Balistes; of the family Balistidæ. See Filefish.	
balistraria		A narrow opening, often cruciform, through which arrows might be discharged.	
balize		A pole or a frame raised as a sea beacon or a landmark.	
balk		A ridge of land left unplowed between furrows, or at the end of a field; a piece missed by the plow slipping aside.	Middle English balke, from Old English balca.
balker		One who, or that which balks.	
balkingly		In manner to balk or frustrate.	
balkish		Uneven; ridgy.	
balky		Apt to balk; as, a balky horse.	
ball		Any round or roundish body or mass; a sphere or globe; as, a ball of twine; a ball of snow.	Middle English bal.
ball-flower		An ornament resembling a ball placed in a circular flower, the petals of which form a cup round it, -- usually inserted in a hollow molding.	
ballad	Obsolete	A popular kind of narrative poem, adapted for recitation or singing; as, the ballad of Chevy Chase; esp., a sentimental or romantic poem in short stanzas.	
ballade		A form of French versification, sometimes imitated in English, in which three or four rhymes recur through three stanzas of eight or ten lines each, the stanzas concluding with a refrain, and the whole poem with an envoy.	French ballade.
ballader		A writer of ballads.	
balladry		Ballad poems; the subject or style of ballads.	
ballahoo		A fast-sailing schooner, used in the Bermudas and West Indies.	
ballahou		A fast-sailing schooner, used in the Bermudas and West Indies.	
ballarag	Low	To bully; to threaten.	
ballast		(Naut.) Any heavy substance, as stone, iron, etc., put into the hold to sink a vessel in the water to such a depth as to prevent capsizing.	
ballastage		A toll paid for the privilege of taking up ballast in a port or harbor.	
ballasting		That which is used for steadying anything; ballast.	
ballatry	Obsolete	See Balladry — ballad poems; the subject or style of ballads.	
ballet		An artistic dance performed as a theatrical entertainment, or an interlude, by a number of persons, usually women.	French ballet, from Italian balletto.
ballista		An ancient military engine, in the form of a crossbow, used for hurling large missiles.	Latin ballista, from Greek βαλλίστρα.
ballister	Obsolete	A crossbow.	Latin ballista, from Greek βαλλίστρα.
ballistic		Of or pertaining to the ballista, or to the art of hurling stones or missile weapons by means of an engine.	Latin ballista, from Greek βαλλίστρα.
ballistics		The science or art of hurling missile weapons by the use of an engine.	
ballistite		A smokeless powder containing equal parts of soluble nitrocellulose and nitroglycerin.	
ballium		See Bailey — a prison or court of justice; -- used in certain proper names; as, the Old Bailey in London; the New Bailey in Manchester.	
balloon		A bag made of silk or other light material, and filled with hydrogen gas or heated air, so as to rise and float in the atmosphere; especially, one with a car attached for aërial navigation.	
ballooned		Swelled out like a balloon.	
ballooner		One who goes up in a balloon; an aëronaut.	
ballooning		The art or practice of managing balloons or voyaging in them.	
balloonist		An aëronaut.	
balloonry		The art or practice of ascending in a balloon; aëronautics.	
ballot		Originally, a ball used for secret voting. Hence: Any printed or written ticket used in voting.	Italian ballotta.
ballotade		A leap of a horse, as between two pillars, or upon a straight line, so that when his four feet are in the air, he shows only the shoes of his hind feet, without jerking out.	
ballotage		In France, a second ballot taken after an indecisive first ballot to decide between two or several candidates.	
ballotation	Obsolete	Voting by ballot.	
balloter		One who votes by ballot.	
ballotin	Obsolete	An officer who has charge of a ballot box.	French ballotin.
ballow	Obsolete	A cudgel.	Middle English balowe.
ballproof		Incapable of being penetrated by balls from firearms.	
ballroom		A room for balls or dancing.	
balm		(Bot.) An aromatic plant of the genus Melissa.	Old French basme, from Latin balsamum, from Greek βάλσαμον.
balmify	Obsolete	To render balmy.	
balmily		In a balmy manner.	
balmoral		A long woolen petticoat, worn immediately under the dress.	
balmy		Having the qualities of balm; odoriferous; aromatic; assuaging; soothing; refreshing; mild.	
balneal		Of or pertaining to a bath.	
balneary		A bathing room.	Latin balneum.
balneation		The act of bathing.	
balneatory	Obsolete	Belonging to a bath.	Latin balneatorius.
balneography		A description of baths.	
balneology		A treatise on baths; the science of bathing.	
balneotherapy		The treatment of disease by baths.	Latin balneum.
balopticon		See Projector, below.	
balotade		See Ballotade — a leap of a horse, as between two pillars, or upon a straight line, so that when his four feet are in the air, he shows only the shoes of his hind feet, without jerking out.	
balsa		A raft or float, used principally on the Pacific coast of South America.	Spanish barco.
balsam		A resin containing more or less of an essential or volatile oil.	
balsamation		The act of imparting balsamic properties.	
balsamic		Having the qualities of balsam; containing, or resembling, balsam; soft; mitigative; soothing; restorative.	
balsamical		Having the qualities of balsam; containing, or resembling, balsam; soft; mitigative; soothing; restorative.	
balsamiferous		Producing balsam.	
balsamine		The Impatiens balsamina, or garden balsam.	
balsamous		Having the quality of balsam; containing balsam.	
balter	Obsolete	To stick together.	Middle English balteren.
baltic		Of or pertaining to the sea which separates Norway and Sweden from Jutland, Denmark, and Germany; situated on the Baltic Sea.	
baluster		A row of balusters topped by a rail, serving as an open parapet, as along the edge of a balcony, terrace, bridge, staircase, or the eaves of a building.	French balustre.
balustered		Having balusters.	
balustrade		A row of balusters topped by a rail, serving as an open parapet, as along the edge of a balcony, terrace, bridge, staircase, or the eaves of a building.	French balustrade, from Italian balaustrata.
bam	Slang	An imposition; a cheat; a hoax.	
bambino		A child or baby; esp., a representation in art of the infant Christ wrapped in swaddling clothes.	
bambocciade		A representation of a grotesque scene from common or rustic life.	Italian bambocciata.
bamboo		A plant of the family of grasses, and genus Bambusa, growing in tropical countries.	Dutch bamboe, from Portuguese bambu, from Malay (macrolanguage bambu, from Kannada ಬಮ್ಬು.
bamboozle	Colloquial	To deceive by trickery; to cajole by confusing the senses; to hoax; to mystify; to humbug.	
bamboozler	Colloquial	A swindler; one who deceives by trickery.	
ban		A public proclamation or edict; a public order or notice, mandatory or prohibitory; a summons by public proclamation.	Middle English bannen, from Old English bannan.
banal		Commonplace; trivial; hackneyed; trite.	French bannal, from Latin bannalis.
banality		Something commonplace, hackneyed, or trivial; the commonplace, in speech.	French banalité.
banana		A perennial herbaceous plant of almost treelike size (Musa sapientum); also, its edible fruit.	Wolof banaana.
banat		The territory governed by a ban.	
banc		A bench; a high seat, or seat of distinction or judgment; a tribunal or court.	
bancal		An ornamental covering, as of carpet or leather, for a bench or form.	
banco		A bank, especially that of Venice.	
bancus		A bench; a high seat, or seat of distinction or judgment; a tribunal or court.	
band		A fillet, strap, or any narrow ligament with which a thing is encircled, or fastened, or by which a number of things are tied, bound together, or confined; a fetter.	Middle English band, from Old English beand.
bandage		A fillet or strip of woven material, used in dressing and binding up wounds, etc.	French bande, from Old Provençal banda.
bandala		A fabric made in Manilla from the older leaf sheaths of the abaca (Musa textilis).	
bandana		A species of silk or cotton handkerchief, having a uniformly dyed ground, usually of red or blue, with white or yellow figures of a circular, lozenge, or other simple form.	Hindi बन्धन, from Sanskrit बध्नाति.
bandanna		A species of silk or cotton handkerchief, having a uniformly dyed ground, usually of red or blue, with white or yellow figures of a circular, lozenge, or other simple form.	
bandbox		A light box of pasteboard or thin wood, usually cylindrical, for holding ruffs (the bands of the 17th century), collars, caps, bonnets, etc.	
bandeau		A narrow band or fillet; a part of a head-dress.	French bandeau, from Old French bandel.
bandelet		A small band or fillet; any little band or flat molding, compassing a column, like a ring.	French bandelette.
bander		One banded with others.	
banderilla		A barbed dart carrying a banderole which the banderillero thrusts into the neck or shoulder of the bull in a bullfight.	
banderillero		One who thrusts in the banderillas in bullfighting.	Spanish banderillero.
banderole		A little banner, flag, or streamer.	
bandicoot		(a) A species of very large rat (Mus giganteus), found in India and Ceylon.	Telugu పందికొక్కు.
bandit		An outlaw; a brigand.	Italian bandito, from Latin bannire.
bandle		An Irish measure of two feet in length.	
bandlet		A small band or fillet; any little band or flat molding, compassing a column, like a ring.	
bandmaster		The conductor of a musical band.	
bandog		A mastiff or other large and fierce dog, usually kept chained or tied up.	
bandoleer		A broad leather belt formerly worn by soldiers over the right shoulder and across the breast under the left arm.	
bandolier		A broad leather belt formerly worn by soldiers over the right shoulder and across the breast under the left arm.	
bandoline		A glutinous pomatum for the fair.	
bandon	Obsolete	Disposal; control; license.	Old French bandon.
bandore		A musical stringed instrument, similar in form to a guitar; a pandore.	Spanish bandurria, from Latin pandura.
bandrol		A little banner, flag, or streamer.	
bandy		A carriage or cart used in India, esp. one drawn by bullocks.	Scots bandy.
bandy-legged		Having crooked legs.	
bane		Any cause of ruin, or lasting injury; harm; woe.	
baneberry		A genus (Actæa) of plants, of the order Ranunculaceæ, native in the north temperate zone.	
baneful		Having poisonous qualities; deadly; destructive; injurious; noxious; pernicious. -- Bane ful*ness, n.	
banewort		Deadly nightshade.	
bang		To beat, as with a club or cudgel; to treat with violence; to handle roughly.	
banging	Colloquial	Huge; great in size.	
bangle	Obsolete	To waste by little and little; to fritter away.	
bangue		See Bhang — an astringent and narcotic drug made from the dried leaves and seed capsules of wild hemp (Cannabis Indica), and chewed or smoked in the East as a means of intoxication.	
banian		A Hindoo trader, merchant, cashier, or money changer.	Portuguese banian, from Arabic بنيان, from Gujarati વાણિયો, from Sanskrit वाणिज.
banish		To condemn to exile, or compel to leave one's country, by authority of the ruling power.	
banisher		One who banishes.	
banishment		The act of banishing, or the state of being banished.	
banister		A stringed musical instrument having a head and neck like the guitar, and its body like a tambourine.	
banjo		A stringed musical instrument having a head and neck like the guitar, and its body like a tambourine.	
banjorine		A kind of banjo, with a short neck, tuned a fourth higher than the common banjo; -- popularly so called.	
bank		A bench; a high seat, or seat of distinction or judgment; a tribunal or court.	Middle English banke, from Middle French banque, from Italian banca, from Old High German bank.
bank-sided		Having sides inclining inwards, as a ship; -- opposed to wall- sided.	
bankable		Receivable at a bank.	
banker		One who conducts the business of banking; one who, individually, or as a member of a company, keeps an establishment for the deposit or loan of money, or for traffic in money, bills of exchange, etc.	
bankeress		A female banker.	
banking		The business of a bank or of a banker.	
bankrupt		(Old Eng. Low) A trader who secretes himself, or does certain other acts tending to defraud his creditors.	Italian banca rotta.
bankruptcy		The state of being actually or legally bankrupt.	
bankside		The slope of a bank, especially of the bank of a steam.	
banlieue		The territory without the walls, but within the legal limits, of a town or city.	French banlieue.
banner		A kind of flag attached to a spear or pike by a crosspiece, and used by a chief as his standard in battle.	
bannered		Decorated with a banner or banners	
banneret		Originally, a knight who led his vassals into the field under his own banner; -- commonly used as a title of rank.	
bannerol		A banderole; esp. a banner displayed at a funeral procession and set over the tomb.	
bannition	Obsolete	The act of expulsion.	Latin bannitio.
bannock	Scots	A kind of cake or bread, in shape flat and roundish, commonly made of oatmeal or barley meal and baked on an iron plate, or griddle; -- used in Scotland and the northern counties of England.	Old English bannuc.
banns		Notice of a proposed marriage, proclaimed in a church, or other place prescribed by law, in order that any person may object, if he knows of just cause why the marriage should not take place.	
banquet		A feast; a sumptuous entertainment of eating and drinking; often, a complimentary or ceremonious feast, followed by speeches.	Middle English banket, from Middle French banquet, from Italian banchetto.
banqueter		One who banquets; one who feasts or makes feasts.	
banquette		(Fort.) A raised way or foot bank, running along the inside of a parapet, on which musketeers stand to fire upon the enemy.	
banquetter		One who banquets; one who feasts or makes feasts.	
banshee		A supernatural being supposed by the Irish and Scotch peasantry to warn a family of the speedy death of one of its members, by wailing or singing in a mournful voice under the windows of the house.	
banshie		A supernatural being supposed by the Irish and Scotch peasantry to warn a family of the speedy death of one of its members, by wailing or singing in a mournful voice under the windows of the house.	
bansshee		A supernatural being supposed to warn a family of the approaching death of one of its members, by wailing or singing in a mournful voice.	
banstickle		A small fish, the three-spined stickleback.	
bantam		A variety of small barnyard fowl, with feathered legs, probably brought from Bantam, a district of Java.	Dutch Bantam.
banteng		The wild ox of Java (Bibos Banteng).	Malay (macrolanguage banteng.
banter		To address playful good-natured ridicule to, -- the person addressed, or something pertaining to him, being the subject of the jesting; to rally; as, he bantered me about my credulity.	
banterer		One who banters or rallies.	
bantingism		A method of reducing corpulence by avoiding food containing much farinaceous, saccharine, or oily matter; -- so called from William Banting of London.	
bantling		A young or small child; an infant.	
bantu		A member of one of the great family of Negroid tribes occupying equatorial and southern Africa.	
banxring		An East Indian insectivorous mammal of the genus Tupaia.	
banyan		A tree of the same genus as the common fig, and called the Indian fig (Ficus Indica), whose branches send shoots to the ground, which take root and become additional trunks…	Portuguese banian, from Arabic بنيان, from Gujarati વાણિયો, from Sanskrit वाणिज.
banzai		Lit., May you live ten thousand years; -- used in salutation of the emperor and as a battle cry.	
baobab		A gigantic African tree (Adansonia digitata), also naturalized in India.	
baphomet		An idol or symbolical figure which the Templars were accused of using in their mysterious rites.	
baptism		The act of baptizing; the application of water to a person, as a sacrament or religious ceremony, by which he is initiated into the visible church of Christ.	Greek βαπτισμός.
baptismal		Pertaining to baptism; as, baptismal vows.	
baptismally		In a baptismal manner.	
baptist		One who administers baptism; -- specifically applied to John, the forerunner of Christ.	
baptistery		(a) In early times, a separate building, usually polygonal, used for baptismal services.	
baptistic		Of or for baptism; baptismal.	
baptistical		Baptistic.	
baptistry		(a) In early times, a separate building, usually polygonal, used for baptismal services.	
baptizable		Capable of being baptized; fit to be baptized.	
baptization	Obsolete	Baptism.	
baptize		To administer the sacrament of baptism to.	Greek βαπτίζω.
baptizement		The act of baptizing.	
baptizer		One who baptizes.	
bar		A piece of wood, metal, or other material, long in proportion to its breadth or thickness, used as a lever and for various other purposes, but especially for a hindrance, obstruction, or fastening; as…	Middle English barre, from Old French barre.
baraca		An international, interdenominational organization of Bible classes of young men; -- so named in allusion to the Hebrew word Berachah (Meaning blessing) occurring in 2 Chron. xx. 26 and 1 Chron. xii.	
barad		The pressure of one dyne per square centimeter; -- used as a unit of pressure.	
baraesthesiometer		An instrument for determining the delicacy of the sense of pressure. -- Bar`æs*the`si*o*met ric (#), a.	
barathea		A soft fabric with a kind of basket weave and a diapered pattern.	
barb		Beard, or that which resembles it, or grows in the place of it.	
barbacan		See Barbican — ( Fort.) A tower or advanced work defending the entrance to a castle or city, as at a gate or bridge.	
barbacanage	Obsolete	See Barbicanage — money paid for the support of a barbican.	
barbadian		Of or pertaining to Barbados. -- n.	
barbadoes		A West Indian island, giving its name to a disease, to a cherry, etc. Barbados cherry (Bot.), a genus of trees of the West Indies (Malpighia) with an agreeably acid fruit resembling a cherry. -- Barbados leg (Med.)…	
barbados		A West Indian island, giving its name to a disease, to a cherry, etc. Barbados cherry (Bot.), a genus of trees of the West Indies (Malpighia) with an agreeably acid fruit resembling a cherry. -- Barbados leg (Med.)…	
barbara		The first word in certain mnemonic lines which represent the various forms of the syllogism.	
barbaresque		Barbaric in form or style; as, barbaresque architecture.	
barbarian		A man in a rule, savage, or uncivilized state.	
barbaric		Of, or from, barbarian nations; foreign; -- often with reference to barbarous nations of east.	
barbarism		An uncivilized state or condition; rudeness of manners; ignorance of arts, learning, and literature; barbarousness.	
barbarity		The state or manner of a barbarian; lack of civilization.	
barbarize		To become barbarous.	
barbarous		Being in the state of a barbarian; uncivilized; rude; peopled with barbarians; as, a barbarous people; a barbarous country.	Latin barbarus, from Greek βάρβαρος.
barbarously		In a barbarous manner.	
barbarousness		The quality or state of being barbarous; barbarity; barbarism.	
barbary	Obsolete	The countries on the north coast of Africa from Egypt to the Atlantic.	Middle English barbarye.
barbastel		A European bat (Barbastellus communis), with hairy lips.	French barbastelle.
barbate		Bearded; beset with long and weak hairs.	
barbated		Having barbed points.	
barbecue		A hog, ox, or other large animal roasted or broiled whole for a feast.	Spanish barbacoa, from Taino barbakoa.
barbed		Accoutered with defensive armor; -- said of a horse. See Barded ( which is the proper form.) Sir W.	
barbel		(Zoöl.) A slender tactile organ on the lips of certain fished.	Old French barbel.
barbellate		Having short, stiff hairs, often barbed at the point.	
barbellulate		Barbellate with diminutive hairs or barbs.	
barber		One whose occupation it is to shave or trim the beard, and to cut and dress the hair of his patrons.	Anglo-Norman barbour, from Old French barbeor, from Latin barba.
barberry		A shrub of the genus Berberis, common along roadsides and in neglected fields.	
barbet		(a) A variety of small dog, having long curly hair. (b) A bird of the family Bucconidæ, allied to the Cuckoos, having a large, conical beak swollen at the base, and bearded with five bunches of stiff bristles; the puff bird.	
barbette		A mound of earth or a platform in a fortification, on which guns are mounted to fire over the parapet.	French barbette.
barbican		( Fort.) A tower or advanced work defending the entrance to a castle or city, as at a gate or bridge.	Old French barbacane.
barbicanage	Obsolete	Money paid for the support of a barbican.	
barbicel		One of the small hooklike processes on the barbules of feathers.	
barbiers		A variety of paralysis, peculiar to India and the Malabar coast; -- considered by many to be the same as beriberi in chronic form.	
barbigerous		Having a beard; bearded; hairy.	
barbiton		An ancient Greek instrument resembling a lyre.	Latin barbiton, from Greek βάρβιτον.
barble		See Barbel — (Zoöl.) A slender tactile organ on the lips of certain fished.	
barbotine		A paste of clay used in decorating coarse pottery in relief.	
barbre	Obsolete	Barbarian.	
barbule		A very minute barb or beard.	
barcarolle		(a) A popular song or melody sung by Venetian gondoliers. (b) A piece of music composed in imitation of such a song.	French barcarolle, from Italian barcaruola.
barcon		A vessel for freight; -- used in Mediterranean.	Italian barcone.
bard		A professional poet and singer, as among the ancient Celts, whose occupation was to compose and sing verses in honor of the heroic achievements of princes and brave men.	French barde.
barde		A piece of defensive (or, sometimes, ornamental) armor for a horse's neck, breast, and flanks; a barb.	
barded		Accoutered with defensive armor; -- said of a horse.	
bardic		Of or pertaining to bards, or their poetry.	
bardiglio		An Italian marble of which the principal varieties occur in the neighborhood of Carrara and in Corsica.	
bardish		Pertaining to, or written by, a bard or bards.	
bardism		The system of bards; the learning and maxims of bards.	
bardling		An inferior bard.	
bardship		The state of being a bard.	
bare		Without clothes or covering; stripped of the usual covering; naked; as, his body is bare; the trees are bare.	Old English barian.
bareback		On the bare back of a horse, without using a saddle; as, to ride bareback.	
barebacked		Having the back uncovered; as, a barebacked horse.	
barebone		A very lean person; one whose bones show through the skin.	
barefaced		With the face uncovered; not masked.	
barefacedly		Openly; shamelessly.	
barefacedness		The quality of being barefaced; shamelessness; assurance; audaciousness.	
barefoot		With the feet bare; without shoes or stockings.	
barefooted		Having the feet bare.	
barege		A gauzelike fabric for ladies' dresses, veils, etc. of worsted, silk and worsted, or cotton and worsted.	
barehanded		Having bare hands.	
barehead		Having the head uncovered; as, a bareheaded girl.	
bareheaded		Having the head uncovered; as, a bareheaded girl.	
barelegged		Having the legs bare.	
barely		Without covering; nakedly.	
barenecked		Having the neck bare.	
bareness		The state of being bare.	
baresark		A Berserker, or Norse warrior who fought without armor, or shirt of mail.	
baresthesiometer		An instrument for determining the delicacy of the sense of pressure. -- Bar`æs*the`si*o*met ric (#), a.	
barfish		Same as Calico bass.	
barful	Obsolete	Full of obstructions.	
bargain		An agreement between parties concerning the sale of property; or a contract by which one party binds himself to transfer the right to some property for a consideration…	Middle English bargaynen, from Anglo-Norman bargaigner, from Old French bargaigner.
bargainee		The party to a contract who receives, or agrees to receive, the property sold.	Old French bargaigné.
bargainer		One who makes a bargain; -- sometimes in the sense of bargainor.	
bargainor		One who makes a bargain, or contracts with another; esp., one who sells, or contracts to sell, property to another.	
barge		A pleasure boat; a vessel or boat of state, elegantly furnished and decorated.	
bargeboard		A vergeboard.	
bargecourse		A part of the tiling which projects beyond the principal rafters, in buildings where there is a gable.	
bargee		A bargeman.	
bargeman		The man who manages a barge, or one of the crew of a barge.	
bargemastter		The proprietor or manager of a barge, or one of the crew of a barge.	
barger	Obsolete	The manager of a barge.	
barghest		A goblin, in the shape of a large dog, portending misfortune.	
baric		Of or pertaining to barium; as, baric oxide.	
barilla		(Bot.) A name given to several species of Salsola from which soda is made, by burning the barilla in heaps and lixiviating the ashes.	Spanish barrilla.
barillet		A little cask, or something resembling one.	
barite		Native sulphate of barium, a mineral occurring in transparent, colorless, white to yellow crystals (generally tabular), also in granular form, and in compact massive forms resembling marble.	Greek βἀρος.
baritone		See Barytone — (Mus.) Grave and deep, as a kind of male voice.	Greek βαρύτονος.
barium	Rarely written barytum	One of the elements, belonging to the alkaline earth group; a metal having a silver-white color, and melting at a very high temperature.	
bark		To strip the bark from; to peel.	Middle English berken.
barkantine		Same as Barkentine.	
barkbound		Prevented from growing, by having the bark too firm or close.	
barkeeper		One who keeps or tends a bar for the sale of liquors.	
barken	Poetic	Made of bark.	
barkentine		A threemasted vessel, having the foremast square-rigged, and the others schooner-rigged.	
barker		An animal that barks; hence, any one who clamors unreasonably.	
barkery		A tanhouse.	
barkless		Destitute of bark.	
barky		Covered with, or containing, bark.	
barley		A valuable grain, of the family of grasses, genus Hordeum, used for food, and for making malt, from which are prepared beer, ale, and whisky.	Middle English barli.
barley-bree	Scots	Liquor made from barley; strong ale.	
barleybrake		An ancient rural game, commonly played round stacks of barley, or other grain, in which some of the party attempt to catch others who run from a goal.	
barleybreak		An ancient rural game, commonly played round stacks of barley, or other grain, in which some of the party attempt to catch others who run from a goal.	
barleycorn		Formerly, a measure of length, equal to the average length of a grain of barley; the third part of an inch.	
barm	Obsolete	Foam rising upon beer, or other malt liquors, when fermenting, and used as leaven in making bread and in brewing; yeast.	Old English bearm.
barmaid		A girl or woman who attends the customers of a bar, as in a tavern or beershop.	
barmaster		Formerly, a local judge among miners; now, an officer of the barmote.	
barmecidal		Unreal; illusory.	
barmecide		One who proffers some illusory advantage or benefit.	
barmote		A court held in Derbyshire, in England, for deciding controversies between miners.	
barmy		Full of barm or froth; in a ferment.	Old English beorma.
barn	Obsolete	A covered building used chiefly for storing grain, hay, and other productions of a farm.	Middle English barn.
barnabite		A member of a religious order, named from St. Barnabas.	
barnacle		Any cirriped crustacean adhering to rocks, floating timber, ships, etc., esp. (a) the sessile species (genus Balanus and allies), and (b) the stalked or goose barnacles (genus Lepas and allies).	Middle English barnakille.
barnburner		A member of the radical section of the Democratic party in New York, about the middle of the 19th century, which was hostile to extension of slavery, public debts, corporate privileges, etc.…	
barnstormer		An itinerant theatrical player who plays in barns when a theatre is lacking; hence, an inferior actor, or one who plays in the country away from the larger cities. --Barn"storm`ing, n.	
barnyard		A yard belonging to a barn.	
barocco		See Baroque — in bad taste; grotesque; odd.	
barocyclonometer		An aneroid barometer for use with accompanying graphic diagrams and printed directions designed to aid mariners to interpret the indications of the barometer so as to determine the existence of a violent storm at a distance of…	
barogram		A tracing, usually made by the barograph, showing graphically the variations of atmospheric pressure for a given time.	
barograph		An instrument for recording automatically the variations of atmospheric pressure.	
baroko		A form or mode of syllogism of which the first proposition is a universal affirmative, and the other two are particular negative.	
barology		The science of weight or gravity.	
baromacrometer		An instrument for ascertaining the weight and length of a newborn infant.	
barometer		An instrument for determining the weight or pressure of the atmosphere, and hence for judging of the probable changes of weather, or for ascertaining the height of any ascent.	
barometric		Pertaining to the barometer; made or indicated by a barometer; as, barometric changes; barometrical observations.	
barometrical		Pertaining to the barometer; made or indicated by a barometer; as, barometric changes; barometrical observations.	
barometrically		By means of a barometer, or according to barometric observations.	
barometrograph		A form of barometer so constructed as to inscribe of itself upon paper a record of the variations of atmospheric pressure.	
barometry		The art or process of making barometrical measurements.	
barometz		The woolly-skinned rhizoma or rootstock of a fern (Dicksonia barometz), which, when specially prepared and inverted, somewhat resembles a lamb; -- called also Scythian lamb.	
baron		A title or degree of nobility; originally, the possessor of a fief, who had feudal tenants under him; in modern times, in France and Germany, a nobleman next in rank below a count; in England…	Old French baron.
baronage		The whole body of barons or peers.	
baroness		A baron's wife; also, a lady who holds the baronial title in her own right; as, the Baroness Burdett-Coutts.	
baronet		A dignity or degree of honor next below a baron and above a knight, having precedency of all orders of knights except those of the Garter.	
baronetage		The collective body of baronets.	
baronetcy		The rank or patent of a baronet.	
barong		A kind of cutting weapon with a thick back and thin razorlike edge, used by the Moros of the Philippine Islands.	
baronial		Pertaining to a baron or a barony.	
barony		The fee or domain of a baron; the lordship, dignity, or rank of a baron.	
baroque		In bad taste; grotesque; odd.	
baroscope		Any instrument showing the changes in the weight of the atmosphere; also, less appropriately, any instrument that indicates - or foreshadows changes of the weather…	
baroscopic		Pertaining to, or determined by, the baroscope.	
baroscopical		Pertaining to, or determined by, the baroscope.	
barothermograph		An instrument for recording both pressure and temperature, as of the atmosphere.	
barouche		A four-wheeled carriage, with a falling top, a seat on the outside for the driver, and two double seats on the inside arranged so that the sitters on the front seat face those on the back seat.	
barouchet		A kind of light barouche.	
barpost		A post sunk in the ground to receive the bars closing a passage into a field.	
barque		Formerly, any small sailing vessel, as a pinnace, fishing smack, etc.; also, a rowing boat; a barge.	
barracan		A thick, strong stuff, somewhat like camlet; -- still used for outer garments in the Levant.	French baracan.
barrack		(Mil.) A building for soldiers, especially when in garrison.	
barraclade	Dialect	A home-made woolen blanket without nap.	
barracoon		A slave warehouse, or an inclosure where slaves are quartered temporarily.	Spanish barracón.
barracouta		(Zoöl.) A voracious pikelike, marine fish, of the genus Sphyræna, sometimes used as food.	
barracuda		(Zoöl.) A voracious pikelike, marine fish, of the genus Sphyræna, sometimes used as food.	
barrage		An artificial bar or obstruction placed in a river or water course to increase the depth of water; as, the barrages of the Nile.	French barrage.
barramundi		(a) A remarkable Australian fresh-water ganoid fish of the genus Ceratodus.	
barranca		A ravine caused by heavy rains or a watercourse.	
barras		A resin, called also galipot.	
barrator		One guilty of barratry.	
barratrous		Tainter with, or constituting, barratry. -- Bar"ra*trous*ly, adv.	
barratry		(Law) The practice of exciting and encouraging lawsuits and quarrels.	
barrel		A round vessel or cask, of greater length than breadth, and bulging in the middle, made of staves bound with hoops, and having flat ends or heads.	Middle English barrell, from Anglo-Norman baril.
barreled		Having a barrel; -- used in composition; as, a double-barreled gun.	
barrelled		Having a barrel; -- used in composition; as, a double-barreled gun.	
barren		Incapable of producing offspring; producing no young; sterile; -- She was barren of children.	
barrenly		Unfruitfully; unproductively.	
barrenness		The condition of being barren; sterility; unproductiveness.	
barrenwort		An herbaceous plant of the Barberry family (Epimedium alpinum), having leaves that are bitter and said to be sudorific.	
barret		A kind of cap formerly worn by soldiers; -- called also barret cap.	French barrette.
barretter		A thermal cymoscope which operates by increased resistance when subjected to the influence of electric waves.	
barricade		(Mil.) A fortification, made in haste, of trees, earth, palisades, wagons, or anything that will obstruct the progress or attack of an enemy.	
barricader		One who constructs barricades.	
barricado		See Barricade — (Mil.) A fortification, made in haste, of trees, earth, palisades, wagons, or anything that will obstruct the progress or attack of an enemy.	
barrier		(Fort.) A carpentry obstruction, stockade, or other obstacle made in a passage in order to stop an enemy.	
barrigudo		A large, dark-colored, South American monkey, of the genus Lagothrix, having a long prehensile tail.	
barringout		The act of closing the doors of a schoolroom against a schoolmaster; -- a boyish mode of rebellion in schools.	
barrio		In Spain and countries colonized by Spain, a village, ward, or district outside a town or city to whose jurisdiction it belongs.	
barrister		Counselor at law; a counsel admitted to plead at the bar, and undertake the public trial of causes, as distinguished from an attorney or solicitor.	
barroom		A room containing a bar or counter at which liquors are sold.	
barrow		A support having handles, and with or without a wheel, on which heavy or bulky things can be transported by hand.	Old English bearg.
barrowist		A follower of Henry Barrowe, one of the founders of Independency or Congregationalism in England.	
barrulet		A diminutive of the bar, having one fourth its width.	
barruly		Traversed by barrulets or small bars; -- said of the field.	
barry		, Divided into bars; -- said of the field.	
barse	English dialect	The common perch. See 1st Bass.	Middle English bars, from Old English bærs.
bartender		A barkeeper.	
barter		To traffic or trade, by exchanging one commodity for another, in distinction from a sale and purchase, in which money is paid for the commodities transferred; to truck.	Old French barater.
barterer		One who barters.	
barth	English dialect	A place of shelter for cattle.	
bartizan		A small, overhanging structure for lookout or defense, usually projecting at an angle of a building or near an entrance gateway.	
bartlett		A Bartlett pear, a favorite kind of pear, which originated in England about 1770, and was called Williams' Bonchrétien.	
barton		The demesne lands of a manor; also, the manor itself.	Old English beretun.
bartram		See Bertram — pellitory of Spain (Anacyclus pyrethrum).	
barway		A passage into a field or yard, closed by bars made to take out of the posts.	
barwise		Horizontally.	
barwood		A red wood of a leguminous tree (Baphia nitida), from Angola and the Gaboon in Africa.	
barycentric		Of or pertaining to the center of gravity. See Barycentric calculus, under Calculus.	
baryphony		Difficulty of speech.	
barysphere		The heavy interior portion of the earth, within the lithosphere.	
baryta		An oxide of barium (or barytum); a heavy earth with a specific gravity above 4.	
barytes		Barium sulphate, generally called heavy spar or barite. See Barite.	
barytic		Of or pertaining to baryta.	
baryto-calcite		A mineral of a white or gray color, occurring massive or crystallized.	
barytone		(Mus.) Grave and deep, as a kind of male voice.	Latin barytonos.
barytum		The metal barium. See Barium.	
bas-relief		Low relief; sculpture, the figures of which project less than half of their true proportions; -- called also bassrelief and basso- rilievo.	
basal		Relating to, or forming, the base.	
basal-nerved		Having the nerves radiating from the base; -- said of leaves.	
basalt		(Geol.) A rock of igneous origin, consisting of augite and triclinic feldspar, with grains of magnetic or titanic iron, and also bottle- green particles of olivine frequently disseminated.	Latin basaltes.
basaltic		Pertaining to basalt; formed of, or containing, basalt; as basaltic lava.	
basaltiform		In the form of basalt; columnar.	
basaltoid		Formed like basalt; basaltiform.	
basan		Same as Basil, a sheepskin.	
basanite		Lydian stone, or black jasper, a variety of siliceous or flinty slate, of a grayish or bluish black color.	
basbleu		A bluestocking; a literary woman.	
bascinet		A light helmet, at first open, but later made with a visor.	Anglo-Norman bacynet.
bascule		In mechanics an apparatus on the principle of the seesaw, in which one end rises as the other falls.	French seesaw.
base		Of little comparative value, as metal inferior to gold and silver, the precious metals.	Old French base, from Latin basis, from Greek βάσις.
base-burner		A furnace or stove in which the fuel is contained in a hopper or chamber, and is fed to the fire as the lower stratum is consumed.	
base-court		The secondary, inferior, or rear courtyard of a large house; the outer court of a castle.	
baseball		A game of ball, so called from the bases or bounds ( four in number) which designate the circuit which each player must endeavor to make after striking the ball.	
baseboard		A board, or other woodwork, carried round the walls of a room and touching the floor, to form a base and protect the plastering; -- also called washboard (in England), mopboard, and scrubboard.	
baseborn		Born out of wedlock.	
based		Having a base, or having as a base; supported; as, broad-based.	
baselard		A short sword or dagger, worn in the fifteenth century.	
baseless		Without a base; having no foundation or support.	
basely		In a base manner; with despicable meanness; dishonorably; shamefully.	
basement		The outer wall of the ground story of a building, or of a part of that story, when treated as a distinct substructure.	
baseness		The quality or condition of being base; degradation; vileness.	
basenet	Obsolete	See Bascinet — a light helmet, at first open, but later made with a visor.	
bash	Obsolete	To abash; to disconcert or be disconcerted or put out of countenance.	
bashaw		A Turkish title of honor, now written pasha. See Pasha.	
bashful		Very modest, or modest excess; constitutionally disposed to shrink from public notice; indicating extreme or excessive modesty; shy; as, a bashful person, action, expression.	
bashfully		In a bashful manner.	
bashfulness		The quality of being bashful.	
bashi-bazouk		A soldier belonging to the irregular troops of the Turkish army.	Turkish başıbozuk.
bashless	Obsolete	Shameless; unblushing.	
bashyle		See Basyle — a positive or nonacid constituent of compound, either elementary, or, if compound, performing the functions of an element.	
basi-		A combining form, especially in anatomical and botanical words, to indicate the base or position at or near a base; forming a base; as, basibranchials, the most ventral of the cartilages or bones of the branchial arches…	Latin basis, from Greek βάσις.
basic		(Chem.) (a) Relating to a base; performing the office of a base in a salt.	
basicerite		The second joint of the antennæ of crustaceans.	
basicity		(a) The quality or state of being a base. (b) The power of an acid to unite with one or more atoms or equivalents of a base, as indicated by the number of replaceable hydrogen atoms contained in the acid.	
basidiomycetes		A large subdivision of fungi coördinate with the Ascomycetes, characterized by having the spores borne on a basidium.	
basidiospore		A spore borne by a basidium. -- Ba*sid`i*o*spor"ous (, a.	
basidium		A special oblong or pyriform cell, with slender branches, which bears the spores in that division of fungi called Basidiomycetes, of which the common mushroom is an example.	
basifier		That which converts into a salifiable base.	
basifugal		Tending or proceeding away from the base; as, a basifugal growth.	
basify		To convert into a salifiable base.	
basigynium		The pedicel on which the ovary of certain flowers, as the passion flower, is seated; a carpophore or thecaphore.	
basihyal		Noting two small bones, forming the body of the inverted hyoid arch.	
basihyoid		The central tongue bone.	
basil		The slope or angle to which the cutting edge of a tool, as a plane, is ground.	Old French basile, from Latin basiliscus, from Greek βασιλίσκος.
basilar		Relating to, or situated at, the base.	
basilary		Relating to, or situated at, the base.	
basilic		Royal; kingly; also, basilican.	
basilica		Originally, the place of a king; but afterward, an apartment provided in the houses of persons of importance, where assemblies were held for dispensing justice; and hence, any large hall used for this purpose.	
basilical		Royal; kingly; also, basilican.	
basilican		Of, relating to, or resembling, a basilica; basilical.	
basilicok	Obsolete	The basilisk.	Old French basilicoc.
basilicon		An ointment composed of wax, pitch, resin, and olive oil, lard, or other fatty substance.	
basilisk		A fabulous serpent, or dragon.	
basin		A hollow vessel or dish, to hold water for washing, and for various other uses.	Middle English basin, from Old French bacin, from Latin baccinum.
basined		Inclosed in a basin.	
basinet		Same as Bascinet.	
basioccipital		Of or pertaining to the bone in the base of the cranium, frequently forming a part of the occipital in the adult, but usually distinct in the young. -- n.	
basion		The middle of the anterior margin of the great foramen of the skull.	
basipodite		The basal joint of the legs of Crustacea.	
basipterygium		A bar of cartilage at the base of the embryonic fins of some fishes.	
basipterygoid		Applied to a protuberance of the base of the sphenoid bone.	
basis		The foundation of anything; that on which a thing rests.	Latin basis, from Greek βάσις.
basisolute		Prolonged at the base, as certain leaves.	
basisphenoid		Of or pertaining to that part of the base of the cranium between the basioccipital and the presphenoid, which usually ossifies separately in the embryo or in the young, and becomes a part of the sphenoid in the adult.	
basisphenoidal		Of or pertaining to that part of the base of the cranium between the basioccipital and the presphenoid, which usually ossifies separately in the embryo or in the young, and becomes a part of the sphenoid in the adult.	
bask		To lie in warmth; to be exposed to genial heat.	Old Norse baðask.
basket		A vessel made of osiers or other twigs, cane, rushes, splints, or other flexible material, interwoven.	Anglo-Norman bascat, from Latin bascauda.
basketful		As much as a basket will contain.	
basketry		The art of making baskets; also, baskets, taken collectively.	
basnet		Same as Bascinet.	
basommatophora		A group of Pulmonifera having the eyes at the base of the tentacles, including the common pond snails.	
bason	Obsolete	A basin.	
basque		Pertaining to Biscay, its people, or their language.	French basque, from Old French baste.
basquish	Obsolete	Pertaining to the country, people, or language of Biscay; Basque Sir T.	
bass		; pl. Bass, and sometimes Basses.	Italian basso, from Latin bassus.
bass-relief		Some as Bas-relief.	
bassa		See Bashaw — a turkish title of honor, now written pasha. See Pasha.	
bassaw		See Bashaw — a turkish title of honor, now written pasha. See Pasha.	
basset		A game at cards, resembling the modern faro, said to have been invented at Venice.	
basseting		The upward direction of a vein in a mine; the emergence of a stratum at the surface.	
bassetto		A tenor or small bass viol.	
bassinet		A wicker basket, with a covering or hood over one end, in which young children are placed as in a cradle.	French bercelonette.
basso		(a) The bass or lowest part; as, to sing basso. (b) One who sings the lowest part.	
basso-relievo		Same as Bas-relief.	
basso-rilievo		Same as Bas-relief.	
bassock		A hassock. See 2d Bass, 2.	
bassoon		A wind instrument of the double reed kind, furnished with holes, which are stopped by the fingers, and by keys, as in flutes.	French basson, from Italian bassone.
bassoonist		A performer on the bassoon.	
bassorin		A constituent part of a species of gum from Bassora, as also of gum tragacanth and some gum resins.	
basswood		The bass (Tilia) or its wood; especially, T.	
bast		The inner fibrous bark of various plants; esp. of the lime tree; hence, matting, cordage, etc., made therefrom.	
basta		Enough; stop.	
bastard		A child; a child begotten and born out of wedlock; an illegitimate child; one born of an illicit union.	Middle English bastard.
bastardism		The state of being a bastard; bastardy.	
bastardize		To make or prove to be a bastard; to stigmatize as a bastard; to declare or decide legally to be illegitimate.	
bastardly	Obsolete	Bastardlike; baseborn; spuripous; corrupt. -- adv.	
bastardy		The state of being a bastard; illegitimacy.	
baste		To beat with a stick; to cudgel.	
bastile		, formerly a castle or fortress in Paris, used as a prison, especially for political offenders; hence, a rhetorical name for a prison.	
bastille		, formerly a castle or fortress in Paris, used as a prison, especially for political offenders; hence, a rhetorical name for a prison.	French bastille, from Latin bastilia.
bastinade	Archaic	See Bastinado, n.	French bastonnade.
bastinado		A blow with a stick or cudgel.	Spanish bastonada.
bastion		A work projecting outward from the main inclosure of a fortification, consisting of two faces and two flanks, and so constructed that it is able to defend by a flanking fire the adjacent curtain…	
bastioned		Furnished with a bastion; having bastions.	
basto		The ace of clubs in qua Pope.	
baston		An officer bearing a painted staff, who formerly was in attendance upon the king's court to take into custody persons committed by the court.	Old French baston.
basutos		A warlike South African people of the Bantu stock, divided into many tribes, subject to the English.	
basyle		A positive or nonacid constituent of compound, either elementary, or, if compound, performing the functions of an element.	
basylous		Pertaining to, or having the nature of, a basyle; electro- positive; basic; -- opposed to chlorous.	
bat		A large stick; a club; specifically, a piece of wood with one end thicker or broader than the other, used in playing baseball, cricket, etc.	Old English batt.
batable	Obsolete	Disputable.	
batailled	Obsolete	Embattled.	
batardeau		(Mil.) A wall built across the ditch of a fortification, with a sluice gate to regulate the height of water in the ditch on both sides of the wall.	
batata		An aboriginal American name for the sweet potato (Ipomæa batatas).	
batatas		An aboriginal American name for the sweet potato (Ipomæa batatas).	
batavian		Of or pertaining to (a) the Batavi, an ancient Germanic tribe; or to (b) as, a Batavian legion.	
batch		The quantity of bread baked at one time.	Middle English bache, from Old English bæcce.
bate		To lessen by retrenching, deducting, or reducing; to abate; to beat down; to lower.	Swedish beta.
bateau		A boat; esp. a flat-bottomed, clumsy boat used on the Canadian lakes and rivers.	French bateau, from Old French batel, from Old English bat.
bated		Reduced; lowered; restrained; as, to speak with bated breath.	
bateful	Obsolete	Exciting contention; contentious.	
bateless	Obsolete	Not to be abated.	
batement		Abatement; diminution.	
batfish		A name given to several species of fishes: (a) The Malthe vespertilio of the Atlantic coast.	
batfowler		One who practices or finds sport in batfowling.	
batfowling		A mode of catching birds at night, by holding a torch or other light, and beating the bush or perch where they roost.	
batful	Obsolete	Rich; fertile.	
bath		The act of exposing the body, or part of the body, for purposes of cleanliness, comfort, health, etc., to water, vapor, hot air, or the like; as, a cold or a hot bath; a medicated bath; a steam bath; a hip bath.	Hebrew בת.
bathe		To moisten or suffuse with a liquid.	Middle English bathen, from Old English baþian.
bather		One who bathes.	
bathetic		Having the character of bathos.	
bathing		Act of taking a bath or baths.	
bathmism		See Vital force.	
bathometer		An instrument for measuring depths, esp. one for taking soundings without a sounding line.	
bathorse		A horse which carries an officer's baggage during a campaign.	
bathos		A ludicrous descent from the elevated to the low, in writing or speech; anticlimax.	Greek βάθος.
bathybius		A name given by Prof.	
bathygraphic		Descriptive of the ocean depth; as, a bathygraphic chart.	
bathymetric		Pertaining to bathymetry; relating to the measurement of depths, especially of depths in the sea.	
bathymetrical		Pertaining to bathymetry; relating to the measurement of depths, especially of depths in the sea.	
bathymetry		The art or science of sounding, or measuring depths in the sea.	
bating		With the exception of; excepting.	
batiste		Originally, cambric or lawn of fine linen; now applied also to cloth of similar texture made of cotton.	French batiste.
batlet		A short bat for beating clothes in washing them; -- called also batler, batling staff, batting staff.	
batman		A weight used in the East, varying according to the locality; in Turkey, the greater batman is about 157 pounds, the lesser only a fourth of this; at Aleppo and Smyrna, the batman is 17 pounds.	Turkish batman.
batoidei		The division of fishes which includes the rays and skates.	
baton		A staff or truncheon, used for various purposes; as, the baton of a field marshal; the baton of a conductor in musical performances.	French bâton, from Old French baston.
batoon		See Baton, and Baston.	French bâton, from Old French baston.
batrachia		The order of amphibians which includes the frogs and toads; the Anura.	
batrachian		Pertaining to the Batrachia. -- n.	
batrachoid		Froglike. Specifically: Of or pertaining to the Batrachidæ, a family of marine fishes, including the toadfish.	
batrachomyomachy		The battle between the frogs and mice; -- a Greek parody on the Iliad, of uncertain authorship.	
batrachophagous		Feeding on frogs.	
batsman		The one who wields the bat in cricket, baseball, etc. BAT'S-WING; BATWING Bat's"-wing wing, a.	
batta		Extra pay; esp. an extra allowance to an English officer serving in India.	
battable	Obsolete	Capable of culti Burton.	
battailant		Prepared for battle; combatant; warlike.	French bataillant.
battailous	Obsolete	Arrayed for battle; fit or eager for battle; warlike.	Old French bataillos.
battalia		Order of battle; disposition or arrangement of troops (brigades, regiments, battalions, etc.), or of a naval force, for action.	
battalion		A body of troops; esp. a body of troops or an army in battle array.	
battel	Obsolete	A single combat; as, trial by battel. See Wager of battel, under Wager.	
batteler		A student at Oxford who is supplied with provisions from the buttery; formerly, one who paid for nothing but what he called for, answering nearly to a sizar at Cambridge.	
batten		To make fat by plenteous feeding; to fatten.	
battening		Furring done with small pieces nailed directly upon the wall.	
batter		To beat with successive blows; to beat repeatedly and with violence, so as to bruise, shatter, or demolish; as, to batter a wall or rampart.	Middle English bateren.
batterer		One who, or that which, batters.	
battering-ram		(Mil.) An engine used in ancient times to beat down the walls of besieged places.	
battery		(Law) The unlawful beating of another.	Middle French batterie, from Old French baterie.
batting		The act of one who bats; the management of a bat in playing games of ball.	
battle		A general action, fight, or encounter, in which all the divisions of an army are or may be engaged; an engagement; a combat.	Middle English batel, from Old French bataille.
battle-ax		A kind of broadax formerly used as an offensive weapon.	
battle-axe		A kind of broadax formerly used as an offensive weapon.	
battled	Poetic	Embattled.	
battledoor		An instrument, with a handle and a flat part covered with parchment or crossed with catgut, used to strike a shuttlecock in play; also, the play of battledoor and shuttlecock.	
battlement		(a) One of the solid upright parts of a parapet in ancient fortifications.	
battlemented		Having battlements.	
battler		A student at Oxford who is supplied with provisions from the buttery; formerly, one who paid for nothing but what he called for, answering nearly to a sizar at Cambridge.	
battologist		One who battologizes.	
battologize		To keep repeating needlessly; to iterate.	
battology		A needless repetition of words in speaking or writing.	Greek βαττολογία.
batton		See Batten, and Baton.	
battue		(a) The act of beating the woods, bushes, etc., for game. (b) The game itself.	
batture		An elevated river bed or sea bed.	
battuta		The measuring of time by beating.	
batty		Belonging to, or resembling, a bat.	
batule		A springboard in a circus or gymnasium; -- called also batule board.	
batz		A small copper coin, with a mixture of silver, formerly current in some parts of Germany and Switzerland.	German Batz.
baubee		Same as Bawbee.	
bauble		A trifling piece of finery; a gewgaw; that which is gay and showy without real value; a cheap, showy plaything.	Old French baubel.
baubling	Obsolete	, a. See Bawbling.	
baudekin		The richest kind of stuff used in garments in the Middle Ages, the web being gold, and the woof silk, with embroidery : -- made originally at Bagdad.	
baudrick		A belt. See Baldric.	
bauk		See Balk — a ridge of land left unplowed between furrows, or at the end of a field; a piece missed by the plow slipping aside.	
baulk		See Balk — a ridge of land left unplowed between furrows, or at the end of a field; a piece missed by the plow slipping aside.	
baume		Designating or conforming to either of the scales used by the French chemist Antoine Baumé in the graduation of his hydrometers; of or relating to Baumé's scales or hydrometers.	
baunscheidtism		A form of acupuncture, followed by the rubbing of the part with a stimulating fluid.	
bauxite		A ferruginous hydrate of alumina.	
bavardage		Much talking; prattle; chatter.	
bavarian		Of or pertaining to Bavaria. -- n.	
bavaroy	Obsolete	A kind of cloak or surtout.	
bavian		A baboon.	
bavin	English dialect	Impure limestone.	
bawbee	Scots	A halfpenny.	Scots bawbee.
bawble		A trinket. See Bauble.	
bawbling	Obsolete	Insignificant; contemptible.	
bawcock	Obsolete	A fine fellow; -- a term of endearment.	
bawd		A person who keeps a house of prostitution, or procures women for a lewd purpose; a procurer or procuress; a lewd person; -- usually applied to a woman.	Middle English bawde.
bawdily		Obscenely; lewdly.	
bawdiness		Obscenity; lewdness.	
bawdrick		A belt. See Baldric.	
bawdry		The practice of procuring women for the gratification of lust.	
bawdy		Obscene; filthy; unchaste.	
bawdyhouse		A house of prostitution; a house of ill fame; a brothel.	
bawhorse		Same as Bathorse.	
bawl		To cry out with a loud, full sound; to cry with vehemence, as in calling or exultation; to shout; to vociferate.	Middle English bawlen.
bawler		One who bawls.	
bawn	Obsolete	An inclosure with mud or stone walls, for keeping cattle; a fortified inclosure.	Irish badhun.
bawrel	Obsolete	A kind of hawk.	
bawsin	Obsolete	A large, unwieldy person.	
bawson	Obsolete	A large, unwieldy person.	
baxter		A baker; originally, a female baker.	
bay		Reddish brown; of the color of a chestnut; -- applied to the color of horses.	Middle English baye.
bay-antler		The second tine of a stag's horn. See under Antler.	
baya		The East Indian weaver bird (Ploceus Philippinus).	
bayad		A large, edible, siluroid fish of the Nile, of two species (Bagrina bayad and B. docmac).	
bayadere		A female dancer in the East Indies.	French bayadère, from Portuguese bailadeira.
bayamo		A violent thunder squall occurring on the south coast of Cuba, esp. near Bayamo.	
bayard		Etym: Properly, a bay horse, but often any horse.	
bayardly	Obsolete	Blind; stupid.	
bayatte		A large, edible, siluroid fish of the Nile, of two species (Bagrina bayad and B. docmac).	
bayberry		(a) The fruit of the bay tree or Laurus nobilis. (b) A tree of the West Indies related to the myrtle (Pimenta acris).	
baybolt		A bolt with a barbed shank.	
bayed		Having a bay or bays.	
bayman		In the United States navy, a sick-bay nurse; -- now officially designated as hospital apprentice.	
bayonet		(Mil.) A pointed instrument of the dagger kind fitted on the muzzle of a musket or rifle, so as to give the soldier increased means of offense and defense.	
bayou		An inlet from the Gulf of Mexico, from a lake, or from a large river, sometimes sluggish, sometimes without perceptible movement except from tide and wind.	Cajun French bayou, from Choctaw bayuk.
bays	Obsolete	See Baize — a coarse woolen stuff with a long nap; -- usually dyed in plain colors.	French baies.
bayze	Obsolete	See Baize — a coarse woolen stuff with a long nap; -- usually dyed in plain colors.	
bazaar		In the East, an exchange, marketplace, or assemblage of shops where goods are exposed for sale.	Italian bazarra, from Persian بازار, from Pahlavi vacar.
bazar		In the East, an exchange, marketplace, or assemblage of shops where goods are exposed for sale.	
