be		To exist actually, or in the world of fact; to have ex To be contents his natural desire.	Middle English been, from Old English beon.
be-all	Poetic	The whole; all that is to be.	
beach		Pebbles, collectively; shingle.	
beached		Driven on a beach; stranded; drawn up on a beach; as, the ship is beached.	
beachy		Having a beach or beaches; formed by a beach or beaches; shingly.	
beacon		A signal fire to notify of the approach of an enemy, or to give any notice, commonly of warning.	Middle English beken.
beaconage		Money paid for the maintenance of a beacon; also, beacons, collectively.	
beaconless		Having no beacon.	
bead		A little perforated ball, to be strung on a thread, and worn for ornament; or used in a rosary for counting prayers, as by Roman Catholics and Mohammedans, whence the phrases to tell beads, to at one's beads, to bid beads, etc.…	Old English gebed.
beadhouse		An almshouse for poor people who pray daily for their benefactors.	
beading		The beads or bead-forming quality of certain liquors; as, the beading of a brand of whisky.	
beadle		A messenger or crier of a court; a servitor; one who cites or bids persons to appear and answer; -- called also an apparitor or summoner.	Middle English bedel, from Old English bydel.
beadlery		Office or jurisdiction of a beadle.	
beadleship		The state of being, or the personality of, a beadle.	
beadroll		A catalogue of persons, for the rest of whose souls a certain number of prayers are to be said or counted off on the beads of a chaplet; hence, a catalogue in general.	
beadsman		A poor man, supported in a beadhouse, and required to pray for the soul of its founder; an almsman.	
beadsnake		A small poisonous snake of North America (Elaps fulvius), banded with yellow, red, and black.	
beadswoman		Fem. of Beadsman.	
beadwork		Ornamental work in beads.	
beady		Resembling beads; small, round, and glistening.	
beagle		A small hound, or hunting dog, twelve to fifteen inches high, used in hunting hares and other small game.	Middle English begle.
beak		(Zoöl.) (a) The bill or nib of a bird, consisting of a horny sheath, covering the jaws.	Middle English bec.
beaked		Having a beak or a beaklike point; beak-shaped.	
beaker		A large drinking cup, with a wide mouth, supported on a foot or standard.	Middle English biker, from Old Norse bikarr, from Old Saxon bikeri, from Latin bicarium.
beakhead		(Arch.) An ornament used in rich Norman doorways, resembling a head with a beak.	
beakiron		A bickern; a bench anvil with a long beak, adapted to reach the interior surface of sheet metal ware; the horn of an anvil.	
beal	English dialect	A small inflammatory tumor; a pustule.	Middle English beel.
beam		Any large piece of timber or iron long in proportion to its thickness, and prepared for use.	Middle English bemen, from Old English beamian.
beambird		A small European flycatcher (Muscicapa gricola), so called because it often nests on a beam in a building.	
beamed		Furnished with beams, as the head of a stag.	
beamful		Beamy; radiant.	
beamily		In a beaming manner.	
beaminess		The state of being beamy.	
beaming		Emitting beams; radiant.	
beamingly		In a beaming manner; radiantly.	
beamless		Not emitting light.	
beamlet		A small beam of light.	
beamy		Emitting beams of light; radiant; shining.	Middle English beami.
bean		(Bot.) A name given to the seed of certain leguminous herbs, chiefly of the genera Faba, Phaseolus, and Dolichos; also, to the herbs.	Middle English bene, from Old English bean.
bear		To support and remove or carry; to convey.	Middle English beren, from Old English beran.
bearable		Capable of being borne or endured; tolerable. -- Bear"a*bly, adv.	
bearberry		A trailing plant of the heath family (Arctostaphylos uva-ursi), having leaves which are tonic and astringent, and glossy red berries of which bears are said to be fond.	
bearbind		The bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis).	
beard		The hair that grows on the chin, lips, and adjacent parts of the human face, chiefly of male adults.	Middle English berd, from Old English beard.
bearded		Having a beard.	
beardie	Scots	The bearded loach (Nemachilus barbatus) of Europe.	
beardless		Without a beard. Hence: Not having arrived at puberty or manhood; youthful.	
beardlessness		The state or quality of being destitute of beard.	
bearer		One who, or that which, bears, sustains, or carries. 2 Chron. ii. 18.	
bearherd		A man who tends a bear.	
bearhound		A hound for baiting or hunting bears.	
bearing		The manner in which one bears or conducts one's self; mien; behavior; carriage.	
bearish		Partaking of the qualities of a bear; resembling a bear in temper or manners.	
bearishness		Behavior like that of a bear.	
bearn		(b) The English cow parsnip (Heracleum sphondylium) Dr. Prior.	
bearskin		A coarse, shaggy, woolen cloth for overcoats.	
bearward		A keeper of bears. See Bearherd.	
beast		Any four-footed animal, that may be used for labor, food, or sport; as, a beast of burden.	Old French beste, from Latin bestia.
beasthood		State or nature of a beast.	
beastings		See Biestings — the first milk given by a cow after calving.	
beastlihead	Obsolete	Beastliness.	
beastlike		Like a beast.	
beastliness		The state or quality of being beastly.	
beastly		Pertaining to, or having the form, nature, or habits of, a beast.	
beat		To strike repeatedly; to lay repeated blows upon; as, to beat one's breast; to beat iron so as to shape it; to beat grain, in order to force out the seeds; to beat eggs and sugar; to beat a drum.	Middle English beten, from Old English beatan.
beaten		Made smooth by beating or treading; worn by use.	
beater		One who, or that which, beats.	
beath	Obsolete	To bathe; also, to dry or heat, as unseasoned wood.	Middle English bethen, from Old English beþian.
beatific		Having the power to impart or complete blissful enjoyment; blissful. -- Be`a*tif"ic*al*ly, adv.	
beatifical		Having the power to impart or complete blissful enjoyment; blissful. -- Be`a*tif"ic*al*ly, adv.	
beatificate	Obsolete	To beatify.	
beatification		The act of beatifying, or the state of being beatified; esp., in the R.	Latin beatificatio.
beatify		To pronounce or regard as happy, or supremely blessed, or as conferring happiness.	Latin beatificare.
beating		The act of striking or giving blows; punishment or chastisement by blows.	
beatitude		Felicity of the highest kind; consummate bliss.	French béatitude, from Latin beatitudo.
beau		A man who takes great care to dress in the latest fashion; a dandy.	
beaucatcher		A small flat curl worn on the temple by women.	
beaufet		A niche, cupboard, or sideboard for plate, china, glass, etc.; a buffet.	
beaufin		See Biffin — a sort of apple peculiar to Norfolk, Eng.	
beauish		Like a beau; characteristic of a beau; foppish; fine.	
beaumontague		A cement used in making joints, filling cracks, etc. For iron, the principal constituents are iron borings and sal ammoniac; for wood, white lead or litharge, whiting, and linseed oil.	
beaupere	Obsolete	A father.	
beauseant		The black and white standard of the Knights Templars.	French beaucéant.
beauship		The state of being a beau; the personality of a beau.	
beauteous		Full of beauty; beautiful; very handsome. -- Beau te*ous*ness, n.	
beautied	Poetic	Beautiful; embellished.	
beautifier		One who, or that which, beautifies or makes beautiful.	
beautiful		Having the qualities which constitute beauty; pleasing to the sight or the mind.	
beautify		To make or render beautiful; to add beauty to; to adorn; to deck; to grace; to embellish.	
beautiless		Destitute of beauty.	
beauty		An assemblage or graces or properties pleasing to the eye, the ear, the intellect, the æsthetic faculty, or the moral sense.	
beaux		pl. of Beau — a man who takes great care to dress in the latest fashion; a dandy.	
beauxite		A ferruginous hydrate of alumina.	
beaver		(Zoöl.) An amphibious rodent, of the genus Castor.	Old French baviere.
beavered		Covered with, or wearing, a beaver or hat.	
beaverteen		A kind of fustian made of coarse twilled cotton, shorn after dyeing.	
bebeerine		An alkaloid got from the bark of the bebeeru, or green heart of Guiana (Nectandra Rodioei).	
bebeeru		A tropical South American tree (Nectandra Rodioi), the bark of which yields the alkaloid bebeerine, and the wood of which is known as green heart.	
bebirine		An alkaloid got from the bark of the bebeeru, or green heart of Guiana (Nectandra Rodioei).	
bebleed	Obsolete	To make bloody; to stain with blood.	Middle English bebleden.
beblood	Obsolete	To make bloody; to stain with blood.	
bebloody	Obsolete	To make bloody; to stain with blood.	Middle English biblodegien.
beblot		To blot; to stain.	Middle English beblotten.
beblubber		To make swollen and disfigured or sullied by weeping; as, her eyes or cheeks were beblubbered.	
bebung		A tremolo effect, such as that produced on the piano by vibratory repetition of a note with sustained use of the pedal.	
becalm		To render calm or quiet; to calm; to still; to appease.	
became		of Become — to pass from one state to another; to enter into some state or condition, by a change from another state, or by assuming or receiving new properties or qualities, additional matter…	
becard		A South American bird of the flycatcher family. (Tityra inquisetor).	
because		By or for the cause that; on this account that; for the reason that.	Middle English bi cause.
beccabunga		See Brooklime — a plant (Veronica Beccabunga), with flowers, usually blue, in axillary racemes.	
beccafico		A small bird. (Silvia hortensis), which is highly prized by the Italians for the delicacy of its flesh in the autumn, when it has fed on figs, grapes, etc. BECCHI'S TEST Bec"chi's test.	
bechamel		A rich, white sauce, prepared with butter and cream.	
bechance	Obsolete	By chance; by accident.	
becharm		To charm; to captivate.	Middle English becharmen.
bechic		Pertaining to, or relieving, a cough.	
bechuanas		A division of the Bantus, dwelling between the Orange and Zambezi rivers, supposed to be the most ancient Bantu population of South Africa.	
beck	Obsolete	See Beak — (Zoöl.) (a) The bill or nib of a bird, consisting of a horny sheath, covering the jaws.	
becker		A European fish (Pagellus centrodontus); the sea bream or braise.	
becket		(Naut.) A small grommet, or a ring or loop of rope	
beckon		To make a significant sign to; hence, to summon, as by a motion of the hand.	
beclap	Obsolete	To catch; to grasp; to insnare.	Middle English biclappen.
beclip	Obsolete	To embrace; to surround.	Middle English beclippen, from Old English beclyppan.
becloud		To cause obscurity or dimness to; to dim; to cloud.	
become		To pass from one state to another; to enter into some state or condition, by a change from another state, or by assuming or receiving new properties or qualities, additional matter, or a new character.	Middle English becomen.
becomed	Obsolete	Proper; decorous.	
becoming	Obsolete	Appropriate or fit; congruous; suitable; graceful; befitting.	
becomingly		In a becoming manner.	
becomingness		The quality of being becoming, appropriate, or fit; congruity; fitness.	
becripple		To make a cripple of; to cripple; to lame.	
becuiba		The nut of the Brazilian tree Myristica Bicuhyba, which yields a medicinal balsam used for rheumatism.	
becuna		A fish of the Mediterranean (Sphyræna spet). See Barracuda.	
becurl		To curl; to adorn with curls.	
bed		An article of furniture to sleep or take rest in or on; a couch. Specifically: A sack or mattress, filled with some soft material, in distinction from the bedstead on which it is placed (as, a feather bed)…	Middle English bed, from Old English bedd.
bed-molding		The molding of a cornice immediately below the corona.	
bed-moulding		The molding of a cornice immediately below the corona.	
bedabble		To dabble; to sprinkle or wet.	
bedaff	Obsolete	To make a daff or fool of.	Middle English bedaffen.
bedagat		The sacred books of the Buddhists in Burmah.	
bedaggle		To daggle.	
bedash		To wet by dashing or throwing water or other liquid upon; to bespatter.	
bedaub		To daub over; to besmear or soil with anything thick and dirty.	
bedazzle		To dazzle or make dim by a strong light.	
bedbug		A wingless, bloodsucking, hemipterous insect (Cimex Lectularius), sometimes infesting houses and especially beds.	
bedchair		A chair with adjustable back, for the sick, to support them while sitting up in bed.	
bedchamber		A chamber for a bed; an apartment form sleeping in.	
bedclothes		Blankets, sheets, coverlets, etc., for a bed.	
bedcord		A cord or rope interwoven in a bedstead so as to support the bed.	
bedded		Provided with a bed; as, double-bedded room; placed or arranged in a bed or beds.	
bedding		A bed and its furniture; the materials of a bed, whether for man or beast; bedclothes; litter.	
bede	Obsolete	To pray; also, to offer; to proffer.	Middle English beden, from Old English beodian.
bedeck		To deck, ornament, or adorn; to grace.	
bedegar		A gall produced on rosebushes, esp. on the sweetbrier or eglantine, by a puncture from the ovipositor of a gallfly (Rhodites rosæ).	
bedeguar		A gall produced on rosebushes, esp. on the sweetbrier or eglantine, by a puncture from the ovipositor of a gallfly (Rhodites rosæ).	
bedehouse		An almshouse for poor people who pray daily for their benefactors.,n.Same as Beadhouse.	
bedel		,n.Same as Beadle.	
bedell		,n.Same as Beadle.	
bedelry	Obsolete	Beadleship.	
beden		The Abyssinian or Arabian ibex (Capra Nubiana).	
bedesman	Obsolete	A poor man, supported in a beadhouse, and required to pray for the soul of its founder; an almsman.	
bedeswoman		Fem. of Beadsman.	
bedevil		To throw into utter disorder and confusion, as if by the agency of evil spirits; to bring under diabolical influence; to torment.	
bedevilment	Colloquial	The state of being bedeviled; bewildering confusion; vexatious trouble.	
bedew		To moisten with dew, or as with dew.	Middle English bidewen.
bedewer		One who, or that which, bedews.	
bedewy	Obsolete	Moist with dew; dewy.	
bedfellow		One who lies with another in the same bed; a person who shares one's couch.	
bedfere	Obsolete	A bedfellow.	
bedgown		A nightgown.	
bedight	Archaic	To bedeck; to array or equip; to adorn.	Middle English bedighten.
bedim		To make dim; to obscure or darken.	
bedizen		To dress or adorn tawdrily or with false taste.	
bedizenment		That which bedizens; the act of dressing, or the state of being dressed, tawdrily.	
bedkey		An instrument for tightening the parts of a bedstead.	
bedlam		A place appropriated to the confinement and care of the insane; a madhouse.	
bedlamite		An inhabitant of a madhouse; a madman.	
bedmaker		One who makes beds.	
bedote	Obsolete	To cause to dote; to deceive.	
bedouin		One of the nomadic Arabs who live in tents, and are scattered over Arabia, Syria, and northern Africa, esp. in the deserts. -- Bed"ou*in*ism (, n.	Arabic بدويون.
bedpan		A pan for warming beds.	
bedphere	Obsolete	A bedfellow.	
bedpiece		The foundation framing or piece, by which the other parts are supported and held in place; the bed; -- called also baseplate and soleplate.	
bedplate		The foundation framing or piece, by which the other parts are supported and held in place; the bed; -- called also baseplate and soleplate.	
bedpost		One of the four standards that support a bedstead or the canopy over a bedstead.	
bedquilt		A quilt for a bed; a coverlet.	
bedrabble		To befoul with rain and mud; to drabble.	
bedraggle		To draggle; to soil, as garments which, in walking, are suffered to drag in dust, mud, etc. Swift.	
bedrench		To drench; to saturate with moisture; to soak.	
bedribble		To dribble upon.	
bedrid		Confined to the bed by sickness or infirmity.	
bedridden		Confined to the bed by sickness or infirmity.	Old English bedreda.
bedright		The duty or privilege of the marriage bed.	
bedrite		The duty or privilege of the marriage bed.	
bedrizzle		To drizzle upon.	
bedroom		A room or apartment intended or used for a bed; a lodging room.	
bedrop		To sprinkle, as with drops.	
bedrug		To drug abundantly or excessively.	
bedside		The side of a bed.	
bedsite		A recess in a room for a bed.	
bedsore		A sore on the back or hips caused by lying for a long time in bed.	
bedspread		A bedquilt; a counterpane; a coverlet.	
bedstaff		Hostess, accommodate us with a bedstaff.	
bedstead		A framework for supporting a bed.	
bedstock	Obsolete	The front or the back part of the frame of a bedstead.	
bedstraw		Straw put into a bed.	
bedswerver	Poetic	One who swerves from and is unfaithful to the marriage vow.	
bedtick		A tick or bag made of cloth, used for inclosing the materials of a bed.	
bedtime		The time to go to bed.	
beduck		To duck; to put the head under water; to immerse.	
beduin		See Bedouin — one of the nomadic Arabs who live in tents, and are scattered over Arabia, Syria, and northern Africa, esp. in the deserts. -- Bed"ou*in*ism (, n.	
bedung		To cover with dung, as for manuring; to bedaub or defile, literally or figuratively.	
bedust		To sprinkle, soil, or cover with dust.	
bedward		Towards bed.	
bedwarf		To make a dwarf of; to stunt or hinder the growth of; to dwarf.	
bedye		To dye or stain.	
bee		(Zoöl.) An insect of the order Hymenoptera, and family Apidæ (the honeybees), or family Andrenidæ (the solitary bees.) See Honeybee.	
bee-eater		(a) A bird of the genus Merops, that feeds on bees.	
beebread		A brown, bitter substance found in some of the cells of honeycomb.	
beech		A tree of the genus Fagus.	Middle English beche, from Old English bece.
beechen		Consisting, or made, of the wood or bark of the beech; belonging to the beech.	Middle English bechen, from Old English becen.
beechnut		The nut of the beech tree.	
beechy		Of or relating to beeches.	
beef		An animal of the genus Bos, especially the common species, B. taurus, including the bull, cow, and ox, in their full grown state; esp., an ox or cow fattened for food.	
beef-witted		Stupid; dull.	
beefeater		One who eats beef; hence, a large, fleshy person.	
beefsteak		A steak of beef; a slice of beef broiled or suitable for broiling.	
beefwood		An Australian tree (Casuarina), and its red wood, used for cabinetwork; also, the trees Stenocarpus salignus of New South Wales, and Banksia compar of Queensland.	
beefy		Having much beef; of the nature of beef; resembling beef; fleshy.	
beehive		A hive for a swarm of bees.	
beehouse		A house for bees; an apiary.	
beeld		Same as Beild.	
beelzebub		The title of a heathen deity to whom the Jews ascribed the sovereignty of the evil spirits; hence, the Devil or a devil.	
beem	Obsolete	A trumpet.	
beemaster		One who keeps bees.	
been		The past participle of Be.	
beer		A fermented liquor made from any malted grain, but commonly from barley malt, with hops or some other substance to impart a bitter flavor.	Middle English beere.
beeregar	Obsolete	Sour beer.	
beerhouse		A house where malt liquors are sold; an alehouse.	
beeriness		Beery condition.	
beery		Of or resembling beer; affected by beer; maudlin.	
beestings		Same as Biestings.	Old English bysting.
beeswax		The wax secreted by bees, and of which their cells are constructed.	
beeswing		The second crust formed in port and some other wines after long keeping.	
beet		(Bot.) A biennial plant of the genus Beta, which produces an edible root the first year and seed the second year.	
beete	Obsolete	To mend; to repair.	
beetle		A heavy mallet, used to drive wedges, beat pavements, etc.	Middle English betel, from Old English bīetel.
beetle-browed		Having prominent, overhanging brows; hence, lowering or sullen.	
beetle-headed		Dull; stupid.	
beetlehead		A stupid fellow; a blockhead.	
beetlestock		The handle of a beetle.	
beetrave		The common beet (Beta vulgaris).	French betterave.
beeve		A beef; a beef creature.	
beeves		; plural of Beef, the animal.	
befall		To happen to.	Middle English befallen, from Old English befeallan.
befit		To be suitable to; to suit; to become.	
befitting		Suitable; proper; becoming; fitting.	
befittingly		In a befitting manner; suitably.	
beflatter		To flatter excessively.	
beflower		To besprinkle or scatter over with, or as with, flowers.	
befog		To involve in a fog; -- mostly as a participle or part. adj.	
befool		To fool; to delude or lead into error; to infatuate; to deceive.	
before		In front of; preceding in space; ahead of; as, to stand before the fire; before the house.	Old English beforan, from Proto-Germanic forana.
beforehand		In a state of anticipation ore preoccupation; in advance; -- often followed by with.	
beforetime		Formerly; aforetime. dwelt in their tents, as beforetime. 2 Kings xiii. 5.	
befortune	Poetic	To befall.	
befoul		To make foul; to soil.	
befriend		To act as a friend to; to favor; to aid, benefit, or countenance.	
befriendment		Act of befriending.	
befrill		To furnish or deck with a frill.	
befringe		To furnish with a fringe; to form a fringe upon; to adorn as with fringe.	
befuddle		To becloud and confuse, as with liquor.	
beg		A title of honor in Turkey and in some other parts of the East; a bey.	Middle English beggen.
bega		See Bigha — a measure of land in India, varying from a third of an acre to an acre.	
begem		To adorn with gems, or as with gems.	
beget		To procreate, as a father or sire; to generate; -- commonly said of the father.	Middle English begeten.
begetter		One who begets; a father.	
beggable		Capable of being begged.	
beggar		One who begs; one who asks or entreats earnestly, or with humility; a petitioner.	Old French begart.
beggarhood		The condition of being a beggar; also, the class of beggars.	
beggarism		Beggary.	
beggarliness		The quality or state of being beggarly; meanness.	
beggarly		In the condition of, or like, a beggar; suitable for a beggar; extremely indigent; poverty-stricken; mean; poor; contemptible. iv. 9.	
beggary		The act of begging; the state of being a beggar; mendicancy; extreme poverty.	
beggestere	Obsolete	A beggar.	
beghard		One of an association of religious laymen living in imitation of the Beguines.	
begild		To gild.	
begin		To have or commence an independent or first existence; to take rise; to commence.	Middle English beginnen, from Old English beginnan.
beginner		One who begins or originates anything. Specifically: A young or inexperienced practitioner or student; a tyro.	
beginning		The act of doing that which begins anything; commencement of an action, state, or space of time; entrance into being or upon a course; the first act, effort, or state of a succession of acts or states.	
begird		To bind with a band or girdle; to gird.	Middle English begirden, from Old English begyrdan.
begirdle		To surround as with a girdle.	
begirt		To encompass; to begird.	
beglerbeg		The governor of a province of the Ottoman empire, next in dignity to the grand vizier.	
begnaw		To gnaw; to eat away; to corrode.	
begod	Obsolete	To exalt to the dignity of a god; to deify.	
begohm		A unit of resistance equal to one billion ohms, or one thousand megohms.	
begone	Obsolete	Go away; depart; get you gone.	
begonia		A genus of plants, mostly of tropical America, many species of which are grown as ornamental plants.	French bégonia.
begore		To besmear with gore.	
begot		imp. & p. p. of Beget.	
begotten		p. p. of Beget — to procreate, as a father or sire; to generate; -- commonly said of the father.	
begrave	Obsolete	To bury; also, to engrave.	Middle English begraven, from Old English begrafan.
begrease		To soil or daub with grease or other oily matter.	
begrime		To soil with grime or dirt deeply impressed or rubbed in.	
begrimer		One who, or that which, begrimes.	
begrudge		To grudge; to envy the possession of.	
beguard		One of an association of religious laymen living in imitation of the Beguines.	
beguile		To delude by guile, artifice, or craft; to deceive or impose on, as by a false statement; to lure.	
beguilement		The act of beguiling, or the state of being beguiled.	
beguiler		One who, or that which, beguiles.	
beguiling		Alluring by guile; deluding; misleading; diverting. -- Be*guil"ing*ly, adv.	
beguin		See Beghard — one of an association of religious laymen living in imitation of the Beguines.	
beguinage		A collection of small houses surrounded by a wall and occupied by a community of Beguines.	
beguine		A woman belonging to one of the religious and charitable associations or communities in the Netherlands, and elsewhere, whose members live in beguinages and are not bound by perpetual vows.	
begum		In the East Indies, a princess or lady of high rank.	Urdu بیگم.
begun		of Begin — to have or commence an independent or first existence; to take rise; to commence.	
behalf		Advantage; favor; stead; benefit; interest; profit; support; defense; vindication.	Middle English bihalve.
behappen	Obsolete	To happen to.	
behave		To carry; to conduct; to comport; to manage; to bear; -- used reflexively.	
behavior		Manner of behaving, whether good or bad; mode of conducting one's self; conduct; deportment; carriage; -- used also of inanimate objects; as, the behavior of a ship in a storm; the behavior of the magnetic needle.	
behead		To sever the head from; to take off the head of.	Middle English beheden.
beheadal		,n.Beheading.	
beheld		imp. & p. p. of Behold.	
behemoth		An animal, probably the hippopotamus, described in Job xl. 15- 24.	Middle English bemoth.
behen		(a) The Centaurea behen, or saw-leaved centaury. (b) The Cucubalus behen, or bladder campion, now called Silene inflata.	
behest		That which is willed or ordered; a command; a mandate; an injunction.	Old English behæs.
behete	Obsolete	See Behight — to promise; to vow.	
behight		To promise; to vow.	Middle English beheten.
behind		On the side opposite the front or nearest part; on the back side of; at the back of; on the other side of; as, behind a door; behind a hill.	Old English behindan.
behindhand		In arrears financially; in a state where expenditures have exceeded the receipt of funds.	
behither	Obsolete	On this side of.	
behn		(a) The Centaurea behen, or saw-leaved centaury. (b) The Cucubalus behen, or bladder campion, now called Silene inflata.	
behold		To have in sight; to see clearly; to look at; to regard with the eyes.	Middle English beholden, from Old English behealdan.
beholden		Obliged; bound in gratitude; indebted.	
beholder		One who beholds; a spectator.	
beholding	Obsolete	Obliged; beholden.	
beholdingness	Obsolete	, The state of being obliged or beholden.	
behoof		Advantage; profit; benefit; interest; use.	Old English behōf.
behoovable	Obsolete	Supplying need; profitable; advantageous.	
behoove	Obsolete	To be necessary for; to be fit for; to be meet for, with respect to necessity, duty, or convenience; -- mostly used impersonally.	Middle English behoven.
behooveful	Archaic	Advantageous; useful; profitable. -- Be*hoove ful*ness, n.	Middle English behoveful.
behove		, and derivatives. See Behoove, & c.	Old English behof.
behovely	Obsolete	Useful, or usefully.	
behowl	Obsolete	To howl at.	
beige		Debeige.	
beild	Scots	A place of shelter; protection; refuge.	
being		Existence, as opposed to nonexistence; state or sphere of existence.	
bejade	Obsolete	To jade or tire.	
bejape	Obsolete	To jape; to laugh at; to deceive.	Middle English bejapen.
bejaundice		To infect with jaundice.	
bejewel		To ornament with a jewel or with jewels; to spangle.	
bejuco		Any climbing woody vine of the tropics with the habit of a liane; in the Philippines, esp. any of various species of Calamus, the cane or rattan palm.	
bejumble		To jumble together.	
bekah		Half a shekel.	
beknave	Obsolete	To call knave.	
beknow	Obsolete	To confess; to acknowledge.	Middle English beknowen.
bel		The Babylonian name of the god known among the Hebrews as Baal. See Baal.	
bel-accoyle	Obsolete	A kind or favorable reception or salutation.	
bel-esprit		A fine genius, or man of wit.	
belabor		To ply diligently; to work carefully upon.	
belace	Obsolete	To cover or adorn with lace.	
belam		To beat or bang.	
belamour	Obsolete	A flower, but of what kind is unknown.	
belamy	Obsolete	Good friend; dear friend.	
belate		To retard or make too late.	
belated		Delayed beyond the usual time; too late; overtaken by night; benighted. -- Be*lat"ed*ness, n.	
belaud		To laud or praise greatly.	
belay		(Naut.) To make fast, as a rope, by taking several turns with it round a pin, cleat, or kevel.	Middle English beleggen.
belch		To eject or throw up from the stomach with violence; to eruct.	Middle English belchen, from Old English bealcan.
belcher		One who, or that which, belches.	
beldam		An old woman in general; especially, an ugly old woman; a hag.	
beldame		An old woman in general; especially, an ugly old woman; a hag.	
beleaguer		To surround with an army so as to preclude escape; to besiege; to blockade.	Dutch belegeren.
beleaguerer		One who beleaguers.	
beleave	Obsolete	To leave or to be left.	Middle English beleven, from Old English belæfan.
belecture		To vex with lectures; to lecture frequently.	
belee		To place under the lee, or unfavorably to the wind.	
belemnite		A conical calcareous fossil, tapering to a point at the lower extremity, with a conical cavity at the other end, where it is ordinarily broken; but when perfect it contains a small chambered cone, called the phragmocone…	
beleper	Obsolete	To infect with leprosy.	
belfry		(Mil. Antiq.) A movable tower erected by besiegers for purposes of attack and defense.	Old French berfrey.
belgard	Obsolete	A sweet or loving look.	
belgian		Of or pertaining to Belgium. -- n.	
belgic		Of or pertaining to the Belgæ, a German tribe who anciently possessed the country between the Rhine, the Seine, and the ocean.	
belgravian		Belonging to Belgravia (a fashionable quarter of London, around Pimlico), or to fashionable life; aristocratic.	
belial		An evil spirit; a wicked and unprincipled person; the personification of evil.	
belibel		To libel or traduce; to calumniate.	
belie		To show to be false; to convict of, or charge with, falsehood.	Middle English belyen.
belief		Assent to a proposition or affirmation, or the acceptance of a fact, opinion, or assertion as real or true, without immediate personal knowledge; reliance upon word or testimony…	
beliefful		Having belief or faith.	Middle English bilefful, from Old English geleafful.
believable		Capable of being believed; credible. -- Be*liev i*ty (, n.	
believe		To exercise belief in; to credit upon the authority or testimony of another; to be persuaded of the truth of, upon evidence furnished by reasons, arguments, and deductions of the mind…	Middle English beleven, from Old English belæfan.
believer		One who believes; one who is persuaded of the truth or reality of some doctrine, person, or thing.	
believing		That believes; having belief. -- Be*liev"ing*ly, adv.	
belight	Obsolete	To illuminate.	Middle English bilihten.
belike	Obsolete	It is likely or probably; perhaps. -- Be*like"ly, adv.	Middle English beliken.
belime		To besmear or insnare with birdlime.	
belittle		To make little or less in a moral sense; to speak of in a depreciatory or contemptuous way.	
belive	Obsolete	Forthwith; speedily; quickly.	Middle English beliven, from Old English belifan.
belk	Obsolete	To vomit.	
bell		A hollow metallic vessel, usually shaped somewhat like a cup with a flaring mouth, containing a clapper or tongue, and giving forth a ringing sound on being struck.	Old English bellan.
bell-faced		Having the striking surface convex; -- said of hammers.	
bell-mouthed		Expanding at the mouth; as, a bell-mouthed gun.	
bell-shaped		Having the shape of a widemouthed bell; campanulate.	
belladonna		(a) An herbaceous European plant (Atropa belladonna) with reddish bell-shaped flowers and shining black berries.	
bellarmine		A stoneware jug of a pattern originated in the neighborhood of Cologne, Germany, in the 16th century.	
bellbird		(a) A South American bird of the genus Casmarhincos, and family Cotingidæ, of several species; the campanero.	
belle		A young lady of superior beauty and attractions; a handsome lady, or one who attracts notice in society; a fair lady.	French belle, from Latin bella.
belle-lettrist		One versed in belleslettres.	
belled		Hung with a bell or bells.	
bellerophon		A genus of fossil univalve shells, believed to belong to the Heteropoda, peculiar to the Paleozoic age.	
belles-lettres		Polite or elegant literature; the humanities; -- used somewhat vaguely for literary works in which imagination and taste are predominant.	
belletristic		Occupied with, or pertaining to, belles-lettres.	
belletristical		Occupied with, or pertaining to, belles-lettres.	
bellflower		A plant of the genus Campanula; -- so named from its bell- shaped flowers.	
bellibone	Obsolete	A woman excelling both in beauty and goodness; a fair maid.	
bellic	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to war; warlike; martial.	
bellical	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to war; warlike; martial.	
bellicose		Inclined to war or contention; warlike; pugnacious.	
bellicosely		In a bellicose manner.	
bellicous	Obsolete	Bellicose.	
belligerence		The quality of being belligerent; act or state of making war; warfare.	
belligerency		The quality of being belligerent; act or state of making war; warfare.	
belligerent		Waging war; carrying on war.	Latin belligerans.
belligerently		In a belligerent manner; hostilely.	
belling		A bellowing, as of a deer in rutting time.	
bellipotent		Mighty in war; armipotent.	
bellman		A man who rings a bell, especially to give notice of anything in the streets.	
bellon		Lead colic.	
bellona		The goddess of war.	
bellow		To make a hollow, loud noise, as an enraged bull.	Middle English belwen, from Old English bylgian.
bellower		One who, or that which, bellows.	
bellows		An instrument, utensil, or machine, which, by alternate expansion and contraction, or by rise and fall of the top, draws in air through a valve and expels it through a tube for various purposes, as blowing fires…	Engenni belwes.
belluine		Pertaining to, or like, a beast; brutal.	
bellwether		A wether, or sheep, which leads the flock, with a bell on his neck.	Middle English belwether.
bellwort		A genus of plants (Uvularia) with yellowish bell-shaped flowers.	
belly		That part of the human body which extends downward from the breast to the thighs, and contains the bowels, or intestines; the abdomen.	Old English bælg.
belly-god		One whose great pleasure it is to gratify his appetite; a glutton; an epicure.	
belly-pinched		Pinched with hunger; starved.	
bellyache		Pain in the bowels; colic.	
bellyband		A band that passes under the belly of a horse and holds the saddle or harness in place; a girth.	
bellybound		Costive; constipated.	
bellycheat	Obsolete	An apron or covering for the front of the person.	
bellycheer	Obsolete	Good cheer; viands.	
bellyful		As much as satisfies the appetite. Hence: A great abundance; more than enough.	
belock	Obsolete	To lock, or fasten as with a lock.	
belomancy		A kind of divination anciently practiced by means of marked arrows drawn at random from a bag or quiver, the marks on the arrows drawn being supposed to foreshow the future.	
belong		To be the property of; as, Jamaica belongs to Great Britain.	Middle English belongen.
belonging		That which belongs to one; that which pertains to one; hence, goods or effects.	
belonite		Minute acicular or dendritic crystalline forms sometimes observed in glassy volcanic rocks.	
belooche		Of or pertaining to Beloochistan, or to its inhabitants. -- n.	
beloochee		Of or pertaining to Beloochistan, or to its inhabitants. -- n.	
belord		To act the lord over.	
belove	Obsolete	To love.	Middle English beloven.
beloved		Greatly loved; dear to the heart.	
below		Under, or lower in place; beneath not so high; as, below the moon; below the knee.	Middle English bilooghe.
belowt	Obsolete	To treat as a lout; to talk abusively to.	
belsire	Obsolete	A grandfather, or ancestor.	
belswagger	Obsolete	A lewd man; also, a bully.	
belt		That which engirdles a person or thing; a band or girdle; as, a lady's belt; a sword belt.	
beltane		The first day of May (Old Style).	
belted		Encircled by, or secured with, a belt; as, a belted plaid; girt with a belt, as an honorary distinction; as, a belted knight; a belted earl.	
beltein		See Beltane — the first day of May (Old Style).	
beltin		See Beltane — the first day of May (Old Style).	
belting		The material of which belts for machinery are made; also, belts, taken collectively.	
beluga		A cetacean allied to the dolphins.	
belute		To bespatter, as with mud.	
belvedere		A small building, or a part of a building, more or less open, constructed in a place commanding a fine prospect.	Italian belvedere.
belzebuth		A spider monkey (Ateles belzebuth) of Brazil.	
bema		(Gr. Antiq.) A platform from which speakers addressed an assembly.	Greek βῆμα.
bemad	Obsolete	To make mad.	
bemangle		To mangle; to tear asunder.	
bemask		To mask; to conceal.	
bemaster		To master thoroughly.	
bemaul		To maul or beat severely; to bruise.	
bemaze		To bewilder.	Middle English bemasen.
bemean		To make mean; to lower.	Middle English bemenen.
bemeet	Obsolete	To meet.	
bemete	Obsolete	To mete.	
bemingle		To mingle; to mix.	
bemire		To drag through, encumber with, or fix in, the mire; to soil by passing through mud or dirt.	
bemist	Obsolete	To envelop in mist.	
bemoan		To express deep grief for by moaning; to express sorrow for; to lament; to bewail; to pity or sympathize with.	Middle English bemenen.
bemoaner		One who bemoans.	
bemock		To mock; to ridicule.	
bemoil	Obsolete	To soil or encumber with mire and dirt.	
bemol	Obsolete	The sign	
bemonster	Obsolete	To make monstrous or like a monster.	
bemourn		To mourn over.	Middle English bemornen, from Old English bemurnan.
bemuddle		To muddle; to stupefy or bewilder; to confuse.	
bemuffle		To cover as with a muffler; to wrap up.	
bemuse		To muddle, daze, or partially stupefy, as with liquor.	
ben	Scots	The seed of one or more species of moringa; as, oil of ben. See Moringa.	Guarequena beinn.
bename	Obsolete	To promise; to name.	Middle English benamnen.
bench		A long seat, differing from a stool in its greater length.	Old English benc.
bencher		(Eng. Law) One of the senior and governing members of an Inn of Court.	
bend		To strain or move out of a straight line; to crook by straining; to make crooked; to curve; to make ready for use by drawing into a curve; as, to bend a bow; to bend the knee.	Middle English benden, from Old English bendan.
bendable		Capable of being bent.	
bender		One who, or that which, bends.	
bending	Obsolete	The marking of the clothes with stripes or horizontal bands.	
bendlet		A narrow bend, esp. one half the width of the bend.	
bendwise		Diagonally.	
bendy		Divided into an even number of bends; -- said of a shield or its charge.	
bene	Archaic	See Benne — the name of two plants (Sesamum orientale and S. indicum), originally Asiatic; -- also called oil plant.	Middle English bene, from Old English bean.
beneaped		See Neaped — left aground on the height of a spring tide, so that it will not float till the next spring tide; -- called also beneaped.	
beneath		Lower in place, with something directly over or on; under; underneath; hence, at the foot of. xxxii. 19.	Middle English benethe.
benedicite		A canticle (the Latin version of which begins with this word) which may be used in the order for morning prayer in the Church of England.	
benedick		A married man, or a man newly married.	
benedict	Obsolete	A married man, or a man newly married.	
benedictine		Pertaining to the monks of St. Benedict, or St. Benet.	
benediction		A blessing; an expression of blessing, prayer, or kind wishes in favor of any person or thing; a solemn or affectionate invocation of happiness.	
benedictional		A book of benedictions.	
benedictionary		A collected series of benedictions.	
benedictive		Tending to bless.	
benedictory		Expressing wishes for good; as, a benedictory prayer.	
benedictus		The song of Zacharias at the birth of John the Baptist (Luke i. 68); -- so named from the first word of the Latin version.	
benedight		Blessed.	
benefaction		A benefit conferred; esp. a charitable donation.	Latin benefactionem.
benefactor		One who confers a benefit or benefits.	Latin benefactor.
benefactress		A woman who confers a benefit.	
benefic		Favorable; beneficent.	Latin beneficus.
benefice		An ecclesiastical living and church preferment, as in the Church of England; a church endowed with a revenue for the maintenance of divine service.	Old French benefice, from Latin beneficium.
beneficed		Possessed of a benefice o	
beneficeless		Having no benefice.	
beneficence		The practice of doing good; active goodness, kindness, or charity; bounty springing from purity and goodness.	
beneficential		Relating to beneficence.	
beneficently		In a beneficent manner; with beneficence.	
beneficial		Conferring benefits; useful; profito.	Latin beneficialis.
beneficially		In a beneficial or advantageous manner; profitably; helpfully.	
beneficialness		The quality of being beneficial; profitableness.	
beneficiary		Holding some office or valuable possession, in subordination to another; holding under a feudal or other superior; having a dependent and secondary possession.	
beneficiate		To reduce (ores). -- Ben`e*fi`ci*a"tion (n.	Latin beneficia.
beneficient	Obsolete	Beneficent.	
benefit		An act of kindness; a favor conferred.	
benefiter		One who confers a benefit; -- also, one who receives a benefit.	
beneme	Obsolete	To deprive (of), or take away (from).	
benempt	Obsolete	Promised; vowed.	
benet		To catch in a net; to insnare.	
benevolence		The disposition to do good; good will; charitableness; love of mankind, accompanied with a desire to promote their happiness.	
benevolent		Having a disposition to do good; possessing or manifesting love to mankind, and a desire to promote their prosperity and happiness; disposed to give to good objects; kind…	
benevolous	Obsolete	Kind; benevolent.	Latin benevolus.
bengal		A province in India, giving its name to various stuffs, animals, etc.	
bengalee		The language spoken in Bengal.	
bengalese		Of or pertaining to Bengal. -- n. sing. & pl. A native or natives of Bengal.	
bengali		The language spoken in Bengal.	
bengola		A Bengal light.	
benight		To overtake with night or darkness, especially before the end of a day's journey or task.	
benightment		The condition of being benighted.	
benign		Of a kind or gentle disposition; gracious; generous; favorable; benignant.	
benignancy		Benignant quality; kindliness.	
benignant		Kind; gracious; favorable. -- Be*nig"nant*ly, adv.	
benignity		The quality of being benign; goodness; kindness; graciousness.	Latin benignitas.
benignly		In a benign manner.	
benim	Obsolete	To take away.	Middle English benimen, from Old English beniman.
benison		Blessing; beatitude; benediction.	Old French beneïson, from Latin benedictio.
benitier		A holy-water stoup.	
benjamin	Colloquial	See Benzoin — a resinous substance, dry and brittle, obtained from the Styrax benzoin, a tree of Sumatra, Java, etc., having a fragrant odor, and slightly aromatic taste.	
benjamite		A descendant of Benjamin; one of the tribe of Benjamin.	
benne		The name of two plants (Sesamum orientale and S. indicum), originally Asiatic; -- also called oil plant.	
bennet		The common yellow-flowered avens of Europe (Geum urbanum); herb bennet.	
benshee		See Banshee — a supernatural being supposed by the Irish and Scotch peasantry to warn a family of the speedy death of one of its members…	
bent		Changed by pressure so as to be no longer straight; crooked; as, a bent pin; a bent lever.	
benthal		Relating to the deepest zone or region of the ocean.	
benthamic		Of or pertaining to Bentham or Benthamism.	
benthamism		That phase of the doctrine of utilitarianism taught by Jeremy Bentham; the doctrine that the morality of actions is estimated and determined by their utility; also…	
benthamite		One who believes in Benthamism.	
benthos		The bottom of the sea, esp. of the deep oceans; hence (Bot. & Zoöl.), the fauna and flora of the sea bottom; -- opposed to plankton.	Greek βένθος.
benty		A bounding in bents, or the stalks of coarse, stiff, withered grass; as, benty fields.	
benumb		To make torpid; to deprive of sensation or sensibility; to stupefy; as, a hand or foot benumbed by cold.	
benumbed		Made torpid; numbed; stupefied; deadened; as, a benumbed body and mind. -- Be*numbed"ness, n.	
benumbment		Act of benumbing, or state of being benumbed; torpor.	
benzal		A transparent crystalline substance,	
benzamide		A transparent crystalline substance, C6H5.CO.NH2, obtained by the action of ammonia upon chloride of benzoyl, as also by several other reactions with benzoyl compounds.	
benzene		A volatile, very inflammable liquid, C6H6, contained in the naphtha produced by the destructive distillation of coal, from which it is separated by fractional distillation.	
benzile		A yellowish crystalline substance, C6H5.CO.CO.C6H5, formed from benzoin by the action of oxidizing agents, and consisting of a doubled benzoyl radical.	
benzine		A liquid consisting mainly of the lighter and more volatile hydrocarbons of petroleum or kerosene oil, used as a solvent and for cleansing soiled fabrics; -- called also petroleum spirit, petroleum benzine.	
benzoate		A salt formed by the union of benzoic acid with any salifiable base.	
benzoic		Pertaining to, or obtained from, benzoin.	
benzoin		A resinous substance, dry and brittle, obtained from the Styrax benzoin, a tree of Sumatra, Java, etc., having a fragrant odor, and slightly aromatic taste.	
benzoinated		Containing or impregnated with benzoin; as, benzoinated lard.	
benzol		An impure benzene, used in the arts as a solvent, and for various other purposes.	
benzole		An impure benzene, used in the arts as a solvent, and for various other purposes.	
benzoline		(a) Same as Benzole. (b) Same as Amarine.	
benzonaphthol		A white crystalline powder used as an intestinal antiseptic; beta-naphthol benzoate.	
benzonaphtol		A white crystalline powder used as an intestinal antiseptic; beta-naphthol benzoate.	
benzosol		Guaiacol benzoate, used as an intestinal antiseptic and as a substitute for creosote in phthisis.	
benzoyl		A compound radical, C6H5.CO; the base of benzoic acid, of the oil of bitter almonds, and of an extensive series of compounds.	
benzyl		A compound radical, C6H5.CH2, related to toluene and benzoic acid; -- commonly used adjectively.	
bepaint		To paint; to cover or color with, or as with, paint.	
bepelt		To pelt roundly.	
bepinch		To pinch, or mark with pinches.	
beplaster		To plaster over; to cover or smear thickly; to bedaub.	
beplumed		Decked with feathers.	
bepommel		To pommel; to beat, as with a stick; figuratively, to assail or criticise in conversation, or in writing.	
bepowder		To sprinkle or cover with powder; to powder.	
bepraise		To praise greatly or extravagantly.	
beprose		To reduce to prose.	
bepuffed		Puffed; praised.	
bepurple		To tinge or dye with a purple color.	
bequeath		To give or leave by will; to give by testament; -- said especially of personal property.	Middle English bequethen, from Old English becweþan.
bequeathable		Capable of being bequeathed.	
bequeathal		The act of bequeathing; bequeathment; bequest.	
bequeathment		The act of bequeathing, or the state of being bequeathed; a bequest.	
bequest	Obsolete	That which is left by will, esp. personal property; a legacy; also, a gift.	Middle English bequeste.
bequethen	Obsolete	old p. p. of Bequeath.	
bequote		To quote constantly or with great frequency.	
berain	Obsolete	To rain upon; to wet with rain.	Middle English berainen.
berate		To rate or chide vehemently; to scold.	
berattle	Obsolete	To make rattle; to scold vociferously; to cry down.	
beray	Obsolete	TO make foul; to soil; to defile.	
berbe		An African genet (Genetta pardina). See Genet.	
berber		A member of a race somewhat resembling the Arabs, but often classed as Hamitic, who were formerly the inhabitants of the whole of North Africa from the Mediterranean southward into the Sahara…	
berberine		An alkaloid obtained, as a bitter, yellow substance, from the root of the barberry, gold thread, and other plants.	
berberry		See Barberry — a shrub of the genus Berberis, common along roadsides and in neglected fields.	
berceuse		A vocal or instrumental composition of a soft tranquil character, having a lulling effect; a cradle song.	French berceuse.
berdash	Obsolete	,n.A kind of neckcloth.	
bere	Obsolete	Barley; the six-rowed barley or the four-rowed barley, commonly the former (Hord. vulgare)., v. t.	Old English bere.
bereave		To make destitute; to deprive; to strip; -- with of before the person or thing taken away.	Middle English bereven.
bereavement		The state of being bereaved; deprivation; esp., the loss of a relative by death.	
bereaver		One who bereaves.	
bereft		of Bereave — to make destitute; to deprive; to strip; -- with of before the person or thing taken away.	
beretta		Same as Berretta.	
berg		A large mass or hill, as of ice.	Middle English bergh, from Old English beorg.
bergamot		(a) A tree of the Orange family (Citrus bergamia), having a roundish or pear-shaped fruit, from the rind of which an essential oil of delicious odor is extracted, much prized as a perfume.	French bergamote.
bergander		A European duck (Anas tadorna). See Sheldrake.	
bergeret	Obsolete	A pastoral song.	Old French bergerete.
bergmaster		See Barmaster — formerly, a local judge among miners; now, an officer of the barmote.	
bergmeal		(Min.) An earthy substance, resembling fine flour.	
bergmote		See Barmote — a court held in Derbyshire, in England, for deciding controversies between miners.	
bergomask		A rustic dance, so called in ridicule of the people of Bergamo, in Italy, once noted for their clownishness.	
bergschrund		The crevasse or series of crevasses, usually deep and often broad, frequently occurring near the head of a mountain glacier, about where the névé field joins the valley portion of the glacier.	
bergstock		A long pole with a spike at the end, used in climbing mountains; an alpenstock.	
bergylt		The Norway haddock. See Rosefish.	
berhyme		To mention in rhyme or verse; to rhyme about.	
beriberi		An acute disease occurring in India, characterized by multiple inflammatory changes in the nerves, producing great muscular debility, a painful rigidity of the limbs, and cachexy.	
berime		To berhyme.	
berkeleian		,a.Of or relating to Bishop Berkeley or his system of idealism; as, Berkeleian philosophy. -- Berke"ley*ism, n.	
berlin		A four-wheeled carriage, having a sheltered seat behind the body and separate from it, invented in the 17th century, at Berlin.	
berm		(Fort.) A narrow shelf or path between the bottom of a parapet and the ditch.	Dutch berm.
berme		(Fort.) A narrow shelf or path between the bottom of a parapet and the ditch.	
bernacle		See Barnacle — any cirriped crustacean adhering to rocks, floating timber, ships, etc., esp. (a) the sessile species (genus Balanus and allies)…	
bernardine		Of or pertaining to St. Bernard of Clairvaux, or to the Cistercian monks. -- n.	
bernese		Pertaining to the city o -- n. sing. & pl. A native or natives of Bern.	
bernicle		A bernicle goose.	
bernouse		Some as Burnoose.	
berob	Obsolete	To rob; to plunder.	
beroe		A small, oval, transparent jellyfish, belonging to the Ctenophora.	
berretta		A square cap worn by ecclesiastics of the Roman Catholic Church.	
berried		Furnished with berries; consisting of a berry; baccate; as, a berried shrub.	
berry		Any small fleshy fruit, as the strawberry, mulberry, huckleberry, etc.	Middle English beryen.
berrying		A seeking for or gathering of berries, esp. of such as grow wild.	
berseem		An Egyptian clover (Trifolium alexandrinum) extensively cultivated as a forage plant and soil-renewing crop in the alkaline soils of the Nile valley, and now introduced into the southwestern United States.	
berserk		One who fights as if frenzied, like a Berserker.	Old Norse berserkr.
berserker		One who fights as if frenzied, like a Berserker.	
berstle	Obsolete	See Bristle — a short, stiff, coarse hair, as on the back of swine.	
berth		(Naut.) (a) Convenient sea room. (b) A room in which a number of the officers or ship's company mess and reside.	
bertha		A kind of collar or cape worn by ladies.	
berthage		A place for mooring vessels in a dock or harbor.	
berthierite		A double sulphide of antimony and iron, of a dark steel-gray color.	
berthing		The planking outside of a vessel, above the sheer strake.	
bertram		Pellitory of Spain (Anacyclus pyrethrum).	
berycoid		Of or pertaining to the Berycidæ, a family of marine fishes.	
beryl		A mineral of great hardness, and, when transparent, of much beauty.	
berylline		Like a beryl; of a light or bluish green color.	
beryllium		A metallic element found in the beryl. See Glucinum.	Latin beryllium.
berylloid		A solid consisting of a double twelve-sided pyramid; -- so called because the planes of this form occur on crystals of beryl.	
bes-antler		Same as Bez-antler.	
besaiel		(Law) A kind of writ which formerly lay where a great-grandfather died seized of lands in fee simple, and on the day of his death a stranger abated or entered and kept the heir out.	
besaile		(Law) A kind of writ which formerly lay where a great-grandfather died seized of lands in fee simple, and on the day of his death a stranger abated or entered and kept the heir out.	
besaint		To make a saint of.	
besant		See Bezant — a gold coin of Byzantium or Constantinople, varying in weight and value, usually (those current in England) between a sovereign and a half sovereign.	
besayle		(Law) A kind of writ which formerly lay where a great-grandfather died seized of lands in fee simple, and on the day of his death a stranger abated or entered and kept the heir out.	
bescatter		To scatter over.	
bescorn		To treat with scorn.	
bescratch		To tear with the nails; to cover with scratches.	Middle English bescratchen.
bescrawl		To cover with scrawls; to scribble over.	
bescreen		To cover with a screen, or as with a screen; to shelter; to conceal.	
bescribble		To scribble over.	
bescumber	Obsolete	To discharge ordure or dung upon.	
bescummer	Obsolete	To discharge ordure or dung upon.	
besee	Obsolete	To see; to look; to mind.	Middle English beseen, from Old English beseon.
beseech	Obsolete	To ask or entreat with urgency; to supplicate; to implore.	Middle English besechen.
beseecher		One who beseeches.	
beseeching		Entreating urgently; imploring; as, a beseeching look. -- Be*seech ing*ness, n.	
beseechment		The act of beseeching or entreating earnestly.	
beseek	Obsolete	To beseech.	Middle English beseken.
beseem	Obsolete	Literally: To appear or seem (well, ill, best, etc.) for (one) to do or to have.	
beseeming	Obsolete	Appearance; look; garb.	
beseemly	Archaic	Fit; suitable; becoming.	
beseen	Obsolete	Seen; appearing.	Middle English besene.
beset		To set or stud (anything) with ornaments or prominent objects.	
besetment		The act of besetting, or the state of being beset; also, that which besets one, as a sin.	
besetter		One who, or that which, besets.	
besetting		Habitually attacking, harassing, or pressing upon or about; as, a besetting sin.	
beshine		To shine upon; to ullumine.	Middle English beshinen.
beshow		A large food fish (Anoplopoma fimbria) of the north Pacific coast; -- called also candlefish.	
beshrew		To curse; to execrate.	Middle English beshrewen.
beshroud		To cover with, or as with, a shroud; to screen.	
beshut	Obsolete	To shut up or out.	Middle English beshutten.
beside		At the side of; on one side of.	
besides		More than that; over and above; not included in the number, or in what has been mentioned; moreover; in addition.	Middle English besides.
besiege		To beset or surround with armed forces, for the purpose of compelling to surrender; to lay siege to; to beleaguer; to beset.	
besiegement		The act of besieging, or the state of being besieged.	
besieger		One who besieges; -- opposed to the besieged.	
besieging		That besieges; laying siege to. -- Be*sie"ging*ly, adv.	
besit	Obsolete	To suit; to fit; to become.	Middle English besitten, from Old English besittan.
beslabber		To beslobber.	Middle English beslaberen.
beslave	Obsolete	To enslave.	
beslaver		To defile with slaver; to beslobber.	
beslime	Obsolete	To daub with slime; to soil.	
beslobber		To slobber on; to smear with spittle running from the mouth.	Middle English besloberen.
beslubber		To beslobber.	
besmear		To smear with any viscous, glutinous matter; to bedaub; to soil.	Middle English bismerwen, from Old English besmirwan.
besmearer		One that besmears.	
besmirch		To smirch or soil; to discolor; to obscure. Hence: To dishonor; to sully.	
besmoke		To foul with smoke.	Middle English besmoken.
besmut		To blacken with smut; to foul with soot.	
besnow		To scatter like snow; to cover thick, as with snow flakes.	Middle English besnewen, from Old English besniwian.
besnuff		To befoul with snuff.	
besogne	Obsolete	A worthless fellow; a bezonian.	
besom	Archaic or fig	A brush of twigs for sweeping; a broom; anything which sweeps away or destroys.	Middle English besme.
besomer	Archaic	One who uses a besom.	
besort	Obsolete	To assort or be congruous with; to fit, or become.	
besot		To make sottish; to make dull or stupid; to stupefy; to infatuate.	
besotted		Made sottish, senseless, or infatuated; characterized by drunken stupidity, or by infatuation; stupefied. -- Be*sot ted*ness, n.	
besottingly		In a besotting manner.	
besought		of Beseech — to ask or entreat with urgency; to supplicate; to implore.	
bespangle		To adorn with spangles; to dot or sprinkle with something brilliant or glittering.	
bespatter		To soil by spattering; to sprinkle, esp. with dirty water, mud, or anything which will leave foul spots or stains.	
bespawl	Obsolete	To daub, soil, or make foul with spawl or spittle.	
bespeak		To speak or arrange for beforehand; to order or engage against a future time; as, to bespeak goods, a right, or a favor.	Middle English bespeken.
bespeaker		One who bespeaks.	
bespeckle		To mark with speckles or spots.	
bespew		To soil or daub with spew; to vomit on.	
bespice		To season with spice, or with some spicy drug.	
bespirt		Same as Bespurt.	
bespit		To daub or soil with spittle.	Middle English bispitten.
bespoke		imp. & p. p. of Bespeak.	
bespot		To mark with spots, or as with spots.	Middle English bespotten.
bespread		To spread or cover over.	
besprent		Sprinkled over; strewed.	
besprinkle		To sprinkle over; to scatter over.	
besprinkler		One who, or that which, besprinkles.	
besprinkling		The act of sprinkling anything; a sprinkling over.	
bespurt	Obsolete	To spurt on or over; to asperse.	
best		Having good qualities in the highest degree; most good, kind, desirable, suitable, etc.; most excellent; as, the best man; the best road; the best cloth; the best abilities.	Middle English beste, from Old English betst.
bestad	Obsolete	Beset; put in peril.	
bestain		To stain.	
bestar		To sprinkle with, or as with, stars; to decorate with, or as with, stars; to bestud.	
bestead		To put in a certain situation or condition; to circumstance; to place.	
bestial		Belonging to a beast, or to the class of beasts.	Latin bestialis.
bestiality		The state or quality of being bestial.	
bestialize		To make bestial, or like a beast; to degrade; to brutalize.	
bestially		In a bestial manner.	
bestiary		A treatise on beasts; esp., one of the moralizing or allegorical beast tales written in the Middle Ages.	French bestiaire, from Old French beste, from Latin bestia.
bestick		To stick over, as with sharp points pressed in; to mark by infixing points or spots here and there; to pierce.	
bestill		To make still.	
bestir		To put into brisk or vigorous action; to move with life and vigor; -- usually with the reciprocal pronoun.	Middle English bestyrien.
bestorm		To storm.	
bestow		To lay up in store; to deposit for safe keeping; to stow; to place; to put.	Middle English bestowen.
bestowal		The act of bestowing; disposal.	
bestower		One that bestows.	
bestowment		That which is given or bestowed.	
bestraddle		To bestride.	
bestraught	Obsolete	Out of one's senses; distracted; mad.	
bestreak		To streak.	
bestrew		To strew or scatter over; to besprinkle.	Middle English bistrewen, from Old English bestreowian.
bestride		To stand or sit with anything between the legs, or with the legs astride; to stand over That horse that thou so often hast bestrid.	
bestrode		imp. & p. p. of Bestride.	
bestrown		p. p. of Bestrew — to strew or scatter over; to besprinkle.	
bestuck		imp. & p. p.	
bestud		To set or adorn, as with studs or bosses; to set thickly; to stud; as, to bestud with stars.	
beswike	Obsolete	To lure; to cheat.	Middle English beswiken, from Old English beswican.
bet	Obsolete	That which is laid, staked, or pledged, as between two parties, upon the event of a contest or any contingent issue; the act of giving such a pledge; a wager.	Hebrew בית, from English byte.
beta		The second letter of the Greek alphabet, B, b. See B, and cf. etymology of Alphabet.	Greek βῆτα.
betacism		Excessive or extended use of the b sound in speech, due to conversion of other sounds into it, as through inability to distinguish them from b, or because of difficulty in pronouncing them.	
betacismus		Excessive or extended use of the b sound in speech, due to conversion of other sounds into it, as through inability to distinguish them from b, or because of difficulty in pronouncing them.	
betaine		A nitrogenous base, C5H11NO2, produced artificially, and also occurring naturally in beetroot molasses and its residues, from which it is extracted as a white crystalline substance; -- called also lycine and oxyneurine.	
betake		To have recourse to; to apply; to resort; to go; -- with a reflexive pronoun.	Middle English betaken.
betaught	Obsolete	Delivered; committed in trust.	
bete	Obsolete	To mend; to repair.	
beteela	Obsolete	An East India muslin, formerly used for cravats, veils, etc.	Portuguese beatilha.
beteem	Obsolete	To give; to bestow; to grant; to accord; to consent.	
betel		A species of pepper (Piper betle), the leaves of which are chewed, with the areca or betel nut and a little shell lime, by the inhabitants of the East Indies.	
betelguese		A bright star of the first magnitude, near one shoulder of Orion.	
bethel		A place of worship; a hallowed spot.	
bethink		To call to mind; to recall or bring to recollection, reflection, or consideration; to think; to consider; -- generally followed by a reflexive pronoun, often with of or that before the subject of thought.	Middle English bethenken.
bethlehem		A hospital for lunatics; -- corrupted into bedlam.	
bethlehemite		An insane person; a madman; a bedlamite.	
bethlemite		An insane person; a madman; a bedlamite.	
bethought		imp. & p. p. of Bethink.	Middle English bethink.
bethrall	Obsolete	To reduce to thralldom; to inthrall.	
bethumb		To handle; to wear or soil by handling; as books.	
bethump		To beat or thump soundly.	
betide		To happen to; to befall; to come to; as, woe betide the wanderer.	
betime		In good season or time; before it is late; seasonably; early.	Middle English bitimen.
betimes		In good season or time; before it is late; seasonably; early.	Middle English bitimes.
betitle	Obsolete	To furnish with a title or titles; to entitle.	
betoken		To signify by some visible object; to show by signs or tokens.	Middle English bitoknen.
beton		The French name for concrete; hence, concrete made after the French fashion.	
betongue		To attack with the tongue; to abuse; to insult.	
betony		A plant of the genus Betonica (Linn.).	
betook		of Betake — to have recourse to; to apply; to resort; to go; -- with a reflexive pronoun.	
betorn		Torn in pieces; tattered.	
betoss		To put in violent motion; to agitate; to disturb; to toss.	
betrap		To draw into, or catch in, a trap; to insnare; to circumvent.	Middle English bitrappen, from Old English betræppan.
betray		To deliver into the hands of an enemy by treachery or fraud, in violation of trust; to give up treacherously or faithlessly; as, an officer betrayed the city.	Middle English betrayen.
betrayal		The act or the result of betraying.	
betrayer		One who, or that which, betrays.	
betrayment		Betrayal.	
betrim		To set in order; to adorn; to deck, to embellish; to trim.	
betroth		To contract to any one for a marriage; to engage or promise in order to marriage; to affiance; -- used esp. of a woman.	Middle English bitreuthien.
betrothal		The act of betrothing, or the fact of being betrothed; a mutual promise, engagement, or contract for a future marriage between the persons betrothed; betrothment; affiance.	
betrothment		The act of betrothing, or the state of being betrothed; betrothal.	
betrust	Obsolete	To trust or intrust.	Middle English betrusten.
betrustment	Obsolete	The act of intrusting, or the thing intrusted.	
betso	Obsolete	A small brass Venetian coin.	
better		Having good qualities in a greater degree than another; as, a better man; a better physician; a better house; a better air.	Middle English better.
betterment		A making better; amendment; improvement.	
betterness		The quality of being better or superior; superiority.	Middle English betternes.
bettong		A small, leaping Australian marsupial of the genus Bettongia; the jerboa kangaroo.	
bettor		One who bets; a better.	
betty		Etym: A short bar used by thieves to wrench doors open.	
betulin		A substance of a resinous nature, obtained from the outer bark of the common European birch (Betula alba), or from the tar prepared therefrom; -- called also birch camphor.	
betumble		To throw into disorder; to tumble.	
betutor		To tutor; to instruct.	
between		In the space which separates; betwixt; as, New York is between Boston and Philadelphia.	Middle English betwene, from Old English betweonan.
betwixt		In the space which separates; between.	Old English betweox.
beurre		A beurré (or buttery) pear, one with the meas, Beurré d'Anjou; Beurré Clairgeau.	
bevel		Any angle other than a right angle; the angle which one surface makes with another when they are not at right angles; the slant or inclination of such surface; as, to give a bevel to the edge of a table or a stone slab…	
beveled		Formed to a bevel angle; sloping; as, the beveled edge of a table.	
bevelled		Formed to a bevel angle; sloping; as, the beveled edge of a table.	
bevelment		The replacement of an edge by two similar planes, equally inclined to the including faces or adjacent planes.	
bever	Obsolete	A light repast between meals; a lunch.	Middle English beveren.
beverage		Liquid for drinking; drink; -- usually applied to drink artificially prepared and of an agreeable flavor; as, an intoxicating beverage.	Old French bevrage.
bevile		A chief broken or opening like a carpenter's bevel.	
beviled		Notched with an angle like that inclosed by a carpenter's bevel; -- said of a partition line of a shield.	
bevilled		Notched with an angle like that inclosed by a carpenter's bevel; -- said of a partition line of a shield.	
bevy		A company; an assembly or collection of persons, especially of ladies.	
bewail		To express deep sorrow for, as by wailing; to lament; to wail over.	Middle English bewailen.
bewailable		Such as may, or ought to, be bewailed; lamentable.	
bewailer		One who bewails or laments.	
bewailing		Wailing over; lamenting. -- Be*wail"ing*ly, adv.	
bewailment		The act of bewailing.	
bewake	Obsolete	To keep watch over; to keep awake.	Middle English bewaken.
beware		To be on one's guard; to be cautious; to take care; -- commonly followed by of or lest before the thing that is to be avoided.	
bewash		To drench or souse with water.	
beweep	Obsolete	To weep over; to deplore; to bedew with tears.	Middle English bewepen.
bewet		To wet or moisten.	Middle English beweten.
bewhore		To corrupt with regard to chastity; to make a whore of.	
bewig		To cover (the head) with a wig.	
bewilder		To lead into perplexity or confusion, as for want of a plain path; to perplex with mazes; or in general, to perplex or confuse greatly.	
bewildered		Greatly perplexed; as, a bewildered mind.	
bewilderedness		The state of being bewildered; bewilderment.	
bewildering		Causing bewilderment or great perplexity; as, bewildering difficulties. -- Be*wil"der*ing*ly, adv.	
bewilderment		The state of being bewildered.	
bewinter	Obsolete	To make wintry.	
bewit		A double slip of leather by which bells are fastened to a hawk's legs.	
bewitch		To gain an ascendency over by charms or incantations; to affect (esp. to injure) by witchcraft or sorcery.	Middle English bewicchen.
bewitchedness		The state of being bewitched.	
bewitcher		One who bewitches.	
bewitchery		The power of bewitching or fascinating; bewitchment; charm; fascination.	
bewitching		Having power to bewitch or fascinate; enchanting; captivating; charming. -- Be*witch ing*ness, n.	
bewitchment		The act of bewitching, or the state of being bewitched.	
bewonder	Obsolete	To fill with wonder.	
bewrap		To wrap up; to cover.	Middle English bewrappen.
bewray	Obsolete	To soil. See Beray.	Middle English bewraien.
bewrayer	Obsolete	One who, or that which, bewrays; a revealer.	
bewrayment		Betrayal.	
bewreck	Obsolete	To wreck.	
bewreke	Obsolete	To wreak; to avenge.	Middle English bewreken.
bewrought	Obsolete	Embroidered.	
bey		A governor of a province or district in the Turkish dominions; also, in some places, a prince or nobleman; a beg; as, the bey of Tunis.	Turkish bey.
beylic		The territory ruled by a bey.	Turkish beylik.
beyond		On the further side of; in the same direction as, and further on or away than.	Old English begeondan.
bez-antler		The second branch of a stag's horn.	
bezant		A gold coin of Byzantium or Constantinople, varying in weight and value, usually (those current in England) between a sovereign and a half sovereign.	Old French bezant.
bezel		The rim which encompasses and fastens a jewel or other object, as the crystal of a watch, in the cavity in which it is set.	
bezique		A game at cards in which various combinations of cards in the hand, when declared, score points.	
bezoar		A calculous concretion found in the intestines of certain ruminant animals (as the wild goat, the gazelle, and the Peruvian llama) formerly regarded as an unfailing antidote for poison, and a certain remedy for eruptive…	Persian پادزهر.
bezoardic		Pertaining to, or compounded with, bezoar. -- n.	
bezoartic	Obsolete	Having the qualities of an antidote, or of bezoar; healing.	
bezoartical	Obsolete	Having the qualities of an antidote, or of bezoar; healing.	
bezonian		A low fellow or scoundrel; a beggar.	Italian bisognoso.
bezpopovtsy		A Russian sect. See Raskolnik.	
bezzle	Obsolete	To plunder; to waste in riot.	
