bi		In most branches of science bi- in composition denotes two, twice, or doubly; as, bidentate, two-toothed; biternate, doubly ternate, etc.	
bi-		In most branches of science bi- in composition denotes two, twice, or doubly; as, bidentate, two-toothed; biternate, doubly ternate, etc.	Latin bis.
biacid		Having two hydrogen atoms which can be replaced by negative atoms or radicals to form salts; -- said of bases.	
biacuminate		Having points in two directions.	
biangular		Having two angles or corners.	
biangulate		Biangular.	
biangulated		Biangular.	
biangulous		Biangular.	
biannual		Occurring twice a year; half-yearly; semiannual.	
biantheriferous		Having two anthers.	
biarticulate		Having, or consisting of, tow joints.	
bias		A weight on the side of the ball used in the game of bowls, or a tendency imparted to the ball, which turns it from a straight line.	Middle French biasis, from Old Provençal biais.
biauriculate		(Anat.) Having two auricles, as the heart of mammals, birds, and reptiles.	
biaxal		Having two axes; as, biaxial polarization.	
biaxial		Having two axes; as, biaxial polarization.	
bib		A small piece of cloth worn by children over the breast, to protect the clothes.	
bibacious		Addicted to drinking.	Latin bibax.
bibacity		The practice or habit of drinking too much; tippling.	
bibasic		Having to hydrogen atoms which can be replaced by positive or basic atoms or radicals to form salts; -- said of acids.	
bibb		A bibcock. See Bib, n., 3.	
bibbe	Obsolete	To drink; to tipple.	
bibber		One given to drinking alcoholic beverages too freely; a tippler; -- chiefly used in composition; as, winebibber.	
bibble-babble		Idle talk; babble.	
bibbs		Pieces of timber bolted to certain parts of a mast tp support the trestletrees.	
bibcock		A cock or faucet having a bent down nozzle.	
bibelot		A small decorative object without practical utility.	
bibirine		See Bebeerine — an alkaloid got from the bark of the bebeeru, or green heart of Guiana (Nectandra Rodioei).	
bibitory		Of or pertaining to drinking or tippling.	
bible		The Book by way of eminence, -- that is, the book which is made up of the writings accepted by Christians as of divine origin and authority, whether such writings be in the original language, or translated…	
bibler		A great drinker; a tippler.	
biblical		Pertaining to, or derived from, the Bible; as, biblical learning; biblical authority.	
biblicality		The quality of being biblical; a biblical subject.	
biblically		According to the Bible.	
biblicism		Learning or literature relating to the Bible.	
biblicist		One skilled in the knowledge of the Bible; a demonstrator of religious truth by the Scriptures.	
bibliograph		Bibliographer.	
bibliographer		One who writes, or is versed in, bibliography.	
bibliographic		Pertaining to bibliography, or the history of books. -- Bib`li*o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.	
bibliographical		Pertaining to bibliography, or the history of books. -- Bib`li*o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.	
bibliography		A history or description of books and manuscripts, with notices of the different editions, the times when they were printed, etc.	Greek βιβλιογραφία.
bibliolater		A worshiper of books; especially, a worshiper of the Bible; a believer in its verbal inspiration.	
bibliolatrist		A worshiper of books; especially, a worshiper of the Bible; a believer in its verbal inspiration.	
bibliolatry		Book worship, esp. of the Bible; -- applied by Roman Catholic divine Coleridge.	
bibliological		Relating to bibliology.	
bibliology		An account of books; book lore; bibliography.	
bibliomancy		A kind of divination, performed by selecting passages of Scripture at hazard, and drawing from them indications concerning future events.	
bibliomania		A mania for acquiring books.	
bibliomaniac		One who has a mania for books. -- a.	
bibliomaniacal		Pertaining to a passion for books; relating to a bibliomaniac.	
bibliopegic		Relating to the binding of books.	
bibliopegist		A bookbinder.	
bibliopegistic		Pertaining to the art of binding books.	
bibliopegy		The art of binding books.	
bibliophile		A lover of books.	
bibliophilism		Love of books.	
bibliophilist		A lover of books.	
bibliophobia		A dread of books.	
bibliopolar		Of or pertaining to the sale of books.	
bibliopole		One who sells books.	
bibliopolic		Of or pertaining to the sale of books.	
bibliopolism		The trade or business of selling books.	
bibliopolist		Same as Bibliopole.	
bibliopolistic		Of or pertaining to bibliopolism.	
bibliotaph		One who hides away books, as in a tomb.	French bibliotaphe.
bibliotaphist		One who hides away books, as in a tomb.	
bibliothec		A librarian.	
bibliotheca		A library.	
bibliothecal		Belonging to a library.	Latin bibliothecalis.
bibliothecary	Obsolete	A librarian.	
bibliotheke	Obsolete	A library.	Latin bibliotheca, from Greek βιβλιοθήκη.
biblist		One who makes the Bible the sole rule of faith.	
bibracteate		Furnished with, or having, two bracts.	
bibulous		Readily imbibing fluids or moisture; spongy; as, bibulous blotting paper.	
bibulously		In a bibulous manner; with profuse imbibition or absorption.	
bicalcarate		Having two spurs, as the wing or leg of a bird.	
bicallose		Having two callosities or hard spots.	
bicallous		Having two callosities or hard spots.	
bicameral		Consisting of, or including, two chambers, or legislative branches.	
bicapsular		Having two capsules; as, a bicapsular pericarp.	
bicarbonate		A carbonate in which but half the hydrogen of the acid is replaced by a positive element or radical, thus making the proportion of the acid to the positive or basic portion twice what it is in the normal carbonates…	
bicarbureted	Obsolete	Containing two atoms or equivalents of carbon in the molecule.	
bicarburetted	Obsolete	Containing two atoms or equivalents of carbon in the molecule.	
bicarinate		Having two keel-like projections, as the upper palea of grasses.	
bicaudal		Having, or terminating in, two tails.	
bicaudate		Two-tailed; bicaudal.	
bicched	Obsolete	Pecked; pitted; notched.	
bice		A pale blue pigment, prepared from the native blue carbonate of copper, or from smalt; -- called also blue bice.	French bis.
bicentenary		Of or pertaining to two hundred, esp. to two hundred years; as, a bicentenary celebration. -- n.	
bicentennial		Consisting of two hundred years.	
bicephalous		Having two heads.	
biceps		A muscle having two heads or origins; -- applied particularly to a flexor in the arm, and to another in the thigh.	Latin biceps.
bichir		A remarkable ganoid fish (Polypterus bichir) found in the Nile and other African rivers.	
bichloride		A compound consisting of two atoms of chlorine with one or more atoms of another element; -- called also dichloride.	
bicho		See Jigger — a species of flea (Sarcopsylla, or Pulex, penetrans), which burrows beneath the skin.	
bichromate		A salt containing two parts of chromic acid to one of the other ingredients; as, potassium bichromate; -- called also dichromate.	
bichromatize		To combine or treat with a bichromate, esp. with bichromate of potassium; as, bichromatized gelatine.	
bicipital		(Anat.) (a) Having two heads or origins, as a muscle. (b) Pertaining to a biceps muscle; as, bicipital furrows, the depressions on either side of the biceps of the arm.	Latin biceps.
bicipitous		Having two heads; bicipital.	
bicker	English dialect	A small wooden vessel made of staves and hoops, like a tub.	
bickerer		One who bickers.	
bickering		Altercation; wrangling.	
bickerment	Obsolete	Contention.	
bickern		An anvil ending in a beak or point (orig. in two beaks); also, the beak or horn itself.	Middle French bigorne.
bicolligate		Having the anterior toes connected by a basal web.	
bicolor		Of two colors.	
bicolored		Of two colors.	
biconcave		Concave on both sides; as, biconcave vertebræ.	
biconjugate		Twice paired, as when a petiole forks twice.	
biconvex		Convex on both sides; as, a biconvex lens.	
bicorn		Having two horns; two-horned; crescentlike.	
bicorned		Having two horns; two-horned; crescentlike.	
bicornous		Having two horns; two-horned; crescentlike.	
bicorporal		Having two bodies.	
bicorporate		Double-bodied, as a lion having one head and two bodies.	
bicostate		Having two principal ribs running longitudinally, as a leaf.	
bicrenate		Twice crenated, as in the case of leaves whose crenatures are themselves crenate.	
bicrescentic		Having the form of a double crescent.	
bicrural		Having two legs.	
bicuspid		Having two points or prominences; ending in two points; -- said of teeth, leaves, fruit, etc. One of the two double-pointed teeth which intervene between the canines (cuspids) and the molars, on each side of each jaw.	
bicuspidate		Having two points or prominences; ending in two points; -- said of teeth, leaves, fruit, etc.	
bicyanide		See Dicyanide — a compound of a binary type containing two cyanogen groups or radicals; -- called also bicyanide.	
bicycle		A light vehicle having two wheels one behind the other.	
bicycler		One who rides a bicycle.	
bicyclic		Relating to bicycles.	
bicycling		The use of a bicycle; the act or practice of riding a bicycle.	
bicyclism		The art of riding a bicycle.	
bicyclist		A bicycler.	
bicycular		Relating to bicycling.	
bid		To make an offer of; to propose. Specifically : To offer to pay ( a certain price, as for a thing put up at auction), or to take (a certain price, as for work to be done under a contract).	
bidale	English dialect	An invitation of friends to drink ale at some poor man's house, and there to contribute in charity for his relief.	
bidarka		A portable boat made of skins stretched on a frame.	
bidarkee		A portable boat made of skins stretched on a frame.	
biddable	Scots	Obedient; docile.	
bidden		of Bid — to make an offer of; to propose. Specifically : To offer to pay ( a certain price, as for a thing put up at auction), or to take (a certain price, as for work to be done under a contract).	
bidder		One who bids or offers a price.	
bidding		Command; order; a proclamation or notifying.	
biddy	Colloquial	A name used in calling a hen or chicken.	
bide		To encounter; to remain firm under (a hardship); to endure; to suffer; to undergo.	Middle English biden, from Old English bidan.
bident		An instrument or weapon with two prongs.	
bidental		Having two teeth.	
bidentate		Having two teeth or two toothlike processes; two-toothed.	
bidet		A small horse formerly allowed to each trooper or dragoon for carrying his baggage.	French bidet.
bidigitate		Having two fingers or fingerlike projections.	
biding		Residence; habitation.	
bield	Scots	A shelter.	Middle English beelden.
bielid		See Andromede — a meteor appearing to radiate from a point in the constellation Andromeda, -- whence the name.	
biennial		Happening, or taking place, once in two years; as, a biennial election.	Latin biennium.
biennially		Once in two years.	
bier		A handbarrow or portable frame on which a corpse is placed or borne to the grave.	Middle English bere, from Old English beor.
bierbalk	Obsolete	A church road (e. g., a path across fields) for funerals.	
biestings		The first milk given by a cow after calving.	
bifacial		Having the opposite surfaces alike.	
bifarious		Twofold; arranged in two rows.	
bifariously		In a bifarious manner.	
biferous		Bearing fruit twice a year.	
biffin		A sort of apple peculiar to Norfolk, Eng.	
bifid		Cleft to the middle or slightly beyond the middle; opening with a cleft; divided by a linear sinus, with straight margins.	Latin bifidus.
bifidate		See Bifid — cleft to the middle or slightly beyond the middle; opening with a cleft; divided by a linear sinus, with straight margins.	Latin bifidatus.
bifilar		Two-threaded; involving the use of two threads; as, bifilar suspension; a bifilar balance.	
biflabellate		Flabellate on both sides.	
biflagellate		Having two long, narrow, whiplike appendages.	
biflorate		Bearing two flowers; two-flowered.	
biflorous		Bearing two flowers; two-flowered.	
bifocal		Having two foci, as some spectacle lenses.	
bifold		Twofold; double; of two kinds, degrees, etc. Shak.	
bifoliate		Having two leaves; two-leaved.	
bifoliolate		Having two leaflets, as some compound leaves.	
biforate		Having two perforations.	
biforine		An oval sac or cell, found in the leaves of certain plants of the order Araceæ.	Latin biforis.
biforked		Bifurcate.	
biform		Having two forms, bodies, or shapes.	
biformed		Having two forms.	
biformity		A double form.	
biforous		See Biforate — having two perforations.	
bifronted		Having two fronts.	
bifurcate		Two-pronged; forked.	Latin bifurcatus.
bifurcated		Two-pronged; forked.	
bifurcation		A forking, or division into two branches.	
bifurcous		See Bifurcate, a.	
big		Having largeness of size; of much bulk or magnitude; of great size; large.	
big-bellied		Having a great belly; as, a big-bellied man or flagon; advanced in pregnancy.	
big-wigged		characterized by pomposity of manner.	
biga		A two-horse chariot.	Latin bīga.
bigam	Obsolete	A bigamist.	
bigamist		One who is guilty of bigamy.	
bigamous		Guilty of bigamy; involving bigamy; as, a bigamous marriage.	
bigamy		The offense of marrying one person when already legally married to another.	Old French bigamie, from Latin bigamia.
bigaroon		The large white-heart cherry.	
bigarreau		The large white-heart cherry.	
bigeminate		Having a forked petiole, and a pair of leaflets at the end of each division; biconjugate; twice paired; -- said of a decompound leaf.	
bigential		Including two tribes or races of men.	
bigeye		A fish of the genus Priacanthus, remarkable for the large size of the eye.	
bigg	Scots	Barley, especially the hardy four-rowed kind.	
biggen	Obsolete	To make or become big; to enlarge.	
bigger		, compar. of Big.	
biggest		, superl. of Big.	
biggin	Obsolete	A child's cap; a hood, or something worn on the head.	French béguin.
bigging	Obsolete	A building.	
biggon		A cap or hood with pieces covering the ears.	
biggonnet		A cap or hood with pieces covering the ears.	
bigha		A measure of land in India, varying from a third of an acre to an acre.	
bighorn		The Rocky Mountain sheep (Ovis or Caprovis montana).	
bight		A corner, bend, or angle; a hollow; as, the bight of a horse's knee; the bight of an elbow.	Middle English bight.
biglandular		Having two glands, as a plant.	
bigly		In a tumid, swelling, blustering manner; haughtily; violently.	
bigness		The state or quality of being big; largeness; size; bulk.	
bignonia		A large genus of American, mostly tropical, climbing shrubs, having compound leaves and showy somewhat tubular flowers.	
bignoniaceous		Of pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of which the trumpet flower is an example.	
bigot	Obsolete	A hypocrite; esp., a superstitious hypocrite.	French bigot, from Middle French bigot, from Old French bigot.
bigoted		Obstinately and blindly attached to some creed, opinion practice, or ritual; unreasonably devoted to a system or party, and illiberal toward the opinions of others. -- Prejudiced; intolerant; narrow-minded.	
bigotedly		In the manner of a bigot.	
bigotry		The state of mind of a bigot; obstinate and unreasoning attachment of one's own belief and opinions, with narrow-minded intolerance of beliefs opposed to them.	French bigoterie.
bigwig		A person of consequence; as, the bigwigs of society.	
bihydroguret	Obsolete	A compound of two atoms of hydrogen with some other substance.	
bijou		A trinket; a jewel; -- a word applied to anything small and of elegant workmanship.	French bijou, from Breton bizou.
bijoutry		Small articles of virtu, as jewelry, trinkets, etc.	French bijouterie.
bijugate		Having two pairs, as of leaflets.	
bijugous		Bijugate.	
bike	Scots	A nest of wild bees, wasps, or ants; a swarm.	
bikh		The East Indian name of a virulent poison extracted from Aconitum ferox or other species of aconite: also, the plant itself.	
bilabiate		Having two lips, as the corols of certain flowers.	
bilaciniate		Doubly fringed.	
bilalo		A two-masted passenger boat or small vessel, used in the bay of Manila.	
bilamellate		Formed of two plates, as the stigma of the Mimulus; also, having two elevated ridges, as in the lip of certain flowers.	
bilamellated		Formed of two plates, as the stigma of the Mimulus; also, having two elevated ridges, as in the lip of certain flowers.	
bilaminar		Formed of, or having, two laminæ, or thin plates.	
bilaminate		Formed of, or having, two laminæ, or thin plates.	
biland	Obsolete	A byland.	
bilander		A small two-masted merchant vessel, fitted only for coasting, or for use in canals, as in Holland.	
bilateral		Having two sides; arranged upon two sides; affecting two sides or two parties.	
bilaterality		State of being bilateral.	
bilberry		(Bot.) The European whortleberry (Vaccinium myrtillus); also, its edible bluish black fruit.	
bilbo		A rapier; a sword; so named from Bilbao, in Spain.	
bilboquet		The toy called cup and ball.	
bilcock		The European water rail.	
bildstein		Same as Agalmatolite.	
bile		(Physiol.) A yellow, or greenish, viscid fluid, usually alkaline in reaction, secreted by the liver.	
bilection		That portion of a group of moldings which projects beyond the general surface of a panel; a bolection.	
bilestone		A gallstone, or biliary calculus. See Biliary.	
bilge		The protuberant part of a cask, which is usually in the middle.	
bilgy		Having the smell of bilge water.	
biliary		Relating or belonging to bile; conveying bile; as, biliary acids; biliary ducts.	
biliation		The production and excretion of bile.	
biliferous		Generating bile.	
bilifuscin		A brownish green pigment found in human gallstones and in old bile.	
bilimbi		The berries of two East Indian species of Averrhoa, of the Oxalideæ or Sorrel family.	
bilimbing		The berries of two East Indian species of Averrhoa, of the Oxalideæ or Sorrel family.	
biliment	Obsolete	A woman's ornament; habiliment.	
bilin		A name applied to the amorphous or crystalline mass obtained from bile by the action of alcohol and ether.	
bilinear		Of, pertaining to, or included by, two lines; as, bilinear coördinates.	
bilingual		Containing, or consisting of, two languages; expressed in two languages; as, a bilingual inscription; a bilingual dictionary. -- Bi*lin"gual*ly, adv.	
bilingualism		Quality of being bilingual.	
bilinguar		See Bilingual — containing, or consisting of, two languages; expressed in two languages; as, a bilingual inscription; a bilingual dictionary. -- Bi*lin"gual*ly, adv.	
bilinguist		One versed in two languages.	
bilinguous	Obsolete	Having two tongues, or speaking two languages.	Latin bilinguis.
bilious		Of or pertaining to the bile.	Latin biliosus.
biliousness		The state of being bilious.	
biliprasin		A dark green pigment found in small quantity in human gallstones.	
bilirubin		A reddish yellow pigment present in human bile, and in that from carnivorous and herbivorous animals; the normal biliary pigment.	
biliteral		Consisting of two letters; as, a biliteral root of a Sanskrit verb.	
biliteralism		The property or state of being biliteral.	
biliverdin		A green pigment present in the bile, formed from bilirubin by oxidation.	
bilk		To frustrate or disappoint; to deceive or defraud, by nonfulfillment of engagement; to leave in the lurch; to give the slip to; as, to bilk a creditor.	
bill		A beak, as of a bird, or sometimes of a turtle or other animal.	Anglo-Norman bille, from Old French bulle, from Latin bulla.
billabong		In Australia, a blind channel leading out from a river; -- sometimes called an anabranch.	
billage		and v. t. & i.	
billard		An English fish, allied to the cod; the coalfish.	
billbeetle		A weevil or curculio of various species, as the corn weevil. See Curculio.	
billboard		(Naut.) A piece of thick plank, armed with iron plates, and fixed on the bow or fore channels of a vessel, for the bill or fluke of the anchor to rest on.	
billbug		A weevil or curculio of various species, as the corn weevil. See Curculio.	
billed		Furnished with, or having, a bill, as a bird; -- used in composition; as, broad-billed.	
billet		A small paper; a note; a short letter.	Middle French billette.
billet-doux		A love letter or note.	
billethead		A round piece of timber at the bow or stern of a whaleboat, around which the harpoon lone is run out when the whale darts off.	
billfish		A name applied to several distinct fishes: (a) The garfish (Tylosurus, or Belone, longirostris) and allied species.	
billhead		A printed form, used by merchants in making out bills or rendering accounts.	
billhook		A thick, heavy knife with a hooked point, used in pruning hedges, etc. When it has a short handle, it is sometimes called a hand bill; when the handle is long, a hedge bill or scimiter.	
billiard		Of or pertaining to the game of billiards.	
billiards		A game played with ivory balls o a cloth-covered, rectangular table, bounded by elastic cushions.	
billing		Caressing; kissing.	
billingsgate		A market near the Billings gate in London, celebrated for fish and foul language.	
billion		According to the French and American method of numeration, a thousand millions, or 1,000,000,000; according to the English method, a million millions, or 1,000,000,000,000.	French billion.
billman		One who uses, or is armed with, a bill or hooked ax.	
billon		An alloy of gold and silver with a large proportion of copper or other base metal, used in coinage.	
billot		Bullion in the bar or mass.	
billow		A great wave or surge of the sea or other water, caused usually by violent wind.	Old Norse bylgja.
billowy		Of or pertaining to billows; swelling or swollen into large waves; full of billows or surges; resembling billows.	
billposter		One whose occupation is to post handbills or posters in public places.	
billsticker		One whose occupation is to post handbills or posters in public places.	
billy		A club; esp., a policeman's club.	
billyboy		A flat-bottomed river barge or coasting vessel.	
billycock		A round, low-crowned felt hat; a wideawake.	
bilobate		Divided into two lobes or segments.	
bilobed		Bilobate.	
bilocation		Double location; the state or power of being in two places at the same instant; -- a miraculous power attributed to some of the saints.	
bilocular		Divided into two cells or compartments; as, a bilocular pericarp.	
bilsted		See Sweet gum.	
biltong		Lean meat cut into strips and sun-dried.	
bimaculate		Having, or marked with, two spots.	
bimana		Animals having two hands; -- a term applied by Cuvier to man as a special order of Mammalia.	
bimanous		Having two hands; two-handed.	
bimarginate		Having a double margin, as certain shells.	
bimastism		The condition of having two mammæ or teats.	
bimedial		Applied to a line which is the sum of two lines commensurable only in power (as the side and diagonal of a square).	
bimembral		Having two members; as, a bimembral sentence.	
bimensal	Obsolete	See Bimonthly, a.	
bimestrial		Continuing two months.	
bimetallic		Of or relating to, or using, a double metallic standard (as gold and silver) for a system of coins or currency.	French bimétallique.
bimetallism		The legalized use of two metals (as gold and silver) in the currency of a country, at a fixed relative value; -- in opposition to monometallism.	
bimetallist		An advocate of bimetallism.	
bimolecular		Pertaining to, or formed from, two molecules; as, a bimolecular reaction (a reaction between two molecules).	
bimonthly		Occurring, done, or coming, once in two months; as, bimonthly visits; bimonthly publications. -- n.	
bimuscular		Having two adductor muscles, as a bivalve mollusk.	
bin	Obsolete	A box, frame, crib, or inclosed place, used as a receptacle for any commodity; as, a corn bin; a wine bin; a coal bin.	Arabic بن.
bin-		A euphonic form of the prefix Bi-.	
binal		Twofold; double.	
binarseniate		A salt having two equivalents of arsenic acid to one of the base.	
binary		Compounded or consisting of two things or parts; characterized by two (things).	Latin binarius.
binate		Double; growing in pairs or couples.	
binaural		Of or pertaining to, or used by, both ears.	
binbashi		A major in the Turkish army.	Turkish binbaşı.
bind		To tie, or confine with a cord, band, ligature, chain, etc.; to fetter; to make fast; as, to bind grain in bundles; to bind a prisoner.	
binder		One who binds; as, a binder of sheaves; one whose trade is to bind; as, a binder of books.	
bindery		A place where books, or other articles, are bound; a bookbinder's establishment.	
bindheimite		An amorphous antimonate of lead, produced from the alteration of other ores, as from jamesonite.	
binding		That binds; obligatory.	
bindingly		So as to bind.	
bindingness		The condition or property of being binding; obligatory quality.	
bindweed		A plant of the genus Convolvulus; as, greater bindweed (C.	
bine		The winding or twining stem of a hop vine or other climbing plant.	
binervate		(Bot.) Two-nerved; -- applied to leaves which have two longitudinal ribs or nerves.	
bing	Obsolete	A heap or pile; as, a bing of wood.	
biniodide		Same as Diiodide.	
bink		A bench.	
binnacle		A case or box placed near the helmsman, containing the compass of a ship, and a light to show it at night.	
binny		A large species of barbel (Barbus bynni), found in the Nile, and much esteemed for food.	
binocle		A dioptric telescope, fitted with two tubes joining, so as to enable a person to view an object with both eyes at once; a double- barreled field glass or an opera glass.	French binocle.
binocular		Having two eyes.	
binocularly		In a binocular manner.	
binoculate		Having two eyes.	
binomial		An expression consisting of two terms connected by the sign plus (+) or minus (-); as, a+b, or 7-3.	
binominal		Of or pertaining to two names; binomial.	
binominous	Obsolete	Binominal.	
binotonous		Consisting of two notes; as, a binotonous cry.	
binous		Same as Binate.	
binoxalate		A salt having two equivalents of oxalic acid to one of the base; an acid oxalate.	
binoxide		Same as Dioxide.	
binturong		A small Asiatic civet of the genus Arctilis.	Malay (macrolanguage binturung.
binuclear		Having two nuclei; as, binucleate cells.	
binucleate		Having two nuclei; as, binucleate cells.	
binucleolate		Having two nucleoli.	
bioblast		Same as Bioplast.	
biocellate		Having two ocelli (eyelike spots); -- said of a wing, etc.	
biochemistry		The chemistry of living organisms; the chemistry of the processes incidental to, and characteristic of, life.	
biodynamic		Of or pertaining to biodynamics, or the doctrine of vital forces or energy.	
biodynamical		Of or pertaining to biodynamics, or the doctrine of vital forces or energy.	
biodynamics		The doctrine of vital forces or energy.	
biogen		Bioplasm.	
biogenesis		(a) A doctrine that the genesis or production of living organisms can take place only through the agency of living germs or parents; -- opposed to abiogenesis.	
biogenetic		Pertaining to biogenesis.	
biogenist		A believer in the theory of biogenesis.	
biogeny		(a) A doctrine that the genesis or production of living organisms can take place only through the agency of living germs or parents; -- opposed to abiogenesis.	
biogeography		The branch of biology which deals with the geographical distribution of animals and plants.	
biognosis		The investigation of life.	
biograph		An animated picture machine for screen projection; a cinematograph.	
biographer		One who writes an account or history of the life of a particular person; a writer of lives, as Plutarch.	
biographic		Of or pertaining to biography; containing biography. -- Bi`o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.	
biographical		Of or pertaining to biography; containing biography. -- Bi`o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.	
biographize		To write a history of the life of.	
biography		The written history of a person's life.	
biologic		Of or relating to biology. -- Bi`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.	
biological		Of or relating to biology. -- Bi`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.	
biologist		A student of biology; one versed in the science of biology.	
biology		The science of life; that branch of knowledge which treats of living matter as distinct from matter which is not living; the study of living tissue.	
biolysis		The destruction of life.	
biolytic		Relating to the destruction of life.	
biomagnetic		Relating to biomagnetism.	
biomagnetism		Animal magnetism.	
biometry		Measurement of life; calculation of the probable duration of human life.	
bion		The physiological individual, characterized by definiteness and independence of function, in distinction from the morphological individual or morphon.	
bionomy		Physiology.	
biophor		One of the smaller vital units of a cell, the bearer of vitality and heredity.	
biophore		One of the smaller vital units of a cell, the bearer of vitality and heredity.	
biophotophone		An instrument combining a cinematograph and a phonograph so that the moving figures on the screen are accompanied by the appropriate sounds.	
bioplasm		A name suggested by Dr. Beale for the germinal matter supposed to be essential to the functions of all living beings; the material through which every form of life manifests itself; unaltered protoplasm.	
bioplasmic		Pertaining to, or consisting of, bioplasm.	
bioplast		A tiny mass of bioplasm, in itself a living unit and having formative power, as a living white blood corpuscle; bioblast.	
bioplastic		Bioplasmic.	
biopsychic		Pertaining to psychical phenomena in their relation to the living organism or to the general phenomena of life.	
biopsychical		Pertaining to psychical phenomena in their relation to the living organism or to the general phenomena of life.	
biorgan		A physiological organ; a living organ; an organ endowed with function; -- distinguished from idorgan.	
bioscope		A view of life; that which gives such a view.	
biostatics		The physical phenomena of organized bodies, in opposition to their organic or vital phenomena.	
biostatistics		Vital statistics.	
biotaxy		The classification of living organisms according to their structural character; taxonomy.	
biotic		Relating to life; as, the biotic principle.	Greek βιωτικός.
biotite		Mica containing iron and magnesia, generally of a black or dark green color; -- a common constituent of crystalline rocks.	
bipalmate		Palmately branched, with the branches again palmated.	
biparietal		Of or pertaining to the diameter of the cranium, from one parietal fossa to the other.	
biparous		Bringing forth two at a birth.	
bipartible		Capable of being divided into two parts.	
bipartient		Dividing into two parts. -- n.	
bipartile		Divisible into two parts.	
bipartite		Being in two parts; having two correspondent parts, as a legal contract or writing, one for each party; shared by two; as, a bipartite treaty.	Latin bipartitus.
bipartition		The act of dividing into two parts, or of making two correspondent parts, or the state of being so divided.	
bipectinate		Having two margins toothed like a comb.	
bipectinated		Having two margins toothed like a comb.	
biped		A two-footed animal, as man.	
bipedal		Having two feet; biped.	
bipeltate		Having a shell or covering like a double shield.	
bipennate		Having two wings.	
bipennated		Having two wings.	
bipennis		An ax with an edge or blade on each side of the handle.	Latin bipennis.
bipetalous		Having two petals.	
bipinnaria		The larva of certain starfishes as developed in the free- swimming stage.	
bipinnate		Twice pinnate.	
bipinnated		Twice pinnate.	
bipinnatifid		Doubly pinnatifid.	
biplane		An aëroplane with two main supporting surfaces one above the other.	
biplicate		Twice folded together.	
biplicity		The state of being twice folded; reduplication.	
bipolar		Doubly polar; having two poles; as, a bipolar cell or corpuscle.	
bipolarity		Bipolar quality.	
bipont		Relating to books printed at Deuxponts, or Bipontium (Zweibrücken), in Bavaria.	
bipontine		Relating to books printed at Deuxponts, or Bipontium (Zweibrücken), in Bavaria.	
biprism		A prism whose refracting angle is very nearly 180 degrees.	
bipunctate		Having two punctures, or spots.	
bipunctual		Having two points.	
bipupillate		Having an eyelike spot on the wing, with two dots within it of a different color, as in some butterflies.	
bipyramidal		Consisting of two pyramids placed base to base; having a pyramid at each of the extremities of a prism, as in quartz crystals.	
biquadrate		The fourth power, or the square of the square.	
biquadratic		Of or pertaining to the biquadrate, or fourth power.	
biquintile		An aspect of the planets when they are distant from each other by twice the fifth part of a great circle -- that is, twice 72 degrees.	
biradiate		Having two rays; as, a biradiate fin.	
biradiated		Having two rays; as, a biradiate fin.	
biramous		Having, or consisting of, two branches.	
birch		A tree of several species, constituting the genus Betula; as, the white or common birch (B. alba) (also called silver birch and lady birch); the dwarf birch (B. glandulosa); the paper or canoe birch (B. papyracea)…	Middle English birche.
birchen		Of or relating to birch.	
bird		Orig., a chicken; the young of a fowl; a young eaglet; a nestling; and hence, a feathered flying animal (see 2).	Malay (macrolanguage burung.
bird-eyed		Quick-sighted; catching a glance as one goes.	
bird-witted		Flighty; passing rapidly from one subject to another; not having the faculty of attention.	
birdbolt		A short blunt arrow for killing birds without piercing them. Hence: Anything which smites without penetrating.	
birdcage		A cage for confining birds.	
birdcall		A sound made in imitation of the note or cry of a bird for the purpose of decoying the bird or its mate.	
birdcatcher		One whose employment it is to catch birds; a fowler.	
birdcatching		The art, act, or occupation or catching birds or wild fowls.	
birder		A birdcatcher.	
birdie		A pretty or dear little bird; -- a pet name.	
birdikin		A young bird.	
birding		Birdcatching or fowling.	
birdlet		A little bird; a nestling.	
birdlike		Resembling a bird.	
birdlime		An extremely adhesive viscid substance, usually made of the middle bark of the holly, by boiling, fermenting, and cleansing it.	
birdling		A little bird; a nestling.	
birdman		A fowler or birdcatcher.	
birdseed		Canary seed, hemp, millet or other small seeds used for feeding caged birds.	
birdwoman	Colloquial	An airwoman; an aviatress.	
birectangular		Containing or having two right angles; as, a birectangular spherical triangle.	
bireme		An ancient galley or vessel with two banks or tiers of oars.	
biretta		Same as Berretta.	
birgander		See Bergander — a european duck (Anas tadorna). See Sheldrake.	
birk	English dialect	A birch tree.	
birken	Obsolete	To whip with a birch or rod.	
birkie		A lively or mettlesome fellow.	
birl	Scots	To revolve or cause to revolve; to spin.	
birlaw		A law made by husbandmen respecting rural affairs; a rustic or local law or by-law.	
birostrate		Having a double beak, or two processes resembling beaks.	
birostrated		Having a double beak, or two processes resembling beaks.	
birr		To make, or move with, a whirring noise, as of wheels in motion.	
birrus		A coarse kind of thick woolen cloth, worn by the poor in the Middle Ages; also, a woolen cap or hood worn over the shoulders or over the head.	
birse	Scots	A bristle or bristles.	
birt	English dialect	A fish of the turbot kind; the brill.	
birth		The act or fact of coming into life, or of being born; -- generally applied to human beings; as, the birth of a son.	
birthday		The day in which any person is born; day of origin or commencement.	
birthdom		The land of one's birth; one's inheritance.	
birthing		Anything added to raise the sides of a ship.	
birthless		Of mean extraction.	
birthmark		Some peculiar mark or blemish on the body at birth.	
birthnight		The night in which a person is born; the anniversary of that night in succeeding years.	
birthplace		The town, city, or country, where a person is born; place of origin or birth, in its more general sense.	
birthright		Any right, privilege, or possession to which a person is entitled by birth, such as an estate descendible by law to an heir, or civil liberty under a free constitution; esp. the rights or inheritance of the first born.	
birthroot		An herbaceous plant (Trillium erectum), and its astringent rootstock, which is said to have medicinal properties.	
birthwort		A genus of herbs and shrubs (Aristolochia), reputed to have medicinal properties.	
bis		Twice; -- a word showing that something is, or is to be, repeated; as a passage of music, or an item in accounts.	
bis-		A form of Bi-, sometimes used before s, c, or a vowel.	
bisaccate		Having two little bags, sacs, or pouches.	
biscayan		Of or pertaining to Biscay in Spain. -- n.	
biscotin		A confection made of flour, sugar, marmalade, and eggs; a sweet biscuit.	
biscuit		A kind of unraised bread, of many varieties, plain, sweet, or fancy, formed into flat cakes, and bakes hard; as, ship biscuit.	
biscutate		Resembling two bucklers placed side by side.	
bise		A pale blue pigment, prepared from the native blue carbonate of copper, or from smalt; -- called also blue bice.	
bisect		To cut or divide into two parts.	
bisection		Division into two parts, esp. two equal parts.	
bisector		One who, or that which, bisects; esp. (Geom.) a straight line which bisects an angle.	
bisectrix		The line bisecting the angle between the optic axes of a biaxial crystal.	
bisegment		One of tow equal parts of a line, or other magnitude.	
biseptate		With two partitions or septa.	
biserial		In two rows or series.	
biseriate		In two rows or series.	
biserrate		(Bot.) Doubly serrate, or having the serratures serrate, as in some leaves.	
bisetose		Having two bristles.	
bisetous		Having two bristles.	
bisexous	Obsolete	Bisexual.	
bisexual		Of both sexes; hermaphrodite; as a flower with stamens and pistil, or an animal having ovaries and testes.	
bisexuous		Bisexual.	
biseye	Obsolete	of Besee — to see; to look; to mind.	
bish		Same as Bikh.	
bishop		A spiritual overseer, superintendent, or director.	Middle English bishop, from Old English biscop, from Latin episcopus, from Greek επίσκοπος.
bishop-stool		A bishop's seat or see.	
bishopdom		Jurisdiction of a bishop; episcopate.	
bishoplike		Resembling a bishop; belonging to a bishop.	
bishoply	Obsolete	Bishoplike; episcopal.	
bishopric		A diocese; the district over which the jurisdiction of a bishop extends.	Old English bisceoprice.
bisie	Obsolete	To busy; to employ.	
bisilicate		A salt of metasilicic acid; -- so called because the ratio of the oxygen of the silica to the oxygen of the base is as two to one.	
bisk		Soup or broth made by boiling several sorts of flesh together.	French bisque.
bismare	Obsolete	Shame; abuse.	
bismer	Scots	A rule steelyard.	
bismillah		An adjuration or exclamation common among the Mohammedans.	Arabic بسم الله‎.
bismite		Bismuth trioxide, or bismuth ocher.	
bismuth		One of the elements; a metal of a reddish white color, crystallizing in rhombohedrons.	
bismuthal		Containing bismuth.	
bismuthic		Of or pertaining to bismuth; containing bismuth, when this element has its higher valence; as, bismuthic oxide.	
bismuthiferous		Containing bismuth.	
bismuthine		Native bismuth sulphide; -- sometimes called bismuthite.	
bismuthinite		Native bismuth sulphide; -- sometimes called bismuthite.	
bismuthous		Of, or containing, bismuth, when this element has its lower valence.	
bismuthyl		Hydrous carbonate of bismuth, an earthy mineral of a dull white or yellowish color.	
bison		(a) The aurochs or European bison. (b) The American bison buffalo (Bison Americanus), a large, gregarious bovine quadruped with shaggy mane and short black horns…	
bispinose		Having two spines.	
bisque		Unglazed white porcelain.	
bissextile		Leap year; every fourth year, in which a day is added to the month of February on account of the excess of the tropical year (365 d. 5 h. 48 m. 46 s.) above 365 days.	Latin bisextilis.
bisson	Obsolete	Purblind; blinding.	Middle English bisen.
bister		A dark brown pigment extracted from the soot of wood.	
bistipuled		Having two stipules.	
bistort		An herbaceous plant of the genus Polygonum, section Bistorta; snakeweed; adderwort.	
bistoury		A surgical instrument consisting of a slender knife, either straight or curved, generally used by introducing it beneath the part to be divided, and cutting towards the surface.	French bistouri, from Italian bistorino.
bistre		A dark brown pigment extracted from the soot of wood. See Bister.	
bisulcate		Having two grooves or furrows.	
bisulcous		Bisulcate.	
bisulphate		A sulphate in which but half the hydrogen of the acid is replaced by a positive element or radical, thus making the proportion of the acid to the positive or basic portion twice what it is in the normal sulphates…	
bisulphide		A sulphide having two atoms of sulphur in the molecule; a disulphide, as in iron pyrites, FeS2; -- less frequently called bisulphuret.	
bisulphite		A salt of sulphurous acid in which the base replaces but half the hydrogen of the acid; an acid sulphite.	
bisulphuret		See Bisulphide — a sulphide having two atoms of sulphur in the molecule; a disulphide, as in iron pyrites, FeS2; -- less frequently called bisulphuret.	
bit		The part of a bridle, usually of iron, which is inserted in the mouth of a horse, and having appendages to which the reins are fastened.	
bitake	Obsolete	To commend; to commit.	
bitangent		Possessing the property of touching at two points. -- n.	
bitartrate		A salt of tartaric acid in which the base replaces but half the acid hydrogen; an acid tartrate, as cream of tartar.	
bitch		The female of the canine kind, as of the dog, wolf, and fox.	Middle English biche, from Old English bicce.
bite		To seize with the teeth, so that they enter or nip the thing seized; to lacerate, crush, or wound with the teeth; as, to bite an apple; to bite a crust; the dog bit a man.	Old English bitan.
biter		One who, or that which, bites; that which bites often, or is inclined to bite, as a dog or fish.	
biternate		Doubly ternate, as when a petiole has three ternate leaflets. -- Bi*ter"nate*ly, adv.	
bitheism		Belief in the existence of two gods; dualism.	
biting		That bites; sharp; cutting; sarcastic; caustic.	
bitingly		In a biting manner.	
bitless		Not having a bit or bridle.	
bito		A small scrubby tree (Balanites Ægyptiaca) growing in dry regions of tropical Africa and Asia.	
bitstock		A stock or handle for holding and rotating a bit; a brace.	
bitt		See Bitts — a frame of two strong timbers fixed perpendicularly in the fore part of a ship, on which to fasten the cables as the ship rides at anchor, or in warping.	
bittacle	Obsolete	A binnacle.	
bitten		of Bite — to seize with the teeth, so that they enter or nip the thing seized; to lacerate, crush, or wound with the teeth; as, to bite an apple; to bite a crust; the dog bit a man.	
bitter		AA turn of the cable which is round the bitts.	Old English bitter.
bitterbump		the butterbump or bittern.	
bitterful	Obsolete	Full of bitterness.	
bittering		A bitter compound used in adulterating beer; bittern.	
bitterish		Somewhat bitter.	
bitterling		A roachlike European fish (Rhodima amarus).	
bitterly		In a bitter manner.	
bittern		A wading bird of the genus Botaurus, allied to the herons, of various species.	Old French butor.
bitterness		The quality or state of being bitter, sharp, or acrid, in either a literal or figurative sense; implacableness; resentfulness; severity; keenness of reproach or sarcasm; deep distress, grief, or vexation of mind.	
bitternut		The swamp hickory (Carya amara).	
bitterroot		A plant (Lewisia rediviva) allied to the purslane, but with fleshy, farinaceous roots, growing in the mountains of Idaho, Montana, etc. It gives the name to the Bitter Root mountains and river.	
bitters		A liquor, generally spirituous in which a bitter herb, leaf, or root is steeped.	
bittersweet		Sweet and then bitter or bitter and then sweet; esp. sweet with a bitter after taste; hence (Fig.), pleasant but painful.	
bitterweed		A species of Ambrosia (A. artemisiæfolia); Roman worm wood.	
bitterwood		A West Indian tree (Picræna excelsa) from the wood of which the bitter drug Jamaica quassia is obtained.	
bitterwort		The yellow gentian (Gentiana lutea), which has a very bitter taste.	
bittock	Scots	A small bit of anything, of indefinite size or quantity; a short distance.	
bittor		The bittern.	
bittour		The bittern.	
bitts		A frame of two strong timbers fixed perpendicularly in the fore part of a ship, on which to fasten the cables as the ship rides at anchor, or in warping.	
bitume	Poetic	Bitumen.	French bitume.
bitumed		Smeared with bitumen.	
bitumen		Mineral pitch; a black, tarry substance, burning with a bright flame; Jew's pitch.	Latin bitumen.
bituminate		To treat or impregnate with bitumen; to cement with bitumen.	Latin bituminatus.
bituminiferous		Producing bitumen.	
bituminization		The process of bituminizing.	
bituminize		To prepare, treat, impregnate, or coat with bitumen.	
bituminous		Having the qualities of bitumen; compounded with bitumen; containing bitumen.	
biuret		A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance, C2O2N3H5, formed by heating urea.	
bivalency		The quality of being bivalent.	
bivalent		Equivalent in combining or displacing power to two atoms of hydrogen; dyad.	
bivalve		(Zoöl.) A mollusk having a shell consisting of two lateral plates or valves joined together by an elastic ligament at the hinge, which is usually strengthened by prominences called teeth.	
bivalved		Having two valves, as the oyster and some seed pods; bivalve.	
bivalvous		Bivalvular.	
bivalvular		Having two valves.	
bivaulted		Having two vaults or arches.	
bivector		A term made up of the two parts	
biventral		(Anat.) Having two bellies or protuberances; as, a biventral, or digastric, muscle, or the biventral lobe of the cerebellum.	
bivial		Of or relating to the bivium.	
bivious		Having, or leading, two ways.	
bivium		One side of an echinoderm, including a pair of ambulacra, in distinction from the opposite side (trivium), which includes three ambulacra.	
bivouac		(a) The watch of a whole army by night, when in danger of surprise or attack.	French bivouac.
biweekly		Occurring or appearing once every two weeks; fortnightly. -- n.	
biwreye	Obsolete	To bewray; to reveal.	
bizantine		See Byzantine — a gold coin, so called from being coined at Byzantium. See Bezant.	
bizarre		Odd in manner or appearance; fantastic; whimsical; extravagant; grotesque.	French bizarre, from Italian bizzarro.
bizet		The upper faceted portion of a brilliant-cut diamond, which projects from the setting and occupies the zone between the girdle and the table.	
