blab		To utter or tell unnecessarily, or in a thoughtless manner; to publish (secrets or trifles) without reserve or discretion.	Middle English blabben.
blabber		A tattler; a telltale.	Middle English blaberen.
black		Destitute of light, or incapable of reflecting it; of the color of soot or coal; of the darkest or a very dark color, the opposite of white; characterized by such a color; as, black cloth; black hair or eyes.	Middle English black.
black-a-vised		Dark-visaged; swart.	
black-browed		Having black eyebrows. Hence: Gloomy; dismal; threatening; forbidding.	
black-eyed		Having black eyes.	
black-faced		Having a black, dark, or gloomy face or aspect.	
black-hearted		Having a wicked, malignant disposition; morally bad.	
black-jack		(Min.) A name given by English miners to sphalerite, or zinc blende; - - called also false galena.	
black-letter		Written or printed in black letter; as, a black-letter manuscript or book.	
black-mouthed		Using foul or scurrilous language; slanderous.	
blackamoor		A negro or negress.	
blackball		A composition for blacking shoes, boots, etc.; also, one for taking impressions of engraved work.	
blackband		An earthy carbonate of iron containing considerable carbonaceous matter; -- valuable as an iron ore.	
blackberry		The fruit of several species of bramble (Rubus); also, the plant itself.	
blackbird		In England, a species of thrush (Turdus merula), a singing bird with a fin note; the merle.	
blackbirder	Colloquial	A slave ship; a slaver.	
blackbirding		The act or practice of collecting natives of the islands near Queensland for service on the Queensland sugar plantations.	
blackboard		A broad board painted black, or any black surface on which writing, drawing, or the working of mathematical problems can be done with chalk or crayons.	
blackcap		(Zoöl.) (a) A small European song bird (Sylvia atricapilla), with a black crown; the mock nightingale.	
blackcoat		A clergyman; -- familiarly so called, as a soldier is sometimes called a redcoat or a bluecoat.	
blackcock		The male of the European black grouse (Tetrao tetrix, Linn.); - - so called by sportsmen.	
blacken		To make or render black.	
blackener		One who blackens.	
blackfeet		A tribe of North American Indians formerly inhabiting the country from the upper Missouri River to the Saskatchewan, but now much reduced in numbers.	
blackfin		See Bluefin — a species of whitefish (Coregonus nigripinnis) found in Lake Michigan.	
blackfish		(Zoöl.) A small kind of whale, of the genus Globicephalus, of several species.	
blackfoot		Of or pertaining to the Blackfeet; as, a Blackfoot Indian. -- n.	
blackguard		A person of stained or low character, esp. one who uses scurrilous language, or treats others with foul abuse; a scoundrel; a rough.	
blackguardism		The conduct or language of a blackguard; rufflanism.	
blackguardly		In the manner of or resembling a blackguard; abusive; scurrilous; ruffianly.	
blackhead		The scaup duck.	
blackheart		A heart-shaped cherry with a very dark-colored skin.	
blacking		Any preparation for making things black; esp. one for giving a black luster to boots and shoes, or to stoves.	
blackish		Somewhat black.	
blacklead		To coat or to polish with black lead.	
blackleg	Colloquial	A notorious gambler.	
blacklist		To put in a black list as deserving of suspicion, censure, or punishment; esp. to put in a list of persons stigmatized as insolvent or untrustworthy, -- as tradesmen and employers do for mutual protection; as…	
blackly		In a black manner; darkly, in color; gloomily; threateningly; atrociously.	
blackmail		A certain rate of money, corn, cattle, or other thing, anciently paid, in the north of England and south of Scotland, to certain men who were allied to robbers, or moss troopers, to be by them protected from pillage.	
blackmailer		One who extorts, or endeavors to extort, money, by black mailing.	
blackmailing		The act or practice of extorting money by exciting fears of injury other than bodily harm, as injury to reputation.	
blackmoor		See Blackamoor — a negro or negress.	
blackness		The quality or state of being black; black color; atrociousness or enormity in wickedness.	
blackpoll		A warbler of the United States (Dendroica striata).	
blackroot		See Colicroot — a bitter American herb of the Bloodwort family, with the leaves all radical, and the small yellow or white flowers in a long spike (Aletris farinosa and A. aurea).	
blacks		The name of a kind of in used in copperplate printing, prepared from the charred husks of the grape, and residue of the wine press.	
blacksalter		One who,makes crude potash, or black salts.	
blacksmith		A smith who works in iron with a forge, and makes iron utensils, horseshoes, etc. The blacksmith may forge what he pleases.	
blacksnake		A snake of a black color, of which two species are common in the United States, the Bascanium constrictor, or racer, sometimes six feet long, and the Scotophis Alleghaniensis, seven or eight feet long.	
blackstrap		A mixture of spirituous liquor (usually rum) and molasses.	
blacktail		(Zoöl.) A fish; the ruff or pope.	
blackthorn		(a) A spreading thorny shrub or small tree (Prunus spinosa), with blackish bark, and bearing little black plums, which are called sloes; the sloe.	
blackwash		(Med.) A lotion made by mixing calomel and lime water.	
blackwood		A name given to several dark-colored timbers.	
blackwork		Work wrought by blacksmiths; -- so called in distinction from that wrought by whitesmiths.	
bladder		(Anat.) A bag or sac in animals, which serves as the receptacle of some fluid; as, the urinary bladder; the gall bladder; -- applied especially to the urinary bladder, either within the animal…	
bladderwort		A genus (Utricularia) of aquatic or marshy plants, which usually bear numerous vesicles in the divisions of the leaves.	
bladdery		Having bladders; also, resembling a bladder.	
blade		Properly, the leaf, or flat part of the leaf, of any plant, especially of gramineous plants.	Old English blæd.
bladebone		The scapula. See Blade, 4.	
bladed		Having a blade or blades; as a two-bladed knife.	
bladefish		A long, thin, marine fish of Europe (Trichiurus lepturus); the ribbon fish.	
bladesmith	Obsolete	A sword cutler.	
blady		Consisting of blades.	
blae	Scots	Dark blue or bluish gray; lead-colored.	
blaeberry		The bilberry.	
blague		Mendacious boasting; falcefood; humbug.	
blain		An inflammatory swelling or sore; a bulla, pustule, or blister.	
blamable		Deserving of censure; faulty; culpable; reprehensible; censurable; blameworthy. -- Blam a*bly (, adv.	
blame		To censure; to express disapprobation of; to find fault with; to reproach.	
blameful		Faulty; meriting blame.	
blameless		Free from blame; without fault; innocent; guiltless; -- sometimes followed by of.	
blamelessly		In a blameless manner.	
blamelessness		The quality or state of being blameless; innocence.	
blamer		One who blames.	
blameworthy		Deserving blame; culpable; reprehensible. -- Blame"wor`thi*ness, n.	
blanc		A white cosmetic.	
blancard		A kind of linen cloth made in Normandy, the thread of which is partly blanches before it is woven.	
blanch		To take the color out of, and make white; to bleach; as, to blanch linen; age has blanched his hair.	
blancher	Obsolete	One who, or that which, blanches or whitens; esp., one who anneals and cleanses money; also, a chemical preparation for this purpose.	
blanchimeter		An instrument for measuring the bleaching power of chloride of lime and potash; a chlorometer.	
blancmange		A preparation for desserts, etc., made from isinglass, sea moss, cornstarch, or other gelatinous or starchy substance, with mild, usually sweetened and flavored, and shaped in a mold.	
blancmanger	Obsolete	A sort of fricassee with white sauce, variously made of capon, fish, etc. Chaucer.	
bland		Mild; soft; gentle; smooth and soothing in manner; suave; as, a bland temper; bland persuasion; a bland sycophant.	Middle English blanden.
blandation	Obsolete	Flattery.	
blandiloquence		Mild, flattering speech.	
blandiloquious		Fair-spoken; flattering.	
blandiloquous		Fair-spoken; flattering.	
blandise	Obsolete	To blandish any one.	
blandish		To flatter with kind words or affectionate actions; to caress; to cajole.	Middle English blandishen, from Middle French blandir, from Latin blanditia.
blandisher		One who uses blandishments.	
blandishment		The act of blandishing; a word or act expressive of affection or kindness, and tending to win the heart; soft words and artful caresses; cajolery; allurement.	
blandly		In a bland manner; mildly; suavely.	
blandness		The state or quality of being bland.	
blank		Of a white or pale color; without color.	
blanket		A heavy, loosely woven fabric, usually of wool, and having a nap, used in bed clothing; also, a similar fabric used as a robe; or any fabric used as a cover for a horse.	Old French blanchet.
blanketing		Cloth for blankets.	
blankly		In a blank manner; without expression; vacuously; as, to stare blankly.	
blankness		The state of being blank.	
blanquette		A white fricassee.	French blanquette, from Occitan (post 1500 blanqueto.
blanquillo		A large fish of Florida and the W.	
blare		To sound loudly and somewhat harshly.	
blarney	Colloquial	Smooth, wheedling talk; flattery.	
blase		Having the sensibilities deadened by excess or frequency of enjoyment; sated or surfeited with pleasure; used up.	
blaspheme		To speak of, or address, with impious irreverence; to revile impiously (anything sacred); as, to blaspheme the Holy Spirit.	
blasphemer		One who blasphemes.	
blasphemous		Speaking or writing blasphemy; uttering or exhibiting anything impiously irreverent; profane; as, a blasphemous person; containing blasphemy; as, a blasphemous book; a blasphemous caricature.	
blasphemously		In a blasphemous manner.	
blasphemy		An indignity offered to God in words, writing, or signs; impiously irreverent words or signs addressed to, or used in reference to, God; speaking evil of God; also, the act of claiming the attributes or prerogatives of deity.	Old French blasfemie, from Latin blasphemia, from Greek βλασφημία.
blast		A violent gust of wind.	Greek βλαστός.
blasted		Blighted; withered.	
blastema		The structureless, protoplasmic tissue of the embryo; the primitive basis of an organ yet unformed, from which it grows.	Greek βλάστημα.
blastemal		Relating to the blastema; rudimentary.	
blastematic		Connected with, or proceeding from, the blastema; blastemal.	
blaster		One who, or that which, blasts or destroys.	
blastide		A small, clear space in the segments of the ovum, the precursor of the nucleus.	
blasting		A blast; destruction by a blast, or by some pernicious cause.	
blastment	Obsolete	A sudden stroke or injury produced by some destructive cause.	
blastocarpous		Germinating inside the pericarp, as the mangrove.	
blastocoele		The cavity of the blastosphere, or segmentation cavity.	
blastocyst		The germinal vesicle.	
blastoderm		The germinal membrane in an ovum, from which the embryo is developed.	
blastodermatic		Of or pertaining to the blastoderm.	
blastodermic		Of or pertaining to the blastoderm.	
blastogenesis		Multiplication or increase by gemmation or budding.	
blastoid		One of the Blastoidea.	
blastoidea		One of the divisions of Crinoidea found fossil in paleozoic rocks; pentremites.	
blastomere		One of the segments first formed by the division of the ovum.	
blastophoral		Relating to the blastophore.	
blastophore		That portion of the spermatospore which is not converted into spermatoblasts, but carries them.	
blastophoric		Relating to the blastophore.	
blastopore		The pore or opening leading into the cavity of invagination, or archenteron.	
blastosphere		The hollow globe or sphere formed by the arrangement of the blastomeres on the periphery of an impregnated ovum.	
blastostyle		In certain hydroids, an imperfect zooid, whose special function is to produce medusoid buds.	
blastula		That stage in the development of the ovum in which the outer cells of the morula become more defined and form the blastoderm.	
blastule		Same as Blastula.	
blasty		Affected by blasts; gusty.	
blat	Low	To cry, as a calf or sheep; to bleat; to make a senseless noise; to talk inconsiderately.	Russian блат.
blatancy		Blatant quality.	
blatant		Bellowing, as a calf; bawling; brawling; clamoring; disagreeably clamorous; sounding loudly and harshly.	
blatantly		In a blatant manner.	
blather		To talk foolishly, or nonsensically.	Old Norse blaðra.
blatherskite	Local slang	A blustering, talkative fellow.	
blatter	Archaic	To prate; to babble; to rail; to make a senseless noise; to patter.	
blatteration		Blattering.	
blatterer		One who blatters; a babbler; a noisy, blustering boaster.	
blattering		Senseless babble or boasting.	
blatteroon	Obsolete	A senseless babbler or boaster.	Latin blatero.
blaubok		The blue buck. See Blue buck, under Blue.	
blay		A fish. See Bleak, n.	
blaze		A stream of gas or vapor emitting light and heat in the process of combustion; a bright flame.	Middle English blasen.
blazer		One who spreads reports or blazes matters abroad.	
blazing	Obsolete	Burning with a blaze; as, a blazing fire; blazing torches.	
blazon		An heraldic shield; a coat of arms, or a bearing on a coat of arms; armorial bearings.	Old French blason.
blazoner		One who gives publicity, proclaims, or blazons; esp., one who blazons coats of arms; a herald.	
blazonment		The act or blazoning; blazoning; emblazonment.	
blazonry		A coat of arms; an armorial bearing or bearings.	
blea		The part of a tree which lies immediately under the bark; the alburnum or sapwood.	
bleaberry		See Blaeberry — the bilberry.	
bleach		To make white, or whiter; to remove the color, or stains, from; to blanch; to whiten.	Middle English blechen, from Old English blæcan.
bleached		Whitened; make white.	
bleacher		One who whitens, or whose occupation is to whiten, by bleaching.	
bleachery		A place or an establishment where bleaching is done.	
bleaching		The act or process of whitening, by removing color or stains; esp. the process of whitening fabrics by chemical agents.	
bleak		Desolate and exposed; swept by cold winds.	Middle English bleke.
blear		Dim or sore with water or rheum; -- said of the eyes.	
blear-eyed		Having sore eyes; having the eyes dim with rheum; dim-sighted.	
bleared		Dimmed, as by a watery humor; affected with rheum. -- Blear"ed*ness (, n.	
bleareye		A disease of the eyelids, consisting in chronic inflammation of the margins, with a gummy secretion of sebaceous matter.	
bleareyedness		The state of being blear-eyed.	
bleary		Somewhat blear.	
bleat		To make the noise of, or one like that of, a sheep; to cry like a sheep or calf.	Middle English bleten, from Old English blætan.
bleater		One who bleats; a sheep.	
bleating		Crying as a sheep does.	
bleb		A large vesicle or bulla, usually containing a serous fluid; a blister; a bubble, as in water, glass, etc. Arsenic abounds with air blebs.	
blebby		Containing blebs, or characterized by blebs; as, blebby glass.	
bleck	Obsolete	To blacken; also, to defile.	
bled		imp. & p. p. of Bleed.	
blee	Archaic	Complexion; color; hue; likeness; form.	Middle English blee, from Old English bleo.
bleed		To emit blood; to lose blood; to run with blood, by whatever means; as, the arm bleeds; the wound bled freely; to bleed at the nose.	Old English bledan.
bleeder		(a) One who, or that which, draws blood. (b) One in whom slight wounds give rise to profuse or uncontrollable bleeding.	
bleeding		Emitting, or appearing to emit, blood or sap, etc.; also, expressing anguish or compassion.	
blek	Obsolete	To blacken; also, to defile.	
blemish		To mark with deformity; to injure or impair, as anything which is well formed, or excellent; to mar, or make defective, either the body or mind.	Middle English blemisshen.
blemishless		Without blemish; spotless.	
blemishment		The state of being blemished; blemish; disgrace; damage; impairment.	
blench		To shrink; to start back; to draw back, from lack of courage or resolution; to flinch; to quail.	Middle English blenchen, from Old English blencan.
blencher		One who blenches, flinches, or shrinks back.	
blend		To mix or mingle together; esp. to mingle, combine, or associate so that the separate things mixed, or the line of demarcation, can not be distinguished.	Middle English blenden.
blende		(a) A mineral, called also sphalerite, and by miners mock lead, false galena, and black-jack.	German Blende.
blender		One who, or that which, blends; an instrument, as a brush, used in blending.	
blending		(Paint.) The method of laying on different tints so that they may mingle together while wet, and shade into each other insensibly.	
blendous		Pertaining to, consisting of, or containing, blende.	
blendwater		A distemper incident to cattle, in which their livers are affected.	
blenk	Obsolete	To blink; to shine; to look.	
blenniid		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the blennies.	
blennioid		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the blennies.	
blennogenous		Generating mucus.	
blennorrhea		(a) An inordinate secretion and discharge of mucus. (b) Gonorrhea.	
blenny		A marine fish of the genus Blennius or family Blenniidæ; -- so called from its coating of mucus.	
blent	Obsolete	Mingled; mixed; blended; also, polluted; stained.	
blepharitis		Inflammation of the eyelids. -- Bleph`a*rit"ic (#), a.	Greek βλέφαρον.
blesbok		A South African antelope (Alcelaphus albifrons), having a large white spot on the forehead.	
bless		To make or pronounce holy; to consecrate And God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it.	Middle English blessen, from Old English bletsian.
blessed		Hallowed; consecrated; worthy of blessing or adoration; heavenly; holy.	
blessedly		Happily; fortunately; joyfully.	
blessedness		The state of being blessed; happiness; felicity; bliss; heavenly joys; the favor of God.	
blesser		One who blesses; one who bestows or invokes a blessing.	
blessing		The act of one who blesses.	Old English bletsung.
blest		Blessed.	
blet		A form of decay in fruit which is overripe.	French blettir.
bletonism		The supposed faculty of perceiving subterraneous springs and currents by sensation; -- so called from one Bleton, of France.	
bletting		A form of decay seen in fleshy, overripe fruit.	
blew		of Blow — a forcible stroke with the hand, fist, or some instrument, as a rod, a club, an ax, or a sword.	
bleyme	Obsolete	An inflammation in the foot of a horse, between the sole and the bone.	French bleime.
bleynte	Obsolete	of Blench — to shrink; to start back; to draw back, from lack of courage or resolution; to flinch; to quail.	
blickey	Dialect	A tin dinner pail.	
blight		To affect with blight; to blast; to prevent the growth and fertility of. blasts vegetables, blights corn and fruit, and is sometimes injurious even to man.	Old Norse blikna.
blighting		Causing blight.	
blightingly		So as to cause blight.	
blimbi		See Bilimbi, etc.	
blimbing		See Bilimbi, etc.	
blin	Obsolete	To stop; to cease; to desist.	Middle English blinnen, from Old English blinnan.
blind		Destitute of the sense of seeing, either by natural defect or by deprivation; without sight.	Old English blind.
blindage		A cover or protection for an advanced trench or approach, formed of fascines and earth supported by a framework.	
blinde		See Blende — (a) A mineral, called also sphalerite, and by miners mock lead, false galena, and black-jack.	
blinder		One who, or that which, blinds.	
blindfish		A small fish (Amblyopsis spelæus) destitute of eyes, found in the waters of the Mammoth Cave, in Kentucky.	
blindfold		To cover the eyes of, as with a bandage; to hinder from seeing.	
blinding		Making blind or as if blind; depriving of sight or of understanding; obscuring; as, blinding tears; blinding snow.	
blindly		Without sight, discernment, or understanding; without thought, investigation, knowledge, or purpose of one's own.	
blindness		State or condition of being blind, literally or figuratively.	Middle English blindnes.
blindstory		The triforium as opposed to the clearstory.	
blindworm		A small, burrowing, snakelike, limbless lizard (Anguis fragilis), with minute eyes, popularly believed to be blind; the slowworm; -- formerly a name for the adder.	
blink		To wink; to twinkle with, or as with, the eye.	Middle Dutch blinken.
blink-eyed		Habitually winking.	
blinkard		One who blinks with, or as with, weak eyes.	
blinker		One who, or that which, blinks.	
blirt		A gust of wind and rain.	
bliss		Orig., blithesomeness; gladness; now, the highest degree of happiness; blessedness; exalted felicity; heavenly joy.	Old English bliss.
blissful		Full of, characterized by, or causing, joy and felicity; happy in the highest degree. -- Bliss ful*ness, n.	
blissless		Destitute of bliss.	
blissom	Obsolete	To be lustful; to be lascivious.	
blister		A vesicle of the skin, containing watery matter or serum, whether occasioned by a burn or other injury, or by a vesicatory; a collection of serous fluid causing a bladderlike elevation of the cuticle.	Old French blestre.
blistery		Full of blisters.	
blite		A genus of herbs (Blitum) with a fleshy calyx.	
blithe		Gay; merry; sprightly; joyous; glad; cheerful; as, a blithe spirit.	Middle English blithe, from Old English bliþe.
blitheful		Gay; full of gayety; joyous.	
blithely		In a blithe manner.	
blitheness		The state of being blithe.	
blithesome		Cheery; gay; merry.	
blive	Obsolete	Quickly; forthwith.	
blizzard		A gale of piercingly cold wind, usually accompanied with fine and blinding snow; a furious blast.	
bloat		To make turgid, as with water or air; to cause a swelling of the surface of, from effusion of serum in the cellular tissue, producing a morbid enlargement, often accompanied with softness.	
bloated		Distended beyond the natural or usual size, as by the presence of water, serum, etc.; turgid; swollen; as, a bloated face.	
bloatedness		The state of being bloated.	
bloater		The common herring, esp. when of large size, smoked, and half dried; -- called also bloat herring.	
blob		Something blunt and round; a small drop or lump of something viscid or thick; a drop; a bubble; a blister.	
blobber	Low	A bubble; blubber.	
blobber-lipped		Having thick lips.	
blocage		The roughest and cheapest sort of rubblework, in masonry.	
block		A piece of wood more or less bulky; a solid mass of wood, stone, etc., usually with one or more plane, or approximately plane, faces; as, a block on which a butcher chops his meat; a block by which to mount a horse…	Middle English blok, from Old French bloc, from Middle Dutch blok.
blockade		The shutting up of a place by troops or ships, with the purpose of preventing ingress or egress, or the reception of supplies; as, the blockade of the ports of an enemy.	
blockader		One who blockades.	
blockage		The act of blocking up; the state of being blocked up.	
blockhead		A stupid fellow; a dolt; a person deficient in understanding.	
blockheaded		Stupid; dull.	
blockheadism		That which characterizes a blockhead; stupidity.	
blockhouse		(Mil.) An edifice or structure of heavy timbers or logs for military defense, having its sides loopholed for musketry, and often an upper story projecting over the lower…	
blocking		The act of obstructing, supporting, shaping, or stamping with a block or blocks.	
blockish		Like a block; deficient in understanding; stupid; dull. -- Block ish*ness, n.	
blocklike		Like a block; stupid.	
bloedite		A hydrous sulphate of magnesium and sodium.	
blolly		(a) A shrub or small tree of southern Florida and the West Indies (Pisonia obtusata) with smooth oval leaves and a hard, 10-ribbed fruit.	
blomary		See Bloomery — a furnace and forge in which wrought iron in the form of blooms is made directly from the ore, or (more rarely) from cast iron.	
bloncket	Obsolete	Gray; bluish gray.	
blond		Of a fair color; light-colored; as, blond hair; a blond complexion.	
blonde		Of a fair color; light-colored; as, blond hair; a blond complexion.	
blondness		The state of being blond.	
blonket	Obsolete	Gray; bluish gray.	
blood		The fluid which circulates in the principal vascular system of animals, carrying nourishment to all parts of the body, and bringing away waste products to be excreted.	Middle English blod.
blood-boltered	Obsolete	Having the hair matted with clotted blood.	
blood-shotten	Obsolete	Bloodshot.	
bloodbird		An Australian honeysucker (Myzomela sanguineolata); -- so called from the bright red color of the male bird.	
blooded		Having pure blood, or a large admixture or pure blood; of approved breed; of the best stock.	
bloodflower		A genus of bulbous plants, natives of Southern Africa, named Hæmanthus, of the Amaryllis family.	
bloodguilty		Guilty of murder or bloodshed. -- Blood guilt`less, a.	
bloodhound		A breed of large and powerful dogs, with long, smooth, and pendulous ears, and remarkable for acuteness of smell.	Middle English blodhound.
bloodily		In a bloody manner; cruelly; with a disposition to shed blood.	
bloodiness		The state of being bloody.	
bloodless		Destitute of blood, or apparently so; as, bloodless cheeks; lifeless; dead.	Middle English blodles, from Old English blodleas.
bloodlet		bleed; to let blood.	Middle English blodleten, from Old English blodlætan.
bloodletter		One who, or that which, lets blood; a phlebotomist.	
bloodletting		The act or process of letting blood or bleeding, as by opening a vein or artery, or by cupping or leeches; -- esp. applied to venesection.	
bloodroot		A plant (Sanguinaria Canadensis), with a red root and red sap, and bearing a pretty, white flower in early spring; -- called also puccoon, redroot, bloodwort, tetterwort, turmeric, and Indian paint.	
bloodshed		The shedding or spilling of blood; slaughter; the act of shedding human blood, or taking life, as in war, riot, or murder.	
bloodshedder		One who sheds blood; a manslayer; a murderer.	
bloodshedding		Bloodshed.	
bloodshot		Red and inflamed; suffused with blood, or having the vessels turgid with blood, as when the conjunctiva is inflamed or irritated.	
bloodstick		A piece of hard wood loaded at one end with lead, and used to strike the fleam into the vein.	
bloodstone		(a) A green siliceous stone sprinkled with red jasper, as if with blood; hence the name; -- called also heliotrope.	
bloodstroke		Loss of sensation and motion from hemorrhage or congestion in the brain.	
bloodsucker		(Zoöl.) Any animal that sucks blood; esp., the leech (Hirudo medicinalis), and related species.	
bloodthirsty		Eager to shed blood; cruel; sanguinary; murderous. -- Blood"thirst`i*ness (n.	
bloodulf		The European bullfinch.	
bloodwit		A fine or amercement paid as a composition for the shedding of blood; also, a riot wherein blood was spilled.	
bloodwite		A fine or amercement paid as a composition for the shedding of blood; also, a riot wherein blood was spilled.	Old English blōdwīte.
bloodwood		A tree having the wood or the sap of the color of blood.	
bloodwort		A plant, Rumex sanguineus, or bloody-veined dock.	
bloody		Containing or resembling blood; of the nature of blood; as, bloody excretions; bloody sweat.	Old English blodig.
bloody-minded		Having a cruel, ferocious disposition; bloodthirsty.	
bloodybones		A terrible bugbear.	
bloom		A blossom; the flower of a plant; an expanded bud; flowers, collectively.	Old English bloma.
bloomary		See Bloomery — a furnace and forge in which wrought iron in the form of blooms is made directly from the ore, or (more rarely) from cast iron.	
bloomer		A costume for women, consisting of a short dress, with loose trousers gathered round ankles, and (commonly) a broad-brimmed hat.	
bloomery		A furnace and forge in which wrought iron in the form of blooms is made directly from the ore, or (more rarely) from cast iron.	
blooming		The process of making blooms from the ore or from cast iron.	
bloomingly		In a blooming manner.	
bloomingness		A blooming condition.	
bloomless		Without bloom or flowers.	
bloomy		Full of bloom; flowery; flourishing with the vigor of youth; as, a bloomy spray.	
blooth	English dialect	Bloom; a blossoming.	
blore	Obsolete	The act of blowing; a roaring wind; a blast.	
blosmy	Obsolete	Blossomy.	
blossom		The flower of a plant, or the essential organs of reproduction, with their appendages; florescence; bloom; the flowers of a plant, collectively; as, the blossoms and fruit of a tree; an apple tree in blossom.	Middle English blosme.
blossomless		Without blossoms.	
blossomy		Full of blossoms; flowery.	
blot		To spot, stain, or bespatter, as with ink.	
blotch		A blot or spot, as of color or of ink; especially a large or irregular spot.	
blotched		Marked or covered with blotches.	
blotchy		Having blotches.	
blote	Obsolete	To cure, as herrings, by salting and smoking them; to bloat.	
blotless		Without blot.	
blotter		One who, or that which blots; esp. a device for absorbing superfluous ink.	
blottesque		Characterized by blots or heavy touches; coarsely depicted; wanting in delineation.	
blouse		A light, loose over-garment, like a smock frock, worn especially by workingmen in France; also, a loose coat of any material, as the undress uniform coat of the United States army.	
blow		A forcible stroke with the hand, fist, or some instrument, as a rod, a club, an ax, or a sword.	Middle English blowen, from Old English blawan.
blow-off		A blowing off steam, water, etc.; -- Also, adj. as, a blow-off cock or pipe.	
blow-out		The cleaning of the flues of a boiler from scale, etc., by a blast of steam.	
blowball		The downy seed head of a dandelion, which children delight to blow away.	
blowen	Low	A prostitute; a courtesan; a strumpet.	
blower		One who, or that which, blows.	
blowess	Low	A prostitute; a courtesan; a strumpet.	
blowfly		Any species of fly of the genus Musca that deposits its eggs or young larvæ (called flyblows and maggots) upon meat or other animal products.	
blowgun		A tube, as of cane or reed, sometimes twelve feet long, through which an arrow or other projectile may be impelled by the force of the breath.	
blowhole		A cavern in a cliff, at the water level, opening to the air at its farther extremity, so that the waters rush in with each surge and rise in a lofty jet from the extremity.	
blown		Swollen; inflated; distended; puffed up, as cattle when gorged with green food which develops gas.	Middle English blawen, from Old English bláƿan.
blowpipe		A tube for directing a jet of air into a fire or into the flame of a lamp or candle, so as to concentrate the heat on some object.	
blowpoint	Obsolete	A child's game.	
blowse		See Blowze — a ruddy, fat-faced woman; a wench.	
blowth	Obsolete	A blossoming; a bloom.	
blowtube		A similar instrument, commonly of tin, used by boys for discharging paper wads and other light missiles.	
blowy		Windy; as, blowy weather; a blowy upland.	
blowze	Obsolete	A ruddy, fat-faced woman; a wench.	
blowzed		Having high color from exposure to the weather; ruddy-faced; blowzy; disordered.	
blowzy		Coarse and ruddy-faced; fat and ruddy; high colored; frowzy.	
blub	Obsolete	To swell; to puff out, as with weeping.	
blubber		The fat of whales and other large sea animals from which oil is obtained.	
blubbered		Swollen; turgid; as, a blubbered lip.	
blubbering		The act of weeping noisily.	
blubbery		Swollen; protuberant.	
blucher		A kind of half boot, named from the Prussian general Blücher.	
bludgeon		A short stick, with one end loaded, or thicker and heavier that the other, used as an offensive weapon.	
blue		Having the color of the clear sky, or a hue resembling it, whether lighter or darker; as, the deep, blue sea; as blue as a sapphire; blue violets.	Middle English blewe.
blue-bonnet		A broad, flat Scottish cap of blue woolen, or one waring such cap; a Scotchman.	
blue-eye		The blue-cheeked honeysucker of Australia.	
blue-eyed		Having blue eyes.	
blue-john		A name given to fluor spar in Derbyshire, where it is used for ornamental purposes.	
blue-skylaw	Colloquial	A law enacted to provide for the regulation and supervision of investment companies in order to protect the public against companies that do not intend to do a fair and honest business and that offer investments that do not…	
blue-veined		Having blue veins or blue streaks.	
blueback		(a) A trout (Salmo oquassa) inhabiting some of the lakes of Maine. (b) A salmon (Oncorhynchus nerka) of the Columbia River and northward.	
bluebeard		The hero of a mediæval French nursery legend, who, leaving home, enjoined his young wife not to open a certain room in his castle.	
bluebell		(a) A plant of the genus Campanula, especially the Campanula rotundifolia, which bears blue bell-shaped flowers; the harebell.	
blueberry		The berry of several species of Vaccinium, and ericaceous genus, differing from the American huckleberries in containing numerous minute seeds instead of ten nutlets.	
bluebill		A duck of the genus Fuligula.	
bluebird		A small song bird (Sialia sialis), very common in the United States, and, in the north, one of the earliest to arrive in spring.	
bluebottle		(Bot.) A plant (Centaurea cyanus) which grows in grain fields.	
bluebreast		A small European bird; the blue-throated warbler.	
bluecap		(Zoöl.) (a) The bluepoll. (b) The blue bonnet or blue titmouse.	
bluecoat		One dressed in blue, as a soldier, a sailor, a beadle, etc.	
bluefin		A species of whitefish (Coregonus nigripinnis) found in Lake Michigan.	
bluefish		A large voracious fish (Pomatomus saitatrix), of the family Carangidæ, valued as a food fish, and widely distributed on the American coast.	
bluegown		One of a class of paupers or pensioners, or licensed beggars, in Scotland, to whim annually on the king's birthday were distributed certain alms, including a blue gown; a beadsman.	
bluely		With a blue color.	
blueness		The quality of being blue; a blue color.	
bluenose		A nickname for a Nova Scotian.	
bluenoser		A Nova Scotian; also, a Nova Scotian ship (called also Blue"nos`er); a Nova Scotian potato, etc.	
bluepoll		A kind of salmon (Salmo Cambricus) found in Wales.	
blueprint		See under Print.	
bluestocking	Colloquial	A literary lady; a female pedant.	
bluestockingism	Colloquial	The character or manner of a bluestocking; female pedantry.	
bluestone		A grayish blue building stone, as that commonly used in the eastern United States.	
bluethroat		A singing bird of northern Europe and Asia (Cyanecula Suecica), related to the nightingales; -- called also blue-throated robin and blue-throated warbler.	
bluets		A name given to several different species of plants having blue flowers, as the Houstonia coerulea, the Centaurea cyanus or bluebottle, and the Vaccinium angustifolium.	
bluewing		The blue-winged teal. See Teal.	
bluey		,a.Bluish.	
bluff		Having a broad, flattened front; as, the bluff bows of a ship.	
bluff-bowed		Built with the stem nearly straight up and down.	
bluff-headed		Built with the stem nearly straight up and down.	
bluffer		One who bluffs.	
bluffness		The quality or state of being bluff.	
bluffy		Having bluffs, or bold, steep banks.	
bluing		The act of rendering blue; as, the bluing of steel.	
bluish		Somewhat blue; as, bluish veins. -- Blu ish*ness, n.	
blunder		To make a gross error or mistake; as, to blunder in writing or preparing a medical prescription.	Old Norse blunda.
blunderbuss		A short gun or firearm, with a large bore, capable of holding a number of balls, and intended to do execution without exact aim.	Dutch donderbus.
blunderer		One who is apt to blunder.	
blunderhead		A stupid, blundering fellow.	
blundering		Characterized by blunders.	
blunderingly		In a blundering manner.	
blunge		To amalgamate and blend; to beat up or mix in water, as clay.	
blunger		A wooden blade with a cross handle, used for mi Tomlinson.	
blunging		The process of mixing clay in potteries with a blunger.	
blunt		Having a thick edge or point, as an instrument; dull; not sharp.	
blunt-witted		Dull; stupid.	
bluntish		Somewhat blunt. -- Blunt"ish*ness, n.	
bluntly		In a blunt manner; coarsely; plainly; abruptly; without delicacy, or the usual forms of civility.	
bluntness		Want of edge or point; dullness; obtuseness; want of sharpness.	
blur		To render obscure by making the form or outline of confused and uncertain, as by soiling; to smear; to make indistinct and confused; as, to blur manuscript by handling it while damp…	
blurry		Full of blurs; blurred.	
blurt	Obsolete	To utter suddenly and unadvisedly; to divulge inconsiderately; to ejaculate; -- commonly with out.	
blush		To become suffused with red in the cheeks, as from a sense of shame, modesty, or confusion; to become red from such cause, as the cheeks or face.	Old English blyscan.
blusher		One that blushes.	
blushet	Obsolete	A modest girl.	
blushful		Full of blushes.	
blushing		Showing blushes; rosy red; having a warm and delicate color like some roses and other flowers; blooming; ruddy; roseate.	
blushingly		In a blushing manner; with a blush or blushes; as, to answer or confess blushingly.	
blushless		Free from blushes; incapable of blushing; shameless; impudent.	
blushy		Like a blush; having the color of a blush; rosy.	
bluster		To blow fitfully with violence and noise, as wind; to be windy and boisterous, as the weather.	Middle Low German blüstren.
blusterer		One who, or that which, blusters; a noisy swaggerer.	
blustering		Exhibiting noisy violence, as the wind; stormy; tumultuous.	
blusteringly		In a blustering manner.	
blusterous		Inclined to bluster; given to blustering; blustering.	
blustrous		Blusterous.	
