bo		An exclamation used to startle or frighten.
boa		(Zoöl.) A genus of large American serpents, including the boa constrictor, the emperor boa of Mexico (B. imperator), and the chevalier boa of Peru (B. eques).
boanerges		Any declamatory and vociferous preacher or orator.
boar		The uncastrated male of swine; specifically, the wild hog.
board		A piece of timber sawed thin, and of considerable length and breadth as compared with the thickness, -- used for building, etc.
boardable		That can be boarded, as a ship.
boarder		One who has food statedly at another's table, or meals and lodgings in his house, for pay, or compensation of any kind.
boarding		(Naut.) The act of entering a ship, whether with a hostile or a friendly purpose.
boarfish		(a) A Mediterranean fish (Capros aper), of the family Caproidæ; -- so called from the resemblance of the extended lips to a hog's snout.
boarish		Swinish; brutal; cruel.
boast		To vaunt one's self; to brag; to say or tell things which are intended to give others a high opinion of one's self or of things belonging to one's self; as, to boast of one's exploits courage, descent, wealth.
boastance	Obsolete	Boasting.
boaster		One who boasts; a braggart.
boastful		Given to, or full of, boasting; inclined to boast; vaunting; vainglorious; self-praising. -- Boast ful*ness, n.
boasting		The act of glorying or vaunting; vainglorious speaking; ostentatious display.
boastingly		Boastfully; with boasting.
boastive		Presumptuous.
boastless		Without boasting or ostentation.
boat		A small open vessel, or water craft, usually moved by cars or paddles, but often by a sail.
boat-shaped		See Cymbiform — shaped like a boat; (Bot.) elongated and having the upper surface decidedly concave, as the glumes of many grasses.
boat-tail		A large grackle or blackbird (Quiscalus major), found in the Southern United States.
boatable		Navigable for boats, or small river craft.
boatage		Conveyance by boat; also, a charge for such conveyance.
boatbill		A wading bird (Cancroma cochlearia) of the tropical parts of South America.
boatful		The quantity or amount that fills a boat.
boathouse		A house for sheltering boats.
boating		The act or practice of rowing or sailing, esp. as an amusement; carriage in boats.
boation	Obsolete	A crying out; a roaring; a bellowing; reverberation.
boatman		A man who manages a boat; a rower of a boat.
boatmanship		The art of managing a boat.
boatsman	Archaic	A boatman.
boatswain		(Naut.) An officer who has charge of the boats, sails, rigging, colors, anchors, cables, cordage, etc., of a ship, and who also summons the crew, and performs other duties.
boatwoman		A woman who manages a boat.
bob		Anything that hangs so as to play loosely, or with a short abrupt motion, as at the end of a string; a pendant; as, the bob at the end of a kite's tail.
bob-cherry		A play among children, in which a cherry, hung so as to bob against the mouth, is to be caught with the teeth.
bobac		The Poland marmot (Arctomys bobac).
bobance	Obsolete	A boasting.
bobber		One who, or that which, bobs.
bobbery	Low	A squabble; a tumult; a noisy disturbance; as, to raise a bobbery.
bobbin		A small pin, or cylinder, formerly of bone, now most commonly of wood, used in the making of pillow lace.
bobbinet		A kind of cotton lace which is wrought by machines, and not by hand.
bobbinwork		Work woven with bobbins.
bobbish	Low	Hearty; in good spirits.
bobby	Slang	A nickname for a policeman; -- from Sir Robert Peel, who remodeled the police force.
bobfly		The fly at the end of the leader; an end fly.
bobolink		An American singing bird (Dolichonyx oryzivorus).
bobsled		A short sled, mostly used as one of a pair connected by a reach or coupling; also, the compound sled so formed.
bobsleigh		A short sled, mostly used as one of a pair connected by a reach or coupling; also, the compound sled so formed.
bobstay		A rope or chain to confine the bowsprit of a ship downward to the stem or cutwater; -- usually in the pl.
bobtail		An animal (as a horse or dog) with a short tail.
bobtailed		Having the tail cut short, or naturally short; curtailed; as, a bobtailed horse or dog; a bobtailed coat.
bobwhite		The common qua(Colinus, or Ortyx, Virginianus); -- so called from its note.
bocal		A cylindrical glass vessel, with a large and short neck.
bocardo		(Logic) A form of syllogism of which the first and third propositions are particular negatives, and the middle term a universal affirmative.
bocasine		A sort of fine buckram.
bocca		The round hole in the furnace of a glass manufactory through which the fused glass is taken out.
boce		A European fish (Box vulgaris), having a compressed body and bright colors; -- called also box, and bogue.
bockelet	Obsolete	A kind of long-winged hawk; -- called also bockerel, and bockeret.
bockey	Dialect	A bowl or vessel made from a gourd.
bocking		A coarse woolen fabric, used for floor cloths, to cover carpets, etc.; -- so called from the town of Bocking, in England, where it was first made.
bockland		See Bookland — charter land held by deed under certain rents and free services, which differed in nothing from free socage lands.
boddice		See Bodick.
bode		To indicate by signs, as future events; to be the omen of; to portend to presage; to foreshow.
bodeful		Portentous; ominous.
bodement	Obsolete	An omen; a prognostic.
bodge	Dialect	A botch; a patch.
bodhisat		One who has reached the highest degree of saintship, so that in his next incarnation he will be a Buddha, or savior of the world. -- Bo"dhi*sat`ship, n.
bodhisattva		One who has reached the highest degree of saintship, so that in his next incarnation he will be a Buddha, or savior of the world. -- Bo"dhi*sat`ship, n.
bodhisattwa		One who has reached the highest degree of saintship, so that in his next incarnation he will be a Buddha, or savior of the world. -- Bo"dhi*sat`ship, n.
bodian		A large food fish (Diagramma lineatum), native of the East Indies.
bodice		A kind of under waist stiffened with whalebone, etc., worn esp. by women; a corset; stays.
bodiced		Wearing a bodice.
bodied		Having a body; -- usually in composition; as, able-bodied.
bodiless		Without material form; incorporeal.
bodiliness		Corporeality.
bodily		Having a body or material form; physical; corporeal; consisting of matter.
boding		Foreshowing; presaging; ominous. -- Bod"ing*ly, adv.
bodkin		(Needlework) An implement of steel, bone, ivory, etc., with a sharp point, for making holes by piercing; a
bodle		A small Scotch coin worth about one sixth of an English penny.
bodleian		Of or pertaining to Sir Thomas Bodley, or to the celebrated library at Oxford, founded by him in the sixteenth century.
bodock		The Osage orange.
body		The material organized substance of an animal, whether living or dead, as distinguished from the spirit, or vital principle; the physical person.
bodyguard		A guard to protect or defend the person; a lifeguard.
boeotian		Of or pertaining to Boeotia; hence, stupid; dull; obtuse. -- n.
boer		A colonist or farmer in South Africa of Dutch descent.
boes	Obsolete	Behoves or behooves.
bog		A quagmire filled with decayed moss and other vegetable matter; wet spongy ground where a heavy body is apt to sink; a marsh; a morass.
bogberry		The small cranberry (Vaccinium oxycoccus), which grows in boggy places.
bogey		A goblin; a bugbear. See Bogy.
boggard	Dialect	A bogey.
boggle		To stop or hesitate as if suddenly frightened, or in doubt, or impeded by unforeseen difficulties; to take alarm; to exhibit hesitancy and indecision.
boggler		One who boggles.
bogglish	Obsolete	Doubtful; skittish.
boggy		Consisting of, or containing, a bog or bogs; of the nature of a bog; swampy; as, boggy land.
bogie		A four-wheeled truck, having a certain amount of play around a vertical axis, used to support in part a locomotive on a railway track.
bogle		A goblin; a specter; a frightful phantom; a bogy; a bugbear.
bogsucker		The American woodcock; -- so called from its feeding among the bogs.
bogtrotter		One who lives in a boggy country; -- applied in derision to the lowest class of Irish.
bogtrotting		Living among bogs.
bogue		To fall off from the wind; to edge away to leeward; -- said only of inferior craft.
bogus	Colloquial	Spurious; fictitious; sham; -- a cant term originally applied to counterfeit coin, and hence denoting anything counterfeit.
bogwood		The wood of trees, esp. of oaks, dug up from peat bogs.
bogy		A specter; a hobgoblin; a bugbear.
bohea		Bohea tea, an inferior kind of black tea. See under Tea.
bohemia		She knew every one who was any one in the land of Bohemia.
bohemian		Of or pertaining to Bohemia, or to the language of its ancient inhabitants or their descendants.
bohemianism		The characteristic conduct or methods of a Bohemian.
boiar		See Boyar — a member of a Russian aristocratic order abolished by Peter the Great.
boil		To be agitated, or tumultuously moved, as a liquid by the generation and rising of bubbles of steam (or vapor), or of currents produced by heating it to the boiling point; to be in a state of ebullition; as, the water boils.
boilary		See Boilery — a place and apparatus for boiling, as for evaporating brine in salt making.
boiled		Dressed or cooked by boiling; subjected to the action of a boiling liquid; as, boiled meat; a boiled dinner; boiled clothes.
boiler		A vessel in which any thing is boiled.
boilery		A place and apparatus for boiling, as for evaporating brine in salt making.
boiling	Colloquial	Heated to the point of bubbling; heaving with bubbles; in tumultuous agitation, as boiling liquid; surging; seething; swelling with heat, ardor, or passion.
boilingly		With boiling or ebullition.
boisterous		Exhibiting tumultuous violence and fury; acting with noisy turbulence; violent; rough; stormy.
boisterously		In a boisterous manner.
boisterousness		The state or quality of being boisterous; turbulence; disorder; tumultuousness.
boistous	Obsolete	Rough or rude; coarse; strong; violent; boisterous; noisy.
bokadam		See Cerberus — (Zoöl.) A genus of East Indian serpents, allied to the pythons; the bokadam.
boke	Obsolete	To poke; to thrust.
bolar		Of or pertaining to bole or clay; partaking of the nature and qualities of bole; clayey.
bolas		A kind of missile weapon consisting of one, two, or more balls of stone, iron, or other material, attached to the ends of a leather cord; -- used by the Gauchos of South America, and others…
bold		Forward to meet danger; venturesome; daring; not timorous or shrinking from risk; brave; courageous.
bold-faced		Somewhat impudent; lacking modesty; as, a bold-faced woman.
bolden		To make bold; to encourage; to embolden.
boldly		In a bold manner.
boldness		The state or quality of being bold.
boldo		A fragrant evergreen shrub of Chili (Peumus Boldus).
boldu		A fragrant evergreen shrub of Chili (Peumus Boldus).
bole	Scots	The trunk or stem of a tree, or that which is like it.
bolection		A projecting molding round a panel.
bolero		A Spanish dance, or the lively music which accompanies it.
bolete		any fungus of the family Boletaceae.
boletic		Pertaining to, or obtained from, the Boletus.
boletus		A genus of fungi having the under side of the pileus or cap composed of a multitude of fine separate tubes.
boley		Same as Booly.
bolide		A kind of meteor; a bolis.
bolis		A meteor or brilliant shooting star, followed by a train of light or sparks; esp. one which explodes.
bolivian		Of or pertaining to Bolivia. -- n.
boll		The pod or capsule of a plant, as of flax or cotton; a pericarp of a globular form.
bollandists		The Jesuit editors of the, or Lives of the Saints; -- named from John Bolland, who began the work.
bollard		An upright wooden or iron post in a boat or on a dock, used in veering or fastening ropes.
bollen		See Boln, a.
bolling		A tree from which the branches have been cut; a pollard.
bollworm		The larva of a moth (Heliothis armigera) which devours the bolls or unripe pods of the cotton plant, often doing great damage to the crops.
boln		To swell; to puff.
bolo		A kind of large knife resembling a machete.
bologna		A city of Italy which has given its name to various objects.
bolognese		Of or pertaining to Bologna. -- n.
bolognian		Bolognese.
bolometer		An instrument for measuring minute quantities of radiant heat, especially in different parts of the spectrum; -- called also actinic balance, thermic balance.
bolsa		An exchange for the transaction of business.
bolster		A long pillow or cushion, used to support the head of a person lying on a bed; -- generally laid under the pillows.
bolstered		Supported; upheld.
bolsterer		A supporter.
bolt		A shaft or missile intended to be shot from a crossbow or catapult, esp. a short, stout, blunt-headed arrow; a quarrel; an arrow, or that which resembles an arrow; a dart.
boltel		See Boultel — (a) A molding, the convexity of which is one fourth of a circle, being a member just below the abacus in the Tuscan and Roman Doric capital; a torus; an ovolo.
bolter		One who bolts; esp.: (a) A horse which starts suddenly aside. (b) A man who breaks away from his party.
bolthead		(Chem.) A long, straightnecked, glass vessel for chemical distillations; -- called also a matrass or receiver.
bolting		A darting away; a starting off or aside.
boltonite		A granular mineral of a grayish or yellowish color, found in Bolton, Massachusetts.
boltrope		A rope stitched to the edges of a sail to strengthen the sail.
boltsprit		See Bowsprit — a large boom or spar, which projects over the stem of a ship or other vessel, to carry sail forward.
bolty		An edible fish of the Nile (genus Chromis).
bolus		A rounded mass of anything, esp. a large pill.
bolye		Same as Booly.
bom		A large American serpent, so called from the sound it makes.
bomb		(Mil.) A shell; esp. a spherical shell, like those fired from mortars.
bombace	Obsolete	Cotton; padding.
bombard		(Gun.) A piece of heavy ordnance formerly used for throwing stones and other ponderous missiles.
bombardier	Archaic	(a) One who used or managed a bombard; an artilleryman; a gunner. (b) A noncommissioned officer in the British artillery.
bombardman	Obsolete	One who carried liquor or beer in a can or bombard.
bombardment		An attack upon a fortress or fortified town, with shells, hot shot, rockets, etc.; the act of throwing bombs and shot into a town or fortified place.
bombardo		Originally, a deep-toned instrument of the oboe or bassoon family; thence, a bass reed stop on the organ.
bombardon		Originally, a deep-toned instrument of the oboe or bassoon family; thence, a bass reed stop on the organ.
bombasine		Same as Bombazine.
bombast	Obsolete	Originally, cotton, or cotton wool.
bombastic		Characterized by bombast; highsounding; inflated. -- Bom*bas"tic*al*ly, adv.
bombastical		Characterized by bombast; highsounding; inflated. -- Bom*bas"tic*al*ly, adv.
bombastry		Swelling words without much meaning; bombastic language; fustian.
bombax		A genus of trees, called also the silkcotton tree; also, a tree of the genus Bombax.
bombazet		A sort of thin woolen cloth.
bombazette		A sort of thin woolen cloth.
bombazine		A twilled fabric for dresses, of which the warp is silk, and the weft worsted.
bombic		Pertaining to, or obtained from, the silkworm; as, bombic acid.
bombilate		To hum; to buzz.
bombilation		A humming sound; a booming.
bombinate		To hum; to boom.
bombination		A humming or buzzing.
bombolo		A thin spheroidal glass retort or flask, used in the sublimation of camphor.
bombproof		Secure against the explosive force of bombs. -- n.
bombshell		A bomb. See Bomb, n.
bombycid		Like or pertaining to the genus Bombyx, or the family Bombycidæ.
bombycinous		Being of the color of the silkworm; transparent with a yellow tint.
bombylious	Obsolete	Buzzing, like a bumblebee; as, the bombylious noise of the horse fly.
bombyx		A genus of moths, which includes the silkworm moth. See Silkworm.
bon		Good; valid as security for something.
bon-accord	Scots	Good will; good fellowship; agreement.
bonaci		(a) A large grouper (Mycteroperca bonaci) of Florida and the West Indies, valuable as a food fish; -- called also aguaji and, in Florida, black grouper.
bonair	Obsolete	Gentle; courteous; complaisant; yielding.
bonanza	Colloquial	In mining, a rich mine or vein of silver or gold; hence, anything which is a mine of wealth or yields a large income.
bonapartean		Of or pertaining to Napoleon Bonaparte or his family.
bonapartism		The policy of Bonaparte or of the Bonapartes.
bonapartist		One attached to the policy or family of Bonaparte, or of the Bonapartes.
bonassus		The aurochs or European bison. See Aurochs.
bonasus		The aurochs or European bison. See Aurochs.
bonbon		Sugar confectionery; a sugarplum; hence, any dainty.
bonbonniere		A small fancy box or dish for bonbons.
bonce		A boy's game played with large marbles.
bonchretien		A name given to several kinds of pears. See Bartlett.
boncilate		A substance composed of ground bone, mineral matters, etc., hardened by pressure, and used for making billiard balls, boxes, etc.
bond		That which binds, ties, fastens,or confines, or by which anything is fastened or bound, as a cord, chain, etc.; a band; a ligament; a shackle or a manacle.
bondage		The state of being bound; condition of being under restraint; restraint of personal liberty by compulsion; involuntary servitude; slavery; captivity.
bondager	Scots	A field worker, esp. a woman who works in the field.
bondar		A small quadruped of Bengal (Paradoxurus bondar), allied to the genet; -- called also musk cat.
bonded		Placed under, or covered by, a bond, as for the payment of duties, or for conformity to coertain regulations.
bonder		One who places goods under bond or in a bonded warehouse.
bondholder		A person who holds the bonds of a public or private corporation for the payment of money at a certain time.
bondmaid		A female slave, or one bound to service without wages, as distinguished from a hired servant.
bondman		A man slave, or one bound to service without wages.
bondslave		A person in a state of slavery; one whose person and liberty are subjected to the authority of a master.
bondsman		(Law) A surety; one who is bound, or who gives security, for another.
bondstone		A stone running through a wall from one face to another, to bind it together; a binding stone.
bondswoman		See Bondwoman — a woman who is a slave, or in bondage.
bonduc		See Nicker tree.
bondwoman		A woman who is a slave, or in bondage.
bone		(Anat.) The hard, calcified tissue of the skeleton of vertebrate animals, consisting very largely of calcic carbonate, calcic phosphate, and gelatine; as, blood and bone.
boneache		Pain in the bones.
boneblack		See Bone black, under Bone, n.
boned		Having (such) bones; -- used in composition; as, big-boned; strong-boned.
bonedog		The spiny dogfish.
bonefish		See Ladyfish — (a) A large, handsome oceanic fish (Albula vulpes), found both in the Atlantic and Pacific oceans; -- called also bonefish, grubber, French mullet, and macabé.
boneless		Without bones.
boneset		A medicinal plant, the thoroughwort (Eupatorium perfoliatum).
bonesetter		One who sets broken or dislocated bones; -- commonly applied to one, not a regular surgeon, who makes an occupation of setting bones. -- Bone"set*ting, n.
boneshaw	Obsolete	Sciatica.
bonetta		See Bonito — a large tropical fish (Orcynus pelamys) allied to the tunny.
bonfire		A large fire built in the open air, as an expression of public joy and exultation, or for amusement.
bongo		Either of two large antelopes (Boöcercus eurycercus of West Africa, and B. isaaci of East Africa) of a reddish or chestnut-brown color with narrow white stripes on the body.
bongrace	Obsolete	A projecting bonnet or shade to protect the complexion; also, a wide-brimmed hat.
bonhomie		good nature; pleasant and easy manner.
bonhommie		good nature; pleasant and easy manner.
bonibell	Obsolete	See Bonnibel — a handsome girl.
boniface		An innkeeper.
boniform		Sensitive or responsive to moral excellence.
bonify		To convert into, or make, good.
boniness		The condition or quality of being bony.
boning		The clearing of bones from fish or meat.
bonitary		Beneficial, as opposed to statutory or civil; as, bonitary dominion of land.
bonito		A large tropical fish (Orcynus pelamys) allied to the tunny.
bonmot		A witty repartee; a jest.
bonnaz		A kind of embroidery made with a complicated sewing machine, said to have been originally invented by a Frenchman of the name of Bonnaz.
bonne		(F., prop. good woman.) A female servant charged with the care of a young child.
bonnet		A soft, elastic, very durable cap, made of thick, seamless woolen stuff, and worn by men in Scotland.
bonneted		Wearing a bonnet.
bonnetless		Without a bonnet.
bonnibel	Obsolete	A handsome girl.
bonnie		See Bonny, a.
bonnilass	Obsolete	A; a beautiful girl.
bonnily		Gayly; handsomely.
bonniness		The quality of being bonny; gayety
bonny		Handsome; beautiful; pretty; attractively lively and graceful.
bonnyclabber		Coagulated sour milk; loppered milk; curdled milk; -- sometimes called simply clabber.
bontebok		The pied antelope of South Africa (Alcelaphus pygarga).
bonus		(Law) A premium given for a loan, or for a charter or other privilege granted to a company; as the bank paid a bonus for its charter.
bony		Consisting of bone, or of bones; full of bones; pertaining to bones.
bonze		A Buddhist or Fohist priest, monk, or nun.
booby		A dunce; a stupid fellow.
boobyish		Stupid; dull.
boodh		Same as Buddha.
boodhism		Same as Buddhism.
boodhist		Same as Buddhist.
boodle	Low	The whole collection or lot; caboodle.
booetes		A northern constellation, containing the bright star Arcturus.
boohoe	Low	To bawl; to cry loudly.
boohoo		The sailfish; -- called also woohoo.
book		A collection of sheets of paper, or similar material, blank, written, or printed, bound together; commonly, many folded and bound sheets containing continuous printing or writing.
book-learned		Versed in books; having knowledge derived from books.
bookbinder		One whose occupation is to bind books.
bookbindery		A bookbinder's shop; a place or establishment for binding books.
bookbinding		The art, process, or business of binding books.
bookcase		A case with shelves for holding books, esp. one with glazed doors.
bookcraft		Authorship; literary skill.
booked	Colloquial	On the way; destined.
booker		One who enters accounts or names, etc., in a book; a bookkeeper.
bookful		As much as will fill a book; a book full.
bookholder		A support for a book, holding it open, while one reads or copies from it.
bookish		Given to reading; fond of study; better acquainted with books than with men; learned from books.
bookkeeper		One who keeps accounts; one who has the charge of keeping the books and accounts in an office.
bookkeeping		The art of recording pecuniary or business transactions in a regular and systematic manner, so as to show their relation to each other, and the state of the business in which they occur; the art of keeping accounts.
bookland		Charter land held by deed under certain rents and free services, which differed in nothing from free socage lands.
bookless		Without books; unlearned.
booklet		A little book.
bookmaker		One who writes and publishes books; especially, one who gathers his materials from other books; a compiler.
bookman		A studious man; a scholar.
bookmark		Something placed in a book to guide in finding a particular page or passage; also, a label in a book to designate the owner; a bookplate.
bookmate		A schoolfellow; an associate in study.
bookmonger		A dealer in books.
bookplate		A label, placed upon or in a book, showing its ownership or its position in a library.
bookseller		One who sells books.
bookselling		The employment of selling books.
bookshelf		A shelf to hold books.
bookshop		A bookseller's shop.
bookstall		A stall or stand where books are sold.
bookstand		A place or stand for the sale of books in the streets; a bookstall.
bookstore		A store where books are kept for sale; -- called in England a bookseller's shop.
bookwork		Work done upon a book or books (as in a printing office), in distinction from newspaper or job work.
bookworm		(Zoöl.) Any larva of a beetle or moth, which is injurious to books.
booky		Bookish.
booly	Obsolete	A company of Irish herdsmen, or a single herdsman, wandering from place to place with flocks and herds, and living on their milk, like the Tartars; also…
boom		(Naut.) A long pole or spar, run out for the purpose of extending the bottom of a particular sail; as, the jib boom, the studding-sail boom, etc.
boomdas		A small African hyracoid mammal (Dendrohyrax arboreus) resembling the daman.
boomer		One who, or that which, booms.
boomerang		A very singular missile weapon used by the natives of Australia and in some parts of India.
booming		Rushing with violence; swelling with a hollow sound; making a hollow sound or note; roaring; resounding.
boomkin		Same as Bumkin.
boomorah		A small West African chevrotain (Hyæmoschus aquaticus), resembling the musk deer.
boomslange		A large South African tree snake (Bucephalus Capensis).
boon		That which is asked or granted as a benefit or favor; a gift; a benefaction; a grant; a present.
boor		A husbandman; a peasant; a rustic; esp. a clownish or unrefined countryman.
boorish		Like a boor; clownish; uncultured; unmannerly. -- Boor ish*ness, n.
boort		See Bort — imperfectly crystallized or coarse diamonds, or fragments made in cutting good diamonds which are reduced to powder and used in lapidary work.
boose	English dialect	A stall or a crib for an ox, cow, or other animal.
booser		A toper; a guzzler. See Boozer.
boost	Colloquial	To lift or push from behind (one who is endeavoring to climb); to push up; hence, to assist in overcoming obstacles, or in making advancement.
booster		An instrument for regulating the electro-motive force in an alternating-current circuit; -- so called because used to "boost", or raise, the pressure in the circuit.
boot		Remedy; relief; amends; reparation; hence, one who brings relief.
bootblack		One who blacks boots.
booted		Wearing boots, especially boots with long tops, as for riding; as, a booted squire.
bootee		A half boot or short boot.
bootes		A northern constellation, containing the bright star Arcturus.
booth		A house or shed built of boards, boughs, or other slight materials, for temporary occupation.
boothale	Obsolete	To forage for booty; to plunder.
boothose		Stocking hose, or spatterdashes, in lieu of boots.
boothy	Scots	See Bothy — a wooden hut or humble cot, esp. a rude hut or barrack for unmarried farm servants; a shepherd's or hunter's hut; a booth.
bootikin		A little boot, legging, or gaiter.
booting	Obsolete	Advantage; gain; gain by plunder; booty.
bootjack		A device for pulling off boots.
bootless		Unavailing; unprofitable; useless; without advantage or success.
bootlick	Low	A toady.
bootmaker		One who makes boots. -- Boot"mak`ing, n.
boots		A servant at a hotel or elsewhere, who cleans and blacks the boots and shoes.
boottopping		(Naut.) The act or process of daubing a vessel's bottom near the surface of the water with a mixture of tallow, sulphur, and resin, as a temporary protection against worms, after the slime, shells, etc., have been scraped off.
boottree		An instrument to stretch and widen the leg of a boot, consisting of two pieces, together shaped like a leg, between which, when put into the boot, a wedge is driven.
booty	Obsolete	That which is seized by violence or obtained by robbery, especially collective spoil taken in war; plunder; pillage.
booze		To drink greedily or immoderately, esp. alcoholic liquor; to tipple.
boozer		One who boozes; a toper; a guzzler of alcoholic liquors; a bouser.
boozy	Colloquial	A little intoxicated; fuddled; stupid with liquor; bousy.
bopeep		The act of looking out suddenly, as from behind a screen, so as to startle some one (as by children in play), or of looking out and drawing suddenly back, as if frightened.
borable		Capable of being bored.
borachte	Obsolete	A large leather bottle for liquors, etc., made of the skin of a goat or other animal.
boracic		Pertaining to, or produced from, borax; containing boron; boric; as, boracic acid.
boracite		A mineral of a white or gray color occurring massive and in isometric crystals; in composition it is a magnesium borate with magnesium chloride.
boracous		Relating to, or obtained from, borax; containing borax.
borage		A mucilaginous plant of the genus Borago (B. officinalis), which is used, esp. in France, as a demulcent and diaphoretic.
boragewort		Plant of the Borage family.
boraginaceous		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a family of plants (Boraginaceæ) which includes the borage, heliotrope, beggar's lice, and many pestiferous plants.
boragineous		Relating to the Borage tribe; boraginaceous.
boramez		See Barometz — the woolly-skinned rhizoma or rootstock of a fern (Dicksonia barometz), which, when specially prepared and inverted, somewhat resembles a lamb; -- called also Scythian lamb.
borate		A salt formed by the combination of boric acid with a base or positive radical.
borax		A white or gray crystalline salt, with a slight alkaline taste, used as a flux, in soldering metals, making enamels, fixing colors on porcelain, and as a soap.
borborygm		A rumbling or gurgling noise produced by wind in the bowels.
bord	Obsolete	(Mining) The face of coal parallel to the natural fissures. See Bourd.
bordage		The base or servile tenure by which a bordar held his cottage.
bordar		A villein who rendered menial service for his cottage; a cottier.
bordeaux		Pertaining to Bordeaux in the south of France. -- n.
bordel	Obsolete	A brothel; a bawdyhouse; a house devoted to prostitution.
bordelais		Of or pertaining to Bordeaux, in France, or to the district around Bordeaux.
bordeller	Obsolete	A keeper or a frequenter of a brothel.
bordello	Obsolete	A brothel; a bawdyhouse; a house devoted to prostitution.
border		The outer part or edge of anything, as of a garment, a garden, etc.; margin; verge; brink.
bordereau		A note or memorandum, esp. one containing an enumeration of documents.
borderer		One who dwells on a border, or at the extreme part or confines of a country, region, or tract of land; one who dwells near to a place or region.
bordland		Either land held by a bordar, or the land which a lord kept for the maintenance of his board, or table.
bordlode		The service formerly required of a tenant, to carry timber from the woods to the lord's house.
bordman		A bordar; a tenant in bordage.
bordrag	Obsolete	An incursion upon the borders of a country; a raid.
bordraging	Obsolete	An incursion upon the borders of a country; a raid.
bordure		A border one fifth the width of the shield, surrounding the field.
bore		To perforate or penetrate, as a solid body, by turning an auger, gimlet, drill, or other instrument; to make a round hole in or through; to pierce; as, to bore a plank.
boreal		Northern; pertaining to the north, or to the north wind; as, a boreal bird; a boreal blast.
boreas		The north wind; -- usually a personification.
borecole		A brassicaceous plant of many varieties, cultivated for its leaves, which are not formed into a compact head like the cabbage, but are loose, and are generally curled or wrinkled; kale.
boredom		The state of being bored, or pestered; a state of ennui.
boree	Obsolete	Same as BourrÉ\'82.
borel		See Borrel — coarse woolen cloth; hence, coarse clothing; a garment.
borele		The smaller two-horned rhinoceros of South Africa (Atelodus bicornis).
borer		One that bores; an instrument for boring.
boric		Of, pertaining to, or containing, boron.
boride		A binary compound of boron with a more positive or basic element or radical; -- formerly called boruret.
boring		The act or process of one who, or that which, bores; as, the boring of cannon; the boring of piles and ship timbers by certain marine mollusks.
born		Brought forth, as an animal; brought into life; introduced by birth.
borne		Carried; conveyed; supported; defrayed. See Bear, v. t.
borneol		A rare variety of camphor, C10H17.OH, resembling ordinary camphor, from which it can be produced by reduction.
bornite		A valuable ore of copper, containing copper, iron, and sulphur; -- also called purple copper ore (or erubescite), in allusion to the colors shown upon the slightly tarnished surface.
borofluoride		A double fluoride of boron and hydrogen, or some other positive element, or radical; -- called also fluoboride, and formerly fluoborate.
boroglyceride		A compound of boric acid and glycerin, used as an antiseptic.
boron		A nonmetallic element occurring abundantly in borax.
borosilicate		A double salt of boric and silicic acids, as in the natural minerals tourmaline, datolite, etc.
borough		In England, an incorporated town that is not a city; also, a town that sends members to parliament; in Scotland, a body corporate, consisting of the inhabitants of a certain district, erected by the sovereign…
borough-english		A custom, as in some ancient boroughs, by which lands and tenements descend to the youngest son, instead of the eldest; or, if the owner have no issue, to the youngest brother.
boroughhead	Obsolete	See Headborough — the chief of a frankpledge, tithing, or decennary, consisting of ten families; -- called also borsholder, boroughhead, boroughholder, and sometimes tithingman.
boroughholder		A headborough; a borsholder.
boroughmaster		The mayor, governor, or bailiff of a borough.
boroughmonger		One who buys or sells the parliamentary seats of boroughs.
boroughmongering		The practices of a boroughmonger.
boroughmongery		The practices of a boroughmonger.
borracho	Obsolete	See Borachio.
borrage		See Borage, n., etc.
borraginaceous		See Borage, n., etc.
borrel	Obsolete	Coarse woolen cloth; hence, coarse clothing; a garment.
borrow		To receive from another as a loan, with the implied or expressed intention of returning the identical article or its equivalent in kind; -- the opposite of lend.
borrower		One who borrows.
borsholder		The head or chief of a tithing, or borough (see 2d Borough); the headborough; a parish constable.
bort		Imperfectly crystallized or coarse diamonds, or fragments made in cutting good diamonds which are reduced to powder and used in lapidary work.
boruret	Obsolete	A boride.
borwe	Obsolete	Pledge; borrow.
bos		A genus of ruminant quadrupeds, including the wild and domestic cattle, distinguished by a stout body, hollow horns, and a large fold of skin hanging from the neck.
bosa		A drink, used in the East. See Boza.
boscage		A growth of trees or shrubs; underwood; a thicket; thick foliage; a wooded landscape.
bosh		One of the sloping sides of the lower part of a blast furnace; also, one of the hollow iron or brick sides of the bed of a puddling or boiling furnace.
boshbok		A kind of antelope. See Bush buck.
boshvark		The bush hog. See under Bush, a thicket.
bosjesman		; pl. Bosjesmans. See Bushman.
bosk		A thicket; a small wood.
boskage		Same as Boscage.
bosket		A grove; a thicket; shrubbery; an inclosure formed by branches of trees, regularly or irregularly disposed.
boskiness		Boscage; also, the state or quality of being bosky.
bosky		Woody or bushy; covered with boscage or thickets.
bosom		The breast of a human being; the part, between the arms, to which anything is pressed when embraced by them.
bosomed		Having, or resembling, bosom; kept in the bosom; hidden.
bosomy		Characterized by recesses or sheltered hollows.
boson	Obsolete	See Boatswain — (Naut.) An officer who has charge of the boats, sails, rigging, colors, anchors, cables, cordage, etc., of a ship, and who also summons the crew, and performs other duties.
bosporian		Of or pertaining to the Thracian or the Cimmerian Bosporus.
bosporus		A strait or narrow sea between two seas, or a lake and a seas; as, the Bosporus (formerly the Thracian Bosporus) or Strait of Constantinople, between the Black Sea and Sea of Marmora; the Cimmerian Bosporus…
bosquet		A grove; a thicket; shrubbery; an inclosure formed by branches of trees, regularly or irregularly disposed.
boss		Any protuberant part; a round, swelling part or body; a knoblike process; as, a boss of wood.
bossage		(Arch.) A stone in a building, left rough and projecting, to be afterward carved into shape.
bossed		Embossed; also, bossy.
bosset		A rudimental antler of a young male of the red deer.
bossism	Slang	The rule or practices of bosses, esp. political bosses.
bossy		Ornamented with bosses; studded.
boston		A game at cards, played by four persons, with two packs of fifty-two cards each; -- said to be so called from Boston, Massachusetts, and to have been invented by officers of the French army in America during the Revolutionary war.
bostryx		A form of cymose inflorescence with all the flowers on one side of the rachis, usually causing it to curl; -- called also a uniparous helicoid cyme.
boswellian		Relating to, or characteristic of, Boswell, the biographer of Dr. Johnson.
boswellism		The style of Boswell.
bot		See Bots — the larvæ of several species of botfly, especially those larvæ which infest the stomach, throat, or intestines of the horse, and are supposed to be the cause of various ailments.
botanic		Of or pertaining to botany; relating to the study of plants; as, a botanical system, arrangement, textbook, expedition. -- Botan"ic*al*ly, adv.
botanical		Of or pertaining to botany; relating to the study of plants; as, a botanical system, arrangement, textbook, expedition. -- Botan"ic*al*ly, adv.
botanist		One skilled in botany; one versed in the knowledge of plants.
botanize		To seek after plants for botanical investigation; to study plants.
botanizer		One who botanizes.
botanologer	Obsolete	A botanist.
botanology	Obsolete	The science of botany.
botanomancy		An ancient species of divination by means of plants, esp. sage and fig leaves.
botany		The science which treats of the structure of plants, the functions of their parts, their places of growth, their classification, and the terms which are employed in their description and denomination.
botargo		A sort of cake or sausage, made of the salted roes of the mullet, much used on the coast of the Mediterranean as an incentive to drink.
botch		A patch put on, or a part of a garment patched or mended in a clumsy manner.
botchedly		In a clumsy manner.
botcher		One who mends or patches, esp. a tailor or cobbler.
botcherly		Bungling; awkward.
botchery		A botching, or that which is done by botching; clumsy or careless workmanship.
botchy		Marked with botches; full of botches; poorly done.
bote		(a) Compensation; amends; satisfaction; expiation; as, man bote, a compensation or a man slain.
boteless		Unavailing; in vain. See Bootless.
botfly		A dipterous insect of the family (Estridæ, of many different species, some of which are particularly troublesome to domestic animals, as the horse, ox, and sheep, on which they deposit their eggs.
both		The one and the other; the two; the pair, without exception of either.
both-hands		A factotum.
bother		To annoy; to trouble; to worry; to perplex. See Pother.
botheration	Colloquial	The act of bothering, or state of being bothered; cause of trouble; perplexity; annoyance; vexation.
botherer		One who bothers.
bothersome		Vexatious; causing bother; causing trouble or perplexity; troublesome.
bothie	Scots	Same as Bothy.
bothnian		Of or pertaining to Bothnia, a country of northern Europe, or to a gulf of the same name which forms the northern part of the Baltic sea.
bothnic		Of or pertaining to Bothnia, a country of northern Europe, or to a gulf of the same name which forms the northern part of the Baltic sea.
bothrenchyma		Dotted or pitted ducts or vessels forming the pores seen in many kinds of wood.
bothy	Scots	A wooden hut or humble cot, esp. a rude hut or barrack for unmarried farm servants; a shepherd's or hunter's hut; a booth.
botocudos		A Brazilian tribe of Indians, noted for their use of poisons; - - also called Aymborés.
botryogen		A hydrous sulphate of iron of a deep red color.
botryoid		Having the form of a bunch of grapes; like a cluster of grapes, as a mineral presenting an aggregation of small spherical or spheroidal prominences.
botryoidal		Having the form of a bunch of grapes; like a cluster of grapes, as a mineral presenting an aggregation of small spherical or spheroidal prominences.
botryolite		A variety of datolite, usually having a botryoidal structure.
botryose		(a) Having the form of a cluster of grapes. (b) Of the racemose or acropetal type of inflorescence.
bots		The larvæ of several species of botfly, especially those larvæ which infest the stomach, throat, or intestines of the horse, and are supposed to be the cause of various ailments.
bottine		A small boot; a lady's boot.
bottle		A hollow vessel, usually of glass or earthenware (but formerly of leather), with a narrow neck or mouth, for holding liquids.
bottle-nose		A cetacean of the Dolphin family, of several species, as Delphinus Tursio and Lagenorhyncus leucopleurus, of Europe.
bottle-nosed		Having the nose bottleshaped, or large at the end.
bottled		Put into bottles; inclosed in bottles; pent up in, or as in, a bottle.
bottlehead		A cetacean allied to the grampus; -- called also bottle-nosed whale.
bottleholder		One who attends a pugilist in a prize fight; -- so called from the bottle of water of which he has charge.
bottler		One who bottles wine, beer, soda water, etc.
bottlescrew		A corkscrew.
bottling		The act or the process of putting anything into bottles (as beer, mineral water, etc.) and corking the bottles.
bottom		The lowest part of anything; the foot; as, the bottom of a tree or well; the bottom of a hill, a lane, or a page.
bottomed		Having at the bottom, or as a bottom; resting upon a bottom; grounded; -- mostly, in composition; as, sharp-bottomed; well- bottomed.
bottomless		Without a bottom; hence, fathomless; baseless; as, a bottomless abyss.
bottomry		A contract in the nature of a mortgage, by which the owner of a ship, or the master as his agent…
bottone		Having a bud or button, or a kind of trefoil, at the end; furnished with knobs or buttons.
bottony		Having a bud or button, or a kind of trefoil, at the end; furnished with knobs or buttons.
botts		See Bots — the larvæ of several species of botfly, especially those larvæ which infest the stomach, throat, or intestines of the horse, and are supposed to be the cause of various ailments.
botuliform		Having the shape of a sausage.
bouch	Obsolete	An allowance of meat and drink for the tables of inferior officers or servants in a nobleman's palace or at court.
bouche	Obsolete	An allowance of meat and drink for the tables of inferior officers or servants in a nobleman's palace or at court.
bouchees		Small patties.
boucherize		To impregnate with a preservative solution of copper sulphate, as timber, railroad ties, etc.
boud	Obsolete	A weevil; a worm that breeds in malt, biscuit, etc. Tusser., n.
boudoir		A small room, esp. if pleasant, or elegantly furnished, to which a lady may retire to be alone, or to receive intimate friends; a lady's (or sometimes a gentleman's) private room.
bouffe		Comic opera. See Opera Bouffe.
bougainvillaea		A genus of plants of the order Nyctoginaceæ, from tropical South America, having the flowers surrounded by large bracts.
bouge	Obsolete	To swell out.
bouget		A charge representing a leather vessel for carrying water; -- also called water bouget.
bough		An arm or branch of a tree, esp. a large arm or main branch.
bought	Obsolete	A flexure; a bend; a twist; a turn; a coil, as in a rope; as the boughts of a serpent.
boughten		Purchased; not obtained or produced at home.
boughty	Obsolete	Bending.
bougie		(Surg.) A long, flexible instrument, that is
bouilli		Boiled or stewed meat; beef boiled with vegetables in water from which its gravy is to be made; beef from which bouillon or soup has been made.
bouillon		A nutritious liquid food made by boiling beef, or other meat, in water; a clear soup or broth.
bouk	Obsolete	The body.
boul		A curved handle.
boulangerite		A mineral of a bluish gray color and metallic luster, usually in plumose masses, also compact.
boulangism		The spirit or principles of a French political movement identified with Gen.
boulder		A large stone, worn smooth or rounded by the action of water; a large pebble.
bouldery		Characterized by bowlders.
boule		Same as Buhl, Buhlwork.
boulevard		Originally, a bulwark or rampart of fortification or fortified town.
boulevardier		A frequenter of a city boulevard, esp. in Paris.
bouleversement		Complete overthrow; disorder; a turning upside down.
boulework		Same as Buhl, Buhlwork.
boult		Corrupted form Bolt.
boultel		(a) A molding, the convexity of which is one fourth of a circle, being a member just below the abacus in the Tuscan and Roman Doric capital; a torus; an ovolo.
boulter		A long, stout fishing line to which many hooks are attached.
boultin		(a) A molding, the convexity of which is one fourth of a circle, being a member just below the abacus in the Tuscan and Roman Doric capital; a torus; an ovolo.
boun	Obsolete	Ready; prepared; destined; tending.
bounce		To strike or thump, so as to rebound, or to make a sudden noise; a knock loudly.
bouncer		One who bounces; a large, heavy person who makes much noise in moving.
bouncing		Stout; plump and healthy; lusty; buxom.
bouncingly		With a bounce.
bound		The external or limiting line, either real or imaginary, of any object or space; that which limits or restrains, or within which something is limited or restrained; limit; confine; extent; boundary.
boundary		That which indicates or fixes a limit or extent, or marks a bound, as of a territory; a bounding or separating line; a real or imaginary limit.
bounden		Under obligation; bound by some favor rendered; obliged; beholden.
bounder		One who, or that which, limits; a boundary.
bounding		Moving with a bound or bounds.
boundless		Without bounds or confines; illimitable; vast; unlimited. -- Unlimited; unconfined; immeasurable; illimitable; infinite. -- Bound less*ness, n.
bounteous		Liberal in charity; disposed to give freely; generously liberal; munificent; beneficent; free in bestowing gifts; as, bounteous production.
bountiful		Free in giving; liberal in bestowing gifts and favors.
bountihead	Obsolete	Goodness; generosity.
bounty		Liberality in bestowing gifts or favors; gracious or liberal giving; generosity; munificence.
bountyhood	Obsolete	Goodness; generosity.
bouquet		A perfume; an aroma; as, the bouquet of wine.
bouquetin		The ibex.
bour	Obsolete	A chamber or a cottage.
bourbon		A member of a family which has occupied several European thrones, and whose descendants still claim the throne of France.
bourbonism		The principles of those adhering to the house of Bourbon; obstinate conservatism.
bourbonist		One who adheres to the house of Bourbon; a legitimist.
bourder	Obsolete	A jester.
bourdon		A pilgrim's staff. (a) A drone bass, as in a bagpipe, or a hurdy-gurdy.
bourgeois		A size of type between long primer and brevier. See Type.
bourgeoisie		The French middle class, particularly such as are concerned in, or dependent on, trade.
bourgeon		To sprout; to put forth buds; to shoot forth, as a branch.
bouri		A mullet (Mugil capito) found in the rivers of Southern Europe and in Africa.
bourn		A stream or rivulet; a burn.
bourne		A stream or rivulet; a burn.
bournless		Without a bourn or limit.
bournonite		A mineral of a steel-gray to black color and metallic luster, occurring crystallized, often in twin crystals shaped like cogwheels (wheel ore), also massive.
bournous		See Burnoose — a cloaklike garment and hood woven in one piece, worn by Arabs.
bourree		An old French dance tune in common time.
bourse		An exchange, or place where merchants, bankers, etc., meet for business at certain hours; esp., the Stock Exchange of Paris.
bouse		To drink immoderately; to carouse; to booze. See Booze.
bouser		A toper; a boozer.
boustrophedon		An ancient mode of writing, in alternate directions, one line from left to right, and the next from right to left (as fields are plowed), as in early Greek and Hittite.
boustrophedonic		Relating to the boustrophedon mode of writing.
boustrophic		Boustrophedonic.
bousy		Drunken; sotted; boozy.
bout		As much of an action as is performed at one time; a going and returning, as of workmen in reaping, mowing, etc.; a turn; a round.
boutade	Obsolete	An outbreak; a caprice; a whim.
boutefeu	Obsolete	An incendiary; an inciter of quarrels.
boutonniere		A bouquet worn in a buttonhole.
bouts-rimes		Words that rhyme, proposed as the ends of verses, to be filled out by the ingenuity of the person to whom they are offered.
bovate		An oxgang, or as much land as an ox can plow in a year; an ancient measure of land, of indefinite quantity, but usually estimated at fifteen acres.
bovid		Relating to that tribe of ruminant mammals of which the genus Bos is the type.
boviform		Resembling an ox in form; ox-shaped.
bovine		(Zoöl.) of or pertaining to the genus Bos; relating to, or resembling, the ox or cow; oxlike; as, the bovine genus; a bovine antelope.
bow		To cause to deviate from straightness; to bend; to inflect; to make crooked or curved.
bow-bells		The bells of Bow Church in London; cockneydom.
bow-compass		A small pair of compasses, one leg of which carries a pencil, or a pen, for drawing circles.
bow-legged		Having crooked legs, esp. with the knees bent outward.
bow-pen		Bow-compasses carrying a drawing pen. See Bow-compass.
bow-pencil		Bow-compasses, one leg of which carries a pencil.
bow-saw		A saw with a thin or narrow blade set in a strong frame.
bowable	Obsolete	Capable of being bowed or bent; flexible; easily influenced; yielding.
bowbell		One born within hearing distance of Bow-bells; a cockney.
bowbent		Bent, like a bow.
bowdlerize		To expurgate, as a book, by omitting or modifying the parts considered offensive.
bowel		One of the intestines of an animal; an entrail, especially of man; a gut; -- generally used in the plural.
boweled		Having bowels; hollow.
bowelless		Without pity.
bowenite		A hard, compact variety of serpentine found in Rhode Island.
bower		One who bows or bends.
bowery		Shading, like a bower; full of bowers.
bowess	Obsolete	Same as Bower.
bowfin		A voracious ganoid fish (Amia calva) found in the fresh waters of the United States; the mudfish; -- called also Johnny Grindle, and dogfish.
bowge	Obsolete	To swell out. See Bouge.
bowgrace		A frame or fender of rope or junk, laid out at the sides or bows of a vessel to secure it from injury by floating ice.
bowhead		The great Arctic or Greenland whale. (Balæna mysticetus). See Baleen, and Whale.
bowing		The act or art of managing the bow in playing on stringed instruments.
bowingly		In a bending manner.
bowknot		A knot in which a portion of the string is drawn through in the form of a loop or bow, so as to be readily untied.
bowl		A concave vessel of various forms (often approximately hemisherical), to hold liquids, etc. Brought them food in bowls of basswood.
bowlder		A large stone, worn smooth or rounded by the action of water; a large pebble.
bowldery		Characterized by bowlders.
bowleg		A crooked leg.
bowler		One who plays at bowls, or who rolls the ball in cricket or any other game.
bowless		Destitute of a bow.
bowline		A rope fastened near the middle of the leech or perpendicular edge of the square sails, by subordinate ropes, called bridles, and used to keep the weather edge of the sail tight forward, when the ship is closehauled.
bowling		The act of playing at or rolling bowls, or of rolling the ball at cricket; the game of bowls or of tenpins.
bowls		See Bowl, a ball, a game.
bowman		A man who uses a bow; an archer.
bowne	Obsolete	To make ready; to prepare; to dress.
bowse		(Naut.) To pull or haul; as, to bowse upon a tack; to bowse away, i. e., to pull all together.
bowshot		The distance traversed by an arrow shot from a bow.
bowsprit		A large boom or spar, which projects over the stem of a ship or other vessel, to carry sail forward.
bowssen	Obsolete	To drench; to soak; especially, to immerse (in water believed to have curative properties).
bowstring		A string used by the Turks for strangling offenders.
bowstringed		Furnished with bowstring.
bowtel		See Boultel — (a) A molding, the convexity of which is one fourth of a circle, being a member just below the abacus in the Tuscan and Roman Doric capital; a torus; an ovolo.
bowwow		An onomatopoetic name for a dog or its bark. -- a.
bowyer		An archer; one who uses bow.
box		A tree or shrub, flourishing in different parts of the world.
box-iron		A hollow smoothing iron containing a heater within.
boxberry	Dialect	The wintergreern. (Gaultheria procumbens).
boxen		Made of boxwood; pertaining to, or resembling, the box (Buxus).
boxer		One who packs boxes.
boxfish		The trunkfish.
boxhaul		To put (a vessel) on the other tack by veering her short round on her heel; -- so called from the circumstance of bracing the head yards abox (i. e., sharp aback, on the wind).
boxhauling		A method of going from one tack to another. See Boxhaul.
boxing		The act of inclosing (anything) in a box, as for storage or transportation.
boxkeeper		An attendant at a theater who has charge of the boxes.
boxthorn		A plant of the genus Lycium, esp. Lycium barbarum.
boxwood		The wood of the box (Buxus).
boy	Slang	A male child, from birth to the age of puberty; a lad; hence, a son.
boyar		A member of a Russian aristocratic order abolished by Peter the Great.
boyard		A member of a Russian aristocratic order abolished by Peter the Great.
boyau		A winding or zigzag trench forming a path or communication from one siegework to another, to a magazine, etc.
boycott		To combine against (a landlord, tradesman, employer, or other person), to withhold social or business relations from him, and to deter others from holding such relations; to subject to a boycott.
boycotter		A participant in boycotting.
boycottism		Methods of boycotters.
boydekin	Obsolete	A dagger; a bodkin.
boyer		A Flemish sloop with a castle at each end.
boyhood		The state of being a boy; the time during which one is a boy.
boyish		Resembling a boy in a manners or opinions; belonging to a boy; childish; trifling; puerile.
boyishly		In a boyish manner; like a boy.
boyishness		The manners or behavior of a boy.
boyism		The nature of a boy; childishness.
boza		An acidulated fermented drink of the Arabs and Egyptians, made from millet seed and various astringent substances; also, an intoxicating beverage made from hemp seed, darnel meal, and water.
