brabantine		Pertaining to Brabant, an ancient province of the Netherlands.
brabble		To clamor; to contest noisily.
brabblement		A brabble.
brabbler		A clamorous, quarrelsome, noisy fellow; a wrangler.
braccate		Furnished with feathers which conceal the feet.
brace		That which holds anything tightly or supports it firmly; a bandage or a prop.
bracelet		An ornamental band or ring, for the wrist or the arm; in modern times, an ornament encircling the wrist, worn by women or girls.
bracer		That which braces, binds, or makes firm; a band or bandage.
brach		A bitch of the hound kind.
brachelytra		A group of beetles having short elytra, as the rove beetles.
brachia		See Brachium — the upper arm; the segment of the fore limb between the shoulder and the elbow.
brachial		(Anat.) Pertaining or belonging to the arm; as, the brachial artery; the brachial nerve.
brachiata		A division of the Crinoidea, including those furnished with long jointed arms.
brachiate		Having branches in pairs, decussated, all nearly horizontal, and each pair at right angles with the next, as in the maple and lilac.
brachioganoid		One of the Brachioganoidei.
brachioganoidei		An order of ganoid fishes of which the bichir of Africa is a living example.
brachiolaria		(Zoöl.) A peculiar early larval stage of certain starfishes, having a bilateral structure, and swimming by means of bands of vibrating cilia.
brachiopod		One of the Brachiopoda, or its shell.
brachiopoda		A class of Molluscoidea having a symmetrical bivalve shell, often attached by a fleshy peduncle.
brachium		The upper arm; the segment of the fore limb between the shoulder and the elbow.
brachman	Obsolete	See Brahman — a person of the highest or sacerdotal caste among the Hindoos.
brachycatalectic		A verse wanting two syllables at its termination.
brachycephalic		Having the skull short in proportion to its breadth; shortheaded; -- in distinction from dolichocephalic.
brachycephalism		The state or condition of being brachycephalic; shortness of head.
brachycephalous		Having the skull short in proportion to its breadth; shortheaded; -- in distinction from dolichocephalic.
brachycephaly		The state or condition of being brachycephalic; shortness of head.
brachyceral		Having short antennæ, as certain insects.
brachydiagonal		Pertaining to the shorter diagonal, as of a rhombic prism.
brachydome		A dome parallel to the shorter lateral axis. See Dome.
brachygrapher		A writer in short hand; a stenographer.
brachygraphy		Stenograhy.
brachylogy		Conciseness of expression; brevity.
brachypinacoid		A plane of an orthorhombic crystal which is parallel both to the vertical axis and to the shorter lateral (brachydiagonal) axis.
brachyptera		A group of Coleoptera having short wings; the rove beetles.
brachypteres		A group of birds, including auks, divers, and penguins.
brachypterous		Having short wings.
brachystochrone		A curve, in which a body, starting from a given point, and descending solely by the force of gravity, will reach another given point in a shorter time than it could by any other path.
brachytypous		Of a short form.
brachyura		A group of decapod Crustacea, including the common crabs, characterized by a small and short abdomen, which is bent up beneath the large cephalo-thorax.
brachyural		Of or pertaining to the Brachyura.
brachyuran		One of the Brachyura.
brachyurous		Of or pertaining to the Brachyura.
bracing		Imparting strength or tone; strengthening; invigorating; as, a bracing north wind.
brack	Obsolete	An opening caused by the parting of any solid body; a crack or breach; a flaw.
bracken		A brake or fern.
bracket		(Arch.) An architectural member, plain or ornamental, projecting from a wall or pier, to support weight falling outside of the same; also, a decorative feature seeming to discharge such an office.
bracketing		A series or group of brackets; brackets, collectively.
brackish		Saltish, or salt in a moderate degree, as water in saline soil.
brackishness		The quality or state of being brackish, or somewhat salt.
bracky		Brackish.
bract		(a) A leaf, usually smaller than the true leaves of a plant, from the axil of which a flower stalk arises.
bractea		A bract.
bracteal		Having the nature or appearance of a bract.
bracteate		Having a bract or bracts.
bracted		Furnished with bracts.
bracteolate		Furnished with bracteoles or bractlets.
bracteole		Same as Bractlet.
bractless		Destitute of bracts.
bractlet		A bract on the stalk of a single flower, which is itself on a main stalk that support several flowers.
brad		A thin nail, usually small, with a slight projection at the top on one side instead of a head; also, a small wire nail, with a flat circular head; sometimes, a small, tapering, square-bodied finishing nail…
bradoon		Same as Bridoon.
brae	Scots	A hillside; a slope; a bank; a hill.
brag		A boast or boasting; bragging; ostentatious pretense or self glorification.
braggadocio		Empty boasting; mere brag; pretension.
braggardism		Boastfulness; act of bragging.
braggart		A boaster.
bragger		One who brags; a boaster.
bragget	Obsolete	A liquor made of ale and honey fermented, with spices, etc. B.
braggingly		Boastingly.
bragless		Without bragging.
bragly	Obsolete	In a manner to be bragged of; finely; proudly.
brahma		(Hindoo Myth.) The One First Cause; also, one of the triad of Hindoo gods.
brahman		A person of the highest or sacerdotal caste among the Hindoos.
brahmaness		A Brahmani.
brahmani		Any Brahman woman.
brahmanism		The religion or system of doctrines of the Brahmans; the religion of Brahma.
brahmanist		An adherent of the religion of the Brahmans.
brahmin		A person of the highest or sacerdotal caste among the Hindoos.
brahmin-ical		Of or pertaining to the Brahmans or to their doctrines and worship.
brahminism		The religion or system of doctrines of the Brahmans; the religion of Brahma.
brahminist		An adherent of the religion of the Brahmans.
brahmo-somaj		A modern reforming theistic sect among the Hindos.
brahmoism		The religious system of Brahmo-somaj.
braid		To weave, interlace, or entwine together, as three or more strands or threads; to form into a braid; to plait.
braiding		The act of making or using braids.
brail		(Falconry) A thong of soft leather to bind up a hawk's wing.
braille		A system of printing or writing for the blind in which the characters are represented by tangible points or dots.
brain		(Anat.) The whitish mass of soft matter (the center of the nervous system, and the seat of consciousness and volition) which is inclosed in the cartilaginous or bony cranium of vertebrate animals.
brained		Supplied with brains.
brainish		Hot-headed; furious.
brainless		Without understanding; silly; thougthless; witless. -- Brain"less*ness, n.
brainpan		The bones which inclose the brain; the skull; the cranium.
brainsick		Disordered in the understanding; giddy; thoughtless. -- Brain"sick*ness, n.
brainsickly		In a brainsick manner.
brainy	Colloquial	Having an active or vigorous mind.
braise		A European marine fish (Pagrus vulgaris) allied to the American scup; the becker.
braiser		A kettle or pan for braising.
brait		A rough diamond.
braize		A European marine fish (Pagrus vulgaris) allied to the American scup; the becker.
brake		of Break — to strain apart; to sever by fracture; to divide with violence; as, to break a rope or chain; to break a seal; to break an axle; to break rocks or coal; to break a lock.
brakeman		(Mining) The man in charge of the winding (or hoisting) engine for a mine.
braky		Full of brakes; abounding with brambles, shrubs, or ferns; rough; thorny.
brama		See Brahma — (Hindoo Myth.) The One First Cause; also, one of the triad of Hindoo gods.
bramble		(Bot.) Any plant of the genus Rubus, including the raspberry and blackberry.
brambled		Overgrown with brambles.
brambling		The European mountain finch (Fringilla montifringilla); -- called also bramble finch and bramble.
brambly		Pertaining to, resembling, or full of, brambles.
brame	Obsolete	Sharp passion; vexation.
bramin		, etc. See Brahman, Brachmanic, etc.
braminic		, etc. See Brahman, Brachmanic, etc.
bran		The broken coat of the seed of wheat, rye, or other cereal grain, separated from the flour or meal by sifting or bolting; the coarse, chaffy part of ground grain.
bran-new		See Brand-new — quite new; bright as if fresh from the forge.
brancard	Obsolete	A litter on which a person may be carried.
branch		(Bot.) A shoot or secondary stem growing from the main stem, or from a principal limb or bough of a tree or other plant.
brancher		That which shoots forth branches; one who shows growth in various directions.
branchery		A system of branches.
branchia		A gill; a respiratory organ for breathing the air contained in water, such as many aquatic and semiaquatic animals have.
branchial		Of or pertaining to branchiæ or gills.
branchiate		Furnished with branchiæ; as, branchiate segments.
branchiferous		Having gills; branchiate; as, branchiferous gastropods.
branchiness		Fullness of branches.
branching		Furnished with branches; shooting our branches; extending in a branch or branches.
branchiogastropoda		Those Gastropoda that breathe by branchiæ, including the Prosobranchiata and Opisthobranchiata.
branchiomerism		The state of being made up of branchiate segments.
branchiopod		One of the Branchiopoda.
branchiopoda		An order of Entomostraca; -- so named from the feet of branchiopods having been supposed to perform the function of gills.
branchiostegal		Pertaining to the membrane covering the gills of fishes. -- n. (Anat.) A branchiostegal ray.
branchiostege		The branchiostegal membrane. See Illustration in Appendix.
branchiostegous		Branchiostegal.
branchiostoma		The lancelet. See Amphioxus.
branchiura		A group of Entomostraca, with suctorial mouths, including species parasitic on fishes, as the carp lice (Argulus).
branchless		Destitude of branches or shoots; without any valuable product; barren; naked.
branchlet		A little branch; a twig.
branchy		Full of branches; having wide-spreading branches; consisting of branches.
brand		A burning piece of wood; or a stick or piece of wood partly burnt, whether burning or after the fire is extinct.
brand-new		Quite new; bright as if fresh from the forge.
brandenburg		A kind of decoration for the breast of a coat, sometimes only a frog with a loop, but in some military uniforms enlarged into a broad horizontal stripe.
brander		One who, or that which, brands; a branding iron.
brandied		Mingled with brandy; made stronger by the addition of brandy; flavored or treated with brandy; as, brandied peaches.
brandish		To move or wave, as a weapon; to raise and move in various directions; to shake or flourish.
brandisher		One who brandishes.
brandle	Obsolete	To shake; to totter.
brandlin		Same as Branlin, fish and worm.
brandling		Same as Branlin, fish and worm.
brandy		A strong alcoholic liquor distilled from wine.
brangle		A wrangle; a squabble; a noisy contest or dispute.
branglement	Obsolete	Wrangle; brangle.
brangler		A quarrelsome person.
brangling		A quarrel.
brank	Scots	A sort of bridle with wooden side pieces.
branks	Scots	A sort of bridle with wooden side pieces.
brankursine		Bear's-breech, or Acanthus.
branlin		A young salmon or parr, in the stage in which it has transverse black bands, as if burned by a gridiron.
branny		Having the appearance of bran; consisting of or containing bran.
bransle	Obsolete	A brawl or dance.
brant	English dialect	A species of wild goose (Branta bernicla) -- called also brent and brand goose.
brant-fox		A kind of fox found in Sweden (Vulpes alopex), smaller than the common fox (V. vulgaris), but probably a variety of it.
brantail		The European redstart; -- so called from the red color of its tail.
branular		Relating to the brain; cerebral.
brasen		Same as Brazen.
brash	Colloquial	Hasty in temper; impetuous.
brashy		Resembling, or of the nature of, brash, or broken fragments; broken; crumbly.
brasier		An artificer who works in brass.
brasilein		A substance, C16H14O5, extracted from brazilwood as a yellow crystalline powder which is white when pure.
brasilin		A substance, C16H14O5, extracted from brazilwood as a yellow crystalline powder which is white when pure.
brasque		A paste made by mixing powdered charcoal, coal, or coke with clay, molasses, tar, or other suitable substance.
brass		An alloy (usually yellow) of copper and zinc, in variable proportion, but often containing two parts of copper to one part of zinc.
brass-visaged		Impudent; bold.
brassage		A sum formerly levied to pay the expense of coinage; -- now called seigniorage.
brassart		Armor for the arm; -- generally used for the whole arm from the shoulder to the wrist, and consisting, in the 15th and 16th centuries, of many parts.
brasse		A spotted European fish of the genus Lucioperca, resembling a perch.
brassets		See Brassart — armor for the arm; -- generally used for the whole arm from the shoulder to the wrist, and consisting, in the 15th and 16th centuries, of many parts.
brassica		A genus of plants embracing several species ad varieties differing much in appearance and qualities: such as the common cabbage (B. oleracea), broccoli, cauliflowers, etc.; the wild turnip (B. campestris)…
brassicaceous		Related to, or resembling, the cabbage, or plants of the Cabbage family.
brassiere		A form of woman's underwaist stiffened with whalebones, or the like, and worn to support the breasts.
brassiness	Colloquial	The state, conditions, or quality of being brassy.
brassy		Of or pertaining to brass; having the nature, appearance, or hardness, of brass.
brast	Obsolete	To burst.
brat	English dialect	A coarse kind of apron for keeping the clothes clean; a bib.
bratsche		The tenor viola, or viola.
brattice		(a) A wall of separation in a shaft or gallery used for ventilation. (b) Planking to support a roof or wall.
brattishing		(Arch.) Carved openwork, as of a shrine, battlement, or parapet.
braunite		A native oxide of manganese, of dark brownish black color.
bravade	Obsolete	Bravado.
bravado		Boastful and threatening behavior; a boastful menace.
brave		Bold; courageous; daring; intrepid; -- opposed to cowardly; as, a brave man; a brave act.
bravely		In a brave manner; courageously; gallantly; valiantly; splendidly; nobly.
braveness		The quality of state or being brave.
bravery		The quality of being brave; fearless; intrepidity.
braving		A bravado; a boast.
bravingly		In a defiant manner.
bravo		A daring villain; a bandit; one who sets law at defiance; a professional assassin or murderer.
bravura		A florid, brilliant style of music, written for effect, to show the range and flexibility of a singer's voice, or the technical force and skill of a performer; virtuoso music.
braw		Well-dressed; handsome; smart; brave; -- used of persons or their clothing, etc.; as, a braw lad.
brawl		To quarrel noisily and outrageously.
brawler		One that brawls; wrangler.
brawling		Quarreling; quarrelsome; noisy.
brawlingly		In a brawling manner.
brawn		Full, strong muscles, esp. of the arm or leg, muscular strength; a protuberant muscular part of the body; sometimes, the arm.
brawned	Obsolete	Brawny; strong; muscular.
brawner		A boor killed for the table.
brawniness		The quality or state of being brawny.
brawny		Having large, strong muscles; muscular; fleshy; strong. -- Muscular; fleshy; strong; bulky; sinewy; athletic; stalwart; powerful; robust.
braxy		A diseased sheep, or its mutton.
bray		To pound, beat, rub, or grind small or fine.
brayer		An implement for braying and spreading ink in hand printing.
braying		Making a harsh noise; blaring.
braze		To solder with hard solder, esp. with an alloy of copper and zinc; as, to braze the seams of a copper pipe.
brazen		Pertaining to, made of, or resembling, brass.
brazen-browed		Shamelessly impudent.
brazenface		An impudent of shameless person.
brazenfaced		Impudent; shameless.
brazenly		In a bold, impudent manner.
brazenness		The quality or state of being brazen.
brazier		An artificer who works in brass.
braziletto		See Brazil wood.
brazilian		Of or pertaining to Brasil. -- n.
brazilin		A substance contained in both Brazil wood and Sapan wood, from which it is extracted as a yellow crystalline substance which is white when pure.
breach		The act of breaking, in a figurative sense.
breachy		Apt to break fences or to break out of pasture; unruly; as, breachy cattle.
bread		An article of food made from flour or meal by moistening, kneading, and baking.
breadbasket		The stomach.
breadcorn		Corn of grain of which bread is made, as wheat, rye, etc.
breaded	Obsolete	Braided Spenser.
breaden		Made of bread.
breadfruit		The fruit of a tree (Artocarpus incisa) found in the islands of the Pacific, esp. the South Sea islands.
breadless		Without bread; destitude of food.
breadroot		The root of a leguminous plant (Psoralea esculenta), found near the Rocky Mountains.
breadstuff		Grain, flour, or meal of which bread is made.
breadth		Distance from side to side of any surface or thing; measure across, or at right angles to the length; width.
breadthless		Without breadth.
breadthways		Breadthwise.
breadthwise		In the direction of the breadth.
breadwinner		The member of a family whose labor supplies the food of the family; one who works for his living.
break		To strain apart; to sever by fracture; to divide with violence; as, to break a rope or chain; to break a seal; to break an axle; to break rocks or coal; to break a lock.
break-circuit		A key or other device for breaking an electrical circuit.
break-up		Disruption; a separation and dispersion of the parts or members; as, a break-up of an assembly or dinner party; a break-up of the government.
breakable		Capable of being broken.
breakage		The act of breaking; a break; a breaking; also, articles broken.
breakaway		A wild rush of sheep, cattle, horses, or camels (especially at the smell or the sight of water); a stampede.
breakdown		The act or result of breaking down, as of a carriage; downfall.
breaker		One who, or that which, breaks.
breakfast		The first meal in the day, or that which is eaten at the first meal.
breakman		See Brakeman — (Mining) The man in charge of the winding (or hoisting) engine for a mine.
breakneck		A fall that breaks the neck.
breakwater		Any structure or contrivance, as a mole, or a wall at the mouth of a harbor, to break the force of waves, and afford protection from their violence.
bream		(Zoöl) A European fresh-water cyprinoid fish of the genus Abramis, little valued as food.
breast		The fore part of the body, between the neck and the belly; the chest; as, the breast of a man or of a horse.
breast-deep		Deep as from the breast to the feet; as high as the breast. See him breast-deep in earth, and famish him.
breast-high		High as the breast.
breastband		A band for the breast. Specifically: (Naut.) A band of canvas, or a rope, fastened at both ends to the rigging, to support the man who heaves the lead in sounding.
breastbeam		The front transverse beam of a locomotive.
breastbone		The bone of the breast; the sternum.
breasted		Having a breast; -- used in composition with qualifying words, in either a literal or a metaphorical sense; as, a single-breasted coat.
breastfast		A large rope to fasten the midship part of a ship to a wharf, or to another vessel.
breastheight		The interior slope of a fortification, against which the garnison lean in firing.
breasthook		A thick piece of timber in the form of a knee, placed across the stem of a ship to strengthen the fore part and unite the bows on each side.
breasting		The curved channel in which a breast wheel turns.
breastknot		A pin worn of the breast for a fastening, or for ornament; a brooch.
breastpin		A pin worn on the breast for a fastening, or for ornament; a brooch.
breastplate		A plate of metal covering the breast as defensive armor.
breastplough		A kind of plow, driven by the breast of the workman; -- used to cut or pare turf.
breastplow		A kind of plow, driven by the breast of the workman; -- used to cut or pare turf.
breastrail		The upper rail of any parapet of ordinary height, as of a balcony; the railing of a quarter-deck, etc.
breastrope		See Breastband — a band for the breast. Specifically: (Naut.) A band of canvas, or a rope, fastened at both ends to the rigging, to support the man who heaves the lead in sounding.
breastsummer		A summer or girder extending across a building flush with, and supporting, the upper part of a front or external wall; a long lintel; a girder; -- used principally above shop windows.
breastwheel		A water wheel, on which the stream of water strikes neither so high as in the overshot wheel, nor so low as in the undershot, but generally at about half the height of the wheel, being kept in contact with it by the breasting.
breastwork		(Fort.) A defensive work of moderate height, hastily thrown up, of earth or other material.
breath		The air inhaled and exhaled in respiration, air which, in the process of respiration, has parted with oxygen and has received carbonic acid, aqueous vapor, warmth, etc. Melted as breath into the wind.
breathable		Such as can be breathed.
breathableness		State of being breathable.
breathe		To respire; to inhale and exhale air; hence;, to live.
breather		One who breathes. Hence: (a) One who lives.(b) One who utters. (c) One who animates or inspires.
breathful	Obsolete	Full of breath; full of odor; fragrant.
breathing		Respiration; the act of inhaling and exhaling air.
breathless		Spent with labor or violent action; out of breath.
breathlessly		In a breathless manner.
breathlessness		The state of being breathless or out of breath.
breccia		A rock composed of angular fragments either of the same mineral or of different minerals, etc., united by a cement, and commonly presenting a variety of colors.
brecciated		Consisting of angular fragments cemented together; resembling breccia in appearance.
bred		imp. & p. p. of Breed.
brede	Obsolete	Breadth.
breech		To put into, or clothe with, breeches.
breech-loading		Receiving the charge at the breech instead of at the muzzle.
breechblock		The movable piece which closes the breech of a breech-loading firearm, and resists the backward force of the discharge.
breechcloth		A cloth worn around the breech.
breeches		A garment worn by men, covering the hips and thighs; smallclothes.
breeching		A whipping on the breech, or the act of whipping on the breech.
breechloader		A firearm which receives its load at the breech.
breed		To produce as offspring; to bring forth; to bear; to procreate; to generate; to beget; to hatch.
breedbate	Obsolete	One who breeds or originates quarrels.
breede	Obsolete	Breadth.
breeder		One who, or that which, breeds, produces, brings up, etc. She was a great breeder.
breeding		The raising or improving of any kind of domestic animals; as, farmers should pay attention to breeding.
breeze		A fly of various species, of the family Tabanidæ, noted for buzzing about animals, and tormenting them by sucking their blood; -- called also horsefly, and gadfly.
breezeless		Motionless; destitute of breezes.
breeziness		State of being breezy.
breezy		Characterized by, or having, breezes; airy.
bregma		The point of junction of the coronal and sagittal sutures of the skull.
bregmatic		Pertaining to the bregma.
brehon		An ancient Irish or Scotch judge.
brelan		(a) A French gambling game somewhat like poker. (b) In French games, a pair royal, or triplet.
breloque		A seal or charm for a watch chain.
breme		Famous; renowned; well known.
bren	Obsolete	To burn.
brennage		A tribute which tenants paid to their lord, in lieu of bran, which they were obliged to furnish for his hounds.
brenne	Obsolete	To burn.
brenningly	Obsolete	Burningly; ardently.
brent	Scots	Smooth; unwrinkled.
brere	Archaic	A brier.
brest	Obsolete	for Bursteth.
breste	Obsolete	To burst.
brestsummer		See Breastsummer — a summer or girder extending across a building flush with, and supporting, the upper part of a front or external wall; a long lintel; a girder; -- used principally above shop windows.
bret		See Birt — a fish of the turbot kind; the brill.
bretful	Obsolete	Brimful.
brethren		pl. of Brother — a male person who has the same father and mother with another person, or who has one of them only.
breton		Of or relating to Brittany, or Bretagne, in France. -- n.
brett		Same as Britzska.
brettice		The wooden boarding used in supporting the roofs and walls of coal mines.
bretwalda		The official title applied to that one of the Anglo-Saxon chieftains who was chosen by the other chiefs to lead them in their warfare against the British tribes.
bretzel		See Pretzel — a kind of German biscuit or cake in the form of a twisted ring, salted on the outside.
breve		(Mus.) A note or character of time, equivalent to two semibreves or four minims.
brevet		A warrant from the government, granting a privilege, title, or dignity..
brevetcy		The rank or condition of a brevet officer.
breviary		An abridgment; a compend; an epitome; a brief account or summary.
breviate		A short compend; a summary; a brief statement.
breviature	Obsolete	An abbreviature; an abbreviation.
brevier		A size of type between bourgeous and minion.
breviloquence		A brief and pertinent mode of speaking.
breviped		Having short legs. -- n.
brevipen		A brevipennate bird.
brevipennate		Short-winged; -- applied to birds which can not fly, owing to their short wings, as the ostrich, cassowary, and emu.
brevirostral		Short-billed; having a short beak.
brevirostrate		Short-billed; having a short beak.
brevity		Shortness of duration; briefness of time; as, the brevity of human life.
brew		To prepare, as beer or other liquor, from malt and hops, or from other materials, by steeping, boiling, and fermentation.
brewage		Malt liquor; drink brewed.
brewer		One who brews; one whose occupation is to prepare malt liquors.
brewery		A brewhouse; the building and apparatus where brewing is carried on.
brewhouse		A house or building appropriated to brewing; a brewery.
brewing		The act or process of preparing liquors which are brewed, as beer and ale.
brewis		Bread soaked in broth, drippings of roast meat, milk, or water and butter.
brewsterite		A rare zeolitic mineral occurring in white monoclinic crystals with pearly luster.
brezilin		See Brazilin — a substance contained in both Brazil wood and Sapan wood, from which it is extracted as a yellow crystalline substance which is white when pure.
briar		A plant with a slender woody stem bearing stout prickles; especially, species of Rosa, Rubus, and Smilax.
briarean		Pertaining to, or resembling, Briareus, a giant fabled to have a hundred hands; hence, hundred-handed or many-handed.
bribable		Capable of being bribed.
bribe		A price, reward, gift, or favor bestowed or promised with a view to prevent the judgment or corrupt the conduct of a judge, witness, voter, or other person in a position of trust.
bribeless		Incapable of being bribed; free from bribes.
briber		One who bribes, or pays for corrupt practices.
bribery		The act or practice of giving or taking bribes; the act of influencing the official or political action of another by corrupt inducements.
bric-a-brac		Miscellaneous curiosities and works of decorative art, considered collectively.
brick		A block or clay tempered with water, sand, etc., molded into a regular form, usually rectangular, and sun-dried, or burnt in a kiln, or in a heap or stack called a clamp.
brickbat		A piece or fragment of a brick. See Bat, 4.
brickfielder		Orig., at Sydney, a cold and violent south or southwest wind, rising suddenly, and regularly preceded by a hot wind from the north; -- now usually called southerly buster.
brickkiln		A kiln, or furnace, in which bricks are baked or burnt; or a pile of green bricks, laid loose, with arches underneath to receive the wood or fuel for burning them.
bricklayer		One whose pccupation is to build with bricks.
bricklaying		The art of building with bricks, or of uniting them by cement or mortar into various forms; the act or occupation of laying bricks.
brickle	Obsolete	Brittle; easily broken.
brickleness	Obsolete	Brittleness.
brickmaker		One whose occupation is to make bricks. -- Brick"mak*ing, n.
brickwork		Anything made of bricks.
bricky		Full of bricks; formed of bricks; resembling bricks or brick dust.
brickyard		A place where bricks are made, especially an inclosed place.
bricole		A kind of traces with hooks and rings, with which men drag and maneuver guns where horses can not be used.
bridal		Of or pertaining to a bride, or to wedding; nuptial; as, bridal ornaments; a bridal outfit; a bridal chamber.
bridalty	Obsolete	Celebration of the nuptial feast.
bride		A woman newly married, or about to be married.
bride-ale		A rustic wedding feast; a bridal. See Ale.
bridebed	Poetic	The marriage bed.
bridecake		Rich or highly ornamented cake, to be distributed to the guests at a wedding, or sent to friends after the wedding.
bridechamber		The nuptial appartment.
bridegroom		A man newly married, or just about to be married.
brideknot	Obsolete	A knot of ribbons worn by a guest at a wedding; a wedding favor.
bridemaid		See Bridesmaid, Bridesman.
brideman		See Bridesmaid, Bridesman.
bridesmaid		A female friend who attends on a bride at her wedding.
bridesman		A male friend who attends upon a bridegroom and bride at their marriage; the
bridestake		A stake or post set in the ground, for guests at a wedding to dance round.
bridewell		A house of correction for the confinement of disorderly persons; -- so called from a hospital built in 1553 near St. Bride's (or Bridget's) well, in London, which was subsequently a penal workhouse.
bridge		A structure, usually of wood, stone, brick, or iron, erected over a river or other water course, or over a chasm, railroad, etc., to make a passageway from one bank to the other.
bridge-ward		The principal ward of a key.
bridgeboard		(Arch.) A notched board to which the treads and risers of the steps of wooden stairs are fastened.
bridgehead		A fortification commanding the extremity of a bridge nearest the enemy, to insure the preservation and usefulness of the bridge, and prevent the enemy from crossing; a tête-de-pont.
bridgeing		The system of bracing used between floor or other timbers to distribute the weight.
bridgeless		Having no bridge; not bridged.
bridgepot		The adjustable socket, or step, of a millstone spindle.
bridgetree		The beam which supports the spindle socket of the runner in a grinding mill.
bridgey		Full of bridges.
bridging		The system of bracing used between floor or other timbers to distribute the weight.
bridle		The head gear with which a horse is governed and restrained, consisting of a headstall, a bit, and reins, with other appendages.
bridler		One who bridles; one who restrains and governs, as with a bridle.
bridoon		The snaffle and rein of a military bridle, which acts independently of the bit, at the pleasure of the rider.
brief		Concise; terse; succinct.
briefless		Having no brief; without clients; as, a briefless barrister.
briefly		Concisely; in few words.
briefman		One who makes a brief.
briefness		The quality of being brief; brevity; conciseness in discourse or writing.
brier		A plant with a slender woody stem bearing stout prickles; especially, species of Rosa, Rubus, and Smilax.
briered		Set with briers.
briery		Full of briers; thorny.
brig	Scots	A bridge.
brigade		(Mil.) A body of troops, whether cavalry, artillery, infantry, or mixed, consisting of two or more regiments, under the command of a brigadier general.
brigand		A lawless fellow who lives by plunder; one of a band of robbers; especially, one of a gang living in mountain retreats; a highwayman; a freebooter.
brigandage		Life and practice of brigands; highway robbery; plunder.
brigandine		A coast of armor for the body, consisting of scales or plates, sometimes overlapping each other, generally of metal, and sewed to linen or other material.
brigandish		Like a brigand or freebooter; robberlike.
brigandism		Brigandage.
brigantine		A two-masted, square-rigged vessel, differing from a brig in that she does not carry a square mainsail.
brigge	Obsolete	A bridge.
bright		Radiating or reflecting light; shedding or having much light; shining; luminous; not dark.
bright-harnessed	Poetic	Having glittering armor.
brighten		To make bright or brighter; to make to shine; to increase the luster of; to give a brighter hue to.
brightly		Brilliantly; splendidly; with luster; as, brightly shining armor.
brightness		The quality or state of being bright; splendor; luster; brilliancy; clearness.
brightsome		Bright; clear; luminous; brilliant.
brigose	Obsolete	Contentious; quarrelsome.
brigue	Obsolete	A cabal, intrigue, faction, contention, strife, or quarrel.
brike	Obsolete	A breach; ruin; downfall; peril.
brill		A fish allied to the turbot (Rhombus levis), much esteemed in England for food; -- called also bret, pearl, prill.
brillante		In a gay, showy, and sparkling style.
brilliance		Brilliancy.
brilliancy		The quality of being brilliant; splendor; glitter; great brighness, whether in a literal or figurative sense.
brilliant		Sparkling with luster; glittering; very bright; as, a brilliant star.
brilliantine		An oily composition used to make the hair glossy.
brilliantly		In a brilliant manner.
brilliantness		Brilliancy; splendor; glitter.
brills		The hair on the eyelids of a horse.
brim		The rim, border, or upper sdge of a cup, dish, or any hollow vessel used for holding anything.
brimful		Full to the brim; completely full; ready to overflow.
brimless		Having no brim; as, brimless caps.
brimmed		Full to, or level with, the brim.
brimmer		A brimful bowl; a bumper.
brimming		Full to the brim; overflowing.
brimstone		Sulphur; See Sulphur.
brimstony		Containing or resembling brimstone; sulphurous.
brin		One of the radiating sticks of a fan.
brinded		Of a gray or tawny color with streaks of darker hue; streaked; brindled.
brindle		The state of being brindled.
brindled		Having dark streaks or spots on a gray or tawny ground; brinded.
brine		Water saturated or strongly inpregnated with salt; pickle; hence, any strong saline solution; also, the saline residue or strong mother liquor resulting from the evaporation of natural or artificial waters.
bring		To convey to the place where the speaker is or is to be; to bear from a more distant to a nearer place; to fetch.
bringer		One who brings.
brininess		The state or quality of being briny; saltness; brinishness.
brinish		Like brine; somewhat salt; saltish.
brinishness		State or quality of being brinish.
brinjaree		A rough-haired East Indian variety of the greyhound.
brink		The edge, margin, or border of a steep place, as of a precipice; a bank or edge, as of a river or pit; a verge; a border; as, the brink of a chasm.
briny		Of or pertaining to brine, or to the sea; partaking of the nature of brine; salt; as, a briny taste; the briny flood.
brioche		A light cake made with flour, butter, yeast, and eggs.
briolette		An oval or pearshaped diamond having its entire surface cut in triangular facets.
briony		See Bryony — the common name of several cucurbitaceous plants of the genus Bryonia.
briquette		A block of compacted coal dust, or peat, etc., for fuel.
brisk		Full of liveliness and activity; characterized by quickness of motion or action; lively; spirited; quick.
brisket		That part of the breast of an animal which extends from the fore legs back beneath the ribs; also applied to the fore part of a horse, from the shoulders to the bottom of the chest.
briskly		In a brisk manner; nimbly.
briskness		Liveliness; vigor in action; quickness; gayety; vivacity; effervescence.
bristle		A short, stiff, coarse hair, as on the back of swine.
bristle-pointed		Terminating in a very fine, sharp point, as some leaves.
bristle-shaped		Resembling a bristle in form; as, a bristle-shaped leaf.
bristletail		An insect of the genera Lepisma, Campodea, etc., belonging to the Thysanura.
bristliness		The quality or state of having bristles.
bristly		THick set with bristles, or with hairs resembling bristles; rough.
bristol		A seaport city in the west of England.
brisure		(Fort.) Any part of a rampart or parapet which deviates from the general direction.
brit		(a) The young of the common herring; also, a small species of herring; the sprat.
britannia		A white-metal alloy of tin, antimony, bismuth, copper, etc. It somewhat resembles silver, and isused for table ware.
britannic		Of or pertaining to Great Britain; British; as, her Britannic Majesty.
brite	English dialect	To be or become overripe, as wheat, barley, or hops.
briticism		A word, phrase, or idiom peculiar to Great Britain; any manner of using a word or words that is peculiar to Great Britain.
british		Of or pertaining to Great Britain or to its inhabitants; -- sometimes restrict to the original inhabitants.
britisher		An Englishman; a subject or inhabitant of Great Britain, esp. one in the British military or naval service.
briton	Obsolete	British.
britt		(a) The young of the common herring; also, a small species of herring; the sprat.
brittle		Easily broken; apt to break; fragile; not tough or tenacious.
brittlely		In a brittle manner.
brittleness		Aptness to break; fragility.
britzska		A long carriage, with a calash top, so constructed as to give space for reclining at night, when used on a journey.
brize		The breeze fly. See Breeze.
broach	English dialect	An awl; a bodkin; also, a wooden rod or pin, sharpened at each end, used by thatchers.
broacher		One who broaches, opens, or utters; a first publisher or promoter.
broad		Wide; extend in breadth, or from side to side; -- opposed to narrow; as, a broad street, a broad table; an inch broad.
broad-brimmed		Having a broad brim.
broad-horned		Having horns spreading widely.
broad-leafed		Having broad, or relatively broad, leaves.
broad-leaved		Having broad, or relatively broad, leaves.
broadax		An ancient military weapon; a battle-ax.
broadaxe		An ancient military weapon; a battle-ax.
broadbill		(Zoöl.) A wild duck (Aythya, or Fuligula, marila), which appears in large numbers on the eastern coast of the United States, in autumn; - - called also bluebill, blackhead, raft duck, and scaup duck.
broadbrim		A hat with a very broad brim, like those worn by men of the society of Friends.
broadcast		A casting or throwing seed in all directions, as from the hand in sowing.
broadcloth		A fine smooth-faced woolen cloth for men's garments, usually of double width (i.e., a yard and a half); -- so called in distinction from woolens three quarters of a yard wide.
broaden		To grow broad; to become broader or wider.
broadish		Rather broad; moderately broad.
broadleaf		A tree (Terminalia latifolia) of Jamaica, the wood of which is used for boards, scantling, shingles, etc; -- sometimes called the almond tree, from the shape of its fruit.
broadly		In a broad manner.
broadmouth		One of the Eurylaimidæ, a family of East Indian passerine birds.
broadness		The condition or quality of being broad; breadth; coarseness; grossness.
broadpiece		An old English gold coin, broader than a guinea, as a Carolus or Jacobus.
broadseal	Obsolete	To stamp with the broad seal; to make sure; to guarantee or warrant.
broadside		(Naut.) The side of a ship above the water line, from the bow to the quarter.
broadspread		Widespread.
broadspreading		Spreading widely.
broadsword		A sword with a broad blade and a cutting edge; a claymore.
broadwise	Archaic	Breadthwise.
brob		A peculiar brad-shaped spike, to be driven alongside the end of an abutting timber to prevent its slipping.
brobdingnagian		Colossal' of extraordinary height; gigantic. -- n.
brocade		Silk stuff, woven with gold and silver threads, or ornamented with raised flowers, foliage, etc.; -- also applied to other stuffs thus wrought and enriched.
brocaded		Woven or worked, as brocade, with gold and silver, or with raised flowers, etc. Brocaded flowers o'er the gay mantua shine.
brocage		See Brokkerage.
brocard		An elementary principle or maximum; a short, proverbial rule, in law, ethics, or metaphysics.
brocatel		A kind of coarse brocade, or figured fabric, used chiefly for tapestry, linings for carriages, etc.
brocatello		Same as Brocatel.
broccoli		A plant of the Cabbage species (Brassica oleracea) of many varieties, resembling the cauliflower.
brochantite		A basic sulphate of copper, occurring in emerald-green crystals.
broche		Woven with a figure; as, broché goods. See Broach, n.
brochette		A small spit or skewer. -- En bro`chette" (än), on a brochette; skewered.
brochure		A printed and stitched book containing only a few leaves; a pamphlet.
brock		A badger.
brocket		(Zoöl.) A male red deer two years old; -- sometimes called brock.
brockish	Obsolete	Beastly; brutal.
brodekin	Obsolete	A buskin or half-boot.
brog	Scots	A pointed instrument, as a joiner's awl, a brad awl, a needle, or a small ship stick.
brogan		A stout, coarse shoe; a brogue.
broggle	English dialect	To sniggle, or fish with a brog.
brogue		A stout, coarse shoe; a brogan.
brogues	Obsolete	Breeches.
broid	Obsolete	To braid.
broider	Archaic	To embroider.
broiderer	Archaic	One who embroiders.
broidery	Archaic	Embroidery.
broil		A tumult; a noisy quarrel; a disturbance; a brawl; contention; discord, either between individuals or in the state.
broiler		One who excites broils; one who engages in or promotes noisy quarrels.
broiling		Excessively hot; as, a broiling sun. -- n.
brokage		See Brokerage — the fee, reward, or commission, given or changed for transacting business as a broker.
broke		To transact business for another.
broken		Separated into parts or pieces by violence; divided into fragments; as, a broken chain or rope; a broken dish.
broken-backed		Having a broken back; as, a broken-backed chair.
broken-bellied		Having a ruptured belly.
broken-hearted		Having the spirits depressed or crushed by grief or despair.
broken-winded		Having short breath or disordered respiration, as a horse.
brokenly		In a broken, interrupted manner; in a broken state; in broken language.
brokenness		The state or quality of being broken; unevenness.
broker		One who transacts business for another; an agent.
brokerage		The fee, reward, or commission, given or changed for transacting business as a broker.
brokerly	Obsolete	Mean; servile.
brokery	Obsolete	The business of a broker.
broking	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to a broker or brokers, or to brokerage.
broma		(Med.) Aliment; food.
bromal		An oily, colorless fluid, CBr
bromalin		A colorless or white crystalline compound, (CH2)6N4C2H5Br, used as a sedative in epilepsy.
bromanil		A substance analogous to chloranil but containing bromine in place of chlorine.
bromate		A salt of bromic acid.
bromatologist		One versed in the science of foods.
bromatology		The science of aliments.
brome		See Bromine — one of the elements, related in its chemical qualities to chlorine and iodine.
bromeliaceous		Pertaining to, or resembling, a family of endogenous and mostly epiphytic or saxicolous plants of which the genera Tillandsia and Billbergia are examples.
bromic		Of, pertaining to, or containing, bromine; -- said of those compounds of bromine in which this element has a valence of five, or the next to its highest; as, bromic acid.
bromide		A compound of bromine with a positive radical.
bromidiom	Slang	A conventional comment or saying, such as those characteristic of bromides.
brominate		See Bromate, v. t.
bromine		One of the elements, related in its chemical qualities to chlorine and iodine.
bromism		A diseased condition produced by the excessive use of bromine or one of its compounds.
bromize		To prepare or treat with bromine; as, to bromize a silvered plate.
bromlife		A carbonate of baryta and lime, intermediate between witherite and strontianite; -- called also alstonite.
bromoform		A colorless liquid, CHBr3, having an agreeable odor and sweetish taste.
bromogelatin		Designating or pertaining to, a process of preparing dry plates with an emulsion of bromides and silver nitrate in gelatin.
bromoiodism		Poisoning induced by large doses of bromine and iodine or of their compounds.
bromoiodized		Treated with bromides and iodides.
bromol		A crystalline substance (chemically, tribromophenol, C6H2Br3OH), used as an antiseptic and disinfectant.
brompicrin		A pungent colorless explosive liquid, CNO2Br3, analogous to and resembling chlorpicrin.
bromuret	Obsolete	See Bromide — a compound of bromine with a positive radical.
bromyrite		Silver bromide, a rare mineral; -- called also bromargyrite.
bronchi		See Bronchus — one of the subdivisions of the trachea or windpipe; esp. one of the two primary divisions.
bronchia		The bronchial tubes which arise from the branching of the trachea, esp. the subdivision of the bronchi.
bronchial		Belonging to the bronchi and their ramifications in the lungs.
bronchic		Bronchial.
bronchiole		A minute bronchial tube.
bronchitic		Of or pertaining to bronchitis; as, bronchitic inflammation.
bronchitis		Inflammation, acute or chronic, of the bronchial tubes or any part of them.
broncho		A native or a Mexican horse of small size.
broncho-pneumonia		Inflammation of the bronchi and lungs; catarrhal pneumonia.
bronchocele		See Goiter — an enlargement of the thyroid gland, on the anterior part of the neck; bronchocele.
bronchophony		A modification of the voice sounds, by which they are intensified and heightened in pitch; -- observed in auscultation of the chest in certain cases of intro-thoracic disease.
bronchotome		An instrument for cutting into the bronchial tubes.
bronchotomy		An incision into the windpipe or larynx, including the operations of tracheotomy and laryngotomy.
bronchus		One of the subdivisions of the trachea or windpipe; esp. one of the two primary divisions.
bronco		Same as Broncho.
brond	Obsolete	A sword.
brontograph		(a) A tracing or chart showing the phenomena attendant on thunderstorms.
brontolite		An aërolite.
brontolith		An aërolite.
brontology		A treatise upon thunder.
brontometer		An instrument for noting or recording phenomena attendant on thunderstorms.
brontosaurus		A genus of American jurassic dinosaurs.
brontotherium		A genus of large extinct mammals from the miocene strata of western North America.
brontozoum		An extinct animal of large size, known from its three-toed footprints in Mesozoic sandstone.
bronze		An alloy of copper and tin, to which small proportions of other metals, especially zinc, are sometimes added.
bronzewing		An Australian pigeon of the genus Phaps, of several species; -- so called from its bronze plumage.
bronzine		A metal so prepared as to have the appearance of bronze. -- a.
bronzing		The act or art of communicating to articles in metal, wood, clay, plaster, etc., the appearance of bronze by means of bronze powders, or imitative painting, or by chemical processes.
bronzist		One who makes, imitates, collects, or deals in, bronzes.
bronzite		A variety of enstatite, often having a bronzelike luster.
bronzy		Like bronze.
brooch		An ornament, in various forms, with a tongue, pin, or loop for attaching it to a garment; now worn at the breast by women; a breastpin.
brood		The young birds hatched at one time; a hatch; as, a brood of chicken.
broody		Inclined to brood.
brook		A natural stream of water smaller than a river or creek.
brookite		A mineral consisting of titanic oxide, and hence identical with rutile and octahedrite in composition, but crystallizing in the orthorhombic system.
brooklet		A small brook.
brooklime		A plant (Veronica Beccabunga), with flowers, usually blue, in axillary racemes.
brookside		The bank of a brook.
brookweed		A small white-flowered herb (Samolus Valerandi) found usually in wet places; water pimpernel.
broom		(Bot.) A plant having twigs suitable for making brooms to sweep with when bound together; esp., the Cytisus scoparius of Western Europe, which is a low shrub with long, straight, green, angular branches, mintue leaves…
broomstaff	Obsolete	A broomstick.
broomstick		A stick used as a handle of a broom.
broomy		Of or pertaining to broom; overgrowing with broom; resembling broom or a broom.
brose	Scots	Pottage made by pouring some boiling liquid on meal (esp. oatmeal), and stirring it.
brotel	Obsolete	Brittle.
brotelness	Obsolete	Brittleness.
broth		Liquid in which flesh (and sometimes other substances, as barley or rice) has been boiled; thin or simple soup.
brothel		A house of lewdness or ill fame; a house frequented by prostitutes; a bawdyhouse.
brotheler		One who frequents brothels.
brothelry		Lewdness; obscenity; a brothel.
brother		A male person who has the same father and mother with another person, or who has one of them only.
brother-in-law		The brother of one's husband or wife; also, the husband of one's sister; sometimes, the husband of one's wife's sister.
brotherhood		The state of being brothers or a brother.
brotherliness		The state or quality of being brotherly.
brotherly		Of or pertaining to brothers; such as is natural for brothers; becoming to brothers; kind; affectionate; as, brotherly love.
brouded	Obsolete	Braided; broidered.
brougham		A light, close carriage, with seats inside for two or four, and the fore wheels so arranged as to turn short.
brow		The prominent ridge over the eye, with the hair that covers it, forming an arch above the orbit.
browbeat		To depress or bear down with haughty, stern looks, or with arrogant speech and dogmatic assertions; to abash or disconcert by impudent or abusive words or looks; to bully; as, to browbeat witnesses.
browbeating		The act of bearing down, abashing, or disconcerting, with stern looks, suspercilious manners, or confident assertions.
browbound		Crowned; having the head encircled as with a diadem.
browdyng	Obsolete	Embroidery.
browed		Having (such) a brow; -- used in composition; as, dark-browed, stern-browed.
browless		Without shame.
brown		Of a dark color, of various shades between black and red or yellow.
brownback		The dowitcher or red-breasted snipe. See Dowitcher.
brownian		Pertaining to Dr. Robert Brown, who first demonstrated (about 1827) the commonness of the motion described below.
brownie	Scots	An imaginary good-natured spirit, who was supposed often to perform important services around the house by night, such as thrashing, churning, sweeping.
browning		The act or operation of giving a brown color, as to gun barrels, etc.
brownish		Somewhat brown.
brownism		The views or teachings of Robert Brown of the Brownists.
brownist		A follower of Robert Brown, of England, in the 16th century, who taught that every church is complete and independent in itself when organized, and consists of members meeting in one place…
brownness		The quality or state of being brown.
brownstone		A dark variety of sandstone, much used for building purposes.
brownwort		A species of figwort or Scrophularia (S. vernalis), and other species of the same genus, mostly perennials with inconspicuous coarse flowers.
browny		Brown or, somewhat brown.
browpost		A beam that goes across a building.
browse		The tender branches or twigs of trees and shrubs, fit for the food of cattle and other animals; green food.
browser		An animal that browses.
browsewood		Srubs and bushes upon which animals browse.
browsing		Browse; also, a place abounding with shrubs where animals may browse.
browspot		A rounded organ between the eyes of the frog; the interocular gland.
bruang		The Malayan sun bear.
brucine		A poweful vegetable alkaloid, found, associated with strychnine, in the seeds of different species of Strychnos, especially in the Nux vomica.
brucite		(a) A white, pearly mineral, occurring thin and foliated, like talc, and also fibrous; a native magnesium hydrate.
bruckeled	Obsolete	Wet and dirty; begrimed.
bruh		The rhesus monkey. See Rhesus.
bruin		A bear; -- so called in popular tales and fables.
bruise		To injure, as by a blow or collision, without laceration; to contuse; as, to bruise one's finger with a hammer; to bruise the bark of a tree with a stone; to bruise an apple by letting it fall.
bruiser		One who, or that which, bruises.
bruisewort		A plant supposed to heal bruises, as the true daisy, the soapwort, and the comfrey.
bruit		Report; rumor; fame.
brumaire		The second month of the calendar adopted by the first French republic.
brumal		Of or pertaining to winter.
brume		Mist; fog; vapors.
brummagem	Slang	Counterfeit; gaudy but worthless; sham.
brumous		Foggy; misty.
brun	Scots	Same as Brun, a brook.
brunette		A girl or woman with a somewhat brown or dark complexion. -- a.
brunion		A nectarine.
brunonian		Pertaining to, or invented by, Brown; -- a term applied to a system of medicine promulgated in the 18th century by John Brown, of Scotland, the fundamental doctrine of which was…
brunt		The heat, or utmost violence, of an onset; the strength or greatest fury of any contention; as, the brunt of a battle.
brush		An instrument composed of bristles, or other like material, set in a suitable back or handle, as of wood, bone, or ivory, and used for various purposes, as in removing dust from clothes, laying on colors…
brusher		One who, or that which, brushes.
brushiness		The quality of resembling a brush; brushlike condition; shagginess.
brushing		Constructed or used to brush with; as a brushing machine.
brushite		A white or gray crystalline mineral consisting of the acid phosphate of calcium.
brushwood		Brush; a thicket or coppice of small trees and shrubs.
brushy		Resembling a brush; shaggy; rough.
brusk		Same as Brusque.
brusque		Rough and prompt in manner; blunt; abrupt; hluff; as, a brusque man; a brusque style.
brusqueness		Quality of being brusque; roughness joined with promptness; blutness.
brussels		A city of Belgium, giving its name to a kind of carpet, a kind of lace, etc. Brussels carpet, a kind of carpet made of worsted yarn fixed in a foundation web of strong linen thread.
brustle	Obsolete	To crackle; to rustle, as a silk garment.
brut	Obsolete	To browse.
bruta		See Edentata — an order of mammals including the armadillos, sloths, and anteaters; -- called also Bruta.
brutal		Of or pertaining to a brute; as, brutal nature.
brutalism		Brutish quality; brutality.
brutality		The quality of being brutal; inhumanity; savageness; pitilessness.
brutalization		The act or process of making brutal; state of being brutalized.
brutalize		To make brutal; beasty; unfeeling; or inhuman.
brutally		In a brutal manner; cruelly.
brute		Not having sensation; senseless; inanimate; unconscious; without intelligence or volition; as, the brute earth; the brute powers of nature.
brutely		In a rude or violent manner.
bruteness	Obsolete	Brutality.
brutify		To make like a brute; to make senseless, stupid, or unfeeling; to brutalize.
bruting	Obsolete	Browsing.
brutish		Pertaining to, or resembling, a brute or brutes; of a cruel, gross, and stupid nature; coarse; unfeeling; unintelligent.
brutism		The nature or characteristic qualities or actions of a brute; extreme stupidity, or beastly vulgarity.
bryological		Relating to bryology; as, bryological studies.
bryologist		One versed in bryology.
bryology		That part of botany which relates to mosses.
bryonin		A bitter principle obtained from the root of the bryony (Bryonia alba and B. dioica).
bryony		The common name of several cucurbitaceous plants of the genus Bryonia.
bryophyta		See Cryptogamia — the series or division of flowerless plants, or those never having true stamens and pistils, but propagated by spores of various kinds.
bryozoa		A class of Molluscoidea, including minute animals which by budding form compound colonies; -- called also Polyzoa.
bryozoan		Of or pertaining to the Bryozoa. -- n.
bryozoum		An individual zooid of a bryozoan coralline, of which there may be two or more kinds in a single colony.
