buansuah		The wild dog of northern India (Cuon primævus), supposed by some to be an ancestral species of the domestic dog.	
buat	Scots	A lantern; also, the moon.	
bub	Obsolete	Strong malt liquor.	
bubale		A large antelope (Alcelaphus bubalis) of Egypt and the Desert of Sahara, supposed by some to be the fallow deer of the Bible.	
bubaline		Resembling a buffalo.	
bubble		A thin film of liquid inflated with air or gas; as, a soap bubble; bubbles on the surface of a river.	
bubbler		One who cheats.	
bubbly		Abounding in bubbles; bubbling.	
bubby	Low	A woman's breast.	
bubo		An inflammation, with enlargement, of a limphatic gland, esp. in the groin, as in syphilis.	Latin bubo, from Greek βουβών.
bubonic		Of or pertaining to a bubo or buboes; characterized by buboes.	
bubonocele		An inguinal hernia; esp. that incomplete variety in which the hernial pouch descends only as far as the groin, forming a swelling there like a bubo.	
bubukle		A red pimple.	
buccal		Of or pertaining to the mouth or cheeks.	
buccan		A wooden frame or grid for roasting, smoking, or drying meat over fire.	
buccaneer		A robber upon the sea; a pirate; -- a term applied especially to the piratical adventurers who made depredations on the Spaniards in America in the 17th and 18th centuries.	
buccaneerish		Like a buccaneer; piratical.	
buccinal		Shaped or sounding like a trumpet; trumpetlike.	
buccinator		A muscle of the cheek; -- so called from its use in blowing wind instruments.	
buccinoid		Resembling the genus Buccinum, or pertaining to the Buccinidæ, a family of marine univalve shells.	
buccinum		A genus of large univalve mollusks abundant in the arctic seas.	
bucentaur		A fabulous monster, half ox, half man.	
bucephalus		The celebrated war horse of Alexander the Great.	
buceros		A genus of large perching birds; the hornbills.	
bucholzite		Same as Fibrolite.	
buchu		A South African shrub (Barosma) with small leaves that are dotted with oil dlands; also, the leaves themselves, which are used in medicine for diseases of the urinary organs, etc. Several species furnish the leaves.	
buck		Lye or suds in which cloth is soaked in the operation of bleaching, or in which clothes are washed.	Middle English buc, from Old English bucca.
buck-basket		A basket in which clothes are carried to the wash.	
buck-eyed		Having bad or speckled eyes.	
buckboard		A four-wheeled vehicle, having a long elastic board or frame resting on the bolsters or axletrees, and a seat or seats placed transversely upon it; -- called also buck wagon.	
bucker		One who bucks ore.	
bucket		A vessel for drawing up water from a well, or for catching, holding, or carrying water, sap, or other liquids.	Middle English buket.
buckety		Paste used by weavers to dress their webs.	
buckeye		(Bot.) A name given to several American trees and shrubs of the same genus (Æsculus) as the horse chestnut.	
buckhound		A hound for hunting deer.	
buckie	Scots	A large spiral marine shell, esp. the common whelk. See Buccinum.	
bucking		The act or process of soaking or boiling cloth in an alkaline liquid in the operation of bleaching; also, the liquid used.	
buckish		Dandified; foppish.	
buckle		A device, usually of metal, consisting of a frame with one more movable tongues or catches, used for fastening things together, as parts of dress or harness, by means of a strap passing through the frame and pierced by the tongue.	
buckler		A kind of shield, of various shapes and sizes, worn on one of the arms (usually the left) for protecting the front of the body.	Old French boucler.
buckler-headed		Having a head like a buckler.	
buckling		Wavy; curling, as hair.	
buckra		A white man; -- a term used by negroes of the African coast, West Indies, etc. White; white man's; strong; good; as, buckra yam, a white yam.	
buckram		A coarse cloth of linen or hemp, stiffened with size or glue, used in garments to keep them in the form intended, and for wrappers to cover merchandise.	Middle English bukeram, from Konkomba bokeram, from Old French boquerant.
buckshot		A coarse leaden shot, larger than swan shot, used in hunting deer and large game.	
buckskin		A soft strong leather, usually yellowish or grayish in color, made of deerskin.	
buckstall		A toil or net to take deer.	
buckthorn		A genus (Rhamnus) of shrubs or trees.	
bucktooth		Any tooth that juts out.	
buckwheat		(Bot.) A plant (Fagopyrum esculentum) of the Polygonum family, the seed of which is used for food.	
bucolic		Of or pertaining to the life and occupation of a shepherd; pastoral; rustic.	Latin bucolicum.
bucolical		Bucolic.	
bucranium		A sculptured ornament, representing an ox skull adorned with wreaths, etc.	
bud		(Bot.) A small protuberance on the stem or branches of a plant, containing the rudiments of future leaves, flowers, or stems; an undeveloped branch or flower.	
buddha		The title of an incarnation of self-abnegation, virtue, and wisdom, or a deified religious teacher of the Buddhists, esp. Gautama Siddartha or Sakya Sinha (or Muni), the founder of Buddhism.	
buddhism		The religion based upon the doctrine originally taught by the Hindoo sage Gautama Siddartha, surnamed Buddha, in the sixth century b.c.…	
buddhist		One who accepts the teachings of Buddhism.	
buddhistic		Same as Buddhist, a.	
budding		The act or process of producing buds.	
buddle		An apparatus, especially an inclined trough or vat, in which stamped ore is concentrated by subjecting it to the action of rynning water so as to wash out the lighter and less valuable portions.	
budge		Lined with budge; hence, scholastic.	French bouger.
budgeness	Obsolete	Sternness; severity.	
budger		One who budges.	
budgerow		A large and commodious, but generally cumbrous and sluggish boat, used for journeys on the Ganges.	
budget		A bag or sack with its contents; hence, a stock or store; an accumulation; as, a budget of inventions.	
budgy	Obsolete	Consisting of fur.	
budlet		A little bud springing from a parent bud.	
buff		A sort of leather, prepared from the skin of the buffalo, dressed with oil, like chamois; also, the skins of oxen, elks, and other animals, dressed in like manner.	
buffa		The comic actress in an opera. -- a.	
buffalo		(Zoöl.) A species of the genus Bos or Bubalus (B. bubalus), originally from India, but now found in most of the warmer countries of the eastern continent.	Portuguese búfalo.
buffer		(Mech.) (a) An elastic apparatus or fender, for deadening the jar caused by the collision of bodies; as, a buffer at the end of a railroad car.	
bufferhead		The head of a buffer, which recieves the concussion, in railroad carriages.	
buffet		A cupboard or set of shelves, either movable or fixed at one side of a room, for the display of plate, china, etc., a sideboard.	
buffeter		One who buffets; a boxer.	
buffeting		A striking with the hand.	
buffin	Obsolete	A sort of coarse stuff; as, buffin gowns.	
buffle	Obsolete	The buffalo.	
buffle-headed	Obsolete	Having a large head, like a buffalo; dull; stupid; blundering.	
bufflehead		(Zoöl.) The buffel duck. See Buffel duck.	
buffo		The comic actor in an opera.	Italian buffo.
buffoon		A man who makes a practice of amusing others by low tricks, antic gestures, etc.; a droll; a mimic; a harlequin; a clown; a merry-andrew.	Middle French bouffon, from Italian buffone.
buffoonery		The arts and practices of a buffoon, as low jests, ridiculous pranks, vulgar tricks and postures.	
buffoonish		Like a buffoon; consisting in low jests or gestures.	
buffoonism		The practices of a buffoon; buffoonery.	
buffoonly		Low; vulgar.	
buffy		Resembling, or characterized by, buff.	
bufo		A genus of Amphibia including various species of toads.	
bufonite		An old name for a fossil consisting of the petrified teeth and palatal bones of fishes belonging to the family of Pycnodonts (thick teeth), whose remains occur in the oölite and chalk formations; toadstone…	
bug		(Zoöl.) A general name applied to various insects belonging to the Hemiptera; as, the squash bug; the chinch bug, etc.	
bugaboo		Something frightful, as a specter; anything imaginary that causes needless fright; something used to excite needless fear; also, something really dangerous, used to frighten children, etc. But…	
bugbane		A perennial white-flowered herb of the order Ranunculaceæ and genus Cimiciguga; bugwort.	
bugbear		Something frightful, as a specter; anything imaginary that causes needless fright; something used to excite needless fear; also, something really dangerous, used to frighten children, etc. But…	
bugfish		The menhaden.	
bugger		One guilty of buggery or unnatural vice; a sodomite.	French bougre, from Latin Bulgarus.
buggery		Unnatural sexual intercourse; sodomy.	
bugginess		The state of being infested with bugs.	
buggy		Infested or abounding with bugs.	
bugle		A horn used by hunters.	
bugled		Ornamented with bugles.	
bugler		One who plays on a bugle.	
bugleweed		A plant of the Mint family and genus Lycopus; esp. L.	
bugloss		A plant of the genus Anchusa, and especially the A. officinalis, sometimes called alkanet; oxtongue.	French buglosse, from Latin buglossa.
bugwort		Bugbane.	
buhl		Decorative woodwork in which tortoise shell, yellow metal, white metal, etc., are inlaid, forming scrolls, cartouches, etc.	
buhlbuhl		See Bulbul — the persian nightingale (Pycnonotus jocosus).	
buhlwork		Decorative woodwork in which tortoise shell, yellow metal, white metal, etc., are inlaid, forming scrolls, cartouches, etc.	
buhrstone		A cellular, flinty rock, used for mill stones.	
build		To erect or construct, as an edifice or fabric of any kind; to form by uniting materials into a regular structure; to fabricate; to make; to raise.	Middle English bilden, from Old English byldan.
builder		One who builds; one whose occupation is to build, as a carpenter, a shipwright, or a mason.	
building		The act of constructing, erecting, or establishing. Hence it is that the building of our Sion rises no faster.	
built	Obsolete	Shape; build; form of structure; as, the built of a ship.	
bukshish		See Backsheesh — in Egypt and the Turkish empire, a gratuity; a "tip".	
bulau		An East Indian insectivorous mammal (Gymnura Rafflesii), somewhat like a rat in appearance, but allied to the hedgehog.	
bulb		(Bot.) A spheroidal body growing from a plant either above or below the ground (usually below), which is strictly a bud, consisting of a cluster of partially developed leaves, and producing, as it grows, a stem above…	Middle French bulbe, from Latin bulbus, from Greek βολβός.
bulbaceous		Bulbous.	Latin bulbaceus.
bulbar		Of or pertaining to bulb; especially, in medicine, pertaining to the bulb of the spinal cord, or medulla oblongata; as, bulbar paralysis.	
bulbed		Having a bulb; round-headed.	
bulbel		A separable bulb formed on some flowering plants.	
bulbiferous		Producing bulbs.	
bulbil		(Bot.) A small or secondary bulb; hence, now almost exclusively: An aërial bulb or deciduous bud, produced in the leaf axils, as in the tiger lily, or relpacing the flowers, as in some onions, and capable, when separated…	
bulblet		A small bulb, either produced on a larger bulb, or on some aërial part of a plant, as in the axils of leaves in the tiger lily, or replacing the flowers in some kinds of onion.	
bulbose		Bulbous.	
bulbous		Having or containing bulbs, or a bulb; growing from bulbs; bulblike in shape or structure.	
bulbul		The Persian nightingale (Pycnonotus jocosus).	Persian بلبل, from Arabic بلبل.
bulbule		A small bulb; a bulblet.	Latin bulbulus.
bulchin		A little bull.	
bulge		The bilge or protuberant part of a cask.	
bulger		A driver or a brassy with a convex face.	
bulgy	Colloquial	Bulged; bulging; bending, or tending to bend, outward.	
bulimia		A disease in which there is a perpetual and insatiable appetite for food; a diseased and voracious appetite.	
bulimus		A genus of land snails having an elongated spiral shell, often of large size.	
bulimy		A disease in which there is a perpetual and insatiable appetite for food; a diseased and voracious appetite.	
bulk		Magnitude of material substance; dimensions; mass; size; as, an ox or ship of great bulk.	Middle English bolke, from Old Norse búlki.
bulker		A person employed to ascertain the bulk or size of goods, in order to fix the amount of freight or dues payable on them.	
bulkhead		(Naut.) A partition in a vessel, to separate apartments on the same deck.	
bulkiness		Greatness in bulk; size.	
bulky		Of great bulk or dimensions; of great size; large; thick; massive; as, bulky volumes.	
bull		(Zoöl.) The male of any species of cattle (Bovidæ); hence, the male of any large quadruped, as the elephant; also, the male of the whale.	Middle English bulle, from Old French bulle, from Latin bulla.
bull-necked		Having a short and thick neck like that of a bull.	
bull-roarer		A contrivance consisting of a slat of wood tied to the end of a thong or string, with which the slat is whirled so as to cause an intermittent roaring noise.	
bulla		(Med.) A bleb; a vesicle, or an elevation of the cuticle, containing a transparent watery fluid.	Latin bulla.
bullace		(a) A small European plum (Prunus communis, var. insitita). See Plum. (b) The bully tree.	Middle English bolas.
bullantic		Pertaining to, or used in, papal bulls.	
bullary		A collection of papal bulls.	
bullate		Appearing as if blistered; inflated; puckered.	
bullbeggar		Something used or suggested to produce terror, as in children or persons of weak mind; a bugbear.	
bullcomber		A scaraboid beetle; esp. the Typhæus vulgaris of Europe.	
bulldog		(Zoöl.) A variety of dog, of remarkable ferocity, courage, and tenacity of grip; -- so named, probably, from being formerly employed in baiting bulls.	
bulldoze	Slang	To intimidate; to restrain or coerce by intimidation or violence; -- used originally of the intimidation of negro voters, in Louisiana.	
bulldozer	Slang	One who bulldozes.	
bulled	Obsolete	Swollen.	
bullen-bullen		The lyre bird.	
bullen-nail		A nail with a round head and short shank, tinned and lacquered.	
bullet		A missile, usually of lead, and round or elongated in form, to be discharged from a rifle, musket, pistol, or other small firearm.	Middle French boulette.
bullet-proof		Capable of resisting the force of a bullet.	
bulletin		A brief statement of facts respecting some passing event, as military operations or the health of some distinguished personage, issued by authority for the information of the public.	French bulletin, from Italian bulletino.
bullfaced		Having a large face.	
bullfeast	Obsolete	See Bullfight — a barbarous sport, of great antiquity, in which men torment, and fight with, a bull or bulls in an arena, for public amusement, -- still popular in Spain. -- Bull"fight`er (, n.	
bullfice		A kind of fungus. See Puffball.	
bullfight		A barbarous sport, of great antiquity, in which men torment, and fight with, a bull or bulls in an arena, for public amusement, -- still popular in Spain. -- Bull"fight`er (, n.	
bullfighting		A barbarous sport, of great antiquity, in which men torment, and fight with, a bull or bulls in an arena, for public amusement, -- still popular in Spain. -- Bull"fight`er (, n.	
bullfinch		A bird of the genus Pyrrhula and other related genera, especially the P. vulgaris or rubicilla, a bird of Europe allied to the grosbeak, having the breast, cheeks, and neck, red.	
bullfist		A kind of fungus. See Puffball.	
bullfly		Any large fly troublesome to cattle, as the gadflies and breeze flies.	
bullfrog		A very large species of frog (Rana Catesbiana), found in North America; -- so named from its loud bellowing in spring.	
bullhead		(Zoöl.) (a) A fresh-water fish of many species, of the genus Uranidea, esp. U. gobio of Europe, and U.	
bullheaded		Having a head like that of a bull.	
bullion		Uncoined gold or silver in the mass.	Middle English bulloin.
bullionist		An advocate for a metallic currency, or a paper currency always convertible into gold.	
bullirag	Low	To intimidate by bullying; to rally contemptuously; to badger.	
bullish		Partaking of the nature of a bull, or a blunder.	
bullist		A writer or drawer up of papal bulls.	French bulliste.
bullition	Obsolete	The action of boiling; boiling. See Ebullition.	Latin bullire.
bullock		A young bull, or any male of the ox kind.	Old English bulluc.
bullon		A West Indian fish (Scarus Croicensis).	
bullpout		See Bullhead, 1 (b).	
bullweed		Knapweed.	
bullwort		See Bishop's-weed.	
bully		A noisy, blustering fellow, more insolent than courageous; one who is threatening and quarrelsome; an insolent, tyrannical fellow.	
bullyrag		Same as Bullirag.	
bullyrock	Slang obs	A bully.	
bulrush		A kind of large rush, growing in wet land or in water.	
bulse		A purse or bag in which to carry or measure diamonds, etc. Macaulay.	
bultel	Obsolete	A bolter or bolting cloth; also, bran.	
bulti		Same as Bolty.	
bultong		Biltong.	
bultow		A trawl; a boulter; the mod	
bulwark		That which secures against an enemy, or defends from attack; any means of defense or protection.	
bum	Low	The buttock.	
bumbailiff		See Bound bailiff, under Bound, a.	
bumbard	Obsolete	See Bombard — (Gun.) A piece of heavy ordnance formerly used for throwing stones and other ponderous missiles.	
bumbarge		See Bumboat — a clumsy boat, used for conveying provisions, fruit, etc., for sale, to vessels lying in port or off shore.	
bumbast	Obsolete	See Bombast — originally, cotton, or cotton wool.	
bumbelo		A glass used in subliming camphor.	
bumble	Dialect	The bittern.	
bumblebee		A large bee of the genus Bombus, sometimes called humblebee; -- so named from its sound.	
bumblepuppy		The old game of nineholes.	
bumboat		A clumsy boat, used for conveying provisions, fruit, etc., for sale, to vessels lying in port or off shore.	
bumkin		A projecting beam or boom; as: (a) One projecting from each bow of a vessel, to haul the fore tack to, called a tack bumpkin.	
bummalo		A small marine Asiatic fish (Saurus ophidon) used in India as a relish; -- called also Bombay duck.	
bummer	Slang	An idle, worthless fellow, who is without any visible means of support; a dissipated sponger.	German Bummler.
bummery	Obsolete	See Bottomery.	
bump		To strike, as with or against anything large or solid; to thump; as, to bump the head against a wall.	
bumper		A cup or glass filled to the brim, or till the liquor runs over, particularly in drinking a health or toast.	
bumpkin		An awkward, heavy country fellow; a clown; a country lout.	Dutch boomken.
bumptious	Colloquial	Self-conceited; forward; pushing.	
bumptiousness	Colloquial	Conceitedness.	
bun		A slightly sweetened raised cake or bisquit with a glazing of sugar and milk on the top crust.	Middle English bunne, from Anglo-Norman bugne.
bunch		A collection, cluster, or tuft, properly of things of the same kind, growing or fastened together; as, a bunch of grapes; a bunch of keys.	
bunch-backed		Having a bunch on the back; crooked.	
bunchberry		The dwarf cornel (Cornus Canadensis), which bears a dense cluster of bright red, edible berries.	
bunchiness		The quality or condition of being bunchy; knobbiness.	
bunchy		Swelling out in bunches.	
buncombe		Speech-making for the gratification of constituents, or to gain public applause; flattering talk for a selfish purpose; anything said for mere show.	
bund		League; confederacy; esp. the confederation of German states.	
bunder		A boat or raft used in the East Indies in the landing of passengers and goods.	
bundes-versammlung		See Legislature, Switzerland.	
bundesrath		The federal council of the German Empire.	
bundle		A number of things bound together, as by a cord or envelope, into a mass or package convenient for handling or conveyance; a loose package; a roll; as, a bundle of straw or of paper; a bundle of old clothes.	
bundobust		System; discipline.	
bung		The large stopper of the orifice in the bilge of a cask.	Yagara bang.
bungalow		A thatched or tiled house or cottage, of a single story, usually surrounded by a veranda.	Gujarati બંગલો, from Hindi बंगला.
bungarum		A venomous snake of India, of the genus Bungarus, allied to the cobras, but without a hood.	
bunghole		See Bung, n.,	
bungle		To act or work in a clumsy, awkward manner.	
bungler		A clumsy, awkward workman; one who bungles.	
bungling		Unskillful; awkward; clumsy; as, a bungling workman.	
bunglingly		Clumsily; awkwardly.	
bungo		A kind of canoe used in Central and South America; also, a kind of boat used in the Southern United States.	
bunion		Same as Bunyon.	
bunk		A wooden case or box, which serves for a seat in the daytime and for a bed at night.	
bunker	Scots	A sort of chest or box, as in a window, the lid of which serves for a seat.	
bunko	Slang	A kind of swindling game or scheme, by means of cards or by a sham lottery.	
bunkum		Speech-making for the gratification of constituents, or to gain public applause; flattering talk for a selfish purpose; anything said for mere show.	
bunn		A slightly sweetened raised cake or bisquit with a glazing of sugar and milk on the top crust.	
bunnian		See Bunyon — an enlargement and inflammation of a small membranous sac (one of the bursæ muscosæ), usually occurring on the first joint of the great toe.	
bunny		A great collection of ore without any vein coming into it or going out from it.	Middle English bony.
bunodonta		A division of the herbivorous mammals including the hogs and hippopotami; -- so called because the teeth are tuberculated.	
bunodonts		A division of the herbivorous mammals including the hogs and hippopotami; -- so called because the teeth are tuberculated.	
bunt		A fungus (Ustilago foetida) which affects the ear of cereals, filling the grains with a fetid dust; -- also called pepperbrand.	
bunter		A woman who picks up rags in the streets; hence, a low, vulgar woman.	
buntine		A thin woolen stuff, used chiefly for flags, colors, and ships' signals.	
bunting		A bird of the genus Emberiza, or of an allied genus, related to the finches and sparrows (family Fringillidæ).	
buntline		One of the ropes toggled to the footrope of a sail, used to haul up to the yard the body of the sail when taking it in.	
bunyon		An enlargement and inflammation of a small membranous sac (one of the bursæ muscosæ), usually occurring on the first joint of the great toe.	
buoy		A float; esp. a floating object moored to the bottom, to mark a channel or to point out the position of something beneath the water, as an anchor, shoal, rock, etc. Anchor buoy, a buoy attached to, or marking the position of…	
buoyage		Buoys, taken collectively; a series of buoys, as for the guidance of vessels into or out of port; the providing of buoys.	
buoyance		Buoyancy.	
buoyancy		The property of floating on the surface of a liquid, or in a fluid, as in the atmosphere; specific lightness, which is inversely as the weight compared with that of an equal volume of water.	
buoyant		Having the quality of rising or floating in a fluid; tending to rise or float; as, iron is buoyant in mercury.	
buprestidan		One of a tribe of beetles, of the genus Buprestis and allied genera, usually with brilliant metallic colors.	Latin buprestis.
bur		(Bot.) Any rough or prickly envelope of the seeds of plants, whether a pericarp, a persistent calyx, or an involucre, as of the chestnut and burdock.	
burbolt	Obsolete	A birdbolt.	
burbot		A fresh-water fish of the genus Lota, having on the nose two very small barbels, and a larger one on the chin.	
burdelais		A sort of grape.	
burden		That which is borne or carried; a load.	Old English byrþen.
burdener		One who loads; a oppressor.	
burdenous	Obsolete	Burdensome.	
burdensome		Grievous to be borne; causing uneasiness or fatigue; oppressive.	
burdock		A genus of coarse biennial herbs (Lappa), bearing small burs which adhere tenaciously to clothes, or to the fur or wool of animals.	
burdon		A pilgrim's staff.	
bureau		Originally, a desk or writing table with drawers for papers.	
bureaucracy		A system of carrying on the business of government by means of departments or bureaus, each under the control of a chief…	
bureaucrat		An official of a bureau; esp. an official confirmed in a narrow and arbitrary routine.	French bureaucrate.
bureaucratic		Of, relating to, or resembling, a bureaucracy.	
bureaucratical		Of, relating to, or resembling, a bureaucracy.	
bureaucratist		An advocate for, or supporter of, bureaucracy.	
burel		Same as Borrel.	
burette		An apparatus for delivering measured quantities of liquid or for measuring the quantity of liquid or gas received or discharged.	
burg	Obsolete	A fortified town.	
burgage		A tenure by which houses or lands are held of the king or other lord of a borough or city; at a certain yearly rent, or by services relating to trade or handicraft.	
burgall		A small marine fish; -- also called cunner.	
burgamot		See Bergamot — (a) A tree of the Orange family (Citrus bergamia), having a roundish or pear-shaped fruit, from the rind of which an essential oil of delicious odor is extracted, much prized as a perfume.	
burganet		See Burgonet — a kind of helmet.	
burgee		A kind of small coat.	
burgeois		See 1st Bourgeous.	
burgeon		To bud. See Bourgeon.	
burgess		An inhabitant of a borough or walled town, or one who possesses a tenement therein; a citizen or freeman of a borough.	Middle English burgeis, from Anglo-Norman burgeis, from Old French borjois, from Latin burgensis.
burgess-ship		The state of privilege of a burgess.	
burggrave		Originally, one appointed to the command of a burg (fortress or castle); but the title afterward became hereditary, with a domain attached.	
burgh		A borough or incorporated town, especially, one in Scotland. See Borough.	
burghal		Belonging of a burgh.	
burghbote		A contribution toward the building or repairing of castles or walls for the defense of a city or town.	Middle English burghbote, from Old English burgbot.
burghbrech		The offense of violating the pledge given by every inhabitant of a tithing to keep the peace; breach of the peace.	
burgher		A freeman of a burgh or borough, entitled to enjoy the privileges of the place; any inhabitant of a borough.	
burghermaster		See Burgomaster — a chief magistrate of a municipal town in Holland, Flanders, and Germany, corresponding to mayor in England and the United States; a burghmaster.	
burghership		The state or privileges of a burgher.	
burghmaster		(Mining) An officer who directs and lays out the meres or boundaries for the workmen; -- called also bailiff, and barmaster.	
burghmote		A court or meeting of a burgh or borough; a borough court held three times yearly.	
burglar		One guilty of the crime of burglary.	
burglarer	Obsolete	A burglar.	
burglarious		Pertaining to burglary; constituting the crime of burglary.	
burglariously		With an intent to commit burglary; in the manner of a burglar.	
burglary		Breaking and entering the dwelling house of another, in the nighttime, with intent to commit a felony therein, whether the felonious purpose be accomplished or not.	
burgomaster		A chief magistrate of a municipal town in Holland, Flanders, and Germany, corresponding to mayor in England and the United States; a burghmaster.	
burgonet		A kind of helmet.	Old French bourguignotte.
burgoo		A kind of oatmeal pudding, or thick gruel, used by seamen.	
burgrass		Grass of the genus Cenchrus, growing in sand, and having burs for fruit.	
burgrave		See Burggrave — originally, one appointed to the command of a burg (fortress or castle); but the title afterward became hereditary, with a domain attached.	
burgundy		An old province of France (in the eastern central part).	
burh	Obsolete	See Burg — a fortified town.	
burhel		The wild Himalayan, or blue, sheep (Ovis burrhel).	
burial		The act of burying; depositing a dead body in the earth, in a tomb or vault, or in the water, usually with attendant ceremonies; sepulture; interment.	Old English byrgels.
burier		One who, or that which, buries.	
burin		The cutting tool of an engraver on metal, used in line engraving.	
burinist		One who works with the burin.	
burion		The red-breasted house sparrow of California (Carpodacus frontalis); -- called also crimson-fronted bullfinch.	
burke		To murder by suffocation, or so as to produce few marks of violence, for the purpose of obtaining a body to be sold for dissection.	
burkism		The practice of killing persons for the purpose of selling their bodies for dissection.	
burl		To dress or finish up (cloth); to pick knots, burs, loose threads, etc., from, as in finishing cloth.	Middle English burle.
burlap		A coarse fabric, made of jute or hemp, used for bagging; also, a finer variety of similar material, used for curtains, etc.	
burler		One who burls or dresses cloth.	
burlesque		Tending to excite laughter or contempt by extravagant images, or by a contrast between the subject and the manner of treating it, as when a trifling subject is treated with mock gravity; jocular; ironical.	French burlesque, from Italian burlesco.
burlesquer		One who burlesques.	
burletta		A comic operetta; a music farce.	
burliness		Quality of being burly.	
burly		Having a large, strong, or gross body; stout; lusty; -- now used chiefly of human beings, but formerly of animals, in the sense of stately or beautiful, and of inanimate things that were huge and bulky.	
burman		A member of the Burman family, one of the four great families Burmah; also, sometimes, any inhabitant of Burmah; a Burmese. -- a.	
burmese		Of or pertaining to Burmah, or its inhabitants. -- n. sing. & pl. A native or the natives of Burmah.	
burn		To consume with fire; to reduce to ashes by the action of heat or fire; -- frequently intensified by up: as, to burn up wood.	Middle English bernen.
burnable		Combustible.	
burned	Obsolete	See Burnt — consumed with, or as with, fire; scorched or dried, as with fire or heat; baked or hardened in the fire or the sun.	
burner		One who, or that which, burns or sets fire to anything.	
burnet		A genus of perennial herbs (Poterium); especially, P.Sanguisorba, the common, or garden, burnet.	
burnettize		To subject (wood, fabrics, etc.) to a process of saturation in a solution of chloride of zinc, to prevent decay; -- a process invented by Sir William Burnett.	
burnie	Scots	A small brook.	
burniebee	English dialect	The ladybird.	
burning		That burns; being on fire; excessively hot; fiery.	
burnish		To cause to shine; to make smooth and bright; to polish; specifically, to polish by rubbing with something hard and smooth; as, to burnish brass or paper.	Old French burnir.
burnisher		One who burnishes.	
burnoose		A cloaklike garment and hood woven in one piece, worn by Arabs.	French burnous, from Arabic برنس, from Greek βίρρος.
burnous		A cloaklike garment and hood woven in one piece, worn by Arabs.	
burnstickle		A stickleback (Gasterosteus aculeatus).	
burnt		Consumed with, or as with, fire; scorched or dried, as with fire or heat; baked or hardened in the fire or the sun.	
burr		(Bot.) Any rough or prickly envelope of the seeds of plants, whether a pericarp, a persistent calyx, or an involucre, as of the chestnut and burdock.	Middle English burre.
burrel		A sort of pear, called also the red butter pear, from its smooth, delicious, soft pulp.	
burrhel		The wild Himalayan, or blue, sheep (Ovis burrhel).	
burro		A donkey.	
burrock		A small weir or dam in a river to direct the stream to gaps where fish traps are placed.	
burrow		An incorporated town. See 1st Borough.	
burrower		One who, or that which, burrows; an animal that makes a hole under ground and lives in it.	
burrstone		See Buhrstone — a cellular, flinty rock, used for mill stones.	
burry		Abounding in burs, or containing burs; resembling burs; as, burry wool.	
bursa		Any sac or saclike cavity; especially, one of the synovial sacs, or small spaces, often lined with synovial membrane, interposed between tendons and bony prominences.	
bursal		Of or pertaining to a bursa or to bursæ.	
bursar		A treasurer, or cash keeper; a purser; as, the bursar of a college, or of a monastery.	Latin bursarius.
bursarship		The office of a bursar.	
bursary		A scholarship or charitable foundation in a university, as in scotland; a sum given to enable a student to pursue his studies.	
bursch		A youth; especially, a student in a german university.	
burschenschaft		In Germany, any of various associations of university students formed (the original one at Jena in 1815) to support liberal ideas, or the organization formed by the affiliation of the local bodies.	
burse	Scots	A fund or foundation for the maintenance of needy scholars in their studies; also, the sum given to the beneficiaries.	
bursiculate		Bursiform.	
bursiform		Shaped like a purse.	Latin bursiformis.
bursitis		Inflammation of a bursa.	
burst		To fly apart or in pieces; of break open; to yield to force or pressure, especially to a sudden and violent exertion of force, or to pressure from within; to explode; as, the boiler had burst; the buds will burst in spring.	Middle English bersten, from Old English berstan.
bursten	Obsolete	p. p. of Burst, v. i.	Middle English bursten.
burster		One that bursts.	
burstwort		A plant (Herniaria glabra) supposed to be valuable for the cure of hernia or rupture.	
burt	English dialect	See Birt — a fish of the turbot kind; the brill.	
burthen	Archaic	See Burden — that which is borne or carried; a load.	
burton		A peculiar tackle, formed of two or more blocks, or pulleys, the weight being suspended of a hook block in the bight of the running part.	
bury	English dialect	A manor house; a castle.	Middle English burien.
bus	Colloquial	An omnibus.	
busby		A military headdress or cap, used in the British army.	
buscon		One who searches for ores; a prospector.	
bush		A thicket, or place abounding in trees or shrubs; a wild forest.	Middle English busch.
bushboy		See Bushman — a woodsman; a settler in the bush.	
bushel		A dry measure, containing four pecks, eight gallons, or thirty-two quarts.	Old French boissel.
bushelage		A duty payable on commodities by the bushel.	
bushelman	Dialect	A tailor's assistant for repairing garments; -- called also busheler.	
bushet		A small bush.	
bushfighter		One accustomed to bushfighting.	
bushfighting		Fighting in the bush, or from behind bushes, trees, or thickets.	
bushhammer		A hammer with a head formed of a bundle of square bars, with pyramidal points, arranged in rows, or a solid head with a face cut into a number of rows of such points; -- used for dressing stone.	
bushido		The unwritten code of moral principles regulating the actions of the Japanese knighthood, or Samurai; the chivalry of Japan.	Japanese 武士道.
bushiness		The condition or quality of being bushy.	
bushing		The operation of fitting bushes, or linings, into holes or places where wear is to be received, or friction diminished, as pivot holes, etc.	
bushless		Free from bushes; bare.	
bushman		A woodsman; a settler in the bush.	
bushment	Obsolete	A thicket; a cluster of bushes.	
bushranger		One who roams, or hides, among the bushes; especially, in Australia, an escaped criminal living in the bush.	
bushwhacker		One accustomed to beat about, or travel through, bushes.	
bushwhacking		Traveling, or working a way, through bushes; pulling by the bushes, as in hauling a boat along the bushy margin of a stream.	
bushy		Thick and spreading, like a bush.	
busily		In a busy manner.	Middle English busily.
business		That which busies one, or that which engages the time, attention, or labor of any one, as his principal concern or interest, whether for a longer or shorter time; constant employment; regular occupation; as, the business of life…	Middle English busines.
businesslike		In the manner of one transacting business wisely and by right methods.	
busk		A thin, elastic strip of metal, whalebone, wood, or other material, worn in the front of a corset.	Middle English busken, from Old Norse búask.
busked		Wearing a busk.	
busket		A part of a garden devoted to shrubs.	
buskin		A strong, protecting covering for the foot, coming some distance up the leg.	
buskined		Wearing buskins.	
busky		See Bosky, and 1st Bush, n.	
buss		A kiss; a rude or playful kiss; a smack.	
bust		A piece of sculpture representing the upper part of the human figure, including the head, shoulders, and breast.	French buste.
bustard		A bird of the genus Otis.	
buster	Slang	Something huge; a roistering blade; also, a spree.	
bustle		To move noisily; to be rudely active; to move in a way to cause agitation or disturbance; as, to bustle through a crowd.	Old Norse búa.
bustler		An active, stirring person.	
bustling		Agitated; noisy; tumultuous; characterized by confused activity; as, a bustling crowd.	
busto		A bust; a statue.	
busy		Engaged in some business; hard at work (either habitually or only for the time being); occupied with serious affairs; not idle nor at leisure; as, a busy merchant.	Middle English busi.
busybody		One who officiously concerns himself with the affairs of others; a meddling person.	
but		Except; besides; save.	Middle English but.
but-thorn		The common European starfish (Asterias rubens).	
butane		An inflammable gaseous hydrocarbon, C4H10, of the marsh gas, or paraffin, series.	
butcher		One who slaughters animals, or dresses their flesh for market; one whose occupation it is to kill animals for food.	
butchering		The act of slaughtering; the act of killing cruelly and needlessly.	
butcherliness		Butchery quality.	
butcherly		Like a butcher; without compunction; savage; bloody; inhuman; fell.	
butchery		Murder or manslaughter, esp. when committed with unusual barbarity; great or cruel slaughter.	
butler		An officer in a king's or a nobleman's household, whose principal business it is to take charge of the liquors, plate, etc.; the head servant in a large house.	Old French butiller.
butlerage		A duty of two shillings on every tun of wine imported into England by merchant strangers; -- so called because paid to the king's butler for the king.	
butlership		The office of a butler.	
butment		(Arch.) A buttress of an arch; the supporter, or that part which joins it to the upright pier.	
butt		A limit; a bound; a goal; the extreme bound; the end.	
butte		A detached low mountain, or high rising abruptly from the general level of the surrounding plain; -- applied to peculiar elevations in the Rocky Mountain region.	
butter		An oily, unctuous substance obtained from cream or milk by churning.	
butter-fingered		Apt to let things fall, or to let them slip away; slippery; careless.	
butter-scotch	Colloquial	A kind of candy, mainly composed of sugar and butter.	
butterball		The buffel duck.	
butterbird		The rice bunting or bobolink; -- so called in the island of Jamaica.	
butterbump		The European bittern.	
butterbur		A broad-leaved plant (Petasites vulgaris) of the Composite family, said to have been used in England for wrapping up pats of butter.	
buttercup		A plant of the genus Ranunculus, or crowfoot, particularly R. bulbosus, with bright yellow flowers; -- called also butterflower, golden cup, and kingcup.	
butterfish		A name given to several different fishes, in allusion to their slippery coating of mucus, as the Stromateus triacanthus of the Atlantic coast, the Epinephelus punctatus of the southern coast, the rock eel…	
butterfly		A general name for the numerous species of diurnal Lepidoptera.	Middle English buterflie, from Old English buttorfleoge.
butterine		A substance prepared from animal fat with some other ingredients intermixed, as an imitation of butter.	
butteris		A steel cutting instrument, with a long bent shank set in a handle which rests against the shoulder of the operator.	
butterman		A man who makes or sells butter.	
buttermilk		The milk that remains after the butter is separated from the cream.	
butternut		(Bot.) An American tree (Juglans cinerea) of the Walnut family, and its edible fruit; -- so called from the oil contained in the latter.	
butterweed		An annual composite plant of the Mississippi valley (Senecio lobatus).	
butterweight		Over weight.	
butterwort		A genus of low herbs (Pinguicula) having simple leaves which secrete from their glandular upper surface a viscid fluid, to which insects adhere, after which the margin infolds and the insects are digested by the plant.	
buttery		Having the qualities, consistence, or appearance, of butter.	Old French boterie, from Latin botaria.
butting		An abuttal; a boundary.	
buttock		The part at the back of the hip, which, in man, forms one of the rounded protuberances on which he sits; the rump.	
button		A knob; a small ball; a small, roundish mass.	Old French boton.
buttonball		See Buttonwood — the platanus occidentalis, or American plane tree, a large tree, producing rough balls, from which it is named; -- called also buttonball tree, and, in some parts of the United States…	
buttonbush		A shrub (Cephalanthus occidentalis) growing by the waterside; - - so called from its globular head of flowers.	
buttonhole		The hole or loop in which a button is caught.	
buttonmold		A disk of bone, wood, or other material, which is made into a button by covering it with cloth.	
buttons	Colloquial	A boy servant, or page, -- in allusion to the buttons on his livry.	
buttonweed		The name of several plants of the genera Spermacoce and Diodia, of the Madder family.	
buttonwood		The Platanus occidentalis, or American plane tree, a large tree, producing rough balls, from which it is named; -- called also buttonball tree, and, in some parts of the United States, sycamore.	
buttony		Ornamented with a large number of buttons.	
buttress		(Arch.) A projecting mass of masonry, used for resisting the thrust of an arch, or for ornament and symmetry.	Old French bouterés.
buttweld		To unite by a butt weld.	
butty		One who mines by contract, at so much per ton of coal or ore.	
butyl		A compound radical, regarded as butane, less one atom of hydrogen.	
butylamine		A colorless liquid base, C4H9NH2, of which there are four isomeric varieties.	
butylene		Any one of three metameric hydrocarbons, C4H8, of the ethylene series.	
butyraceous		Having the qualities of butter; resembling butter.	
butyrate		A salt of butyric acid.	
butyric		Pertaining to, or derived from, butter.	
butyrin		A butyrate of glycerin; a fat contained in small quantity in milk, which helps to give to butter its peculiar flavor.	
butyrometer		An instrument for determining the amount of fatty matter or butter contained in a sample of milk.	
butyrone		A liquid ketone obtained by heating calcium butyrate.	
butyrous		Butyraceous.	
butyryl		The radical (C4H7O) of butyric acid.	
buxeous		Belonging to the box tree.	
buxine		An alkaloid obtained from the Buxus sempervirens, or common box tree.	
buxom		Having the characteristics of health, vigor, and comeliness, combined with a gay, lively manner; stout and rosy; jolly; frolicsome.	Middle English buxum.
buy		To acquire the ownership of (property) by giving an accepted price or consideration therefor, or by agreeing to do so; to acquire by the payment of a price or value; to purchase; -- opposed to sell.	Middle English byen.
buyer		One who buys; a purchaser.	
buz	Obsolete	See Buzz — to make a low, continuous, humming or sibilant sound, like that made by bees with their wings.	
buzz		To make a low, continuous, humming or sibilant sound, like that made by bees with their wings.	
buzzard		(Zoöl.) A bird of prey of the Hawk family, belonging to the genus Buteo and related genera.	French busart.
buzzardet		A hawk resembling the buzzard, but with legs relatively longer.	
buzzer		One who, or that which, buzzes; a whisperer; a talebearer.	
buzzingly		In a buzzing manner; with a buzzing sound.	
buzzsaw		A circular saw; -- so called from the buzzing it makes when running at full speed.	
