by		In the neighborhood of; near or next to; not far from; close to; along with; as, come and sit by me.	Old English bi.
by-bidder		One who bids at an auction in behalf of the auctioneer or owner, for the purpose of running up the price of articles.	
by-blow		A side or incidental blow; an accidental blow.	
by-corner		A private corner.	
by-dependence		An appendage; that which depends on something else, or is distinct from the main dependence; an accessory.	
by-drinking	Obsolete	A drinking between meals.	
by-election		An election held by itself, not at the time of a general election.	
by-end		Private end or interest; secret purpose; selfish advantage.	
by-interest		Self-interest; private advantage.	
by-lane		A private lane, or one opening out of the usual road.	
by-law		A local or subordinate law; a private law or regulation made by a corporation for its own government.	
by-name		A nickname.	
by-pass		A by-passage, for a pipe, or other channel, to divert circulation from the usual course.	
by-passage		A passage different from the usual one; a byway.	
by-past		Past; gone by.	
by-place		A retired or private place.	
by-product		A secondary or additional product; something produced, as in the course of a manufacture, in addition to the principal product.	
by-respect	Obsolete	Private end or view; by-interest.	
by-room		A private room or apartment.	
by-speech		An incidental or casual speech, not directly relating to the point.	
by-spell	Obsolete	A proverb.	
by-street		A separate, private, or obscure street; an out of the way or cross street.	
by-stroke		An accidental or a slyly given stroke.	
by-turning		An obscure road; a way turning from the main road.	
by-view		A private or selfish view; self-interested aim or purpose.	
by-walk		secluded or private walk.	
by-wash		The outlet from a dam or reservoir; also, a cut to divert the flow of water.	
by-wipe		A secret or side stroke, as of raillery or sarcasm.	
byard		A piece of leather crossing the breast, used by the men who drag sledges in coal mines.	
bye		(Cricket) A run made upon a missed ball; as, to steal a bye.	
bygone		Past; gone by.	
byland	Obsolete	A peninsula.	
bylander	Obsolete	See Bilander — a small two-masted merchant vessel, fitted only for coasting, or for use in canals, as in Holland.	
byname		To give a nickname to.	
bypath		A private path; an obscure way; indirect means.	
byplay		Action carried on aside, and commonly in dumb show, while the main action proceeds.	
byre		A cow house.	Old English byre.
byroad		A private or obscure road.	
byronic		Pertaining to, or in the style of, Lord Byron.	
bysmottered	Obsolete	Bespotted with mud or dirt.	
byss		See Byssus, n., 1.	
byssaceous		Byssuslike; consisting of fine fibers or threads, as some very delicate filamentous algæ.	
byssiferous		Bearing a byssus or tuft.	
byssin		See Byssus, n., 1.	
byssine		Made of silk; having a silky or flaxlike appearance.	
byssoid		Byssaceous.	
byssolite		An olive-green fibrous variety of hornblende.	
byssus		A cloth of exceedingly fine texture, used by the ancients.	Latin byssus, from Greek βύσσος, from Hebrew בוץ.
bystander		One who stands near; a spectator; one who has no concern with the business transacting.	
byway		A secluded, private, or obscure way; a path or road aside from the main one.	
byword		A common saying; a proverb; a saying that has a general currency.	Middle English byworde, from Old English biword.
bywork		Work aside from regular work; subordinate or secondary business.	
byzant		A gold coin, so called from being coined at Byzantium. See Bezant.	
byzantian		See Byzantine — a gold coin, so called from being coined at Byzantium. See Bezant.	
byzantine		A gold coin, so called from being coined at Byzantium. See Bezant.	
