caaba		The small and nearly cubical stone building, toward which all Mohammedans must pray.
caada	Dialect	A small cañon; a narrow valley or glen; also, but less frequently, an open valley.
caatinga		A forest composed of stunted trees and thorny bushes, found in areas of small rainfall in Brazil.
cab		A kind of close carriage with two or four wheels, usually a public vehicle.
cabal		A number of persons united in some close design, usually to promote their private views and interests in church or state by intrigue; a secret association composed of a few designing persons; a junto.
cabala		A kind of occult theosophy or traditional interpretation of the Scriptures among Jewish rabbis and certain mediæval Christians, which treats of the nature of god and the mystery of human existence.
cabalism		The secret science of the cabalists.
cabalist		One versed in the cabala, or the mysteries of Jewish traditions.
cabalistic		Of or pertaining to the cabala; containing or conveying an occult meaning; mystic.
cabalistical		Of or pertaining to the cabala; containing or conveying an occult meaning; mystic.
cabalistically		In a cabalistic manner.
cabalize		To use cabalistic language.
caballer		One who cabals.
caballeria		An ancient Spanish land tenure similar to the English knight's fee; hence, in Spain and countries settled by the Spanish, a land measure of varying size.
caballero		A knight or cavalier; hence, a gentleman.
caballine		Of or pertaining to a horse. -- n.
caballo		A horse.
cabaret	Obsolete	A tavern; a house where liquors are retailed.
cabas		A flat basket or frail for figs, etc.; Hence, a lady's flat workbasket, reticule, or hand bag; -- often written caba.
cabassou		A speciec of armadillo of the genus Xenurus (X. unicinctus and X. hispidus); the tatouay.
cabazite		A mineral occuring in glassy rhombohedral crystals, varying, in color from white to yellow or red.
cabbage		An esculent vegetable of many varieties, derived from the wild Brassica oleracea of Europe.
cabbler		One who works at cabbling.
cabbling		The process of breaking up the flat masses into which wrought iron is first hammered, in order that the pieces may be reheated and wrought into bar iron.
cabeca		The finest kind of silk received from India.
caber		A pole or beam used in Scottish games for tossing as a trial of strength.
cabesse		The finest kind of silk received from India.
cabezon		A California fish (Hemilepidotus spinosus), allied to the sculpin.
cabiai		The capybara. See Capybara.
cabin		A cottage or small house; a hut.
cabinet		A small room, or retired apartment; a closet.
cabinetmaker		One whose occupation is to make cabinets or other choice articles of household furniture, as tables, bedsteads, bureaus, etc.
cabinetmaking		The art or occupation of making the finer articles of household furniture.
cabinetwork		The art or occupation of working upon wooden furniture requiring nice workmanship; also, such furniture.
cabirean		,n.One of the Cabiri.
cabiri		Certain deities originally worshiped with mystical rites by the Pelasgians in Lemnos and Samothrace and afterwards throughout Greece; -- also called sons of Hephæstus (or Vulcan), as being masters of the art of working metals.
cabirian		Same as Cabiric.
cabiric		Of or pertaining to the Cabiri, or to their mystical worship.
cable		A large, strong rope or chain, of considerable length, used to retain a vessel at anchor, and for other purposes.
cabled		Fastened with, or attached to, a cable or rope.
cablegram		A message sent by a submarine telegraphic cable.
cablelaid		(Naut.) Composed of three three-stranded ropes, or hawsers, twisted together to form a cable.
cablet		A little cable less than ten inches in circumference.
cabling		The decoration of a fluted shaft of a column or of a pilaster with reeds, or rounded moldings, which seem to be laid in the hollows of the fluting.
cabman		The driver of a cab.
cabob		A small piece of mutton or other meat roasted on a skewer; -- so called in Turkey and Persia.
caboched		Showing the full face, but nothing of the neck; -- said of the head of a beast in armorial bearing.
cabochon		A stone of convex form, highly polished, but not faceted; also, the style of cutting itself.
caboodle	Slang	The whole collection; the entire quantity or number; -- usually in the phrase the whole caboodle.
caboose		(Naut.) A house on deck, where the cooking is done; -- commonly called the galley.
cabotage		Navigation along the coast; the details of coast pilotage.
cabree		The pronghorn antelope.
cabrerite		An apple-green mineral, a hydrous arseniate of nickel, cobalt, and magnesia; -- so named from the Sierra Cabrera, Spain.
cabrilla		A name applied to various species of edible fishes of the genus Serranus, and related genera, inhabiting the Meditarranean, the coast of California, etc. In California, some of them are also called rock bass and kelp salmon.
cabriole		A curvet; a leap. See Capriole.
cabriolet		A one-horse carriage with two seats and a calash top.
cabrit		Same as Cabrée.
caburn		A small line made of spun yarn, to bind or worm cables, seize tackles, etc.
cacaemia		A degenerated or poisoned condition of the blood.
cacaine		The essential principle of cacao; -- now called theobromine.
cacajao		A South American short-tailed monkey (Pithecia (or Brachyurus) melanocephala).
cacao		A small evergreen tree (Theobroma Cacao) of South America and the West Indies.
cachaemia		A degenerated or poisoned condition of the blood.
cachalot		The sperm whale (Physeter macrocephalus).
cache		A hole in the ground, or hiding place, for concealing and preserving provisions which it is inconvenient to carry.
cachectic		Having, or pertaining to, cachexia; as, cachectic remedies; cachectical blood.
cachectical		Having, or pertaining to, cachexia; as, cachectic remedies; cachectical blood.
cachemia		A degenerated or poisoned condition of the blood. --Ca*chæ mic (#), a.
cachepot		An ornamental casing for a flowerpot, of porcelain, metal, paper, etc.
cachet		A seal, as of a letter.
cachexia		A condition of ill health and impairment of nutrition due to impoverishment of the blood, esp. when caused by a specific morbid process (as cancer or tubercle).
cachexy		A condition of ill health and impairment of nutrition due to impoverishment of the blood, esp. when caused by a specific morbid process (as cancer or tubercle).
cachinnation		Loud or immoderate laughter; -- often a symptom of hysterical or maniacal affections.
cachinnatory		Consisting of, or accompanied by, immoderate laughter.
cachiri		A fermented liquor made in Cayenne from the grated root of the manioc, and resembling perry.
cacholong		An opaque or milk-white chalcedony, a variety of quartz; also, a similar variety of opal.
cachou		A silvered aromatic pill, used to correct the odor of the breath.
cachucha		An Andalusian dance in three-four time, resembing the bolero.
cachunde		A pastil or troche, composed of various aromatic and other ingredients, highly celebrated in India as an antidote, and as a stomachic and antispasmodic.
cacique		See Cazique — a chief or petty king among some tribes of Indians in America.
cack		To ease the body by stool; to go to stool.
cackerel		The mendole; a small worthless Mediterranean fish considered poisonous by the ancients.
cackle		To make a sharp, broken noise or cry, as a hen or goose does.
cackler		A fowl that cackles.
cackling		The broken noise of a goose or a hen.
cacochymia		A vitiated state of the humors, or fluids, of the body, especially of the blood.
cacochymic		Having the fluids of the body vitiated, especially the blood.
cacochymical		Having the fluids of the body vitiated, especially the blood.
cacochymy		A vitiated state of the humors, or fluids, of the body, especially of the blood.
cacodemon		An evil spirit; a devil or demon.
cacodoxical		Heretical.
cacodoxy		Erroneous doctrine; heresy; heterodoxy.
cacodyl		Alkarsin; a colorless, poisonous, arsenical liquid, As2(CH3)4, spontaneously inflammable and possessing an intensely disagreeable odor.
cacodylic		Of, pertaining to, or derived from, cacodyl.
cacoethes		A bad custom or habit; an insatiable desire; as, cacoëthes scribendi,.
cacogastric		Troubled with bad digestion.
cacographic		Pertaining to, or characterized by, cacography; badly written or spelled.
cacography		Incorrect or bad writing or spelling.
cacolet		A chair, litter, or other contrivance fitted to the back or pack saddle of a mule for carrying travelers in mountainous districts, or for the transportation of the sick and wounded of an army.
cacology		Bad speaking; bad choice or use of words.
cacomixl		A North American carnivore (Bassaris astuta), about the size of a cat, related to the raccoons.
cacomixle		A North American carnivore (Bassaris astuta), about the size of a cat, related to the raccoons.
cacomixtle		A North American carnivore (Bassaris astuta), about the size of a cat, related to the raccoons.
cacoon		One of the seeds or large beans of a tropical vine (Entada scandens) used for making purses, scent bottles, etc.
cacophonic		Harsh-sounding.
cacophonical		Harsh-sounding.
cacophonious		Harsh-sounding.
cacophonous		Harsh-sounding.
cacophony		(Rhet.) An uncouth or disagreable sound of words, owing to the concurrence of harsh letters or syllables.
cacostomia		Diseased or gangrenous condition of the mouth.
cacotechny		A corruption or corrupt state of art.
cacoxene		A hydrous phosphate of iron occurring in yellow radiated tufts.
cacoxenite		A hydrous phosphate of iron occurring in yellow radiated tufts.
cactaceous		Belonging to, or like, the family of plants of which the prickly pear is a common example.
cactus		Any plant of the order Cactacæ, as the prickly pear and the night-blooming cereus.
cacuminal		Pertaining to the top of the palate; cerebral; -- applied to certain consonants; as, cacuminal (or cerebral) letters.
cacuminate	Obsolete	To make sharp or pointed.
cad		A person who stands at the door of an omnibus to open and shut it, and to receive fares; an idle hanger-on about innyards.
cadaster		An official statement of the quantity and value of real estate for the purpose of apportioning the taxes payable on such property.
cadastral		Of or pertaining to landed property.
cadastre		An official statement of the quantity and value of real estate for the purpose of apportioning the taxes payable on such property.
cadaver		A dead human body; a corpse.
cadaveric		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a corpse, or the changes produced by death; cadaverous; as, cadaveric rigidity.
cadaverin		A sirupy, nontoxic ptomaine, C5H14N2 (chemically pentamethylene diamine), formed in putrefaction of flesh, etc.
cadaverine		A sirupy, nontoxic ptomaine, C5H14N2 (chemically pentamethylene diamine), formed in putrefaction of flesh, etc.
cadaverous		Having the appearance or color of a dead human body; pale; ghastly; as, a cadaverous look.
cadbait		See Caddice — the larva of a caddice fly.
caddice		The larva of a caddice fly.
caddie		A Scotch errand boy, porter, or messenger.
caddis		The larva of a caddice fly.
caddish		Like a cad; lowbred and presuming.
caddow	English dialect	A jackdaw.
caddy		A small box, can, or chest to keep tea in.
cade	Obsolete	Bred by hand; domesticated; petted.
cadence		A fall of the voice in reading or speaking, especially at the end of a sentence.
cadency		Descent of related families; distinction between the members of a family according to their ages.
cadene		A species of inferior carpet imported from the Levant.
cadent		Falling.
cadenza		A parenthetic flourish or flight of ornament in the course of a piece, commonly just before the final cadence.
cader		See Cadre — the framework or skeleton upon which a regiment is to be formed; the officers of a regiment forming the staff.
cadet		The younger of two brothers; a younger brother or son; the youngest son.
cadetship		The position, rank, or commission of a cadet; as, to get a cadetship.
cadew		A caddice. See Caddice.
cadeworm		A caddice. See Caddice.
cadge		To hawk or peddle, as fish, poultry, etc.
cadger		A packman or itinerant huckster.
cadgy	Scots	Cheerful or mirthful, as after good eating or drinking; also, wanton.
cadi		An inferior magistrate or judge among the Mohammedans, usually the judge of a town or village.
cadie		A Scotch errand boy, porter, or messenger.
cadilesker		A chief judge in the Turkish empire, so named originally because his jurisdiction extended to the cases of soldiers, who are now tried only by their own officers.
cadillac		A large pear, shaped like a flattened top, used chiefly for cooking.
cadis		A kind of coarse serge.
cadmean		Of or pertaining to Cadmus, a fabulous prince of Thebes, who was said to have introduced into Greece the sixteen simple letters of the alphabet -- Cadmean letters.
cadmia		An oxide of zinc which collects on the sides of furnaces where zinc is sublimed.
cadmian		See Cadmean — of or pertaining to Cadmus, a fabulous prince of Thebes, who was said to have introduced into Greece the sixteen simple letters of the alphabet -- Cadmean letters.
cadmic		Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, cadmium; as, cadmic sulphide.
cadmium		A comparatively rare element related to zinc, and occurring in some zinc ores.
cadrans		An instrument with a graduated disk by means of which the angles of gems are measured in the process of cutting and polishing.
cadre		The framework or skeleton upon which a regiment is to be formed; the officers of a regiment forming the staff.
caducary		Relating to escheat, forfeiture, or confiscation.
caducean		Of or belonging to Mercury's caduceus, or wand.
caduceus		The official staff or wand of Hermes or Mercury, the messenger of the gods.
caducibranchiate		With temporary gills: -- applied to those Amphibia in which the gills do not remain in adult life.
caducity		Tendency to fall; the feebleness of old age; senility. jumble of youth and caducity.
caducous		Dropping off or disappearing early, as the calyx of a poppy, or the gills of a tadpole.
caduke	Obsolete	Perishable; frail; transitory.
cady		See Cadie — a scotch errand boy, porter, or messenger.
caeca		See Cæcum.
caecal		Of or pertaining to the cæcum, or blind gut.
caecias		A wind from the northeast.
caecilian		A limbless amphibian belonging to the order Cæciliæ or Ophimorpha. See Ophiomorpha.
caecum		(a) A cavity open at one end, as the blind end of a canal or duct. (b) The blind part of the large intestine beyond the entrance of the small intestine; -- called also the blind gut.
caelatura		Art of producing metal decorative work other than statuary, as reliefs, intaglios, engraving, chasing, etc.
caenozoic		See Cenozoic — belonging to the most recent division of geological time, including the tertiary, or Age of mammals, and the Quaternary, or Age of man.
caesar		A Roman emperor, as being the successor of Augustus Cæsar. Hence, a kaiser, or emperor of Germany, or any emperor or powerful ruler.
caesarean		Of or pertaining to Cæsar or the Cæsars; imperial.
caesarian		Of or pertaining to Cæsar or the Cæsars; imperial.
caesarism		A system of government in which unrestricted power is exercised by a single person, to whom, as Cæsar or emperor, it has been committed by the popular will; imperialism; also, advocacy or support of such a system of government.
caesious		Of the color of lavender; pale blue with a slight mixture of gray.
caesium		A rare alkaline metal found in mineral water; -- so called from the two characteristic blue lines in its spectrum.
caespitose		Same as Cespitose.
caesura		A metrical break in a verse, occurring in the middle of a foot and commonly near the middle of the verse; a sense pause in the middle of a foot.
caesural		Of or pertaining to a cæsura.
cafe		A coffeehouse; a restaurant; also, a room in a hotel or restaurant where coffee and liquors are served.
cafeneh		A humble inn or house of rest for travelers, where coffee is sold.
cafenet		A humble inn or house of rest for travelers, where coffee is sold.
cafeteria		A restaurant or café at which the patrons serve themselves with food kept at a counter, taking the food to small tables to eat.
caffeic		Pertaining to, or obtained from, coffee.
caffeine		A white, bitter, crystallizable substance, obtained from coffee.
caffetannic		Pertaining to, or derived from, the tannin of coffee.
caffila		See Cafila — a caravan of travelers; a military supply train or government caravan; a string of pack horses.
caffre		See Kaffir — (a) One of a race which, with the Hottentots and Bushmen, inhabit South Africa.
cafila		A caravan of travelers; a military supply train or government caravan; a string of pack horses.
cafileh		A caravan of travelers; a military supply train or government caravan; a string of pack horses.
caftan		A garment worn throughout the Levant, consisting of a long gown with sleeves reaching below the hands.
cag	Obsolete	See Keg — a small cask or barrel.
cage		A box or inclosure, wholly or partly of openwork, in wood or metal, used for confining birds or other animals.
caged		Confined in, or as in, a cage; like a cage or prison.
cageling	Poetic	A bird confined in a cage; esp. a young bird.
cagit		A king of parrot, of a beautiful green color, found in the Philippine Islands.
cagmag	English dialect	A tough old goose; hence, coarse, bad food of any kind.
cagot		One of a race inhabiting the valleys of the Pyrenees, who until 1793 were political and social outcasts (Christian Pariahs).
cahenslyism		A plan proposed to the Pope in 1891 by P.
cahier		A namber of sheets of paper put loosely together; esp. one of the successive portions of a work printed in numbers.
cahincic		Pertaining to, or derived from, cahinca, the native name of a species of Brazilian Chiococca, perhaps C. recemosa; as, cahincic acid.
cahoot	Slang	Partnership; as to go in cahoot with a person.
caimacam		The governor of a sanjak or district in Turkey.
caiman		See Cayman — the south America alligator. See Alligator.
cainozoic		(Geol.) See Cenozic.
caique		A light skiff or rowboat used on the Bosporus; also, a Levantine vessel of larger size.
caird	English dialect	A traveling tinker; also a tramp or sturdy beggar.
cairn		A rounded or conical heap of stones erected by early inhabitants of the British Isles, apparently as a sepulchral monument.
cairngormstone		A yellow or smoky brown variety of rock crystal, or crystallized quartz, found esp, in the mountain of Cairngorm, in Scotland.
caisson		(Mil.) (a) A chest to hold ammunition. (b) A four-wheeled carriage for conveying ammunition, consisting of two parts, a body and a limber.
caitiff		A mean, despicable person; one whose character meanness and wickedness meet.
cajeput		See Cajuput — a highly stimulating volatile infammable oil, distilled from the leaves of an East Indian tree (Melaleuca cajuputi…
cajole		To deceive with flattery or fair words; to wheedle.
cajolement		The act of cajoling; the state of being cajoled; cajolery.
cajoler		A flatterer; a wheedler.
cajolery		A wheedling to delude; words used in cajoling; flattery.
cajun		In Louisiana, a person reputed to be Acadian French descent.
cajuput		A highly stimulating volatile infammable oil, distilled from the leaves of an East Indian tree (Melaleuca cajuputi, etc.) It is greenish in color and has a camphoraceous odor and pungent taste.
cajuputene		A colorlees or greenish oil extracted from cajuput.
cake		A small mass of dough baked; especially, a thin loaf from unleavened dough; as, an oatmeal cake; johnnycake.
cal		Wolfram, an ore of tungsten.
calabar		A district on the west coast of Africa.
calabarine		An alkaloid resembing physostigmine and occurring with it in the calabar bean.
calabash		The common gourd (plant or fruit).
calaboose	Dialect	A prison; a jail.
calabozo		A jail. See Calaboose.
calade		A slope or declivity in a manege ground down which a horse is made to gallop, to give suppleness to his haunches.
caladium		A genus of aroideous plants, of which some species are cultivated for their immense leaves (which are often curiously blotched with white and red), and others (in Polynesia) for food.
calaite		A mineral. See Turquoise.
calamanco		A glossy woolen stuff, plain, striped, or checked.
calamar		A cephalopod, belonging to the genus Loligo and related genera.
calamary		A cephalopod, belonging to the genus Loligo and related genera.
calambac		A fragrant wood; agalloch.
calambour		A species of agalloch, or aloes wood, of a dusky or mottled color, of a light, friable texture, and less fragrant than calambac; -- used by cabinetmakers.
calamiferous		Producing reeds; reedy.
calamine		A mineral, the hydrous silicate of zinc.
calamint		A genus of perennial plants (Calamintha) of the Mint family, esp. the C.
calamist	Obsolete	One who plays upon a reed or pipe.
calamistrate	Obsolete	To curl or friz, as the hair.
calamistration	Obsolete	The act or process of curling the hair. burton.
calamistrum		A comblike structure on the metatarsus of the hind legs of certain spiders (Ciniflonidæ), used to curl certain fibers in the construction of their webs.
calamite		A fossil plant of the coal formation, having the general form of plants of the modern Equiseta (the Horsetail or Scouring Rush family) but sometimes attaining the height of trees, and having the stem more or less woody within.
calamitous		Producing, or attended with distress and misery; making wretched; wretched; unhappy. -- Miserable; deplorable; distressful; afflictive; grievous; baleful; disastrous; adverse; unhappy; severe; sad…
calamity		Any great misfortune or cause of misery; -- generally applied to events or disasters which produce extensive evil, either to communities or individuals.
calamus		(Bot.) The indian cane, a plant of the Palm family.
calandine		A perennial herbaceous plant (Chelidonium majus) of the poppy family, with yellow flowers.
calando		(Mus.) Gradually diminishing in rapidity and loudness.
calash		A light carriage with low wheels, having a top or hood that can be raised or lowered, seats for inside, a separate seat for the driver, and often a movable front, so that it can be used as either an open or a close carriage.
calaverite		A bronze-yellow massive mineral with metallic luster; a telluride of gold; -- first found in Calaveras County California.
calc-sinter		See under Calcite.
calc-spar		Same as Calcite.
calc-tufa		See under Calcite.
calcaneal		Pertaining to the calcaneum; as, calcaneal arteries.
calcaneum		One of the bones of the tarsus which in man, forms the great bone of the heel; -- called also fibulare.
calcar		A kind of oven, or reverberatory furnace, used for the calcination of sand and potash, and converting them into frit.
calcarate		(Bot.) Having a spur, as the flower of the toadflax and larkspur; spurred.
calcarated		(Bot.) Having a spur, as the flower of the toadflax and larkspur; spurred.
calcareo-argillaceous		consisting of, or containing, calcareous and argillaceous earths.
calcareo-bituminous		Consisting of, or containing, lime and bitumen.
calcareo-siliceous		Consisting of, or containing calcareous and siliceous earths.
calcareous		Partaking of the nature ofcalcite or calcium carbonate; consisting of, or containg, calcium carbonate or carbonate of lime.
calcareousness		Quality of being calcareous.
calcariferous		Lime-yielding; calciferous
calcarine		Pertaining to, or situated near, the calcar of the brain.
calcavella		A sweet wine from Portugal; -- so called from the district of Carcavelhos.
calceated		Fitted with, or wearing, shoes.
calced		Wearing shoes; calceated; -- in distintion from discalced or barefooted; as the calced Carmelites.
calcedon		A foul vein, like chalcedony, in some precious stones.
calcedonian		See Chalcedonic — of or pertaining to chalcedony.
calcedonic		See Chalcedonic — of or pertaining to chalcedony.
calceiform		Shaped like a plipper, as one petal of the lady's-slipper; calceolate.
calceolaria		A genus of showy herbaceous or shrubby plant, biought from South America; slipperwort.
calceolate		Slipper-ahaped. See Calceiform.
calces		See Calx — broken and refuse glass, returned to the post.
calcic		Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, calcium or lime.
calciferous		Bearing producing, or containing calcite, or carbonate of lime.
calcific		Calciferous. Specifically: (Zoöl.) of or pertaining to hte portion of the which forms the eggshell in birds and reptiles.
calcification		The process of chenge into a stony or calcareous substance by the deposition of lime salt; -- normally, as in the formation of bone and teeth; abnormally, as in calcareous degeneration of tissue.
calcified		Consisting of, or containing, calcareous matter or lime salts; calcareous.
calciform		In the form of chalk or lime.
calcify		To make stony or calcareous by the deposit or secretion of salts of lime.
calcigenous		Tending to form, or to become, a calx or earthlike substance on being oxidized or burnt; as magnesium, calcium. etc.
calcigerous		Holding lime or other earthy salts; as, the calcigerous cells of the teeth.
calcimine		A white or colored wash for the ceiling or other plastering of a room, consisting of a mixture of clear glue, Paris white or zinc white, and water.
calciminer		One who calcimines.
calcinable		That may be calcined; as, a calcinable fossil.
calcinate		To calcine.
calcination		(Chem.) The act or process of disintegrating a substance, or rendering it friable by the action of heat, esp. by the expulsion of some volatile matter…
calcinatory		A vessel used in calcination.
calcine		To reduce to a powder, or to a friable state, by the action of heat; to expel volatile matter from by means of heat, as carbonic acid from limestone, and thus (usually) to produce disintegration; as to, calcine bones.
calciner		One who, or that which, calcines.
calcispongiae		An order of marine sponges, containing calcareous spicules. See Porifera.
calcite		Calcium carbonate, or carbonate of lime.
calcitrant		Kicking. Hence: Stubborn; refractory.
calcitrate		To kick.
calcitration		Act of kicking.
calcium		An elementary substance; a metal which combined with oxygen forms lime.
calcivorous		Eroding, or eating into, limestone.
calcographer		One who practices calcography.
calcographic		Relating to, or in the style of, calcography.
calcographical		Relating to, or in the style of, calcography.
calcography		The art of drawing with chalk.
calculable		That may be calculated or ascertained by calculation.
calculary		Of or pertaining to calculi.
calculate		To ascertain or determine by mathematical processes, usually by the ordinary rules of arithmetic; to reckon up; to estimate; to compute.
calculated		Worked out by calculation; as calculated tables for computing interest; ascertained or conjectured as a result of calculation; as, the calculated place of a planet; the calculated velocity of a cannon ball.
calculating		Of or pertaining to mathematical calculations; performing or able to perform mathematical calculations.
calculation		The act or process, or the result, of calculating; computation; reckoning, estimate.
calculative		Of or pertaining to calculation; involving calculation.
calculator		One who computes or reckons: one who estimates or considers the force and effect of causes, with a view to form a correct estimate of the effects.
calculatory		Belonging to calculation.
calcule	Obsolete	Reckoning; computation.
calculi		See Calculus — (Med.) Any solid concretion, formed in any part of the body, but most frequent in the organs that act as reservoirs, and in the passages connected with them; as, biliary calculi…
calculous		Of the nature of a calculus; like stone; gritty; as, a calculous concretion.
calculus		(Med.) Any solid concretion, formed in any part of the body, but most frequent in the organs that act as reservoirs, and in the passages connected with them; as, biliary calculi; urinary calculi, etc.
caldron		A large kettle or boiler of copper, brass, or iron.
caleche		See Calash — a light carriage with low wheels, having a top or hood that can be raised or lowered, seats for inside, a separate seat for the driver, and often a movable front…
caledonia		The ancient Latin name of Scotland; -- still used in poetry.
caledonian		Of or pertaining to Caledonia or Scotland; Scottish; Scotch. -- n.
caledonite		A hydrous sulphate of copper and lead, found in some parts of Caledonia or Scotland.
calefacient		Making warm; heating.
calefaction		The act of warming or heating; the production of heat in a body by the action of fire, or by communication of heat from other bodies.
calefactive		See Calefactory — making hot; producing or communicating heat.
calefactor		A heater; one who, or that which, makes hot, as a stove, etc.
calefactory		Making hot; producing or communicating heat.
calefy		To make warm or hot.
calendar		An orderly arrangement of the division of time, adapted to the purposes of civil life, as years, months, weeks, and days; also, a register of the year with its divisions; an almanac.
calendarial		Of or pertaining to the calendar or a calendar.
calendary	Obsolete	Calendarial.
calender		A machine, used for the purpose of giving cloth, paper, etc., a smooth, even, and glossy or glazed surface, by cold or hot pressure, or for watering them and giving them a wavy appearance.
calendographer		One who makes calendars.
calendrer		A person who calenders cloth; a calender.
calendric		Of or pertaining to a calendar.
calendrical		Of or pertaining to a calendar.
calends		The first day of each month in the ancient Roman calendar.
calendula		A genus of composite herbaceous plants.
calendulin		A gummy or mucilaginous tasteless substance obtained from the marigold or calendula, and analogous to bassorin.
calenture	Poetic	A name formerly given to various fevers occuring in tropics; esp. to a form of furious delirium accompanied by fever, among sailors, which sometimes led the affected person to imagine the sea to be a green field…
calescence		Growing warmth; increasing heat.
calf		The young of the cow, or of the Bovine family of quadrupeds.
calfskin		The hide or skin of a calf; or leather made of the skin.
cali		The tenth avatar or incarnation of the god Vishnu.
caliber		(Gunnery) The diameter of the bore, as a cannon or other firearm, or of any tube; or the weight or size of the projectile which a firearm will carry; as, an 8 inch gun, a 12-pounder, a 44 caliber.
calibrate		To ascertain the caliber of, as of a thermometer tube; also, more generally, to determine or rectify the graduation of, as of the various standards or graduated instruments.
calibration		The process of estimating the caliber a tube, as of a thermometer tube, in order to graduate it to a scale of degrees; also, more generally, the determination of the true value of the spaces in any graduated instrument.
calibre		(Gunnery) The diameter of the bore, as a cannon or other firearm, or of any tube; or the weight or size of the projectile which a firearm will carry; as, an 8 inch gun, a 12-pounder, a 44 caliber.
calice		See Chalice — a cup or bowl; especially, the cup used in the sacrament of the Lord's Supper.
calicle		(a) One of the small cuplike cavities, often with elevated borders, covering the surface of most corals.
calico		Plain white cloth made from cotton, but which receives distinctive names according to quality and use, as, super calicoes, shirting calicoes, unbleached calicoes…
calicoback		(a) The calico bass. (b) An hemipterous insect (Murgantia histrionica) which injures the cabbage and other garden plants; -- called also calico bug and harlequin cabbage bug.
calicular		Relating to, or resembling, a cup; also improperly used for calycular, calyculate.
caliculate		Relating to, or resembling, a cup; also improperly used for calycular, calyculate.
calid	Obsolete	Hot; burning; ardent.
caliduct		A pipe or duct used to convey hot air or steam.
calif		Same as Caliph, Caliphate, etc.
califate		Same as Caliph, Caliphate, etc.
californian		Of or pertaining to California. -- n.
caligation		Dimness; cloudiness.
caliginosity		Darkness.
caliginous		Affected with darkness or dimness; dark; obscure.
caligo		Dimness or obscurity of sight, dependent upon a speck on the cornea; also, the speck itself.
caligraphic		See Calligraphic — of or pertaining to calligraphy.
caligraphy		See Caligraphy.
calin		An alloy of lead and tin, of which the Chinese make tea canisters.
calipash		A part of a turtle which is next to the upper shell.
calipee		A part of a turtle which is attached to the lower shell.
calipers		An instrument, usually resembling a pair of dividers or compasses with curved legs, for measuring the diameter or thickness of bodies, as of work shaped in a lathe or planer, timber, masts, shot, etc.; or the bore of firearms…
caliph		Successor or vicar; -- a title of the successors of Mohammed both as temporal and spiritual rulers, now used by the sultans of Turkey,
caliphate		The office, dignity, or government of a caliph or of the caliphs.
calippic		Of or pertaining to Calippus, an Athenian astronomer.
calistheneum		A gymnasium; esp. one for light physical exercise by women and children.
calisthenic		Of or pertaining to calisthenics.
calisthenics		The science, art, or practice of healthful exercise of the body and limbs, to promote strength and gracefulness; light gymnastics.
caliver	Obsolete	An early form of hand gun, variety of the arquebus; originally a gun having a regular size of bore.
calix		A cup. See Calyx.
calk		To drive tarred oakum into the seams between the planks of (a ship, boat, etc.), to prevent leaking.
calker		One who calks.
calkin		A calk on a shoe. See Calk, n., 1.
calking		The act or process of making seems tight, as in ships, or of furnishing with calks, as a shoe, or copying, as a drawing.
call		To summon to the discharge of a particular duty; to designate for an office, or employment, especially of a religious character; -- often used of a divine summons; as, to be called to the ministry; sometimes, to invite; as…
calla		A genus of plants, of the order Araceæ.
callat	Obsolete	Same as Callet.
calle	Obsolete	A kind of head covering; a caul.
caller		Cool; refreshing; fresh; as, a caller day; the caller air.
callet	Obsolete	A trull or prostitute; a scold or gossip.
callid		Characterized by cunning or shrewdness; crafty.
callidity		Acuteness of discernment; cunningness; shrewdness.
calligrapher		One skilled in calligraphy; a good penman.
calligraphic		Of or pertaining to calligraphy.
calligraphical		Of or pertaining to calligraphy.
calligraphist		A calligrapher
calligraphy		Fair or elegant penmanship.
calling		The act of one who calls; a crying aloud, esp. in order to summon, or to attact the attention of, some one.
calliope		(Astron.) One of the astreids. See Solar.
calliopsis		A popular name given to a few species of the genus Careopsis, especially to C. tinctoria of Arkansas.
callipash		See Calipash — a part of a turtle which is next to the upper shell.
callipee		See Calipee — a part of a turtle which is attached to the lower shell.
callipers		See Calipers — an instrument, usually resembling a pair of dividers or compasses with curved legs, for measuring the diameter or thickness of bodies, as of work shaped in a lathe or planer, timber, masts…
callisection		Painless vivisection; -- opposed to sentisection.
callisthenic		See Calisthenic, Calisthenics.
callisthenics		See Calisthenic, Calisthenics.
callithump		A somewhat riotous parade, accompanied with the blowing of tin horus, and other discordant noises; also, a burlesque serenade; a charivari.
callithumpian		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a callithump.
callosan		Of the callosum.
callose		Furnished with protuberant or hardened spots.
callosity		A hard or thickened spot or protuberance; a hardening and thickening of the skin or bark of a part, eps. as a result of continued pressure or friction.
callosum		The great band commissural fibers which unites the two cerebral hemispheres.
callot		A plant coif or skullcap.
callous		Hardenes; indurated.
callow		Destitute of feathers; naked; unfledged.
callus		(Med.) (a) Same as Callosity. (b The material of repair in fractures of bone; a substance exuded at the site of fracture, which is at first soft or cartilaginous in consistence…
callyciflorous		Having the petals and stamens adnate to the calyx; -- applied to a subclass of dicotyledonous plants in the system of the French botanist Candolle.
calm		Freodom from motion, agitation, or disturbance; a cessation or abeence of that which causes motion or disturbance, as of winds or waves; tranquility; stilness; quiet; serenity.
calmer		One who, or that which, makes calm.
calmly		In a calm manner.
calmness		The state of quality of being calm; quietness; tranquillity; self-repose.
calmucks		; sing. Calmuck.
calmy		Tranquil; peaceful; calm.
calomel		Mild chloride of mercury, Hg
calorescence		The conversion of obscure radiant heat info kight; the transmutation of rays of heat into others of higher refrangibility.
caloric		The principle of heat, or the agent to which the phenomena of heat and combustion were formerly ascribed; -- not now used in scientific nomenclature, but sometimes used as a general term for heat.
caloricity		A faculty in animals of developing and preserving the heat nesessary to life, that is, the animal heat.
caloriduct		A tube or duct for conducting heat; a caliduct.
calorie		The unit of heat according to the Frensc standard; the amount of heat requires to raise the temperature of one kilogram (sometimes, one gram) of water one degree centigrade, or from 0Foot pound.
calorifacient		See Calorificient — having, or relating to the power of producing heat; -- applied to foods which, being rich in carbon, as the fats, are supposed to give rise to heat in the animal body by oxidation.
calorifere		An apparatus for conveying and distributing heat, especially by means of hot water circulating in tubes.
calorifiant		See Calorificient — having, or relating to the power of producing heat; -- applied to foods which, being rich in carbon, as the fats, are supposed to give rise to heat in the animal body by oxidation.
calorific		Possessing the quality of producing heat; heating.
calorification		Production of heat, esp. animal heat.
calorificient		Having, or relating to the power of producing heat; -- applied to foods which, being rich in carbon, as the fats, are supposed to give rise to heat in the animal body by oxidation.
calorimeter		(Physiol.) An apparatus for measuring the amount of heat contained in bodies or developed by some mechanical or chemical process, as friction, chemical combination, combustion, etc.
calorimetric		Of or pertaining to process of using the calorimeter.
calorimetry		Measurement of the quantities of heat in bodies.
calorimotor		A voltaic battery, having a large surface of plate, and producing powerful heating effects.
calorisator		An apparatus used in beet-sugar factories to heat the juice in order to aid the diffusion.
calotte		A close cap without visor or brim. Especially: (a) Such a cap, worn by English serjeants at law.
calotype		A method of taking photographic pictures, on paper sensitized with iodide of silver; -- also called Talbotype, from the inventor, Mr. Fox.
caloyer		A monk of the Greek Church; a cenobite, anchoret, or recluse of the rule of St. Basil, especially, one on or near Mt.
calque		See 2d Calk, v. t.
caltrap		(Bot.) A genus of herbaceous plants (Tribulus) of the order Zygophylleæ, having a hard several-celled fruit, armed with stout spines, and resembling the military instrument of the same name.
caltrop		(Bot.) A genus of herbaceous plants (Tribulus) of the order Zygophylleæ, having a hard several-celled fruit, armed with stout spines, and resembling the military instrument of the same name.
calumba		The root of a plant (Jateorrhiza Calumba, and probably Cocculus palmatus), indigenous in Mozambique.
calumbin		A bitter principle extracted as a white crystalline substance from the calumba root.
calumet		A kind of pipe, used by the North American Indians for smoking tobacco.
calumniate		To accuse falsely and maliciously of a crime or offense, or of something disreputable; to slander; to libel.
calumniation		False accusation of crime or offense, or a malicious and false representation of the words or actions of another, with a view to injure his good name.
calumniator		One who calumniates.
calumniatory		Containing calumny; slanderous.
calumnious		Containing or implying calumny; false, malicious, and injurious to reputation; slanderous; as, calumnious reports.
calumny		False accusation of a crime or offense, maliciously made or reported, to the injury of another; malicious misrepresentation; slander; detraction.
calvaria		The bones of the cranium; more especially, the bones of the domelike upper portion.
calvary		The place where Christ was crucified, on a small hill outside of Jerusalem.
calve		To bring forth a calf.
calver		To crimp; as, calvered salmon.
calvessnout		Snapdragon.
calvinism		The theological tenets or doctrines of John Calvin (a French theologian and reformer of the 16th century) and his followers, or of the so-called calvinistic churches.
calvinist		A follower of Calvin; a believer in Calvinism.
calvinistic		Of or pertaining to Calvin, or Calvinism; following Calvin; accepting or Teaching Calvinism.
calvinistical		Of or pertaining to Calvin, or Calvinism; following Calvin; accepting or Teaching Calvinism.
calvinize		To convert to Calvinism.
calvish		Like a calf; stupid.
calx		Broken and refuse glass, returned to the post.
calycifloral		Having the petals and stamens adnate to the calyx; -- applied to a subclass of dicotyledonous plants in the system of the French botanist Candolle.
calyciform		Having the form or appearance of a calyx.
calycinal		Pertaining to a calyx; having the nature of a calyx.
calycine		Pertaining to a calyx; having the nature of a calyx.
calycle		A row of small bracts, at the base of the calyx, on the outside.
calycled		Calyculate.
calycozoa		A group of acalephs of which Lucernaria is the type.
calycular		Pertaining to, or resembling, the bracts of a calycle.
calyculate		Having a set of bracts resembling a calyx.
calyculated		Having a set of bracts resembling a calyx.
calymene		A genus of trilobites characteristic of the Silurian age.
calyon		Flint or pebble stone, used in building walls, etc. Haliwell.
calypso		A small and beautiful species of orchid, having a flower variegated with purple, pink, and yellow.
calyptra		A little hood or veil, resembling an extinguisher in form and position, covering each of the small flaskike capsules which contain the spores of mosses; also, any similar covering body.
calyptriform		Having the form a calyptra, or extinguisher.
calyx		(Anat.) A cuplike division of the pelvis of the kidney, which surrounds one or more of the renal papilæ.
calzoons	Obsolete	Drawers.
cam		(Med.) (a) A turning or sliding piece which, by the shape of its periphery or face, or a groove in its surface, imparts variable or intermittent motion to, or receives such motion from, a rod, lever…
camaieu		(Fine Arts) Painting in shades of one color; monochrome.
camail		(Ancient Armor) A neck guard of chain mall, hanging from the bascinet or other headpiece.
camara		Chamber; house; -- used in Ca res, and Ca dos. See Legislature.
camaraderie		Comradeship and loyalty.
camarasaurus		A genus of gigantic American Jurassic dinosaurs, having large cavities in the bodies of the dorsal vertebræ.
camarilla		The private audience chamber of a king.
camass		A blue-flowered liliaceous plant (Camassia esculenta) of northwestern America, the bulbs of which are collected for food by the Indians.
camber		(Shipbuilding) An upward convexity of a deck or other surface; as, she has a high camber (said of a vessel having an unusual convexity of deck).
camberkeeled		Having the keel arched upwards, but not actually hogged; -- said of a ship.
cambial		Belonging to exchanges in commerce; of exchange.
cambist		A banker; a money changer or broker; one who deals in bills of exchange, or who is skilled in the science of exchange.
cambistry		The science of exchange, weight, measures, etc.
cambium		(Bot.) A series of formative cells lying outside of the wood proper and inside of the inner bark.
camblet		See Camlet — a woven fabric originally made of camel's hair, now chiefly of goat's hair and silk, or of wool and cotton.
camboge		See Gamboge — a concrete juice, or gum resin, produced by several species of trees in Siam, Ceylon, and Malabar.
camboose		See Caboose — (Naut.) A house on deck, where the cooking is done; -- commonly called the galley.
cambrasine		A kind of linen cloth made in Egypt, and so named from its resemblance to cambric.
cambrel		See Gambrel, n.,
cambria		The ancient Latin name of Wales.
cambrian		(Geol.) Of or pertaining to the lowest subdivision of the rocks of the Silurian or Molluscan age; -- sometimes described as inferior to the Silurian.
cambric		A fine, thin, and white fabric made of flax or linen.
cambro-briton		A Welshman.
cambrobriton		A Welshman.
came		imp. of Come — to move hitherward; to draw near; to approach the speaker, or some place or person indicated; -- opposed to go.
camel		(Zoöl.) A large ruminant used in Asia and Africa for carrying burdens and for riding.
camel-backed		Having a back like a camel; humpbacked.
camelbacked		Having a back like a camel; humpbacked.
cameleon	Obsolete	See Chaceleon.
camellia		An Asiatic genus of small shrubs, often with shining leaves and showy flowers.
camelopard		An African ruminant; the giraffe. See Giraffe.
camelot	Obsolete	See Camelet.
camelry		Troops that are mounted on camels.
camelshair		Of camel's hair.
camembert		A kind of soft, unpressed cream cheese made in the vicinity of Camembert, near Argentan, France; also, any cheese of the same type, wherever made.
cameo		A carving in relief, esp. one on a small scale used as a jewel for personal adornment, or like.
camera		A chamber, or instrument having a chamber. Specifically: The camera obscura when used in photography.
camerade	Obsolete	See Comrade,
cameralistic		Of or pertaining to finance and public revenue.
cameralistics		The science of finance or public revenue.
camerate		To build in the form of a vault; to arch over.
cameration		A vaulting or arching over.
camerlingo		The papal chamberlain; the cardinal who presides over the pope's household.
cameronian		A follower of the Rev.
camis	Obsolete	A light, loose dress or robe.
camisade		(a) A shirt worn by soldiers over their uniform, in order to be able to recognize one another in a night attack.
camisado		(a) A shirt worn by soldiers over their uniform, in order to be able to recognize one another in a night attack.
camisard		One of the French Protestant insurgents who rebelled against Louis XIV, after the revocation of the edict of Nates; -- so called from the peasant's smock (camise) which they wore.
camisated		Dressed with a shirt over the other garments.
camisole		A short dressing jacket for women.
camlet		A woven fabric originally made of camel's hair, now chiefly of goat's hair and silk, or of wool and cotton.
camleted		Wavy or undulating like camlet; veined.
cammas		See Camass — a blue-flowered liliaceous plant (Camassia esculenta) of northwestern America, the bulbs of which are collected for food by the Indians.
cammock		A plant having long hard, crooked roots, the Ononis spinosa; -- called also rest-harrow.
camomile		A genus of herbs (Anthemis) of the Composite family.
camonflet		A small mine, sometimes formed in the wall or side of an enemy's gallery, to blow in the earth and cut off the retreat of the miners.
camorra		A secret organization formed at Naples, Italy, early in the 19th century, and used partly for political ends and partly for practicing extortion, violence, etc. -- Ca*mor"rist (#), n.
camous	Obsolete	Flat; depressed; crooked; -- said only of the nose.
camoused	Obsolete	Depressed; flattened.
camoys	Obsolete	Flat; depressed; crooked; -- said only of the nose.
camp		The ground or spot on which tents, huts, etc., are erected for shelter, as for an army or for lumbermen, etc. Shzk.
campagna		An open level tract of country; especially The extensive undulating plain which surrounds Rome.
campagnol		A mouse (Arvicala agrestis), called also meadow mouse, which often does great damage in fields and gardens, by feeding on roots and seeds.
campaign		An open field; a large, open plain without considerable hills.
campaigner		One who has served in an army in several campaigns; an old soldier; a veteran.
campana		(Eccl.) A church bell.
campaned		Furnished with, or bearing, campanes, or bells.
campanero		The bellbird of South America. See Bellbird.
campania		Open country.
campaniform		Bell-shaped.
campanile		A bell tower, esp. one built separate from a church.
campaniliform		Bell-shaped; campanulate; campaniform.
campanologist		One skilled in campanology; a bell ringer.
campanology		The art of ringing bells, or a treatise on the art.
campanula		A large genus of plants bearing bell-shaped flowers, often of great beauty; -- also called bellflower.
campanulaceous		Of pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants (Camponulaceæ) of which Campanula is the type, and which includes the Canterbury bell, the harebell, and the Venus's looking-glass.
campanularian		A hydroid of the family ampanularidæ, characterized by having the polyps or zooids inclosed in bell-shaped calicles or hydrothecæ.
campanulate		Bell-shaped.
campbellite		A member of the denomination called Christians or Disciples of Christ.
camper		One who lodges temporarily in a hut or camp.
campestral		Relating to an open fields; drowing in a field; growing in a field, or open ground.
campestrian		Relating to an open fields; drowing in a field; growing in a field, or open ground.
campfight		A duel; the decision of a case by a duel.
camphene		One of a series of substances C10H16, resembling camphor, regarded as modified terpenes.
camphine		Rectified oil of turpentine, used for burning in lamps, and as a common solvent in varnishes.
camphire		An old spelling of Camphor.
camphogen		See Cymene — a colorless, liquid, combustible hydrocarbon, CH3.C6H4.C3H7, of pleasant odor, obtained from oil of cumin, oil of caraway, carvacrol, camphor, etc.; -- called also paracymene…
camphol		See Borneol — a rare variety of camphor, C10H17.OH, resembling ordinary camphor, from which it can be produced by reduction.
camphor		A tough, white, aromatic resin, or gum, obtained from different species of the Laurus family, esp. from Cinnamomum camphara (the Laurus camphara of Linnæus.).
camphoraceous		Of the nature of camphor; containing camphor.
camphorate		To impregnate or treat with camphor.
camphoric		Of, pertaining to, or derived from, camphor.
camphretic		Pertaining to, or derived from camphor.
camping		Lodging in a camp.
campion		A plant of the Pink family (Cucubalus bacciferus), bearing berries regarded as poisonous.
camporated		Combined or impregnated with camphor.
campus		The principal grounds of a college or school, between the buildings or within the main inclosure; as, the college campus.
campylospermous		Having seeds grooved lengthwise on the inner face, as in sweet cicely.
campylotropous		Having the ovules and seeds so curved, or bent down upon themselves, that the ends of the embryo are brought close together.
camus	Obsolete	See Camis — a light, loose dress or robe.
camwood		See Barwood — a red wood of a leguminous tree (Baphia nitida), from Angola and the Gaboon in Africa.
can		an obs. form of began, imp. & p. p. of Begin, sometimes used in old poetry.
canaanite		A descendant of Canaan, the son of Ham, and grandson of Noah.
canaanitish		Of or pertaining to Canaan or the Canaanites.
canada	Dialect	A small cañon; a narrow valley or glen; also, but less frequently, an open valley.
canadian		Of or pertaining to Canada. -- n.
canaille		The lowest class of people; the rabble; the vulgar.
canakin		A little can or cup.
canal		An artificial channel filled with water and designed for navigation, or for irrigating land, etc.
canaliculate		Having a channel or groove, as in the leafstalks of most palms.
canaliculated		Having a channel or groove, as in the leafstalks of most palms.
canaliculus		A minute canal.
canalization		Construction of, or furnishing with, a canal or canals.
canape		(Cookery) A slice or piece of bread fried in butter or oil, on which anchovies, mushrooms, etc., are served.
canard		An extravagant or absurd report or story; a fabricated sensational report or statement; esp. one set afloat in the newspapers to hoax the public.
canarese		Pertaining to Canara, a district of British India.
canary		Of or pertaining to the Canary Islands; as, canary wine; canary birds.
canaster		A kind of tobacco for smoking, made of the dried leaves, coarsely broken; -- so called from the rush baskets in which it is packed in South America.
cancan		A rollicking French dance, accompanied by indecorous or extravagant postures and gestures.
cancel		To cross and deface, as the lines of a writing, or as a word or figure; to mark out by a cross line; to blot out or obliterate.
canceleer	Obsolete	The turn of a hawk upon the wing to recover herself, when she misses her aim in the stoop.
cancelier	Obsolete	To turn in flight; -- said of a hawk.
cancellarean		Cancellarean.
cancellate		(Bot.) Consisting of a network of veins, without intermediate parenchyma, as the leaves of certain plant; latticelike.
cancellated		Crossbarres; marked with cross lines.
cancellation		The act, process, or result of canceling; as, the cansellation of certain words in a contract, or of the contract itself.
cancelli		An interwoven or latticed wall or inclosure; latticework, rails, or crossbars, as around the bar of a court of justice, between the chancel and the have of a church, or in a window.
cancellous		Having a spongy or porous stracture; made up of cancelli; cancellated; as, the cancellous texture of parts of many bones.
cancer		(Zoöl.) A genus of decapod Crustacea, including some of the most common shore crabs of Europe and North America, as the rock crab, Jonah crab, etc. See Crab.
cancerate		To grow into a canser; to become cancerous.
canceration		The act or state of becoming cancerous or growing into a cancer.
cancerite		Like a cancer; having the qualities or virulence of a cancer; affected with cancer. -- Can cer*ous*ness, n.
cancerous		Like a cancer; having the qualities or virulence of a cancer; affected with cancer. -- Can cer*ous*ness, n.
cancriform		Having the form of, or resembling, a crab; crab-shaped.
cancrine		Having the qualities of a crab; crablike.
cancrinite		A mineral occurring in hexagonal crystals, also massive, generally of a yellow color, containing silica, alumina, lime, soda, and carbon dioxide.
cancroid		(Zoöl.) Resembling a crab; pertaining to the Cancroidea, one of the families of crabs, including the genus Cancer.
cand		Fluor spar. See Kand.
candelabrum		(Antiq.) (a) A lamp stand of any sort. (b) A highly ornamented stand of marble or other ponderous material, usually having three feet, -- frequently a votive offering to a temple.
candent		Heated to whiteness; glowing with heat.
canderos		An East Indian resin, of a pellucid white color, from which small ornaments and toys are sometimes made.
candescence		See Inclandescence.
candescent		Glowing; luminous; incandescent.
candicant	Obsolete	Growing white.
candid		Free from undue bias; disposed to think and judge according to truth and justice, or without partiality or prejudice; fair; just; impartial; as, a candid opinion.
candidacy		The position of a candidate; state of being a candidate; candidateship.
candidate		One who offers himself, or is put forward by others, as a suitable person or an aspirant or contestant for an office, privilege, or honor; as, a candidate for the office of governor; a candidate for holy orders…
candidateship		Candidacy.
candidating		The taking of the position of a candidate; specifically, the preaching of a clergyman with a view to settlement.
candidature		Candidacy.
candidly		In a candid manner.
candidness		The quality of being candid.
candied		Preserved in or with sugar; incrusted with a candylike substance; as, candied fruits.
candify		To make or become white, or candied.
candiot		Of or pertaining to Candia; Cretary.
candite		A variety of spinel, of a dark color, found at Candy, in Ceylon.
candle		A slender, cylindrical body of tallow, containing a wick composed of loosely twisted linen of cotton threads, and used to furnish light.
candlebomb		A small glass bubble, filled with water, which, if placed in the flame of a candle, bursts by expansion of steam.
candlefish		(a) A marine fish (Thaleichthys Pacificus), allied to the smelt, found on the north Pacific coast; -- called also eulachon.
candleholder		One who, or that which, holds a candle; also, one who assists another, but is otherwise not of importance.
candlelight		The light of a candle.
candlemas		The second day of February, on which is celebrated the feast of the Purification of the Virgin Mary; -- so called because the candles for the altar or other sacred uses are blessed on that day.
candlenut		The fruit of a euphorbiaceous tree or shrub (Aleurites moluccana), native of some of the Pacific islands.
candlepin		(a) A form of pin slender and nearly straight like a candle. (b) The game played with such pins; -- in form candlepins, used as a singular.
candlestick		An instrument or utensil for supporting a candle.
candlewaster		One who consumes candles by being up late for study or dissipation.
candock		A plant or weed that grows in rivers; a species of of Equisetum; also, the yellow frog lily (Nuphar luteum).
candor		A disposition to treat subjects with fairness; freedom from prejudice or disguise; frankness; sincerity.
candroy		A machine for spreading out cotton cloths to prepare them for printing.
candy		To conserve or boil in sugar; as, to candy fruits; to candy ginger.
candytuft		An annual plant of the genus Iberis, cultivated in gardens.
cane		(Bot.) (a) A name given to several peculiar palms, species of Calamus and Dæmanorops, having very long, smooth flexible stems, commonly called rattans.
canebrake		A thicket of canes.
caned	English dialect	Filled with white flakes; mothery; -- said vinegar when containing mother.
canella		A genus of trees of the order Canellaceæ, growing in the West Indies.
canescent		Growing white, or assuming a color approaching to white.
cangue		A very broad and heavy wooden collar which certain offenders in China are compelled to wear as a punishment.
canicula		The Dog Star; Sirius.
canicular		Pertaining to, or measured, by the rising of the Dog Star.
canicule		Canicula.
caninal		See Canine, a.
canine		Of or pertaining to the family Canidæ, or dogs and wolves; having the nature or qualities of a dog; like that or those of a dog.
canis		A genus of carnivorous mammals, of the family Canidæ, including the dogs and wolves.
canister		A small basket of rushes, or wilow twigs, etc.
canker		A corroding or sloughing ulcer; esp. a spreading gangrenous ulcer or collection of ulcers in or about the mouth; -- called also water canker, canker of the mouth, and noma.
canker-bit	Obsolete	Eaten out by canker, or as by canker.
cankered		Affected with canker; as, a cankered mouth.
cankeredly		Fretfully; spitefully.
cankerous		Affecting like a canker.
cankerworm		The larva of two species of geometrid moths which are very injurious to fruit and shade trees by eating, and often entirely destroying, the foliage.
cankery		Like a canker; full of canker.
canna		A measure of length in Italy, varying from six to seven feet. See Cane, 4.
cannabene		A colorless oil obtained from hemp dy distillation, and possessing its intoxicating properties.
cannabin		A pisonous resin extracted from hemp (Cannabis sativa, variety Indica).
cannabine		Pertaining to hemp; hempen.
cannabis		A genus of a single species belonging to the order Uricaceæ; hemp.
cannei		Artful; cunning; shrewd; wary.
cannele		A style of interweaving giving to fabrics a channeled or fluted effect; also, a fabric woven so as to have this effect; a rep.
cannelure		A groove in any cylinder; specif., a groove around the cylinder of an elongated bullet for small arms to contain a lubricant, or around the rotating band of a gun projectile to lessen the resistance offered to the rifling.
cannery		A place where the business of canning fruit, meat, etc., is carried on.
cannibal		A human being that eats human flesh; hence, any that devours its own kind.
cannibalism		The act or practice of eating human flesh by mankind. Hence; Murderous cruelty; barbarity.
cannibally		In the manner of cannibal.
cannicula		The Dog Star; Sirius.
cannikin		A small can or drinking vessel.
cannily		In a canny manner.
canniness		Caution; crafty management.
cannon		A great gun; a piece of ordnance or artillery; a firearm for discharging heavy shot with great force.
cannonade		The act of discharging cannon and throwing ball, shell, etc., for the purpose of destroying an army, or battering a town, ship, or fort; -- usually, an attack of some continuance.
cannoned	Poetic	Furnished with cannon.
cannoneer		A man who manages, or fires, cannon.
cannonering		The use of cannon.
cannonical		Of or pertaining to a canon; established by, or according to a, canon or canons.
cannonier		A man who manages, or fires, cannon.
cannonry		Cannon, collectively; artillery.
cannot		Am, is, or are, not able; -- written either as one word or two.
cannula		A small tube of metal, wood, or India rubber, used for various purposes, esp. for injecting or withdrawing fluids.
cannular		Having the form of a tube; tubular.
cannulated		Hollow; affording a passage through its interior length for wire, thread, etc.; as, a cannulated (suture) needle.
canny		Artful; cunning; shrewd; wary.
canoe		A boat used by rude nations, formed of trunk of a tree, excavated, by cutting of burning, into a suitable shape.
canoeing		The act or art of using a canoe.
canoeist		A canoeman.
canoeman		One who uses a canoe; one who travels in a canoe.
canon		(Eccl.) A law, or rule of doctrine or discipline, enacted by a council and confirmed by the pope or the sovereign; a decision, regulation, code, or constitution made by ecclesiastical authority.
canoness		A woman who holds a canonry in a conventual chapter.
canonic		Of or pertaining to a canon; established by, or according to a, canon or canons.
canonically		; according to the canons.
canonicalness		The quality of being canonical; canonicity.
canonicals		The dress prescribed by canon to be worn by a clergyman when oficiating.
canonicate		The office of a canon; a canonry.
canonicity		The state or quality of being canonical; agreement with the canon.
canonist		A professor of canon law; one skilled in the knowledge and practice of ecclesiastical law.
canonistic		Of or pertaining to a canonist.
canonization		The state of being canonized or sainted.
canonize		(Eccl.) To declare (a deceased person) a saint; to put in the catalogue of saints; as, Thomas a Becket was canonized.
canonry		A benefice or prebend in a cathedral or collegiate church; a right to a place in chapter and to a portion of its revenues; the dignity or emoluments of a canon.
canonship		Of pertaining to Canopus in egypt; as, the Canopic vases, used in embalming.
canopus		A star of the first magnitude in the southern constellation Argo.
canopy		A covering fixed over a bed, dais, or the like, or carried on poles over an exalted personage or a sacred object, etc. chiefly as a mark of honor.
canorous		Melodious; musical.
canorousness		The quality of being musical.
canstick	Obsolete	Candlestick.
cant		An outer or external angle.
cantab	Colloquial	A Cantabrigian.
cantabile		In a melodious, flowing style; in a singing style, as opposed to bravura, recitativo, or parlando.
cantabrian		Of or pertaining to Cantabria on the Bay of Biscay in Spain.
cantabrigian		A native or resident of Cambridge; esp. a student or graduate of the university of Cambridge, England.
cantalever		(Arch.) A bracket to support a balcony, a cornice, or the like.
cantaloupe		A muskmelon of several varieties, having when mature, a yellowish skin, and flesh of a reddish orange color.
cantankerous	Colloquial	Perverse; contentious; ugly; malicious. -- Can*tan ker*ous*ness, n.
cantar		A weight used in southern Europe and East for heavy articles.
cantarro		A weight used in southern Europe and East for heavy articles.
cantata		A poem set to music; a musical composition comprising choruses, solos, interludes, etc., arranged in a somewhat dramatic manner; originally, a composition for a single noise, consisting of both recitative and melody.
cantation	Obsolete	A singing.
cantatory		Caontaining cant or affectation; whining; singing.
cantatrice		A female professional singer.
canted		Having angles; as, a six canted bolt head; a canted window.
canteen		A vessel used by soldiers for carrying water, liquor, or other drink.
cantel		See Cantle — the upwardly projecting rear part of saddle, opposite to the pommel.
canter		A moderate and easy gallop adapted to pleasure riding.
canterbury		A city in England, giving its name various articles.
cantharidal		Of or pertaining to cantharides or made of cantharides; as, cantharidal plaster.
cantharides		See cantharis — a beetle (Lytta, or Cantharis, vesicatoria), having an elongated cylindrical body of a brilliant green color, and a nauseous odor; the blister fly or blister beetle, of the apothecary…
cantharidin		The active principe of the cantharis, or Spanish fly, a volatile, acrid, bitter solid, crystallizing in four-sided prisms.
cantharis		A beetle (Lytta, or Cantharis, vesicatoria), having an elongated cylindrical body of a brilliant green color, and a nauseous odor; the blister fly or blister beetle, of the apothecary; -- also called Spanish fly.
canthoplasty		The operation of forming a new canthus, when one has been destroyed by injury or disease.
canthus		The corner where the upper and under eyelids meet on each side of the eye.
canticle		pl. The Song of Songs or Song of Solomon, one of the books of the Old Testament.
canticoy		A social gathering; usually, one for dancing.
cantile		Same as Cantle, v. t.
cantilena		See Cantabile — in a melodious, flowing style; in a singing style, as opposed to bravura, recitativo, or parlando.
cantilever		Same as Cantalever.
cantillate		To chant; to recite with musical tones.
cantillation		A chanting; recitation or reading with musical modulations.
cantine		See Canteen — a vessel used by soldiers for carrying water, liquor, or other drink.
canting		Speaking in a whining tone of voice; using technical or religious terms affectedly; affectedly pious; as, a canting rogue; a canting tone. - Cant ing*ness, n.
cantiniere		A woman who carries a canteen for soldiers; a vivandière.
cantion	Obsolete	A song or verses.
cantle	Obsolete	The upwardly projecting rear part of saddle, opposite to the pommel.
cantlet		A piece; a fragment; a corner.
canto		One of the chief divisions of a long poem; a book.
canton		A small portion; a division; a compartment.
cantonal		Of or pertaining to a canton or cantons; of the nature of a canton.
cantoned		(Her.) Having a charge in each of the four corners; -- said of a cross on a shield, and also of the shield itself.
cantonize		To divide into cantons or small districts.
cantonment		A town or village, or part of a town or village, assigned to a body of troops for quarters; temporary shelter or place of rest for an army; quarters.
cantoon		A cotton stuff showing a fine cord on one side and a satiny surface on the other.
cantor		A singer; esp. the leader of a church choir; a precentor.
cantoral		Of or belonging to a cantor.
cantoris		Of or pertaining to a cantor; as, the cantoris side of a choir; a cantoris stall.
cantrap	Scots	A charm; an incantation; a shell; a trick; adroit mischief.
cantred		A district comprising a hundred villages, as in Wales.
cantref		A district comprising a hundred villages, as in Wales.
cantrip	Scots	A charm; an incantation; a shell; a trick; adroit mischief.
canty	Scots	Cheerful; sprightly; lively; merry.
canuck	Colloquial	A small or medium-sized hardy horse, common in Canada.
canula		See Cannula, Cannular, and Cannulated.
canular		See Cannula, Cannular, and Cannulated.
canulated		See Cannula, Cannular, and Cannulated.
canvas		A strong cloth made of hemp, flax, or cotton; -- used for tents, sails, etc. By glimmering lanes and walls of canvas led.
canvasback		A Species of duck (Aythya vallisneria), esteemed for the delicacy of its flesh.
canvass		To sift; to strain; to examine thoroughly; to scrutinize; as, to canvass the votes cast at an election; to canvass a district with reference to its probable vote.
canvasser		One who canvasses.
cany		Of or pertaining to cane or canes; abounding with canes.
canyada	Dialect	A small cañon; a narrow valley or glen; also, but less frequently, an open valley.
canyon		A deep gorge, ravine, or gulch, between high and steep banks, worn by water courses.
canzone		(a) A song or air for one or more voices, of Provençal origin, resembling, though not strictly, the madrigal.
canzonet		A short song, in one or more parts.
caoncito		A narrow passage or lane through chaparral or a forest.
caoutchin		An inflammable, volatile, oily, liquid hydrocarbon, obtained by the destructive distillation of caoutchouc.
caoutchouc		A tenacious, elastic, gummy substance obtained from the milky sap of several plants of tropical South America (esp. the euphorbiaceous tree Siphonia elastica or Hevea caoutchouc), Asia, and Africa.
caoutchoucin		See Caoutchin — an inflammable, volatile, oily, liquid hydrocarbon, obtained by the destructive distillation of caoutchouc.
cap		A covering for the head; esp. (a) One usually with a visor but without a brim, for men and boys; (b) One of lace, muslin, etc., for women, or infants; (c) One used as the mark or ensign of some rank, office, or dignity…
capability		The quality of being capable; capacity; capableness; esp. intellectual power or ability.
capable		Possessing ability, qualification, or susceptibility; having capacity; of sufficient size or strength; as, a room capable of holding a large number; a castle capable of resisting a long assault.
capableness		The quality or state of being capable; capability; adequateness; competency.
capacify		To quality.
capacious		Having capacity; able to contain much; large; roomy; spacious; extended; broad; as, a capacious vessel, room, bay, or harbor.
capaciously		In a capacious manner or degree; comprehensively.
capaciousness		The quality of being capacious, as of a vessel, a reservoir a bay, the mind, etc.
capacitate		To render capable; to enable; to qualify.
capacity		The power of receiving or containing; extent of room or space; passive power; -- used in reference to physical things.
capape		See Cap-a-pie.
capapie		From head to foot; at all points.
caparison		An ornamental covering or housing for a horse; the harness or trappings of a horse, taken collectively, esp. when decorative.
caparro		A large South American monkey (Lagothrix Humboldtii), with prehensile tail.
capcase		A small traveling case or bandbox; formerly, a chest.
cape		A piece or point of land, extending beyind the adjacent coast into the sea or a lake; a promonotory; a headland.
capel	Obsolete	A horse; a nag.
capelan		See Capelin — a small marine fish (Mallotus villosus) of the family Salmonidæ, very abundant on the coasts of Greenland, Iceland, Newfoundland, and Alaska.
capelin		A small marine fish (Mallotus villosus) of the family Salmonidæ, very abundant on the coasts of Greenland, Iceland, Newfoundland, and Alaska.
capeline		A hood-shaped bandage for the head, the shoulder, or the stump of an amputated limb.
capella		A brilliant star in the constellation Auriga.
capellane	Obsolete	The curate of a chapel; a chaplain.
capelle		The private orchestra or band of a prince or of a church.
capellet		A swelling, like a wen, on the point of the elbow (or the heel of the hock) of a horse, caused probably by bruises in lying dowm.
capellmeister		The musical director in royal or ducal chapel; a choirmaster.
caper		To leap or jump about in a sprightly manner; to cut capers; to skip; to spring; to prance; to dance.
caperberry		The small olive-shaped berry of the European and Oriental caper, said to be used in pickles and as a condiment.
capercailzie		A species of grouse (Tetrao uragallus) of large size and fine flavor, found in northern Europe and formerly in Scotland; -- called also cock of the woods.
capercally		A species of grouse (Tetrao uragallus) of large size and fine flavor, found in northern Europe and formerly in Scotland; -- called also cock of the woods.
caperclaw	Obsolete	To treat with cruel playfulness, as a cat treats a mouse; to abuse.
caperer		One who capers, leaps, and skips about, or dances.
capful		As much as will fill a cap.
capias		A writ or process commanding the officer to take the body of the person named in it, that is, to arrest him; -- also called writ of capias.
capibara		See Capybara — a large South American rodent (Hydrochærus capybara) Living on the margins of lakes and rivers.
capillaceous		Having long filaments; resembling a hair; slender. See Capillary.
capillaire		A sirup prepared from the maiden-hair, formerly supposed to have medicinal properties.
capillament		(Anat.) Any villous or hairy covering; a fine fiber or filament, as of the nerves.
capillariness		The quality of being capillary.
capillarity		The quality or condition of being capillary.
capillary		Resembling a hair; fine; minute; very slender; having minute tubes or interspaces; having very small bore; as, the capillary vessels of animals and plants.
capillation	Obsolete	A capillary blood vessel.
capillature		A bush of hair; frizzing of the hair.
capilliform		In the shape or form of, a hair, or of hairs.
capillose		Having much hair; hairy.
capistrate		Hooded; cowled.
capital		Having reference to, or involving, the forfeiture of the head or life; affecting life; punishable with death; as, capital trials; capital punishment.
capitalist		One who has capital; one who has money for investment, or money invested; esp. a person of large property, which is employed in business.
capitalization		The act or process of capitalizing.
capitalize		To convert into capital, or to use as capital.
capitally		In a way involving the forfeiture of the head or life; as, to punish capitally.
capitalness		The quality of being capital; preeminence.
capitate		Headlike in form; also, having the distal end enlarged and rounded, as the stigmas of certain flowers.
capitatim		Of so much per head; as, a capitatim tax; a capitatim grant.
capitation		A tax upon each head or person, without reference to property; a poll tax.
capite		See under Tenant.
capitellate		Having a very small knoblike termination, or collected into minute capitula.
capitibranchiata		A division of annelids in which the gills arise from or near the head.
capitol		The temple of Jupiter, at Rome, on the Mona Capitolinus, where the Senate met.
capitolian		Of or pertaining to the Capitol in Rome.
capitoline		Of or pertaining to the Capitol in Rome.
capitula		See Capitulum — a thick head of flowers on a very short axis, as a clover top, or a dandelion; a composite flower.
capitular		An act passed in a chapter.
capitularly		In the manner or form of an ecclesiastical chapter.
capitulary		The body of laws or statutes of a chapter, or of an ecclesiastical council.
capitulate		To surrender on terms agreed upon (usually, drawn up under several heads); as, an army or a garrison capitulates.
capitulation		A reducing to heads or articles; a formal agreement.
capitulator		One who capitulates.
capitule	Obsolete	A summary.
capitulum		A thick head of flowers on a very short axis, as a clover top, or a dandelion; a composite flower.
capivi		A balsam of the Spanish West Indies. See Copaiba.
caple	Obsolete	A horse; a nag.
caplin		See Capelin — a small marine fish (Mallotus villosus) of the family Salmonidæ, very abundant on the coasts of Greenland, Iceland, Newfoundland, and Alaska.
capling		The cap or coupling of a flail, through which the thongs pass which connect the handle and swingel.
capnomancy		Divination by means of the ascent or motion of smoke.
capnomor		A limpid, colorless oil with a peculiar odor, obtained from beech tar.
capoc		A sort of cotton so short and fine thet it can not be spun, used in the East Indies to line palanquins, to make mattresses, etc.
capoch		A hood; especialy, the hood attached to the gown of a monk.
capon		A castrated cock, esp. when fattened; a male chicken gelded to improve his flesh for the table.
caponet		A young capon.
caponiere		A work made across or in the ditch, to protect it from the enemy, or to serve as a covered passageway.
caponize		To castrate, as a fowl.
caporal		One who directs work; an overseer.
capot		A winning of all the tricks at the game of piquet.
capote		A long cloak or overcoat, especially one with a hood.
capouch		Same as Capoch.
cappadine		A floss or waste obtained from the cocoon after the silk has been reeled off, used for shag.
cappaper		See cap, n., also Paper, n.
cappeak		The front piece of a cap; -- now more commonly called visor.
cappeline		A hood-shaped bandage for the head, the shoulder, or the stump of an amputated limb.
cappella		See A cappella.
capper		One whose business is to make or sell caps.
capra		A genus of ruminants, including the common goat.
caprate		A salt of capric acid.
capreolate		Having a tendril or tendrils.
capreoline		Of or pertaining to the roebuck.
capri		Wine produced on the island of Capri, commonly a light, dry, white wine.
capric		Of or pertaining to capric acid or its derivatives.
capriccio		(Mus.) A piece in a free form, with frequent digressions from the theme; a fantasia; -- often called caprice.
capriccioso		In a free, fantastic style.
caprice		An abrupt change in feeling, opinion, or action, proceeding from some whim or fancy; a freak; a notion.
capricioso		In a free, fantastic style.
capricious		Governed or characterized by caprice; apt to change suddenly; freakish; whimsical; changeable.
capricorn		(Astron.) The tenth sign of zodiac, into which the sun enters at the winter solstice, about December 21.
caprid		Of or pertaining to the tribe of ruminants of which the goat, or genus Capra, is the type.
caprification		The practice of hanging, upon the cultivated fig tree, branches of the wild fig infested with minute hymenopterous insects.
caprifole		The woodbine or honeysuckle.
caprifoliaceous		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the Honeysuckle family of plants (Caprifoliacæ.
capriform		Having the form of a goat.
caprigenous		Of the goat kind.
caprine		Of or pertaining to a goat; as, caprine gambols.
capriole		(Man.) A leap that a horse makes with all fours, upwards only, without advancing, but with a kick or jerk of the hind legs when at the height of the leap.
capriped		Having feet like those of a goat.
caproate		A salt of caproic acid.
caproic		See under Capric.
caprylate		A salt of caprylic acid.
caprylic		See under Capric.
capsaicin		A colorless crystalline substance extracted from the Capsicum annuum, and giving off vapors of intense acridity.
capsheaf		The top sheaf of a stack of grain: (fig.) the crowning or finishing part of a thing.
capsicin		A red liquid or soft resin extracted from various species of capsicum.
capsicine		A valatile alkaloid extracted from Capsicum annuum or from capsicin.
capsicum		A genus of plants of many species, producing capsules or dry berries of various forms, which have an exceedingly pungent, biting taste, and when ground form the red of Cayenne pepper of commerce.
capsize		To upset or overturn, as a vessel or other body.
capsquare		A metal covering plate which passes over the trunnions of a cannon, and holds it in place.
capstan		A vertical cleated drum or cylinder, revolving on an upright spindle, and surmounted by a drumhead with sockets for bars or levers.
capstone		A fossil echinus of the genus Cannulus; -- so called from its supposed resemblance to a cap.
capsular		Of or pertaining to a capsule; having the nature of a capsula; hollow and fibrous.
capsulary		Of or pertaining to a capsule; having the nature of a capsula; hollow and fibrous.
capsulate		Inclosed in a capsule, or as in a chest or box.
capsulated		Inclosed in a capsule, or as in a chest or box.
capsule		(Bot.) a dry fruit or pod which is made up of several parts or carpels, and opens to discharge the seeds, as, the capsule of the poppy, the flax, the lily, etc.
capsulitis		Inflammation of a capsule, as that of the crystalline lens.
capsulotomy		The incision of a capsule, esp. of that of the crystalline lens, as in a cataract operation.
captain		A head, or chief officer; as: (a) The military officer who commands a company, troop, or battery, or who has the rank entitling him to do so though he may be employed on other service.
captaincy		The rank, post, or commission of a captain.
captainry	Obsolete	Power, or command, over a certain district; chieftainship.
captainship		The condition, rank, post, or authority of a captain or chief commander.
captation	Obsolete	A courting of favor or applause, by flattery or address; a captivating quality; an attraction.
caption		The act of taking or arresting a person by judicial process.
captious		Art to catch at faults; disposed to find fault or to cavil; eager to object; difficult to please.
captiously		In a captious manner.
captiousness		Captious disposition or manner.
captivate		To acquire ascendancy over by reason of some art or attraction; to fascinate; to charm; as, Cleopatra captivated Antony; the orator captivated all hearts.
captivating		Having power to captivate or cham; fascinating; as, captivating smiles. -- Cap"tiva`ting*ly, adv.
captivation		The act of captivating.
captive		A prisoner taken by force or stratagem, esp., by an enemy, in war; one kept in bondage or in the power of another.
captivity		A state of being under control; subjection of the will or affections; bondage.
captor		One who captures any person or thing, as a prisoner or a prize.
capture		The act of seizing by force, or getting possession of by superior power or by stratagem; as, the capture of an enemy, a vessel, or a criminal.
capuccio	Obsolete	A capoch or hood.
capuched	Obsolete	Cover with, or as with, a hood.
capuchin		(Eccl.) A Franciscan monk of the austere branch established in 1526 by Matteo di Baschi, distinguished by wearing the long pointed cowl or capoch of St. Francis.
capucine		See Capuchin, 3.
capulet		Same as Capellet.
capulin		The Mexican chery (Prunus Capollin).
caput		(Anat.) The head; also, a knoblike protuberance or capitulum.
capybara		A large South American rodent (Hydrochærus capybara) Living on the margins of lakes and rivers.
car		A small vehicle moved on wheels; usually, one having but two wheels and drawn by one horse; a cart.
carabao		The water buffalo.
carabid		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the genus Carbus or family Carabidæ. -- n.
carabine		A carbine.
carabineer		A carbineer.
caraboid		Like, or pertaining to the genus Carabus.
carabus		A genus of ground beetles, including numerous species.
carac		See Carack — a kind of large ship formerly used by the Spaniards and Portuguese in the East India trade; a galleon.
caracal		A lynx (Felis, or Lynx, caracal.) It is a native of Africa and Asia.
caracara		A south American bird of several species and genera, resembling both the eagles and the vultures.
carack		A kind of large ship formerly used by the Spaniards and Portuguese in the East India trade; a galleon.
caracole		(Man.) A half turn which a horseman makes, either to the right or the left.
caracoly		An alloy of gold, silver, and copper, of which an inferior quality of jewerly is made.
caracora		A light vessel or proa used by the people of Borneo, etc., and by the Dutch in the East Indies.
caracore		A light vessel or proa used by the people of Borneo, etc., and by the Dutch in the East Indies.
caracul		Var. of Karakul, a kind of fur.
carafe		A glass water bottle for the table or toilet; -- called also croft.
carageen		See Carrageen — a small, purplish, branching, cartilaginous seaweed (Chondrus crispus), which, when bleached, is the Irish moss of commerce.
caragheen		See Carrageen — a small, purplish, branching, cartilaginous seaweed (Chondrus crispus), which, when bleached, is the Irish moss of commerce.
carambola		An East Indian tree (Averrhoa Carambola), and its acid, juicy fruit; called also Coromandel gooseberry.
caramel		(Chem.) Burnt sugar; a brown or black porous substance obtained by heating sugar.
carangoid		Belonging to the Carangidæ, a family of fishes allied to the mackerels, and including the caranx, American bluefish, and the pilot fish.
caranx		A genus of fishes, common on the Atlantic coast, including the yellow or goldon mackerel.
carapace		The thick shell or sheild which cover the back of the tortoise, or turtle, the crab, and other crustaceous animals.
carapato		A south American tick of the genus Amblyamma.
carapax		See Carapace — the thick shell or sheild which cover the back of the tortoise, or turtle, the crab, and other crustaceous animals.
carat		The weight by which precious stones and pearls are weighed.
caravan		A company of travelers, pilgrims, or merchants, organized and equipped for a long journey, or marching or traveling together, esp. through deserts and countries infested by robbers or hostile tribes, as in Asia or Africa.
caravaneer		The leader or driver of the camels in caravan.
caravansary		A kind of inn, in the East, where caravans rest at night, being a large, rude, unfurnished building, surrounding a court.
caravel		A name given to several kinds of vessels. (a) The caravel of the 16th century was a small vessel with broad bows, high, narrow poop, four masts, and lateen sails.
caraway		(Bot.) A biennial plant of the Parsley family (Carum Carui).
carbamic		Pertaining to an acid so called.
carbamide		The technical name for urea.
carbamine		An isocyanide of a hydrocarbon radical.
carbanil		A mobile liquid, CO.N.C6H5, of pungent odor.
carbazol		A white crystallized substance, C12H8NH, derived from aniline and other amines.
carbazotate		A salt of carbazotic or picric acid; a picrate.
carbazotic		Containing, or derived from, carbon and nitrogen.
carbide		A binary compound of carbon with some other element or radical, in which the carbon plays the part of a negative; -- formerly termed carburet.
carbimide		The technical name for isocyanic acid. See under Isocyanic.
carbine		A short, light musket or rifle, esp. one used by mounted soldiers or cavalry.
carbineer		A soldier armed with a carbine.
carbinol		Methyl alcohol, CH3OH; -- also, by extension, any one in the homologous series of paraffine alcohols of which methyl alcohol is the type.
carbohydrate		One of a group of compounds including the sugars, starches, and gums, which contain six (or some multiple of six) carbon atoms, united with a variable number of hydrogen and oxygen atoms…
carbohydride		A hydrocarbon.
carbolic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid derived from coal tar and other sources; as, carbolic acid (called also phenic acid, and phenol).
carbolize		To apply carbonic acid to; to wash or treat with carbolic acid.
carbon		An elementary substance, not metallic in its nature, which is present in all organic compounds.
carbonaceous		Pertaining to, containing, or composed of, carbon.
carbonade	Obsolete	Flesh, fowl, etc., cut across, seasoned, and broiled on coals; a chop.
carbonado	Obsolete	Flesh, fowl, etc., cut across, seasoned, and broiled on coals; a chop.
carbonarism		The principles, practices, or organization of the Carbonari.
carbonaro		A member of a secret political association in Italy, organized in the early part of the nineteenth centry for the purpose of changing the government into a republic.
carbonatation		The saturation of defecated beet juice with carbonic acid gas.
carbonate		A salt or carbonic acid, as in limestone, some forms of lead ore, etc.
carbonated		Combined or impregnated with carbonic acid.
carbone	Obsolete	To broil..
carbonic		Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, carbon; as, carbonic oxide.
carbonide		A carbide.
carboniferous		Producing or containing carbon or coal.
carbonite		An explosive consisting essentially of nitroglycerin, wood meal, and some nitrate, as that of sodium.
carbonization		The act or process of carbonizing.
carbonize		To cover (an animal or vegatable substance) into a residue of carbon by the action of fire or some corrosive agent; to char.
carbonometer		An instrument for detecting and measuring the amount of carbon which is present, or more esp. the amount of carbon dioxide, by its action on limewater or by other means.
carbonyl		The radical (CO)'\'b7, occuring, always combined, in many compounds, as the aldehydes, the ketones, urea, carbonyl chloride, etc.
carborundum		A beautiful crystalline compound, SiC, consisting of carbon and silicon in combination; carbon silicide.
carbostyril		A white crystalline substance, C9H6N.OH, of acid properties derived from one of the amido cinnamic acids.
carboxide		A compound of carbon and oxygen, as carbonyl, with some element or radical; as, potassium carboxide.
carboxyl		The complex radical, CO.OH, regarded as the essential and characteristic constituent which all oxygen acids of carbon (as formic, acetic, benzoic acids, etc.) have in common; -- called also oxatyl.
carboy		A large, globular glass bottle, esp. one of green glass, inclosed in basket work or in a box, for protection; -- used commonly for carrying corrosive liquids; as sulphuric acid, etc.
carbuncle		(Min.) A beautiful gem of a deep red color (with a mixture of scarlet) called by the Greeks anthrax; found in the East Indies.
carbuncled		Set with carbuncles.
carbuncular		Belonging to a carbuncle; resembling a carbuncle; red; inflamed.
carbunculation		The blasting of the young buds of trees or plants, by excessive heat or caold.
carburet	Archaic	A carbide. See Carbide To combine or to impregnate with carbon, as by passing through or over a liquid hydrocarbon; to carbonize or carburize.
carburetant		Any volatile liquid used in charging illuminating gases.
carbureted		(Chem.) Combined with carbon in the manner of a carburet or carbide.
carburetor		An apparatus in which coal gas, hydrogen, or air is passed through or over a volatile hydrocarbon, in order to confer or increase illuminating power.
carburettor		One that carburets; specif., an apparatus in which air or gas is carbureted, as by passing it through a light petroleum oil.
carburization		The act, process, or result of carburizing.
carburize		To combine wtih carbon or a carbon compound; -- said esp. of a process for conferring a higher degree of illuminating power on combustible gases by mingling them with a vapor of valatile hydrocarbons.
carcajou		The wolverence; -- also applied, but erroneously, to the Canada lynx, and sometimes to the American badger.
carcanet		A jeweled chain, necklace, or collar.
carcase		See Carcass — a dead body, whether of man or beast; a corpse; now commonly the dead body of a beast.
carcass		A dead body, whether of man or beast; a corpse; now commonly the dead body of a beast.
carcavelhos		A sweet wine. See Calcavella.
carcelage	Obsolete	Prison fees.
carceral		Belonging a prison.
carcinological		Of or pertaining to carcinology.
carcinology		The depertment of zoölogy which treats of the Crustacea (lobsters, crabs, etc.); -- called also malacostracology and crustaceology.
carcinoma		A cancer.
carcinomatous		Of or pertaining to carcinoma.
carcinosys		The affection of the system with cancer.
card		A piece of pasteboard, or thick paper, blank or prepared for various uses; as, a playing card; a visiting card; a card of invitation; pl. a game played with cards.
cardamine		A genus of cruciferous plants, containing the lady's-smock, cuckooflower, bitter cress, meadow cress, etc.
cardamom		The aromatic fruit, or capsule with its seeds, of several plants of the Ginger family growing in the East Indies and elsewhere, and much used as a condiment, and in medicine.
cardboard		A stiff compact pasteboard of various qualities, for making cards, etc., often having a polished surface.
cardcase		A case for visiting cards.
cardecu	Obsolete	A quarter of a crown.
carder		One who, or that which cards wool flax, etc. Shak.
cardia		(a) The heart. (b) The anterior or cardiac orifice of the stomach, where the esophagus enters it.
cardiac		(Anat.) Pertaining to, resembling, or hear the heart; as, the cardiac arteries; the cardiac, or left, end of the stomach.
cardiacal		Cardiac.
cardiacle	Obsolete	A pain about the heart.
cardiagraph		See Cardiograph — an instrument which, when placed in contact with the chest, will register graphically the comparative duration and intensity of the heart's movements.
cardialgla		A burning or gnawing pain, or feeling of distress, referred to the region of the heart, accompanied with cardisc palpitation; heartburn.
cardialgy		A burning or gnawing pain, or feeling of distress, referred to the region of the heart, accompanied with cardisc palpitation; heartburn.
cardinal		Of fundamental importance; preëminet; superior; chief; principal.
cardinalate		The office, rank, or dignity of a cardinal.
cardinalize		To exalt to the office of a cardinal.
cardinalship		The condition, dignity, of office of a cardinal
carding		The act or process of preparing staple for spinning, etc., bycarding it.
cardiogram		The curve or tracing made by a cardiograph.
cardiograph		An instrument which, when placed in contact with the chest, will register graphically the comparative duration and intensity of the heart's movements.
cardiographic		Of or pertaining to, or produced by, a cardiograph.
cardiography		Description of the heart.
cardioid		An algebraic curve, so called from its resemblance to a heart.
cardioinhibitory		Checking or arresting the heart's action.
cardiolgy		The science which treats of the heart and its functions.
cardiometry		Measurement of the heart, as by percussion or auscultation.
cardiosclerosis		Induration of the heart, caused by development of fibrous tissue in the cardiac muscle.
cardiosphygmograph		A combination of cardiograph and shygmograph.
carditis		Inflammation of the fleshy or muscular substance of the heart. See Endocardris and Pericarditis.
cardo		(a) The basal joint of the maxilla in insects. (b) The hinge of a bivalve shell.
cardol		A yellow oil liquid, extracted from the shell of the cashew nut.
cardoon		A large herbaceos plant (Cynara Cardunculus) related to the artichoke; -- used in cookery and as a sald.
care		A burdensome sense of responsibility; trouble caused by onerous duties; anxiety; concern; solicitude.
care-tuned		Weary; mournful.
careen		To cause (a vessel) to lean over so that she floats on one side, leaving the other side out of water and accessible for repairs below the water line; to case to be off the keel.
careenage		(a) Expense of careening ships. (b) A place for careening.
career		A race course: the ground run over.
careful		Filling with care or colicitube; exposing to concern, anxiety, or trouble; painful.
carefully		In a careful manner.
carefulness		Quality or state of being careful.
careless		Free from care or anxiety. hence, cheerful; light-hearted.
carelessly		In a careless manner.
carelessness		The quality or state of being careless; heedlessness; negligenece; inattention.
carene	Obsolete	A fast of forty days on bread and water.
caress		An act of endearment; any act or expression of affection; an embracing, or touching, with tenderness.
caressingly		In caressing manner.
caret		A mark used by writers and proof readers to indicate that something is interlined above, or inserted in the margin, which belongs in the place marked by the caret.
caretuned		Weary; mournful.
careworn		Worn or burdened with care; as, careworn look or face.
carex		A numerous and widely distributed genus of perennial herbaceous plants of the order Cypreaceæ; the sedges.
carf	Obsolete	pret. of Carve.
cargason	Obsolete	A cargo.
cargo		The lading or freight of a ship or other vessel; the goods, merchandise, or whatever is conveyed in a vessel or boat; load; freight.
cargoose		A species of grebe (Podiceps crisratus); the crested grebe.
cariama		A large, long-legged South American bird (Dicholophus cristatus) which preys upon snakes, etc. See Seriema.
carib		A native of the Caribbee islands or the coaste of the Caribbean sea; esp., one of a tribe of Indians inhabiting a region of South America, north of the Amazon, and formerly most of the West India islands.
caribbean		Of or pertaining to the Caribs, to their islands (the eastern and southern West Indies), or to the sea (called the Caribbean sa) lying between those islands and Central America.
caribbee		Of or pertaining to the Caribs, to their islands (the eastern and southern West Indies), or to the sea (called the Caribbean sa) lying between those islands and Central America.
caribe		A south American fresh water fish of the genus Serrasalmo of many species, remakable for its voracity.
caribou		The American reindeer, especially the common or woodland species (Rangifer Caribou).
caricature		A picture or other figure or description in which the peculiarities of a person or thing are so exaggerated as to appear ridiculous; a burlesque; a parody.
caricaturist		One who caricatures.
caricous		Of the shape of a fig; as, a caricous tumor.
caries		Ulceration of bone; a process in which bone disintegrates and is carried away piecemeal, as distinguished from necrosis, in which it dies in masses.
carillon		(Mus.) A chime of bells diatonically tuned, played by clockwork or by finger keys.
carina		(Bot.) A keel. (a) That part of a papilionaceous flower, consisting of two petals, commonly united, which incloses the organs of fructification.
carinaria		A genus of oceanic heteropod Mollusca, having a thin, glassy, bonnet-shaped shell, which covers only the nucleus and gills.
carinatae		A grand division of birds, including all existing flying birds; -- So called from the carina or keel on the breastbone.
carinate		Shaped like the keel or prow of a ship; having a carina or keel; as, a carinate calyx or leaf; a carinate sternum (of a bird).
carinated		Shaped like the keel or prow of a ship; having a carina or keel; as, a carinate calyx or leaf; a carinate sternum (of a bird).
cariole		(a) A small, light, open one-horse carriage. (b) A covered cart. (c) A kind of calash.
cariopsis		See Caryopsis — a one-celled, dry, indehiscent fruit, with a thin membranous pericarp, adhering closely to the seed, so that fruit and seed are incorporated in one body, forming a single grain…
carious		Affected with caries; decaying; as, a carious tooth.
cark	Archaic	A noxious or corroding care; solicitude; worry.
carkanet		A carcanet.
carking		Distressing; worrying; perplexing; corroding; as, carking cares.
carl		A rude, rustic man; a churl.
carlin	Scots	An old woman.
carline		A silver coin once current in some parts of Italy, worth about seven cents.
carling		A short timber running lengthwise of a ship, from one transverse desk beam to another; also, one of the cross timbers that strengthen a hath; -- usually in pl.
carlings		Same as Carl, 3.
carlist		A parisan of Charles X.
carlock		A sort of Russian isinglass, made from the air bladder of the sturgeon, and used in clarifying wine.
carlot	Obsolete	A churl; a boor; a peasant or countryman.
carlovingian		Pertaining to, founded by, of descended from, Charlemagne; as, the Carlovingian race of kings.
carmagnole		A popular or Red Rebublican song and dance, of the time of the first French Revolution.
carman		A man whose employment is to drive, or to convey goods in, a car or car.
carmelin		Of or pertaining to the order of Carmelites.
carmelite		Of or pertaining to the order of Carmelites.
carminated		Of, relating to, or mixed with, carmine; as, carminated lake.
carminative		Expelling wind from the body; warning; antispasmodic.
carmine		A rich red or crimson color with a shade of purple.
carminic		Of or pertaining to, or derived from, carmine.
carmot		The matter of which the philosopher's stone was believed to be composed.
carnage		Flesh of slain animals or men.
carnal		Of or pertaining to the body or is appetites; animal; fleshly; sensual; given to sensual indulgence; lustful; human or worldly as opposed to spiritual.
carnal-minded		Worldly-minded.
carnal-mindedness		Grossness of mind.
carnalism		The state of being carnal; carnality; sensualism.
carnalist		A sensualist.
carnality		The state of being carnal; fleshly lust, or the indulgence of lust; grossness of mind.
carnalize		To make carnal; to debase to carnality.
carnallite		A hydrous chloride of potassium and magnesium, sometimes found associated with deposits of rock salt.
carnally		According to the flesh, to the world, or to human nature; in a manner to gratify animal appetites and lusts; sensually.
carnary		A vault or crypt in connection with a church, used as a repository for human bones disintered from their original burial places; a charnel house.
carnassial		Adapted to eating flesh. -- n.
carnate		Invested with, or embodied in, flesh.
carnation		The natural color of flesh; rosy pink.
carnationed		Having a flesh color.
carnauba		The Brazilian wax palm. See Wax palm.
carnelian		A variety of chalcedony, of a clear, deep red, flesh red, or reddish white color.
carneous		Consisting of, or like, flesh; carnous; fleshy.
carney		A disease of horses, on which the mouth is so furred that the afflicted animal can not eat.
carnic		Of or pertaining to flesh; specif. (Physiol. Chem.), pertaining to or designating a hydroscopic monobasic acid, C10H15O5N3, obtained as a cleavage product from an acid of muscle tissue.
carnifex		The public executioner at Rome, who executed persons of the lowest rank; hence, an executioner or hangman.
carnification		The act or process of turning to flesh, or to a substance resembling flesh.
carnify		To form flesh; to become like flesh.
carnin		A white crystalline nitrogenous substance, found in extract of meat, and related to xanthin.
carnival		A festival celebrated with merriment and revelry in Roman Gatholic countries during the week before Lent, esp. at Rome and Naples, during a few days (three to ten) before Lent, ending with Shrove Tuesday.
carnivora		An order of Mammallia including the lion, tiger, wolf bear, seal, etc. They are adapted by their structure to feed upon flesh, though some of them, as the bears, also eat vegetable food.
carnivoracity		Greediness of appetite for flesh.
carnivore		One of the Carnivora.
carnivorous		Eating or feeding on flesh.
carnose		Of a pertaining to flesh; fleshy.
carnosity		(Med.) A fleshy excrescence; esp. a small excrescence or fungous growth.
carnous		Of a pertaining to flesh; fleshy.
carob		(Bot.) An evergreen leguminous tree (Ceratania Siliqua) found in the countries bordering the Mediterranean; the St. John's bread; -- called also carob tree.
caroche	Obsolete	A kind of pleasure carriage; a coach.
caroched	Obsolete	Placed in a caroche.
caroigne	Obsolete	Dead body; carrion.
carol		A song of joy, exultation, or mirth; a lay.
carolin		A former gold coin of Germany worth nearly five dollars; also, a gold coin of Sweden worth nearly five dollars.
caroline		A silver coin once current in some parts of Italy, worth about seven cents.
caroling		A song of joy or devotion; a singing, as of carols.
carolinian		A native or inhabitant of north or South Carolina.
carolitic		Adorned with sculptured leaves and branches.
carolus		An English gold coin of the value of twenty or twenty-three shillings.
carom		A shot in which the ball struck with the cue comes in contact with two or more balls on the table; a hitting of two or more balls with the player's ball.
caromel		See Caramel — (Chem.) Burnt sugar; a brown or black porous substance obtained by heating sugar.
caroteel		A tierce or cask for dried fruits, etc., usually about 700 lbs.
carotic		Of or pertaining to stupor; as, a carotic state.
carotid		One of the two main arteries of the neck, by which blood is conveyed from the aorta to the head.
carotidal		Pertaining to, or near, the carotids or one of them; as, the carotid gland.
carotin		A red crystallizable tasteless substance, extracted from the carrot.
carotte		A cylindrical roll of tobacco; as, a carotte of perique.
carousal		A jovial feast or festival; a drunken revel; a carouse.
carouse	Obsolete	A large draught of liguor.
carouser		One who carouses; a reveler.
carousing		That carouses; relating to a carouse.
carousingly		In the manner of a carouser.
carp		To find fault; to cavil; to censure words or actions without reason or ill-naturedly; -- usually followed by at.
carpal		Of or pertaining to the carpus, or wrist. -- n.
carpale		One of the bones or cartilages of the carpus; esp. one of the series articulating with the metacarpals.
carpathian		Of or pertaining to a range of mountains in Austro-Hungary, called the Carpathians, which partially inclose Hungary on the north, east, and south.
carpel		A simple pistil or single-celled ovary or seed vessel, or one of the parts of a compound pistil, ovary, or seed vessel.
carpellary		Belonging to, forming, or containing carpels.
carpellum		A simple pistil or single-celled ovary or seed vessel, or one of the parts of a compound pistil, ovary, or seed vessel.
carpenter		An artificer who works in timber; a framer and builder of houses, ships, etc. Syn. -- Carpenter, Joiner.
carpentering		The occupation or work of a carpenter; the act of workingin timber; carpentry.
carpentry		The art of cutting, framing, and joining timber, as in the construction of buildings.
carper		One who carps; a caviler.
carpet		A heavy woven or felted fabric, usually of wool, but also of cotton, hemp, straw, etc.; esp. a floor covering made in breadths to be sewed together and nailed to the floor, as distinguished from a rug or mat; originally, also…
carpetbag		A portable bag for travelers; -- so called because originally made of carpet.
carpetbagger		An adventurer; -- a term of contempt for a Northern man seeking private gain or political advancement in the southern part of the United States after the Civil War (1865).
carpeting		The act of covering with carpets.
carpetless		Without a carpet.
carpetmonger		One who deals in carpets; a buyer and seller of carpets.
carpetway		A border of greensward left round the margin of a plowed field.
carphology		See Flaccillation.
carping		Fault-finding; censorious caviling. See Captious. -- Carp"ing*ly, adv.
carpintero		A california woodpecker (Melanerpes formicivorus), noted for its habit of inserting acorns in holes which it drills in trees.
carpogenic		Productive of fruit, or causing fruit to be developed.
carpolite		A general term for a fossil fruit, nut, or seed.
carpological		Of or pertaining to carpology.
carpologist		One who describes fruits; one versed in carpology.
carpology		That branch of botany which relates to the structure of seeds and fruit.
carpophagous		Living on fruits; fruit-consuming.
carpophore		A slender prolongation of the receptacle as an axis between the carpels, as in Geranium and many umbelliferous plants.
carpophyll		A leaf converted into a fruit or a constituent portion of a fruit; a carpel.
carpophyte		A flowerless plant which forms a true fruit as the result of fertilization, as the red seaweeds, the Ascomycetes, etc.
carpospore		A kind of spore formed in the conceptacles of red algæ. -- Car`po*spor"ic (, a.
carpus		The wrist; the bones or cartilages between the forearm, or antibrachium, and the hand or forefoot; in man, consisting of eight short bones disposed in two rows.
carrack		See Carack — a kind of large ship formerly used by the Spaniards and Portuguese in the East India trade; a galleon.
carrageen		A small, purplish, branching, cartilaginous seaweed (Chondrus crispus), which, when bleached, is the Irish moss of commerce.
carrancha		The Brazilian kite (Polyborus Brasiliensis); -- so called in imitation of its notes.
carraway		See Caraway — (Bot.) A biennial plant of the Parsley family (Carum Carui).
carrel		See Quarrel, an arrow.
carriable		Capable of being carried.
carriage		The act of carrying, transporting, or conveying.
carriageable		Passable by carriages; that can be conveyed in carriages.
carriboo		See Caribou — the american reindeer, especially the common or woodland species (Rangifer Caribou).
carrick		A carack. See Carack.
carrier		One who, or that which, carries or conveys; a messenger.
carrigeen		A small, purplish, branching, cartilaginous seaweed (Chondrus crispus), which, when bleached, is the Irish moss of commerce.
carrion		The dead and putrefying body or flesh of an animal; flesh so corrupted as to be unfit for food.
carrol		A small closet or inclosure built against a window on the inner side, to sit in for study.
carrom		See Carom — a shot in which the ball struck with the cue comes in contact with two or more balls on the table; a hitting of two or more balls with the player's ball.
carromata		In the Philippines, a light, two-wheeled, boxlike vehicle usually drawn by a single native pony and used to convey passengers within city limits or for traveling.
carronade		A kind of short cannon, formerly in use, designed to throw a large projectile with small velocity, used for the purpose of breaking or smashing in, rather than piercing, the object aimed at, as the side of a ship.
carrot		(Bot.) An umbelliferous biennial plant (Daucus Carota), of many varieties.
carroty		Like a carrot in color or in taste; -- an epithet given to reddish yellow hair, etc.
carrow		A strolling gamester.
carry		To convey or transport in any manner from one place to another; to bear; -- often with away or off.
carryall		A light covered carriage, having four wheels and seats for four or more persons, usually drawn by one horse.
carrying		The act or business of transporting from one place to another.
carryk	Obsolete	A carack.
carrytale		A talebearer.
carse	Scots	Low, fertile land; a river valley.
cart		A common name for various kinds of vehicles, as a Scythian dwelling on wheels, or a chariot.
cartage		The price paid for carting.
cartbote		Wood to which a tenant is entitled for making and repairing carts and other instruments of husbandry.
carte		Short for Carte de visite.
cartel		(Mil.) An agreement between belligerents for the exchange of prisoners.
carter		A man who drives a cart; a teamster.
cartesian		Of or pertaining to the French philosopher René Descartes, or his philosophy.
cartesianism		The philosophy of Descartes.
carthaginian		Of a pertaining to ancient Carthage, a city of northern Africa. -- n.
carthamin		A red coloring matter obtained from the safflower, or Carthamus tinctorius.
carthusian		A member of an exceeding austere religious order, founded at Chartreuse in France by St. Bruno, in the year 1086.
cartilage		A translucent, elastic tissue; gristle.
cartilagineous		See Cartilaginous — of or pertaining to cartilage; gristly; firm and tough like cartilage.
cartilaginification		The act or process of forming cartilage.
cartilaginous		Of or pertaining to cartilage; gristly; firm and tough like cartilage.
cartist		In Spain and Portugal, one who supports the constitution.
cartman		One who drives or uses a cart; a teamster; a carter.
cartogram		A map showing geographically, by shades or curves, statistics of various kinds; a statistical map.
cartographer		One who make charts or maps.
cartographic		Of or pertaining to cartography.
cartographical		Of or pertaining to cartography.
cartographically		By cartography.
cartography		The act business of forming chart's or maps.
cartomancy		The act of telling fortunes with cards.
carton		Pasteboard for paper boxes; also, a pasteboard box.
cartoon		A design or study drawn of the full size, to serve as a model for transferring or copying; -- used in the making of mosaics, tapestries, fresco pantings and the like; as, the cartoons of Raphael.
cartoonist		One skilled in drawing cartoons.
cartouch		(Mil.) (a) A roll or case of paper, etc., holding a charge for a firearm; a cartridge.
cartridge		A complete charge for a firearm, contained in, or held together by, a case, capsule, or shell of metal, pasteboard, or other material.
cartulary		An ecclesiastical officer who had charge of records or other public papers.
cartway		A way or road for carts.
cartwright		An artificer who makes carts; a cart maker.
carucage		(Old Eng. Law.) A tax on every plow or plowland.
carucate		A plowland; as much land as one team can plow in a year and a day; -- by some said to be about 100 acres.
caruncle		(Anat.) A small fleshy prominence or excrescence; especially the small, reddish body, the caruncula lacrymalis, in the inner angle of the eye.
caruncula		(Anat.) A small fleshy prominence or excrescence; especially the small, reddish body, the caruncula lacrymalis, in the inner angle of the eye.
caruncular		Of, pertaining to, or like, a caruncle; furnished with caruncles.
carunculate		Having a caruncle or caruncles; caruncular.
carunculated		Having a caruncle or caruncles; caruncular.
carunculous		Of, pertaining to, or like, a caruncle; furnished with caruncles.
carus		Coma with complete insensibility; deep lethargy.
carvacrol		A thick oily liquid, C10H13.OH, of a strong taste and disagreeable odor, obtained from oil of caraway (Carum carui).
carve		To cut, as wood, stone, or other material, in an artistic or decorative manner; to sculpture; to engrave.
carvel		A species of jellyfish; sea blubber.
carvelbuilt		Having the planks meet flush at the seams, instead of lapping as in a clinker-built vessel.
carven	Poetic	Wrought by carving; ornamented by carvings; carved.
carvene		An oily substance, C10H16, extracted from oil caraway.
carver		One who carves; one who shapes or fashions by carving, or as by carving; esp. one who carves decorative forms, architectural adornments, etc. The carver of his fortunes.
carving		The act or art of one who carves.
carvist		A hawk which is of proper age and training to be carried on the hand; a hawk in its first year.
carvol		One of a species of aromatic oils, resembling carvacrol.
caryatic		Of or pertaining to a caryatid.
caryatid		Of or pertaining to a caryatid. (Arch.) A draped female figure supporting an entablature, in the place of a column or pilaster.
caryatides		Caryatids.
caryophyllaceous		(a) Having corollas of five petals with long claws inclosed in a tubular, calyx, as the pink.
caryophyllin		A tasteless and odorless crystalline substance, extracted from cloves, polymeric with common camphor.
caryophyllous		Caryophyllaceous.
caryopsis		A one-celled, dry, indehiscent fruit, with a thin membranous pericarp, adhering closely to the seed, so that fruit and seed are incorporated in one body, forming a single grain, as of wheat, barley, etc.
casa		A house or mansion.
casal		Of or pertaining to case; as, a casal ending.
cascabel		The projection in rear of the breech of a cannon, usually a knob or breeching loop connected with the gun by a neck.
cascade		A fall of water over a precipice, as in a river or brook; a waterfall less than a cataract.
cascalho		A deposit of pebbles, gravel, and ferruginous sand, in which the Brazilian diamond is usually found.
cascarilla		A euphorbiaceous West Indian shrub (Croton Eleutheria); also, its aromatic bark.
cascarillin		A white, crystallizable, bitter substance extracted from oil of cascarilla.
cascaron		Lit., an eggshell; hence, an eggshell filled with confetti to be thrown during balls, carnivals, etc.
case		A box, sheath, or covering; as, a case for holding goods; a case for spectacles; the case of a watch; the case (capsule) of a cartridge; a case (cover) for a book.
case-bay		(a) The space between two principals or girders. (b) One of the joists framed between a pair of girders in naked flooring.
caseation		A degeneration of animal tissue into a cheesy or curdy mass.
caseharden		To subject to a process which converts the surface of iron into steel.
casehardened		Having the surface hardened, as iron tools.
casehardening		The act or process of converting the surface of iron into steel.
caseic		OF or pertaining to cheese; as, caseic acid.
casein		A proteid substance present in both the animal and the vegetable kingdom.
casemate		(Fort.) A bombproof chamber, usually of masonry, in which cannon may be placed, to be fired through embrasures; or one capable of being used as a magazine, or for quartering troops.
casemated		Furnished with, protected by, or built like, a casemate.
casement		A window sash opening on hinges affixed to the upright side of the frame into which it is fitted.
casemented		Having a casement or casements.
caseose		A soluble product (proteose) formed in the gastric and pancreatic digestion of casein and caseinogen.
caseous		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, cheese; having the qualities of cheese; cheesy.
casern		A lodging for soldiers in garrison towns, usually near the rampart; barracks.
caseum		Same as Casein.
caseworm		A worm or grub that makes for itself a case. See Caddice.
cash	Obsolete	A place where money is kept, or where it is deposited and paid out; a money box.
cashbook		A book in which is kept a register of money received or paid out.
cashew		A tree (Anacardium occidentale) of the same family which the sumac.
cashier		One who has charge of money; a cash keeper; the officer who has charge of the payments and receipts (moneys, checks, notes), of a bank or a mercantile company.
cashierer		One who rejects, discards, or dismisses; as, a cashierer of monarchs.
cashmere		A rich stuff for shawls, acaris, etc., originally made in Cashmere from the soft wool found beneath the hair of the goats of Cashmere, Thibet, and the Himalayas.
cashmerette		A kind of dress goods, made with a soft and glossy surface like cashmere.
cashoo		See Catechu — a dry, brown, astringent extract, obtained by decoction and evaporation from the Acacia catechu, and several other plants growing in India.
casing		The act or process of inclosing in, or covering with, a case or thin substance, as plaster, boards, etc.
casings	English dialect	Dried dung of cattle used as fuel.
casino		A small country house.
cask		A barrel-shaped vessel made of staves headings, and hoops, usually fitted together so as to hold liquids.
casket		A small chest or box, esp. of rich material or ornamental character, as for jewels, etc. The little casket bring me hither.
casque		A piece of defensive or ornamental armor (with or without a vizor) for the head and neck; a helmet.
cass	Obsolete	To render useless or void; to annul; to reject; to send away.
cassada		See Cassava — (Bot.) A shrubby euphorbiaceous plant of the genus Manihot, with fleshy rootstocks yielding an edible starch; -- called also manioc.
cassareep		A condiment made from the sap of the bitter cassava (Manihot utilissima) deprived of its poisonous qualities, concentrated by boiling, and flavored with aromatics.
cassate	Obsolete	To render void or useless; to vacate or annul.
cassation		The act of annulling.
cassava		(Bot.) A shrubby euphorbiaceous plant of the genus Manihot, with fleshy rootstocks yielding an edible starch; -- called also manioc.
casse-tete		A small war club, esp. of savages; -- so called because of its supposed use in crushing the skull.
casserole		(Chem.) A small round dish with a handle, usually of porcelain.
cassette		Same as Seggar.
cassia		(Bot.) A genus of leguminous plants (herbs, shrubs, or trees) of many species, most of which have purgative qualities.
cassican		An American bird of the genus Cassicus, allied to the starlings and orioles, remarkable for its skillfully constructed and suspended nest; the crested oriole.
cassideous		Helmet-shaped; -- applied to a corolla having a broad, helmet- shaped upper petal, as in aconite.
cassidony		(a) The French lavender (Lawandula Stachas). (b) The goldilocks (Chrysocoma linosyris) and perhaps other plants related to the genus Gnaphalium or cudweed.
cassimere		A thin, twilled, woolen cloth, used for men's garments.
cassinette		A cloth with a cotton wart, and a woof of very fine wool, or wool and silk.
cassino		A game at cards, played by two or more persons, usually for twenty-one points.
cassioberry		The fruit of the Viburnum obovatum, a shrub which grows from Virginia to Florida.
cassiopeia		A constellation of the northern hemisphere, situated between Capheus and Perseus; -- so called in honor of the wife of Cepheus, a fabuolous king of Ethiopia.
cassiterite		Native tin dioxide; tin stone; a mineral occurring in tetragonal crystals of reddish brown color, and brilliant adamantine luster; also massive…
cassius		A brownish purple pigment, obtained by the action of some compounds of tin upon certain salts of gold.
cassock		A long outer garment formerly worn by men and women, as well as by soldiers as part of their uniform.
cassocked		Clothed with a cassock.
cassolette		a box, or vase with a perforated cover to emit perfumes.
cassonade		Raw sugar; sugar not refined.
cassowary		A large bird, of the genus Casuarius, found in the east Indies.
cassumunar		A pungent, bitter, aromatic, gingerlike root, obtained from the East Indies.
cassumuniar		A pungent, bitter, aromatic, gingerlike root, obtained from the East Indies.
cast		To direct or turn, as the eyes.
cast-iron		Made of cast iron. Hence, Fig.: like cast iron; hardy; unyielding.
cast-off		Cast or laid aside; as, cast-off clothes.
castalian		Of or pertaining to Castalia, a mythical fountain of inspiration on Mt.
castanea		A genus of nut-bearing trees or shrubs including the chestnut and chinquapin.
castanet		See Castanets — two small, concave shells of ivory or hard wood, shaped like spoons, fastened to the thumb, and beaten together with the middle finger…
castanets		Two small, concave shells of ivory or hard wood, shaped like spoons, fastened to the thumb, and beaten together with the middle finger; -- used by the Spaniards and Moors as an accompaniment to their dance and guitars.
castaway		One who, or that which, is cast away or shipwrecked.
caste		One of the hereditary classes into which the Hindoos are divided according to the laws of Brahmanism.
castellan		A goveror or warden of a castle.
castellany		The lordship of a castle; the extent of land and jurisdiction appertaining to a castle.
castellated		Furnished with turrets and battlements, like a castle; built in the style of a castle.
castellation		The act of making into a castle.
caster		One who casts; as, caster of stones, etc.; a caster of cannon; a caster of accounts.
castigate		To punish by stripes; to chastise by blows; to chasten; also, to chastise verbally; to reprove; to criticise severely.
castigation		Corrective punishment; chastisement; reproof; pungent criticism.
castigator		One who castigates or corrects.
castigatory		Punitive in order to amendment; corrective.
castilian		The Spanish language as spoken in Castile.
castillan		Of or pertaining to Castile, in Spain.
casting		The act of one who casts or throws, as in fishing.
castle		A fortified residence, especially that of a prince or nobleman; a fortress.
castle-guard		A feudal tenure, obliging the tenant to perform service within the realm, without limitation of time.
castlebuilder		Fig.: one who builds castles in the air or forms visionary schemes. -- Cas"tle*build`ing, n.
castled		Having a castle or castles; supporting a castle; as, a castled height or crag.
castlery		The government of a castle.
castlet		A small castle.
castleward		Same as Castleguard.
castling		That which is cast or brought forth prematurely; an abortion.
castor		(Zoöl.) A genus of rodents, including the beaver. See Beaver.
castoreum		A peculiar bitter orange-brown substance, with strong, penetrating odor, found in two sacs between the anus and external genitals of the beaver; castor; -- used in medicine as an antispasmodic, and by perfumers.
castorin		A white crystalline substance obtained from castoreum.
castorite		A variety of the mineral called petalite, from Elba.
castrametation		The art or act of encamping; the making or laying out of a camp.
castrate		To deprive of the testicles; to emasculate; to geld; to alter.
castration		The act of castrating.
castrato		A male person castrated for the purpose of improving his voice for singing; an artificial, or male, soprano.
castrel		See Kestrel — a small, slender European hawk (Falco alaudarius), allied to the sparrow hawk.
castrensial		Belonging to a camp.
castrensian		Castrensial.
casual		Happening or coming to pass without design, and without being foreseen or expected; accidental; fortuitous; coming by chance.
casualism		The doctrine that all things exist or are controlled by chance.
casualist		One who believes in casualism.
casually		Without design; accidentally; fortuitously; by chance; occasionally.
casualness		The quality of being casual.
casualty		That which comes without design or without being foreseen; contingency.
casuarina		A genus of leafles trees or shrubs, with drooping branchlets of a rushlike appearance, mostly natives of Australia.
casuist		One who is skilled in, or given to, casuistry.
casuistic		Of or pertaining to casuists or casuistry.
casuistical		Of or pertaining to casuists or casuistry.
casuistry		The science or doctrine of dealing with cases of conscience, of resolving questions of right or wrong in conduct…
casus		An event; an occurrence; an occasion; a combination of circumstances; a case; an act of God.
cat		(Zoöl.) An animal of various species of the genera Felis and Lynx.
cat-eyed		Having eyes like a cat; hence, able to see in the dark.
cat-harpin		See Cat-harping — one of the short ropes or iron cramps used to brace in the shrouds toward the masts so a to give freer sweep to the yards.
cat-harping		One of the short ropes or iron cramps used to brace in the shrouds toward the masts so a to give freer sweep to the yards.
cat-hole		One of two small holes astern, above the gunroom ports, through which hawsers may be passed.
cat-rigged		Rigged like a catboat.
cat-salt		A sort of salt, finely granulated, formed out of the bittern or leach brine.
cat-tail		A tall rush or flag (Typha latifolia) growing in marshes, with long, glat leaves, and having its flowers in a close cylindrical spike at the top of the stem.
cata		The Latin and English form of a Greek preposition, used as a prefix to signify down, downward, under, against, contrary or opposed to, wholly, completely; as in cataclysm, catarrh.
catabaptist	Obsolete	One who opposes baptism, especially of infants.
catabasion		A vault under altar of a Greek church.
catabiotic		Aee under Force.
catacaustic		Relating to, or having the properties of, a caustic curve formed by reflection.
catachresis		A figure by which one word is wrongly put for another, or by which a word is wrested from its true signification; as,
catachrestic		Belonging to, or in the manner of, a catachresis; wrested from its natural sense or form; forced; far-fatched. -- Cat`a*chres"tic*al*ly, adv. catachrestical and improper way of speaking.
catachrestical		Belonging to, or in the manner of, a catachresis; wrested from its natural sense or form; forced; far-fatched. -- Cat`a*chres"tic*al*ly, adv. catachrestical and improper way of speaking.
cataclasm		A breaking asunder; disruption.
cataclysm		An extensive overflow or sweeping flood of water; a deluge.
cataclysmal		Of or pertaining to a cataclysm.
cataclysmic		Of or pertaining to a cataclysm.
cataclysmist		One who believes that the most important geological phenomena have been produced by cataclysms.
catacomb		A cave, grotto, or subterraneous place of large extent used for the burial of the dead; -- commonly in the plural.
catacoustic		That part of acoustics which treats of reflected sounds or echoes See Acoustics.
catacrotic		Designating, pertaining to, or characterized by, that form of pulse tracing, or sphygmogram…
catadicrotism		Quality or state of being catacrotic. -- Cat`a*di*crot"ic (#), a.
catadioptric		Pertaining to, produced by, or involving, both the reflection and refraction of light; as, a catadioptric light.
catadioptrical		Pertaining to, produced by, or involving, both the reflection and refraction of light; as, a catadioptric light.
catadioptrics		The science which treats of catadioptric phenomena, or of the used of catadioptric instruments.
catadrome		(Mach.) A machine for raising or lowering heavy weights.
catadromous		(Bot.) Having the lowest inferior segment of a pinna nearer the rachis than the lowest superior one; -- said of a mode of branching in ferns, and opposed to anadromous.
catafalco		See Catafalque — a temporary structure sometimes used in the funeral solemnities of eminent persons, for the public exhibition of the remains, or their conveyance to the place of burial.
catafalque		A temporary structure sometimes used in the funeral solemnities of eminent persons, for the public exhibition of the remains, or their conveyance to the place of burial.
catagmatic		Having the quality of consolidating broken bones.
cataian		A native of Cathay or China; a foreigner; -- formerly a term of reproach.
catalan		Of or pertaining to Catalonia. -- n.
catalectic		(Pros.) Wanting a syllable at the end, or terminating in an imperfect foot; as, a catalectic verse.
catalepsis		A sudden suspension of sensation and volition, the body and limbs preserving the position that may be given them, while the action of the heart and lungs continues.
catalepsy		A sudden suspension of sensation and volition, the body and limbs preserving the position that may be given them, while the action of the heart and lungs continues.
cataleptic		Pertaining to, or resembling, catalepsy; affected with catalepsy; as, a cataleptic fit.
catallacta		A division of Protozoa, of which Magosphæra is the type.
catallactics		The science of exchanges, a branch of political economy.
catalog		Catalogue.
catalogize		To insert in a catalogue; to register; to catalogue.
catalogue		A list or enumeration of names, or articles arranged methodically, often in alphabetical order; as, a catalogue of the students of a college, or of books, or of the stars.
cataloguer		A maker of catalogues; esp. one skilled in the making of catalogues.
catalpa		A genus of American and East Indian trees, of which the best know species are the Catalpa bignonioides, a large, ornamental North American tree, with spotted white flowers and long cylindrical pods, and the C. speciosa…
catalysis		Dissolution; degeneration; decay.
catalytic		Relating to, or causing, catalysis.
catamaran		A kind of raft or float, consisting of two or more logs or pieces of wood lashed together, and moved by paddles or sail; -- used as a surf boat and for other purposes on the coasts of the East and West Indies and South America.
catamenia		The monthly courses of women; menstrual discharges; menses.
catamenial		Pertaining to the catamenia, or menstrual discharges.
catamite		A boy kept for unnatural purposes.
catamount		The cougar.
catanadromous		Ascending and descending fresh streams from and to the sea, as the salmon; anadromous.
catapasm		A compound medicinal powder, used by the ancients to sprinkle on ulcers, to absorb perspiration, etc. Dunglison.
catapeltic		Of or pertaining to a catapult.
catapetalous		Having the petals held together by stamens, which grow to their bases, as in the mallow.
cataphonic		Of or relating to cataphonics; catacoustic.
cataphonics		That branch of acoustics which treats of reflested sounds; catacoustics.
cataphract		(Mil. Antiq.) Defensive armor used for the whole body and often for the horse, also, esp. the linked mail or scale armor of some eastern nations.
cataphracted		Covered with a cataphract, or armor of plates, scales, etc.; or with that which corresponds to this, as horny or bony plates, hard, callous skin, etc.
cataphractic		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a cataphract.
cataphysical		Unnatural; contrary to nature.
cataplasm		A soft and moist substance applied externally to some part of the body; a poultice.
cataplexy		A morbid condition caused by an overwhelming shock or extreme fear and marked by rigidity of the muscles. -- Cat`a*plec"tic (#), a.
catapult		(Mil. Antiq.) An engine somewhat resembling a massive crossbow, used by the ancient Greeks and Romans for throwing stones, arrows, spears, etc.
cataract		A great fall of water over a precipice; a large waterfall.
cataractous		Of the nature of a cataract in the eye; affected with cataract.
catarrh		An inflammatory affection of any mucous membrane, in which there are congestion, swelling, and an altertion in the quantity and quality of mucus secreted; as catarrh of the stomach; catarrh of the bladder.
catarrhal		Pertaining to, produced by, or attending, catarrh; of the nature of catarrh.
catarrhine		One of the Catarrhina, a division of Quadrumana, including the Old World monkeys and apes which have the nostrils close together and turned downward.
catarrhous		Catarrhal.
catastaltic		Checking evacutions through astringent or styptic qualities.
catastasis		(Rhet.) That part of a speech, usually the exordium, in which the orator sets forth the subject matter to be discussed.
catasterism		A placing among the stars; a catalogue of stars.
catastrophe		An event producing a subversion of the order or system of things; a final event, usually of a calamitous or disastrous nature; hence, sudden calamity; great misfortune.
catastrophic		Of a pertaining to a catastrophe.
catastrophism		The doctrine that the geological changes in the earth's crust have been caused by the sudden action of violent physical causes; -- opposed to the doctrine of uniformism.
catastrophist		One who holds the theory or catastrophism.
catawba		A well known light red variety of American grape.
catawbas		; sing. Catawba. (Ethnol.) An appalachian tribe of Indians which originally inhabited the regions near the Catawba river and the head waters of the Santee.
catbird		An American bird (Galeoscoptes Carolinensis), allied to the mocking bird, and like it capable of imitating the notes of other birds, but less perfectly.
catboat		A small sailboat, with a single mast placed as far forward as possible, carring a sail extended by a graff and long boom.
catcall		A sound like the cry of a cat, such as is made in playhouses to express dissatisfaction with a play; also, a small shrill instrument for making such a noise.
catch		To lay hold on; to seize, especially with the hand; to grasp (anything) in motion, with the effect of holding; as, to catch a ball.
catch-basin		A cistern or vault at the point where a street gutter discharges into a sewer, to oatch bulky matters which would not pass readly throught the sewer.
catch-meadow		meadow irrigated by water from a spring or rivulet on the side of hill.
catchable		Capable of being caught.
catchdrain		A dich or drain along the side of a hill to catch the surface water; also, a ditch at the side of a canal to catch the surplus water.
catcher		One who, or that which, catches.
catchfly		A plant with the joints of the stem, and sometimes other parts, covered with a viscid secretion to which small insects adhere.
catching		Infections; contagious.
catchment		A surface of ground on which water may be caught and collected into a reservoir.
catchpenny		Made or contrived for getting small sums of money from the ignorant or unwary; as, a catchpenny book; a catchpenny show. -- n.
catchpoll		A bailiff's assistant.
catchup		A table sauce made from mushrooms, tomatoes, walnuts, etc.
catchwater		A ditch or drain for catching water. See Catchdrain.
catchweed		See Cleavers — a species of Galium (G.
catchweight		Without any additional weight; without being handicapped; as, to ride catchweight.
catchword		Among theatrical performers, the last word of the preceding speaker, which reminds one that he is to speak next; cue.
catchwork		A work or artificial watercourse for throwing water on lands that lie on the slopes of hills; a catchdrain.
catchy		Apt or tending to catch the fancy or attention; catching; taking; as, catchy music.
cate	Obsolete	Food. See Cates.
catechetic		Relating to or consisting in, asking questions and receiving answers, according to the ancient manner of teaching.
catechetical		Relating to or consisting in, asking questions and receiving answers, according to the ancient manner of teaching.
catechetically		In a catechetical manner; by question and answer.
catechetics		The science or practice of instructing by questions and answers.
catechin		One of the tannic acids, extracted from catechu as a white, crystaline substance; -- called also catechuic acid, and catechuin.
catechisation		The act of catechising.
catechise		To instruct by asking questions, receiving answeres, and offering explanations and corrections, -- esp. in regard to points of religious faith.
catechiser		One who catechises.
catechism		A form of instruction by means of questions answers.
catechismal		Of or pertaining to a catechism, having the form of questions and answers; catechical.
catechist		One who instructs by question and answer, especially in religions matters.
catechistic		Of or pertaining to a catechist or to a catechism.
catechistical		Of or pertaining to a catechist or to a catechism.
catechize		See Catechise — to instruct by asking questions, receiving answeres, and offering explanations and corrections, -- esp. in regard to points of religious faith.
catechu		A dry, brown, astringent extract, obtained by decoction and evaporation from the Acacia catechu, and several other plants growing in India.
catechuic		Of or pertaining to catechu or its derivatives. See catechin.
catechumen		One who is receiving rudimentary instruction in the doctrines of Christianity; a neophyte; in the primitive church, one officially recognized as a Christian…
catechumenate		The state or condition of a catechumen or the time during which one is a catechumen.
catechumenical		Of or pertaining to catechumens; as, catechumenical instructions.
catechumenist		A catechumen.
categorematic		Capable of being employed by itself as a term; -- said of a word.
categorical		Not hypothetical or relative; admitting no conditions or exceptions; declarative; absolute; positive; express; as, a categorical proposition, or answer.
categorically		Absolutely; directly; expressly; positively; as, to affirm categorically.
categoricalness		The quality of being categorical, positive, or absolute.
categorist		One who inserts in a category or list; one who classifies.
categorize		To insert in a category or list; to class; to catalogue.
category		(Logic.) One of the highest classes to which the objects of knowledge or thought can be reduced, and by which they can be arranged in a system; an ultimate or undecomposable conception; a predicament.
catel		Property; -- often used by Chaucer in contrast with rent, or income. quod he.
catelectrode		The negative electrode or pole of a voltaic battery.
catelectrotonic		Relating to, or characterized by, catelectrotonus.
catelectrotonus		The condition of increased irritability of a nerve in the region of the cathode or negative electrode, on the passage of a current of electricity through it.
catena		A chain or series of things connected with each other.
catenarian		Relating to a chain; like a chain; as, a catenary curve.
catenary		Relating to a chain; like a chain; as, a catenary curve.
catenate		To connect, in a series of links or ties; to chain.
catenation		Connection of links or union of parts, as in a chain; a regular or connected series.
catenulate		Consisting of little links or chains.
cater		To provide food; to buy, procure, or prepare provisions. providently caters for the sparrow.
cater-cornered	Colloquial	Diagonal.
cater-cousin		A remote relation. See Quater-cousin.
cateran	Scots	A Highland robber: a kind of irregular soldier.
caterer		One who caters.
cateress		A woman who caters.
caterpillar		(Zoöl.) The larval state of a butterfly or any lepidopterous insect; sometimes, but less commonly, the larval state of other insects, as the sawflies, which are also called false caterpillars.
caterwaul		To cry as cats in rutting time; to make a harsh, offensive noise.
caterwauling		The cry of cats; a harsh, disagreeable noise or cry like the cry of cats.
catery	Obsolete	The place where provisions are deposited.
cates		Provisions; food; viands; especially, luxurious food; delicacies; dainties.
catfall		A rope used in hoisting the anchor to the cathead.
catfish		A name given in the United States to various species of siluroid fishes; as, the yellow cat (Amiurus natalis); the bind cat (Gronias nigrilabrus); the mud cat (Pilodictic oilwaris), the stone cat (Noturus flavus)…
catgut		A cord of great toughness made from the intestines of animals, esp. of sheep, used for strings of musical instruments, etc.
catharical		(Med.) Cleansing the bowels; promoting evacuations by stool; purgative.
catharist		One aiming at or pretending to a greater purity of like than others about him; -- applied to persons of various sects.
catharsis		A natural or artificial purgation of any passage, as of the mouth, bowels, etc.
cathartic		(Med.) Cleansing the bowels; promoting evacuations by stool; purgative.
cathartin		The bitter, purgative principle of senna.
cathay		China; -- an old name for the Celestial Empire, said have been introduced by Marco Polo and to be a corruption of the Tartar name for North China (Khitai…
cathead		A projecting piece of timber or iron near the bow of vessel, to which the anchor is hoisted and secured.
cathedra		The official chair or throne of a bishop, or of any person in high authority.
cathedral		The principal church in a diocese, so called because in it the bishop has his official chair (Cathedra) or throne.
cathedralic		Cathedral.
cathedrated	Obsolete	Relating to the chair or office of a teacher.
catheretic		A mild kind caustic used to reduce warts and other excrescences.
catheter		The name of various instruments for passing along mucous canals, esp. applied to a tubular instrument to be introduced into the bladder through the urethra to draw off the urine.
catheterism		The operation of introducing a catheter.
catheterization		The operation of introducing a catheter.
catheterize		To operate on with a catheter.
cathetometer		An instrument for the accurate measurement of small differences of height; esp. of the differences in the height of the upper surfaces of two columns of mercury or other fluid, or of the same column at different times.
cathetus		One line or radius falling perpendicularly on another; as, the catheti of a right-angled triangle, that is, the two sides that include the right angle.
cathode		The part of a voltaic battery by which the electric current leaves substances through which it passes, or the surface at which the electric current passes out of the electrolyte; the negative pole; -- opposed to anode.
cathodegraph		A picture produced by the Röntgen rays; a radiograph.
cathodic		A term applied to the centrifugal, or efferent course of the nervous infuence.
cathodograph		A picture produced by the Röntgen rays; a radiograph.
catholic		Universal or general; as, the catholic faith.
catholical	Obsolete	Catholic.
catholicism		The state or quality of being catholic or universal; catholicity.
catholicity		The state or quality of being catholic; universality.
catholicize		To make or to become catholic or Roman Catholic.
catholicly		In a catholic manner; generally; universally.
catholicness		The quality of being catholic; universality; catholicity.
catholicon		A remedy for all diseases; a panacea.
catholicos		The spiritual head of the Armenian church, who resides at Etchmiadzin, Russia, and has ecclesiastical jurisdiction over, and consecrates the holy oil for, the Armenians of Russia, Turkey, and Persia…
catilinarian		Pertaining to Catiline, the Roman conspirator; resembling Catiline's conspiracy.
cation		An electro-positive substance, which in electro-decomposition is evolved at the cathode; -- opposed to anion.
catkin		An ament; a species of inflorescence, consisting of a slender axis with many unisexual apetalous flowers along its sides, as in the willow and poplar, and (as to the staminate flowers) in the chestnut, oak, hickory…
catlike		Like a cat; stealthily; noiselessly.
catling		A little cat; a kitten.
catlinite		A red clay from the Upper Missouri region, used by the Indians for their pipes.
catmint		A well-know plant of the genus Nepeta (N.
catnip		A well-know plant of the genus Nepeta (N.
cato-cathartic		A remedy that purges by alvine discharges.
catonian		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the stern old Roman, Cato the Censor; severe; inflexible.
catopron		See Catopter — a reflecting optical glass or instrument; a mirror.
catopter	Obsolete	A reflecting optical glass or instrument; a mirror.
catoptric		Of or pertaining to catoptrics; produced by reflection.
catoptrical		Of or pertaining to catoptrics; produced by reflection.
catoptrics		That part of optics which explants the properties and phenomena of reflected light, and particularly that which is reflected from mirrors or polished bodies; --- formerly caled anacamptics.
catoptromancy		A species of divination, which was perforned by letting down a mirror into water, for a sick person to look at his face in it.
catoptron	Obsolete	A reflecting optical glass or instrument; a mirror.
catpipe		See Catcall — a sound like the cry of a cat, such as is made in playhouses to express dissatisfaction with a play; also, a small shrill instrument for making such a noise.
catso		(Naut.) (a) A light transitory air which ruffles the surface of the water during a calm, or the ripples made by such a puff of air.
catstick		A stick or club employed in the game of ball called cat or tipcat.
catstitch		To fold and sew down the edge of with a coarse zigzag stitch.
catsup		A table sauce made from mushrooms, tomatoes, walnuts, etc. Same as Catchup, and Ketchup.
cattish		Catlike; feline Drummond.
cattle		Quadrupeds of the Bovine family; sometimes, also, including all domestic quadrupeds, as sheep, goats, horses, mules, asses, and swine.
catty		An East Indian Weight of 11/3 pounds.
caucasian		Of or pertaining to the Caucasus, a mountainous region between the Black and Caspian seas.
caucus		A meeting, especially a preliminary meeting, of persons belonging to a party, to nominate candidates for public office, or to select delegates to a nominating convention, or to confer regarding measures of party policy…
caudad		Backwards; toward the tail or posterior part.
caudal		Of the nature of, or pertaining to, a tail; having a tail-like appendage.
caudata		See Urodela — an order of amphibians having the tail well developed and often long.
caudate		Having a taill; having a termination like a tail.
caudated		Having a taill; having a termination like a tail.
caudex		The sterm of a tree., esp. a sterm without a branch, as of a palm or a tree fern; also, the pernnial rootstock of an herbaceous plant.
caudicle		A slender, elastic process, to which the masses of pollen in orchidaceous plants are attached.
caudicula		A slender, elastic process, to which the masses of pollen in orchidaceous plants are attached.
caudle		A kind of warm drink for sick persons, being a mixture of wine with eggs, bread, sugar, and spices.
cauf		A chest with holes for keeping fish alive in water.
caufle		A gung of slaves.
caught		f Catch.
cauk		See Cawk, Calker.
cauker		See Cawk, Calker.
caul		A covering of network for the head, worn by women; also, a net.
caulescent		Having a leafy stem.
caulicle		A short caulis or stem, esp. the rudimentary stem seen in the embryo of seed; -- otherwise called a radicle.
cauliculus		In the Corinthian capital, one of the eight stalks rising out of the lower leafage and terminating in leaves which seem to suport the volutes.
cauliflower		(Bot.) An annual variety of Brassica oleracea, or cabbage of which the cluster of young flower stalks and buds is eaten as a vegetable.
cauliform		Having the form of a caulis.
cauline		Growing immediately on a caulis; of or pertaining to a caulis.
caulis		An herbaceous or woody stem which bears leaves, and may bear flowers.
caulk		See Calk — to drive tarred oakum into the seams between the planks of (a ship, boat, etc.), to prevent leaking.
caulocarpous		Having stems which bear flowers and fruit year after year, as most trees and shrubs.
caulome		A stem structure or stem axis of a plant, viewed as a whole. -- Cau*lom"ic (#), a.
cauma		Great heat, as of the body in fever.
cauponize	Obsolete	To sell wine or victuals.
causable		Capable of being caused.
causal		Relating to a cause or causes; inplying or containing a cause or causes; expressing a cause; causative.
causality		The agency of a cause; the action or power of a cause, in producing its effect.
causally		According to the order or series of causes; by tracing effects to causes.
causation		The act of causing; also the act or agency by which an effect is produced.
causationist		One who believes in the law of universal causation.
causative		Effective, as a cause or agent; causing.
causatively		In a causative manner.
causator		One who causes.
cause		That which produces or effects a result; that from which anything proceeds, and without which it would not exist.
causeful	Obsolete	Having a cause.
causeless		Self-originating; uncreated.
causelessness		The state of being causeless.
causer		One who or that which causes.
causerie		Informal talk or discussion, as about literary matters; light conversation; chat.
causeuse		A kind of sofa for two person.
causeway		A way or road rasid above the natural level of the ground, serving as a dry passage over wet or marshy ground.
causewayed		Having a raised way (causeway or causey); paved.
causey		A way or road rasid above the natural level of the ground, serving as a dry passage over wet or marshy ground.
causeyed		Having a raised way (causeway or causey); paved.
causidical		Pertaining to an advocate, or to the maintenance and defense of suits.
caustic		Capable of destroying the texture of anything or eating away its substance by chemical action; burning; corrosive; searing.
caustical		Capable of destroying the texture of anything or eating away its substance by chemical action; burning; corrosive; searing.
caustically		In a caustic manner.
causticily		The quality of being caustic; corrosiveness; as, the causticity of potash.
causticness		The quality of being caustic; causticity.
cautel	Obsolete	Caution; prudence; wariness.
cautelous	Obsolete	Caution; prudent; wary.
cauter		A hot iron for searing or cauterizing.
cauterant		A cauterizing substance.
cauterism		The use or application of a caustic; cautery.
cauterization		The act of searing some morbid part by the application of a cautery or caustic; also, the effect of such application.
cauterize		To burn or sear with a cautery or caustic.
cautery		(Med.) A burning or searing, as of morbid flesh, with a hot iron, or by application of a caustic that will burn, corrode, or destroy animal tissue.
caution		A careful attention to the probable effects of an act, in order that failure or harm may be avoided; prudence in regard to danger; provident care; wariness.
cautionary		Conveying a caution, or warning to avoid danger; as, cautionary signals.
cautioner		One who cautions or advises.
cautionry		Suretyship.
cautious		Attentive to examine probable effects and consequences of acts with a view to avoid danger or misfortune; prudent; circumspect; wary; watchful; as, a cautious general.
cautiously		In a cautious manner.
cautiousness		The quality of being cautious.
cavalcade		A procession of persons on horseback; a formal, pompous march of horsemen by way of parade.
cavalero		A cavalier; a gallant; a libertine.
cavalier		A military man serving on horseback; a knight.
cavalierish		Somewhat like a cavalier.
cavalierism		The practice or principles of cavaliers.
cavalierly		In a supercilious, disdainful, or haughty manner; arroganty.
cavalierness		A disdanful manner.
cavaliero		A cavalier; a gallant; a libertine.
cavally		A carangoid fish of the Atlantic coast (Caranx hippos): -- called also horse crevallé.
cavalry		That part of military force which serves on horseback.
cavalryman		One of a body of cavalry.
cavatina		Originally, a melody of simpler form than the aria; a song without a second part and a da capo; -- a term now variously and vaguely used.
cave		A hollow place in the earth, either natural or artificial; a subterraneous cavity; a cavern; a den.
caveat		(Law) A notice given by an interested party to some officer not to do a certain act until the party is heard in opposition; as…
caveating		Shifting the sword from one side of an adversary's sword to the other.
caveator		One who enters a caveat.
cavendish		Leaf tobacco softened, sweetened, and pressed into plugs or cakes.
cavern		A large, deep, hollow place in the earth; a large cave.
caverned		Containing caverns.
cavernous		Full of caverns; resembling a cavern or large cavity; hollow.
cavernulous		Full of little cavities; as, cavernulous metal.
cavesson		A kind of noseband used in breaking and training horses.
cavetto		A concave molding; -- used chiefly in classical architecture. See Illust. of Calumn.
cavezon		A kind of noseband used in breaking and training horses.
caviar		The roes of the sturgeon, prepared and salted; -- used as a relish, esp. in Russia.
caviare		The roes of the sturgeon, prepared and salted; -- used as a relish, esp. in Russia.
cavicorn		Having hollow horns.
cavicornia		A group of ruminants whose horns are hollow, and planted on a bony process of the front, as the ox.
cavil	Obsolete	To raise captious and frivolous objections; to find fault without good reason.
caviler		One who cavils.
caviling		Disposed to cavil; finding fault without good reason. See Captious.
cavilingly		In a caviling manner.
cavillation	Obsolete	Frivolous or sophistical objection.
caviller		One who cavils.
cavillous		Characterized by caviling, or disposed to cavil; quibbing. -- Cav il*ous*ness, n.
cavilous		Characterized by caviling, or disposed to cavil; quibbing. -- Cav il*ous*ness, n.
cavin		A hollow way, adapted to cover troops, and facilitate their aproach to a place.
cavitary		Containing a body cavity; as, the cavitary or nematoid worms.
cavity		A hollow place; a hollow; as, the abdominal cavity.
cavo-relievo		Cavo-rilievo.
cavo-rilievo		Hollow relief; sculpture in relief within a sinking made for the purpose, so no part of it projects beyond the plain surface around.
cavort	Local slang u	To prance ostentatiously; -- said of a horse or his rider.
cavy		A rodent of the genera cavia and Dolichotis, as the guinea pig (Cavia cabaya).
caw		To cry like a crow, rook, or raven.
cawk		An opaque, compact variety of barite, or heavy spar.
cawker		See Calker — one who calks.
cawky		Of or pertaining to cawk; like cawk.
caxon	Obsolete	A kind of wig.
caxton		Any book printed by William Caxton, the first English printer.
cay		See Key, a ledge.
cayenne		Cayenne pepper.
cayman		The south America alligator. See Alligator.
cayo		A small island or ledge of rock in the water; a key.
cayugas		; sing Cayuga. (Ethnol.) A tribe of Indians formerly inbabiting western New-York, forming part of the confederacy called the Five Nations.
cayuse		An Indian pony.
cazic		A chief or petty king among some tribes of Indians in America.
cazique		A chief or petty king among some tribes of Indians in America.
