cease		To come to an end; to stop; to leave off or give over; to desist; as, the noise ceased xx. 3.	Middle English cesen.
ceaseless		Without pause or end; incessant.	
cecidomyia		A genus of small dipterous files, including several very injurious species, as the Hessian fly.	
cecity		Blindness.	Latin caecitas.
cecutiency		Partial blindness, or a tendency to blindness.	
cedar		The name of several evergreen trees.	Old French cedre, from Latin cedrus, from Greek κέδρος.
cedared		Covered, or furnished with, cedars.	
cedarn		Of or pertaining to the cedar or its wood.	
cede		To yield or surrender; to give up; to resign; as, to cede a fortress, a province, or country, to another nation, by treaty.	Old French ceder, from Latin cedo.
cedilla		A mark placed under the letter c, to show that it is to be sounded like s, as in façade.	
cedrat		Properly the citron, a variety of Citrus medica, with large fruits, not acid, and having a high perfume.	
cedrene		A rich aromatic oil, C15H24, extracted from oil of red cedar, and regarded as a polymeric terpene; also any one of a class of similar substances, as the essential oils of cloves, cubebs, juniper, etc.…	
cedrine		Of or pertaining to cedar or the cedar tree.	
cedriret		Same as Coerulignone.	
cedry		Of the nature of cedar.	
cedule	Obsolete	A scroll; a writing; a schedule.	French cédule, from Old French cedule, from Latin schedula.
ceduous	Obsolete	Fit to be felled.	Latin caeduus.
ceil		To overlay or cover the inner side of the roof of; to furnish with a ceiling; as, to ceil a room.	French ciel, from Latin caelum.
ceiling		(Arch.) (a) The inside lining of a room overhead; the under side of the floor above; the upper surface opposite to the floor.	Middle English ceiling.
ceint	Obsolete	A girdle.	
ceinture		A cincture, girdle, or belt; -- chiefly used in English as a dressmaking term.	
celadon		A pale sea-green color; also, porcelain or fine pottery of this tint.	
celandine		A perennial herbaceous plant (Chelidonium majus) of the poppy family, with yellow flowers.	
celature	Obsolete	That which is engraved.	
celebrant		One who performs a public religious rite; -- applied particularly to an officiating priest in the Roman Catholic Church, as distinguished from his assistants.	
celebrate		To extol or honor in a solemn manner; as, to celebrate the name of the Most High.	
celebrated		Having celebrity; distinguished; renowned.	
celebration		The act, process, or time of celebrating.	
celebrator		One who celebrates; a praiser.	
celebrity		The state or condition of being celebrated; fame; renown; as, the celebrity of Washington.	
celeriac		Turnip-rooted celery, a from of celery with a large globular root, which is used for food.	
celerity		Rapidity of motion; quickness; swiftness.	French célérité, from Latin celeritas.
celery		A plant of the Parsley family (Apium graveolens), of which the blanched leafstalks are used as a salad.	French céleri.
celestial		Belonging to the aërial regions, or visible heavens.	Latin caelestialis.
celestialize		To make celestial.	
celestially		In a celestial manner.	
celestify	Obsolete	To make like heaven.	
celestine		Native strontium sulphate, a mineral so named from its occasional delicate blue color.	
celestinian		A monk of the austere branch of the Franciscan Order founded by Celestine V. in the 13th centry.	
celestite		Native strontium sulphate, a mineral so named from its occasional delicate blue color.	Latin caelestis.
celiac		See Coellac.	
celibacy		The state of being unmarried; single life, esp. that of a bachelor, or of one bound by vows not to marry.	Latin caelibatus.
celibate		One who is unmarried, esp. a bachelor, or one bound by vows not to marry.	Latin caelibatus.
celibatist		One who lives unmarried.	
celidography		A description of apparent spots on the disk of the sun, or on planets.	
cell		A very small and close apartment, as in a prison or in a monastery or convent; the hut of a hermit.	
cella		The part inclosed within the walls of an ancient temple, as distinguished from the open porticoes.	
cellar		A room or rooms under a building, and usually below the surface of the ground, where provisions and other stores are kept.	Anglo-Norman celer, from Latin celare.
cellarage		Chare for storage in a cellar.	
cellarer		A steward or butler of a monastery or chapter; one who has charge of procuring and keeping the provisions.	
cellaret		A receptacle, as in a dining room, for a few bottles of wine or liquor, made in the form of a chest or coffer, or a deep drawer in a sideboard, and usually lined with metal.	
cellarist		Same as Cellarer.	
celled		Containing a cell or cells.	
cellepore		A genus of delicate branching corals, made up of minute cells, belonging to the Bryozoa.	
celliferous		Bearing or producing cells.	
cello		A contraction for Violoncello.	
cellular		Consisting of, or containing, cells; of or pertaining to a cell or cells.	
cellulated		Cellular.	
cellule		A small cell.	
celluliferous		Bearing or producing little cells.	
cellulitis		An inflammantion of the cellular or areolar tissue, esp. of that lying immediately beneath the skin.	
celluloid		A substance composed essentially of gun cotton and camphor, and when pure resembling ivory in texture and color, but variously colored to imitate coral, tortoise shell, amber, malachite…	
cellulose		Consisting of, or containing, cells.	
celotomy		The act or operation of cutting, to relieve the structure in strangulated hernia.	
celsiture	Obsolete	Height; altitude.	
celsius		The Celsius thermometer or scale, so called from Anders Celsius, a Swedish astronomer, who invented it.	
celt		One of an ancient race of people, who formerly inhabited a great part of Central and Western Europe, and whose descendants at the present day occupy Ireland, Wales, the Highlands of Scotland, and the northern shores of France.	
celtiberian		Of or pertaining to the ancient Celtiberia (a district in Spain lying between the Ebro and the Tagus) or its inhabitants the Celtiberi (Celts of the river Iberus). -- n.	
celtic		Of or pertaining to the Celts; as, Celtic people, tribes, literature, tongue.	
celticism		A custom of the Celts, or an idiom of their language.	
celticize		To render Celtic; to assimilate to the Celts.	
celtium		A supposed new element of the rare-earth group, accompanying lutecium and scandium in the gadolinite earths.	
cembalo		An old mname for the harpsichord.	
cement		Any substance used for making bodies adhere to each other, as mortar, glue, etc.	Latin caementum.
cemental		Of or pertaining to cement, as of a tooth; as, cemental tubes.	
cementation		(Chem.) A process which consists in surrounding a solid body with the powder of other substances, and heating the whole to a degree not sufficient to cause fusion…	
cementatory		Having the quality of cementating or uniting firmly.	
cementer		A person or thing that cements.	
cementitious		Of the nature of cement.	
cemeterial		Of or pertaining to a cemetery.	
cemetery		A place or ground set apart for the burial of the dead; a graveyard; a churchyard; a necropolis.	Middle English cimiterie, from Old French cimitiere, from Latin cimiterium.
cenanthy		The absence or suppression of the essential organs (stamens and pistil) in a flower.	
cenation	Obsolete	Meal-taking; dining or supping.	
cenatory		Of or pertaining to dinner or supper.	Latin cenatorius.
cenobite		One of a religious order, dwelling in a convent, or a community, in opposition to an anchoret, or hermit, who lives in solitude.	
cenobitic		Of or pertaining to a cenobite.	
cenobitical		Of or pertaining to a cenobite.	
cenobitism		The state of being a cenobite; the belief or practice of a cenobite.	
cenogamy		The state of a communty which permits promiseuous sexual intercourse among its members, as in certain societies practicing communism.	
cenotaph		An empty tomb or a monument erected in honor of a person who is buried elsewhere.	
cenotaphy		A cenotaph.	
cenozoic		Belonging to the most recent division of geological time, including the tertiary, or Age of mammals, and the Quaternary, or Age of man.	
cense	Obsolete	A census; -- also, a public rate or tax.	
censer		A vessel for perfumes; esp. one in which incense is burned.	
censor		(Antiq.) One of two magistrates of Rome who took a register of the number and property of citizens, and who also exercised the office of inspector of morals and conduct.	Latin censor.
censorial		Belonging to a censor, or to the correction of public morals.	
censorian		Censorial.	
censorious		Addicted to censure; apt to blame or condemn; severe in making remarks on others, or on their writings or manners.	
censorship		The office or power of a censor; as, to stand for a censorship.	
censual		Relating to, or containing, a census.	Latin censualis.
censurable		Deserving of censure; blamable; culpable; reprehensible; as, a censurable person, or censurable conduct. -- Cen sur*a*bly, adv.	
censure		The act of blaming or finding fault with and condemning as wrong; reprehension; blame.	
censurer		One who censures.	
census		(Bot. Antiq.) A numbering of the people, and valuation of their estate, for the purpose of imposing taxes, etc.; -- usually made once in five years.	Latin census.
cent		A hundred; as, ten per cent, the proportion of ten parts in a hundred.	Old French cent, from Latin centum.
centage		Rate by the hundred; percentage.	
cental		A weight of one hundred pounds avoirdupois; -- called in many parts of the United States a Hundredweight.	
centare		A measure of area, the hundredth part of an are; one square meter, or about 1	French centiare.
centaur		(Astron.) A constellation in the southern heavens between Hydra and the Southern Cross.	Latin centaurus, from Greek κένταυρος.
centaurea		A large genus of composite plants, related to the thistles and including the cornflower or bluebottle (Centaurea Cyanus) and the star thistle (C.	
centauromachy		A fight in which centaurs take part, -- a common theme for relief sculpture, as in the Parthenon metopes.	
centaury		A gentianaceous plant not fully identified.	
centenarian		Of or relating to a hundred years. -- n.	
centenary		Occurring once in every hundred years; centennial.	
centennial		Relating to, or associated with, the commemoration of an event that happened a hundred years before; as, a centennial ode.	
centennially		Once in a hundred years.	
center		A point equally distant from the extremities of a line, figure, or body, or from all parts of the circumference of a circle; the middle point or place.	French centre, from Latin centrum, from Greek κέντρον.
centerbit		An instrument turning on a center, for boring holes. See Bit, n., 3.	
centerboard		A movable or sliding keel formed of a broad board or slab of wood or metal which may be raised into a water-tight case amidships, when in shallow water…	
centering		Same as Center, n., 6.	
centerpiece		An ornament to be placed in the center, as of a table, ceiling, atc.; a central article or figure.	
centesimal		Hundredth. -- n.	
centesimation		The infliction of the death penalty upon one person in every hundred, as in cases of mutiny.	
centesimo		A copper coin of Italy and Spain equivalent to a centime.	
centesm		Hundredth.	Latin centesima.
centiare		See centare — a measure of area, the hundredth part of an are; one square meter, or about 1	
centicipitous		Hundred-headed.	
centifidous		Divided into a hundred parts.	Latin centifidus.
centifolious		Having a hundred leaves.	
centigrade		Consisting of a hundred degrees; graduated into a hundred divisions or equal parts.	
centigram		The hundredth part of a gram; a weight equal to.15432 of a grain. See Gram.	
centigramme		The hundredth part of a gram; a weight equal to.15432 of a grain. See Gram.	
centiliter		The hundredth part of a liter; a measure of volume or capacity equal to a little more than six tenths (0.6102) of a cubic inch, or one third (0.338) of a fluid ounce.	
centilitre		The hundredth part of a liter; a measure of volume or capacity equal to a little more than six tenths (0.6102) of a cubic inch, or one third (0.338) of a fluid ounce.	
centiloquy		A work divided into a hundred parts.	
centime		The hundredth part of a franc; a small French copper coin and money of account.	
centimeter		The hundredth part of a meter; a measure of length equal to rather more than thirty-nine hundredths (0.3937) of an inch.	
centimetre		The hundredth part of a meter; a measure of length equal to rather more than thirty-nine hundredths (0.3937) of an inch.	
centinel	Obsolete	Sentinel.	
centinody		A weed with a sterm of many joints (Illecebrum verticillatum); also, the Polygonum aviculare or knotgrass.	
centiped		A species of the Myriapoda; esp. the large, flattened, venomous kinds of the order Chilopoda, found in tropical climates. they are many-jointed, and have a great number of feet. [Written also centipede (	
centistere		The hundredth part of a stere, equal to.353 cubic feet.	French centistèare.
centner		(Metal. & Assaying) A weight divisible first into a hundred parts, and then into smaller parts.	
cento		A literary or a musical composition formed by selections from different authors disposed in a new order.	
centonism		The composition of a cento; the act or practice of composing a cento or centos.	
central		Relating to the center; situated in or near the center or middle; containing the center; of or pertaining to the parts near the center; equidistant or equally accessible from certain points.	Latin centralis.
centrale		The central, or one of the central, bones of the carpus or or tarsus.	
centralism		The state or condition of being central; the combination of several parts into one whole; centralization.	
centrality		The state of being central; tendency towards a center.	
centralization		The act or process of centralizing, or the state of being centralized; the act or process of combining or reducing several parts into a whole; as, the centralization of power in the general government…	
centralize		To draw or bring to a center point; to gather into or about a center; to bring into one system, or under one control. centralize the power of government.	
centrally		In a central manner or situation.	
centre		To be collected to a point; to be concentrated; to rest on, or gather about, as a center.	
centrebit		An instrument turning on a center, for boring holes. See Bit, n., 3.	
centreboard		A movable or sliding keel formed of a broad board or slab of wood or metal which may be raised into a water-tight case amidships, when in shallow water…	
centrepiece		An ornament to be placed in the center, as of a table, ceiling, atc.; a central article or figure.	
centric		Placed in the center or middle; central.	Greek κεντρικός.
centrical		Placed in the center or middle; central.	
centricity		The state or quality of being centric; centricalness.	
centrifugal		Tending, or causing, to recede from the center.	
centrifugence		The property or quality of being centrifugal.	
centring		See Centring.	
centripetal		Tending, or causing, to approach the center.	
centripetence		Centripetency.	
centripetency		Tendency toward the center.	
centriscoid		Allied to, or resembling, the genus Centriscus, of which the bellows fish is an example.	
centrobaric		Relating to the center of gravity, or to the process of finding it.	
centrode		In two figures having relative motion, one of the two curves which are the loci of the instantaneous center.	
centroid		The center of mass, inertia, or gravity of a body or system of bodies.	
centrolecithal		Having the food yolk placed at the center of the ovum, segmentation being either regular or unequal.	
centrolinead		An instrument for drawing lines through a point, or lines converging to a center.	
centrolineal		Converging to a center; -- applied to lines drawn so as to meet in a point or center.	
centrosome		A peculiar rounded body lying near the nucleus of a cell.	
centrosphere		(Geol.) The nucleus or central part of the earth, forming most of its mass; -- disting. from lithosphere, hydrosphere, etc.	
centrostaltic		A term applied to the action of nerve force in the spinal center.	
centrum		The body, or axis, of a vertebra. See Vertebra.	
centry	Obsolete	See Sentry — (Mil.) A soldier placed on guard; a sentinel.	
centumvir		One of a court of about one hundred judges chosen to try civil suits.	
centumviral		Of or pertaining to the centumviri, or to a centumvir.	
centumvirate		The office of a centumvir, or of the centumviri.	
centuple		Hundredfold.	
centuplicate		To make a hundredfold; to repeat a hundred times.	
centurial		Of or pertaining to a century; as, a centurial sermon.	
centuriate	Obsolete	Pertaining to, or divided into, centuries or hundreds.	
centuriator		An historian who distinguishes time by centuries, esp. one of those who wrote the See under Century.	
centurion		A military officer who commanded a minor division of the Roman army; a captain of a century.	Latin centurio.
centurist		An historian who distinguishes time by centuries, esp. one of those who wrote the See under Century.	
century		A period of a hundred years; as, this event took place over two centuries ago.	Latin centuria.
ceorl		A freeman of the lowest class; one not a thane or of the servile classes; a churl.	
cepaceous		Of the nature of an onion, as in odor; alliaceous.	
cepevorous		Feeding upon onions.	
cephalad		Forwards; towards the head or anterior extremity of the body; opposed to caudad.	
cephalalgia		Pain in the head; headache.	
cephalalgic		Relating to, or affected with, headache. -- n.	Latin cephalalgicus.
cephalalgy		Pain in the head; headache.	
cephalanthium		Same as Anthodium.	
cephalaspis		A genus of fossil ganoid fishes found in the old red sandstone or Devonian formation.	
cephalata		A large division of Mollusca, including all except the bivalves; -- so called because the head is distinctly developed.	
cephalate		Having a head.	
cephalic		Of or pertaining to the head. See the Note under Anterior.	Middle French céphalique, from Latin cephalicus, from Greek κεφαλικός.
cephalism		Form or development of the skull; as, the races of man differ greatly in cephalism.	
cephalitis		Same as Phrenitis.	
cephalization		Domination of the head in animal life as expressed in the physical structure; localization of important organs or parts in or near the head, in animal development.	
cephalo		A combining form denoting the head, of the head, connected with the head; as, cephalosome, cephalopod.	
cephalo-		A combining form denoting the head, of the head, connected with the head; as, cephalosome, cephalopod.	Greek κεφαλή.
cephalocercal		Relating to the long axis of the body.	
cephaloid		Shaped like the head.	
cephalology		The science which treats of the head.	
cephalomere		One of the somites (arthromeres) which make up the head of arthropods.	
cephalometer		An instrument measuring the dimensions of the head of a fetus during delivery.	
cephalometry		The measurement of the heads of living persons. -- Ceph`a*lo*met"ric (#),a.	
cephalon		The head.	Greek κεφαλή.
cephalophora		The cephalata.	
cephalopod		One of the Cephalopoda.	
cephalopoda		The highest class of Mollusca.	
cephalopode		One of the Cephalopoda.	
cephalopodic		Belonging to, or resembling, the cephalopods.	
cephalopodous		Belonging to, or resembling, the cephalopods.	
cephaloptera		One of the generic names of the gigantic ray (Manta birostris), known as devilfish and sea devil.	
cephalosome		The anterior region or head of insects and other arthropods.	
cephalostyle		The anterior end of the notochord and its bony sheath in the base of cartilaginous crania.	
cephalothorax		The anterior portion of any one of the Arachnida and higher Crustacea, consisting of the united head and thorax.	
cephalotome		An instrument for cutting into the fetal head, to facilitate delivery.	
cephalotomy		Dissection or opening of the head.	
cephalotribe		An obstetrical instrument for performing cephalotripsy.	
cephalotripsy		The act or operation of crushing the head of a fetus in the womb in order to effect delivery.	
cephalotrocha		A kind of annelid larva with a circle of cilia around the head.	
cephalous		Having a head; -- applied chiefly to the Cephalata, a division of mollusks.	
cepheus		(Astron.) A northern constellation near the pole.	
ceraceous		Having the texture and color of new wax; like wax; waxy.	
cerago		Beebread.	
ceramic		Of or pertaining to pottery; relating to the art of making earthenware; as, ceramic products; ceramic ornaments for ceilings.	Greek κεραμικός.
ceramics		The art of making things of baked clay; as pottery, tiles, etc.	
cerargyrite		Native silver chloride, a mineral of a white to pale yellow or gray color, darkening on exposure to the light.	
cerasin		A white amorphous substance, the insoluble part of cherry gum; -- called also meta-arabinic acid.	
cerasinous		Pertaining to, or containing, cerasin.	
cerastes		A genus of poisonous African serpents, with a horny scale over each eye; the horned viper.	
cerate		An unctuous preparation for external application, of a consistence intermediate between that of an ointment and a plaster, so that it can be spread upon cloth without the use of heat, but does not melt when applied to the skin.	
cerated		Covered with wax.	Latin ceratus.
ceratine		Sophistical.	
ceratobranchia		A group of nudibranchiate Mollusca having on the back papilliform or branched organs serving as gills.	
ceratobranchial		Pertaining to the bone, or cartilage, below the epibranchial in a branchial arch. -- n.	
ceratodus		A genus of ganoid fishes, of the order Dipnoi, first known as Mesozoic fossil fishes; but recently two living species have been discovered in Australian rivers.	
ceratohyal		Pertaining to the bone, or carts, large, below the epihyal in the hyoid arch. -- n.	
ceratosaurus		A carnivorous American Jurassic dinosaur allied to the European Megalosaurus.	
ceratospongiae		An order of sponges in which the skeleton consists of horny fibers.	
ceraunics		That branch of physics which treats of heat and electricity.	
ceraunoscope		An instrument or apparatus employed in the ancient mysteries to imitate thunder and lightning.	Greek κεραυνοσκοπεῖον.
cerberean		Of or pertaining to, or resembling, Cerberus.	
cerberus		(Zoöl.) A genus of East Indian serpents, allied to the pythons; the bokadam.	
cercal		Of or pertaining to the tail.	
cercaria		The larval form of a trematode worm having the shape of a tadpole, with its body terminated by a tail-like appendage.	
cercarian		Of, like, or pertaining to, the Cercariæ. -- n.	
cercopod		One of the jointed antenniform appendage of the posterior somites of cartain insects.	
cercus		See Cercopod — one of the jointed antenniform appendage of the posterior somites of cartain insects.	Latin cercus, from Greek κέρκος.
cere		The soft naked sheath at the base of the beak of birds of prey, parrots, and some other birds.	Middle English sere, from Old French cire, from Latin cera.
cereal		Of or pertaining to the grasses which are cultivated for their edible seeds (as wheat, maize, rice, etc.), or to their seeds or grain.	French céréale, from Latin Cerealis.
cerealia		(Antiq.) Public festivals in honor of Ceres.	
cerealin		A nitrogenous substance closely resembling diastase, obtained from bran, and possessing the power of converting starch into dextrin, sugar, and lactic acid.	
cerebel		The cerebellum.	
cerebellar		Pertaining to the cerebellum.	
cerebellous		Pertaining to the cerebellum.	
cerebellum		The large lobe of the hind brain in front of and above the medulla; the little brain.	
cerebral		Of or pertaining to the cerebrum.	French cérébral, from Latin cerebrum.
cerebralism		The doctrine or theory that psychical phenomena are functions or products of the brain only.	
cerebralist		One who accepts cerebralism.	
cerebrate		To exhibit mental activity; to have the brain in action.	
cerebration		Action of the brain, whether conscious or unconscious.	
cerebric		Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the brain.	
cerebricity		Brain power.	
cerebriform		Like the brain in form or substance.	
cerebrifugal		Applied to those nerve fibers which go from the brain to the spinal cord, and so transfer cerebral impulses (centrifugal impressions) outwards.	
cerebrin		A nonphosphorized, nitrogenous substance, obtained from brain and nerve tissue by extraction with boiling alcohol.	
cerebripetal		Applied to those nerve fibers which go from the spinal cord to the brain and so transfer sensations (centripetal impressions) from the exterior inwards.	
cerebritis		Inflammation of the cerebrum.	
cerebro-spinal		Of or pertaining to the central nervous system consisting of the brain and spinal cord.	
cerebroid		Resembling, or analogous to, the cerebrum or brain.	
cerebrology		The science which treats of the cerebrum or brain.	
cerebropathy		A hypochondriacal condition verging upon insanity, occurring in those whose brains have been unduly taxed; -- called also brain fag.	
cerebroscopy		Examination of the brain for the diagnosis of diseas; esp., the act or process of diagnosticating the condition of the brain by examination of the interior of the eye (as with an ophthalmoscope).	
cerebrose		A sugarlike body obtained by the decomposition of the nitrogenous non-phosphorized principles of the brain.	
cerebrum		The anterior, and in man the larger, division of the brain; the seat of the reasoning faculties and the will.	Latin cerebrum.
cerecloth		A cloth smeared with melted wax, or with some gummy or glutinous matter.	
cerement		(a) A cerecloth used for the special purpose of enveloping a dead body when embalmed.	French cirement.
ceremonial		Relating to ceremony, or external rite; ritual; according to the forms of established rites.	
ceremonialism		Adherence to external rites; fondness for ceremony.	
ceremonially		According to rites and ceremonies; as, a person ceremonially unclean.	
ceremonialness		Quality of being ceremonial.	
ceremonious		Consisting of outward forms and rites; ceremonial.	
ceremoniously		In a ceremonious way.	
ceremoniousness		The quality, or practice, of being ceremonious.	
ceremony		Ar act or series of acts, often of a symbolical character, prescribed by law, custom, or authority, in the conduct of important matters, as in the performance of religious duties, the transaction of affairs of state…	
cereous	Obsolete	Waxen; like wax.	Latin cereus.
ceres		(Actron.) The first discovered asteroid.	
ceresin		A white wax, made by bleaching and purifying ozocerite, and used as a substitute for beeswax.	
cereus		A genus of plants of the Cactus family.	
cerevis		A small visorless cap, worn by members of German student corps.	
ceria		Cerium oxide, CeO2, a white infusible substance constituting about one per cent of the material of the common incandescent mantle.	
cerial	Obsolete	Same as Cerial.	
ceriferous		Producing wax.	
cerin		(Chem.) A waxy substance extracted by alcohol or ether from cork; sometimes applied also to the portion of beeswax which is soluble in alcohol.	
cerinthian		One of an ancient religious sect, so called fron Cerinthus, a Jew, who attempted to unite the doctrines of Christ with the opinions of the Jews and Gnostics.	
ceriph		One of the fine lines of a letter, esp. one of the fine cross strokes at the top and bottom of letters.	
cerise		Cherry-colored; a light bright red; --- applied to textile fabrics, especially silk.	Old French cerise, from Latin ceresia.
cerite		A gastropod shell belonging to the family Cerithiïdæ; -- so called from its hornlike form.	
cerium		A rare metallic element, occurring in the minerals cerite, allanite, monazite, etc. Symbol Ce.	
cernuous		Inclining or nodding downward; pendulous; drooping; -- said of a bud, flower, fruit, or the capsule of a moss.	
cero		A large and valuable fish of the Mackerel family, of the genus Scomberomorus.	
cerograph		A writing on wax.	
cerographic		Of or pertaining to cerography.	
cerographical		Of or pertaining to cerography.	
cerographist		One who practices cerography.	
cerography		The art of making characters or designs in, or with, wax.	
cerolite		A hydrous silicate of magnesium, allied to serpentine, occurring in waxlike masses of a yellow or greenish color.	
ceroma		The unguent (a composition of oil and wax) with which wrestles were anointed among the ancient Romans.	
ceromancy		Divination by dropping melted wax in water.	
ceroon		A bale or package. covered with hide, or with wood bound with hide; as, a ceroon of indigo, cochineal, etc.	
ceroplastic		(a) Relating to the art of modeling in wax. (b) Modeled in wax; as, a ceroplastic figure.	
ceroplastics		The art of modeling in wax.	
ceroplasty		The art of modeling in wax.	
cerosin		A waxy substance obtained from the bark of the sugar cane, and crystallizing in delicate white laminæ.	
cerote		See Cerate — an unctuous preparation for external application, of a consistence intermediate between that of an ointment and a plaster, so that it can be spread upon cloth without the use of heat…	
cerotene		A white waxy solid obtained from Chinese wax, and by the distillation of cerotin.	
cerotic		Pertaining to, or derived from, beeswax or Chinese wax; as, cerotic acid or alcohol.	
cerotin		A white crystalline substance, C27H55.OH, obtained from Chinese wax, and regarded as an alcohol of the marsh gas series; -- called also cerotic alcohol, ceryl alcohol.	
cerotype		A printing process of engraving on a surface of wax spread on a steel plate, for electrotyping.	
cerrial		Of or pertaining to the cerris.	Latin cerreus.
cerris		A species of oak (Quercus cerris) native in the Orient and southern Europe; -- called also bitter oak and Turkey oak.	
certain		Assured in mind; having no doubts; free from suspicions concerning.	Middle English certain.
certainly		Without doubt or question; unquestionably.	
certainness		Certainty.	
certainty		The quality, state, or condition, of being certain.	Middle English certeynte, from Anglo-Norman certeinte, from Old French certeinete.
certes	Archaic	Certainly; in truth; verily.	
certificate		A written testimony to the truth of any fact; as, certificate of good behavior.	
certification		The act of certifying.	
certifier		One who certifies or assures.	
certify		To give cetain information to; to assure; to make certain.	
certiorari		A writ issuing out of chancery, or a superior court, to call up the records of a inferior court, or remove a cause there depending, in order that the party may have more sure and speedy justice…	
certitude		Freedom from doubt; assurance; certainty.	Middle French certitude, from Latin certitudo.
cerule	Obsolete	Blue; cerulean.	Latin caerulus.
cerulean		Sky-colored; blue; azure.	Latin caeruleus.
cerulein		A fast dyestuff, C20H8O6, made by heating gallein with strong sulphuric acid.	
ceruleous	Obsolete	Cerulean.	
cerulescent		Tending to cerulean; light bluish.	
ceruleum		A greenish blue pigment prepared in various ways, consisting essentially of cobalt stannate.	
cerulific		Producing a blue or sky color.	
cerumen		The yellow, waxlike secretion from the glands of the external ear; the earwax.	
ceruminous		Pertaining to, or secreting, cerumen; as, the ceruminous glands.	
ceruse		White lead, used as a pigment. See White lead, under White.	French céruse, from Latin cerussa.
cerused		Washed with a preparation of white lead; as, cerused face.	
cerusite		Native lead carbonate; a mineral occurring in colorless, white, or yellowish transparent crystals, with an adamantine, also massive and compact.	
cerussite		Native lead carbonate; a mineral occurring in colorless, white, or yellowish transparent crystals, with an adamantine, also massive and compact.	Latin cerussa.
cervantite		See under Antimony.	
cervelat		An ancient wind instrument, resembling the bassoon in tone.	
cervical		Of or pertaining to the neck; as, the cervical vertebræ.	Latin cervix.
cervicide		The act of killing deer; deer-slaying.	
cervine		Of or pertaining to the deer, or to the family Cervidæ.	Latin cervinus.
cervix		The neck; also, the necklike portion of any part, as of the womb. See Illust. of Bird.	Latin cervix.
cervus		A genus of ruminants, including the red deer and other allied species.	
ceryl		A radical, C27H55 supposed to exist in several compounds obtained from Chinese wax, beeswax, etc.	
cesarean		Same as Cæsarean, Cæsarian.	
cesarian		Same as Cæsarean, Cæsarian.	
cesarism		See Cæsarism.	
cespitine		An oil obtained by distillation of peat, and containing various members of the pyridine series.	Latin caespes.
cespititious		Same as Cespitious.	
cespitose		Having the form a piece of turf, i. e., many stems from one rootstock or from many entangled rootstocks or roots.	
cespitous		Pertaining to, consisting, of resembling, turf; turfy.	
cess	Obsolete	Bound; measure.	
cessant	Obsolete	Inactive; dormant W.	
cessation		A ceasing of discontinuance, as of action, whether termporary or final; a stop; as, a cessation of the war.	
cessavit		A writ given by statute to recover lands when the tenant has for two years failed to perform the conditions of his tenure.	
cesser		a neglect of a tenant to perform services, or make payment, for two years.	
cessible	Obsolete	Giving way; yielding. -- Ces`si*bil"i*ty, n.	
cession		A yielding, or surrender, as of property or rights, to another person; the act of ceding.	Middle French cession, from Latin cessionem.
cessionary		Having surrendered the effects; as, a cessionary bankrupt.	Latin cedere.
cessment	Obsolete	An assessment or tax.	
cessor	Obsolete	One who neglects, for two years, to perform the service by which he holds lands, so that he incurs the danger of the writ of cessavit.	
cesspipe		A pipe for carrying off waste water, etc., from a sink or cesspool.	
cesspool		A cistern in the course, or the termination, of a drain, to collect sedimentary or superfluous matter; a privy vault; any receptace of filth.	
cest		A woman's girdle; a cestus.	
cestode		Of or pertaining to the Cestoidea. -- n.	
cestoid		Of or pertaining to the Cestoidea. -- n.	
cestoidea		A class of parasitic worms (Platelminthes) of which the tapeworms are the most common examples.	
cestoldean		One of the Cestoidea.	
cestraciont		A shark of the genus Cestracion, and of related genera.	
cestui		He; the one.	
cestus		(Antiq.) A girdle; particularly that of Aphrodite (or Venus) which gave the wearer the power of exciting love.	Latin cestus, from Greek κεστός.
cestuy		He; the one.	
cesura		See Cæsura.	
cesural		See Cæsural.	
cetacea		An order of marine mammals, including the whales.	
cetacean		One of the Cetacea.	
cetaceous		Of or pertaining to the Cetacea.	
cete		One of the Cetacea, or collectively, the Cetacea.	
cetene		An oily hydrocarbon, C16H32, of the ethylene series, obtained from spermaceti.	
ceterach		A species of fern with fronds (Asplenium Ceterach).	French cétérac, from Arabic shetrak.
cetewale	Obsolete	Same as Zedoary.	
cetic		Of or pertaining to a whale.	
cetin		A white, waxy substance, forming the essential part of spermaceti.	
cetological		Of or pertaining to cetology.	
cetologist		One versed in cetology.	
cetology		The description or natural history of cetaceous animals.	
cetraric		Pertaining to, or derived from, the lichen, Iceland moss (Cetaria Islandica).	
cetrarin		A white substance extracted from the lichen, Iceland moss (Cetraria Islandica).	
cetyl		A radical, C16H33, not yet isolated, but supposed to exist in a series of compounds homologous with the ethyl compounds, and derived from spermaceti.	
cetylic		Of, pertaining to, or derived from, spermaceti.	
ceylanite		A dingy blue, or grayish black, variety of spinel.	
ceylonese		Of or pertaining to Ceylon. -- n. sing. & pl. A native or natives of Ceylon.	
