cha		Tea; -- the Chinese (Mandarin) name, used generally in early works of travel, and now for a kind of rolled tea used in Central Asia.	
chab		The red-bellied wood pecker (Melanerpes Carolinus).	
chabasite		A mineral occuring in glassy rhombohedral crystals, varying, in color from white to yellow or red.	
chablis		A white wine made near Chablis, a town in France.	
chabouk		A long whip, such as is used in the East in the infliction of punishment.	
chabuk		A long whip, such as is used in the East in the infliction of punishment.	
chace		See 3d Chase, n., 3.	
chachalaca		The texan guan (Ortalis vetula).	
chacma		A large species of African baboon (Cynocephalus porcarius); -- called also ursine baboon.	
chaconne		An old Spanish dance in moderate three-four measure, like the Passacaglia, which is slower.	
chad	Obsolete	See Shad — any one of several species of food fishes of the Herring family.	
chaetetes		A genus of fossil corals, common in the lower Silurian limestones.	
chaetiferous		Bearing setæ.	
chaetodont		A marine fish of the family Chætodontidæ.	
chaetognath		Of or pertaining to the Chætognatha.	
chaetognatha		An order of free-swimming marine worms, of which the genus Sagitta is the type.	
chaetopod		Pertaining to the Chætopoda. -- n.	
chaetopoda		A very extensive order of Annelida, characterized by the presence of lateral setæ, or spines, on most or all of the segments.	
chaetotaxy		The arrangement of bristles on an insect.	
chafe		To ecxite heat in by friction; to rub in order to stimulate and make warm.	Middle English chaufen, from Old French chaufer, from Latin calefacio.
chafer		One who chafes.	
chafery		An open furnace or forge, in which blooms are heated before being wrought into bars.	
chafewax		Formerly a chancery officer who fitted wax for sealing writs and other documents.	
chafeweed		The cudweed (Gnaphalium), used to prevent or cure chafing.	
chaff		The glumes or husks of grains and grasses separated from the seed by threshing and winnowing, etc. So take the corn and leave the chaff behind.	
chaffer		To treat or dispute about a purchase; to bargain; to haggle or higgle; to negotiate.	
chafferer		One who chaffers; a bargainer.	
chaffern	Obsolete	A vessel for heating water.	
chaffery	Obsolete	Traffic; bargaining.	
chaffinch		A bird of Europe (Fringilla coelebs), having a variety of very sweet songs, and highly valued as a cage bird; -- called also copper finch.	
chaffing		The use of light, frivolous language by way of fun or ridicule; raillery; banter.	
chaffless		Without chaff.	
chaffwax		Formerly a chancery officer who fitted wax for sealing writs and other documents.	
chaffy		Abounding in, or resembling, chaff.	
chafing		The act of rubbing, or wearing by friction; making by rubbing.	
chagreen		See Shagreen — a kind of untanned leather prepared in Russia and the East, from the skins of horses, asses, and camels, and grained so as to be covered with small round granulations.	
chagrin		Vexation; mortification.	French chagrin.
chain		A series of links or rings, usually of metal, connected, or fitted into one another, used for various purposes, as of support, of restraint, of ornament, of the exertion and transmission of mechanical power…	Middle English chaine, from Old French chaine.
chainless		Having no chain; not restrained or fettered.	
chainlet		A small chain.	
chainwork		Work looped or linked after the manner of a chain; chain stitch work.	
chair		A movable single seat with a back.	
chairman		The presiding officer of a committee, or of a public or private meeting, or of any organized body.	
chairmanship		The office of a chairman of a meeting or organized body.	
chaise		A two-wheeled carriage for two persons, with a calash top, and the body hung on leather straps, or thoroughbraces.	French chaise.
chaja		The crested screamer of Brazil (Palamedea, or Chauna, chavaria), so called in imitation of its notes; -- called also chauna, and faithful kamichi.	
chak		To toss up the head frequently, as a horse to avoid the restraint of the bridle.	
chalaza		(Bot.) The place on an ovule, or seed, where its outer coats cohere with each other and the nucleus.	Greek χάλαζα.
chalazal		Of or pertaining to the chalaza.	
chalaze		Same as Chalaza.	
chalaziferous		Having or bearing chalazas.	
chalazion		A small circumscribed tumor of the eyelid caused by retention of secretion, and by inflammation of the Melbomian glands.	
chalazogamy		A process of fecundation in which the pollen tube penetrates to the embryosac through the tissue of the chalaza, instead of entering through the micropyle.	
chalcanthite		Native blue vitriol. See Blue vitriol, under Blue.	
chalcedonic		Of or pertaining to chalcedony.	
chalcedony		A cryptocrystalline, translucent variety of quartz, having usually a whitish color, and a luster nearly like wax.	
chalchihuitl		The Mexican name for turquoise. See Turquoise.	
chalcidian		One of a tropical family of snakelike lizards (Chalcidæ), having four small or rudimentary legs.	
chalcocite		Native copper sulphide, called also copper glance, and vitreous copper; a mineral of a black color and metallic luster.	
chalcographer		An engraver on copper or brass; hence, an engraver of copper plates for printing upon paper.	
chalcographist		An engraver on copper or brass; hence, an engraver of copper plates for printing upon paper.	
chalcography		The act or art of engraving on copper or brass, especially of engraving for printing.	
chalcopyrite		Copper pyrites, or yellow copper ore; a common ore of opper, containing copper, iron, and sulphur.	
chaldaic		Of or pertaining to Chaldes. -- n.	
chaldaism		An idiom or peculiarity in the Chaldee dialect.	
chaldean		Of or pertaining to Chaldea. -- n. (a) A native or inhabitant of Chaldea.	
chaldee		Of or pertaining to Chaldea. -- n.	
chalder		A kind of bird; the oyster catcher.	
chaldrich		A kind of bird; the oyster catcher.	
chaldron		An English dry measure, being, at London, 36 bushels heaped up, or its equivalent weight, and more than twice as much at Newcastle.	
chalet		A herdsman's hut in the mountains of Switzerland.	
chalice		A cup or bowl; especially, the cup used in the sacrament of the Lord's Supper.	
chaliced		Having a calyx or cup; cupshaped.	
chalk		(Min.) A soft, earthy substance, of a white, grayish, or yellowish white color, consisting of calcium carbonate, and having the same composition as common limestone.	Old English cealc.
chalkcutter		A man who digs chalk.	
chalkiness		The state of being chalky.	
chalkstone		(Med.) A chalklike concretion, consisting mainly of urate of sodium, found in and about the small joints, in the external ear, and in other situations, in those affected with gout; a tophus.	
chalky		Consisting of, or resembling, chalk; containing chalk; as, a chalky cliff; a chalky taste.	
challenge		An invitation to engage in a contest or controversy of any kind; a defiance; specifically, a summons to fight a duel; also, the letter or message conveying the summons.	Old French chalonge, from Latin calumnia.
challengeable		That may be challenged.	
challenger		One who challenges.	
challis		A soft and delicate woolen, or woolen and silk, fabric, for ladies' dresses.	
chalon	Obsolete	A bed blanket.	
chalybean		Of or pertaining to the Chalybes, an ancient people of Pontus in Asia Minor, celebrated for working in iron and steel.	
chalybeate		Impregnated with salts of iron; having a taste like iron; as, chalybeate springs.	
chalybeous		Steel blue; of the color of tempered steel.	
chalybite		Native iron carbonate; -- usually called siderite.	
cham	Obsolete	To chew.	French cham, from Turkish han.
chamade		A signal made for a parley by beat of a drum.	French chamade, from Italian chiamata.
chamal		The Angora goat. See Angora goat, under Angora.	
chamber		A retired room, esp. an upper room used for sleeping; a bedroom; as, the house had four chambers.	French chambre, from Old French chambre, from Latin camera, from Greek καμάρα.
chambered		Having a chamber or chambers; as, a chambered shell; a chambered gun.	
chamberer	Obsolete	One who attends in a chamber; a chambermaid.	
chambering	Obsolete	Lewdness.	
chamberlain		An officer or servant who has charge of a chamber or chambers.	
chamberlainship		Office if a chamberlain.	
chambermaid		A maidservant who has the care of chambers, making the beds, sweeping, cleaning the rooms, etc.	
chambertin		A red wine from Chambertin near Dijon, in Burgundy.	
chambranle		An ornamental bordering or framelike decoration around the sides and top of a door, window, or fireplace.	
chambray		A gingham woven in plain colors with linen finish.	
chambrel		Same as Gambrel.	
chameck		A kind of spider monkey (Ateles chameck), having the thumbs rudimentary and without a nail.	
chameleon		A lizardlike reptile of the genus Chamæleo, of several species, found in Africa, Asia, and Europe.	Latin chamaeleon, from Greek χαμαιλέων.
chameleonize		To change into various colors.	
chamfer		The surface formed by cutting away the arris, or angle, formed by two faces of a piece of timber, stone, etc.	
chamfret		(Carp.) A small gutter; a furrow; a groove.	
chamfron		The frontlet, or head armor, of a horse.	Old French chanfrain.
chamisal		(Bot.) A California rosaceous shrub (Adenostoma fasciculatum) which often forms an impenetrable chaparral.	
chamlet	Obsolete	See Camlet — a woven fabric originally made of camel's hair, now chiefly of goat's hair and silk, or of wool and cotton.	
chamois		(Zoöl.) A small species of antelope (Rupicapra tragus), living on the loftiest mountain ridges of Europe, as the Alps, Pyrenees, etc. It possesses remarkable agility, and is a favorite object of chase.	French chamois.
chamomile		A genus of herbs (Anthemis) of the Composite family.	
champ		To bite with repeated action of the teeth so as to be heard.	
champagne		A light wine, of several kinds, originally made in the province of Champagne, in France.	French champagne.
champaign		A flat, open country.	Old French champaigne, from Latin campania.
champe		The field or ground on which carving appears in relief.	
champer		One who champs, or bites.	
champertor		One guilty of champerty; one who purchases a suit, or the right of suing, and carries it on at his own expense, in order to obtain a share of the gain.	
champerty		(Law) The prosecution or defense of a suit, whether by furnishing money or personal services, by one who has no legitimate concern therein, in consideration of an agreement that he shall receive, in the event of success…	Middle English champartie, from Middle French champart.
champignon		An edible species of mushroom (Agaricus campestris).	French champignon.
champion		One who engages in any contest; esp. one who in ancient times contended in single combat in behalf of another's honor or rights; or one who acts or speaks in behalf of a person or a cause; a defender; an advocate; a hero.	
championness		A female champion.	
championship		State of being champion; leadership; supremancy.	
champleve		Having the ground engraved or cut out in the parts to be enameled; inlaid in depressions made in the ground; -- said of a kind of enamel work in which depressions made in the surface are filled with enamel pastes…	
chamsin		See Kamsin — a hot southwesterly wind in Egypt, coming from the Sahara.	
chance		A supposed material or psychical agent or mode of activity other than a force, law, or purpose; fortune; fate; -- in this sense often personifed.	Old French cheance, from Latin cadentia.
chance-medley		(Law) The kiling of another in self-defense upon a sudden and unpremeditated encounter.	
chanceable	Obsolete	Fortuitous; casual.	
chanceably	Obsolete	By chance.	
chanceful	Obsolete	Hazardous.	
chancel		(a) That part of a church, reserved for the use of the clergy, where the altar, or communion table, is placed.	
chancellery	Obsolete	Chancellorship.	
chancellor		A judicial court of chancery, which in England and in the United States is distinctively a court with equity jurisdiction.	Middle English chaunceler, from Old French chancelier, from Latin cancellarius.
chancellorship		The office of a chancellor; the time during which one is chancellor.	
chancery		In England, formerly, the highest court of judicature next to the Parliament, exercising jurisdiction at law, but chiefly in equity…	French chancellerie, from Latin cancellaria.
chancre		A venereal sore or ulcer; specifically, the initial lesion of true syphilis, whether forming a distinct ulcer or not; -- called also hard chancre, indurated chancre, and Hunterian chancre.	French chancre, from Latin cancer, from Greek καρκίνος.
chancroid		A venereal sore, resembling a chancre in its seat and some external characters, but differing from it in being the starting point of a purely local process and never of a systemic disease; -- called also soft chancre.	
chancrous		Of the nature of a chancre; having chancre.	
chandelier		A candlestick, lamp, stand, gas fixture, or the like, having several branches; esp., one hanging from the ceiling.	
chandler		A dealer in other commodities, which are indicated by a word prefixed; as, ship chandler, corn chandler.	Old French chandelier, from Latin candelarius.
chandlerly	Obsolete	Like a chandler; in a petty way.	
chandlery		Commodities sold by a chandler.	
chandoo		An extract or preparation of opium, used in China and India for smoking.	
chandry	Obsolete	Chandlery.	
chanfrin		The fore part of a horse's head.	French chanfrein.
change		To alter; to make different; to cause to pass from one state to another; as, to change the position, character, or appearance of a thing; to change the countenance.	
changeability		Changeableness.	
changeable		Capable of change; subject to alteration; mutable; variable; fickle; inconstant; as, a changeable humor.	
changeableness		The quality of being changeable; fickleness; inconstancy; mutability.	
changeably		In a changeable manner.	
changeful		Full of change; mutable; inconstant; fickle; uncertain.	
changeless		That can not be changed; constant; as, a changeless purpose. -- Change"less*ness, n.	
changeling		One who, or that which, is left or taken in the place of another, as a child exchanged by fairies.	
changer		One who changes or alters the form of anything.	
chank		The East Indian name for the large spiral shell of several species of sea conch much used in making bangles, esp. Turbinella pyrum.	
channel		The hollow bed where a stream of water runs or may run.	Old French chenel, from Latin canalis.
channeling		The act or process of forming a channel or channels.	
chansonnette		A little song.	
chant		To utter with a melodious voice; to sing. The cheerful birds … do chant sweet music.	Old French chanter, from Latin cantare.
chantant		Composed in a melodious and singing style.	
chanter		One who chants; a singer or songster.	
chanterelle		A name for several species of mushroom, of which one (Cantharellus cibrius) is edible, the others reputed poisonous.	French chanterelle.
chantey		A sailor's song.	
chanticleer		A cock, so called from the clearness or loundness of his voice in crowing.	Old French chantecler.
chanting		Singing, esp. as a chant is sung.	
chantor		A chanter.	
chantress		A female chanter or singer.	
chantry		An endowment or foundation for the chanting of masses and offering of prayers, commonly for the founder.	
chaomancy		Divination by means of apperances in the air.	
chaos		The confused, unorganized condition or mass of matter before the creation of distinct and order forms.	
chaotic		Resembling chaos; confused.	
chaotically		In a chaotic manner.	
chap		To cause to open in slits or chinks; to split; to cause the skin of to crack or become rough.	
chaparajos		Overalls of sheepskin or leather, usually open at the back, worn, esp. by cowboys, to protect the legs from thorny bushes, as in the chaparral; -- called also chapareras or colloq. chaps.	
chapareras		Same as Chaparajos.	
chaparral		A thicket of low evergreen oaks.	Spanish chaparral.
chapbook		Any small book carried about for sale by chapmen or hawkers. Hence, any small book; a toy book.	
chape		The piece by which an object is attached to something, as the frog of a scabbard or the metal loop at the back of a buckle by which it is fastened to a strap.	
chapeau		hat or covering for the head.	
chaped	Obsolete	Furnished with a chape or chapes.	
chapel		A subordinate place of worship; as, (a) a small church, often a private foundation, as for a memorial; (b) a small building attached to a church; (c) a room or recess in a church, containing an altar.	Old French chapele, from Latin cappella.
chapeless		Without a chape.	
chapelet		A pair of Straps, with stirrups, joined at the top and fastened to the pommel or the frame of the saddle, after they have been adjusted to the convenience of the rider.	
chapellany		A chapel within the jurisdiction of a church; a subordinate ecclesiastical foundation.	
chapelry		The territorial disrict legally assigned to a chapel.	
chaperon		A hood; especially, an ornamental or an official hood.	French chaperon.
chaperonage		Attendance of a chaperon on a lady in public; protection afforded by a chaperon.	
chapfallen		Having the lower chap or jaw drooping, -- an indication of humiliation and dejection; crestfallen; discouraged.	
chapiter		(Old Eng. Law) A summary in writing of such matters as are to be inquired of or presented before justices in eyre, or justices of assize, or of the peace, in their sessions; -- also called articles.	
chaplain		An ecclesiastic who has a chapel, or who performs religious service in a chapel.	Old French chapelain, from Latin cappellanus.
chaplaincy		The office, position, or station of a chaplain.	
chaplainship		The office or business of a chaplain.	
chapless		Having no lower jaw; hence, fleshless.	
chaplet		A garland or wreath to be worn on the head.	
chapman	Obsolete	One who buys and sells; a merchant; a buyer or a seller.	Old English ceapmann.
chappy		Full of chaps; cleft; gaping; open.	
chaps		The jaws, or the fleshy parts about them. See Chap.	
chapter		A division of a book or treatise; as, Genesis has fifty chapters.	Middle English chapiter, from Old French chapitre.
chaptrel	Obsolete	An impost.	
char		To burn slightly or partially; as, to char wood.	Middle English cherre, from Old English cierr.
char-a-banc		A long, light, open vehicle, with benches or seats running lengthwise.	
chara		A genus of flowerless plants, having articulated stems and whorled branches.	
charact	Obsolete	A distinctive mark; a character; a letter or sign. See Character.	Old French characte.
character		A distinctive mark; a letter, figure, or symbol.	Middle English caracter, from Old French caractere, from Latin character, from Greek χαρακτήρ.
characterism	Obsolete	A distinction of character; a characteristic.	
characteristic		Pertaining to, or serving to constitute, the character; showing the character, or distinctive qualities or traits, of a person or thing; peculiar; distinctive.	Greek χαρακτηριστικός.
characteristical		Characteristic.	
characteristically		In a characteristic manner; in a way that characterizes.	
characterization		The act or process of characterizing.	
characterize		To make distinct and recognizable by peculiar marks or traits; to make with distinctive features.	Latin characterizare, from Greek χαρακτηρίζω.
characterless		Destitute of any distinguishing quality; without character or force.	
charactery		The art or means of characterizing; a system of signs or characters; symbolism; distinctive mark.	
charade		A verbal or acted enigma based upon a word which has two or more significant syllables or parts, each of which, as well as the word itself, is to be guessed from the descriptions or representations.	French charade.
charbocle	Obsolete	Carbuncle.	
charbon		(Far.) A small black spot or mark remaining in the cavity of the corner tooth of a horse after the large spot or mark has become obliterated.	
charcoal		Impure carbon prepared from vegetable or animal substances; esp., coal made by charring wood in a kiln, retort, etc., from which air is excluded.	Middle English charcole.
chard		The tender leaves or leafstalks of the artichoke, white beet, etc., blanched for table use.	French carde.
chare	Obsolete	To perform; to do; to finish.	Middle English chare.
charge		To lay on or impose, as a load, tax, or burden; to load; to fill.	Middle English chargen, from Old French chargier, from Latin carricare.
chargeable		That may be charged, laid, imposed, or imputes; as, a duty chargeable on iron; a fault chargeable on a man.	
chargeableness	Obsolete	The quality of being chargeable or expensive.	
chargeably	Obsolete	At great cost; expensively.	
chargeant	Obsolete	Burdensome; troublesome.	
chargeful	Obsolete	Costly; expensive.	
chargehouse	Obsolete	A schoolhouse.	
chargeless		Free from, or with little, charge.	
chargeous	Obsolete	Burdensome.	
charger		One who, or that which charges.	
chargeship		The office of a chargé d'affaires.	
charily		In a chary manner; carefully; cautiously; frugally.	
chariness		The quality of being chary.	
chariot		(Antiq.) A two-wheeled car or vehicle for war, racing, state processions, etc. First moved the chariots, after whom the foot.	Old French chariot.
chariotee		A light, covered, four-wheeled pleasure carriage with two seats.	
charioteer		One who drives a chariot.	
charism		A miraculously given power, as of healing, speaking foreign languages without instruction, etc., attributed to some of the early Christians.	Greek χάρις.
charismatic		Of or pertaining to a charism.	
charitable		Full of love and good will; benevolent; kind.	
charitableness		The quality of being charitable; the exercise of charity.	
charitably		In a charitable manner.	
charity		Love; universal benevolence; good will.	Old French charité, from Latin caritas.
charivari		A mock serenade of discordant noises, made with kettles, tin horns, etc., designed to annoy and insult.	French charivari.
chark	Obsolete	Charcoal; a cinder.	
charlatan		One who prates much in his own favor, and makes unwarrantable pretensions; a quack; an impostor; an empiric; a mountebank.	Middle French charlatan, from Italian ciarlatano.
charlatanic		Of or like a charlatan; making undue pretension; empirical; pretentious; quackish. -- Char`la*tan"ic*al*ly, adv.	
charlatanical		Of or like a charlatan; making undue pretension; empirical; pretentious; quackish. -- Char`la*tan"ic*al*ly, adv.	
charlatanism		Charlatanry.	
charlatanry		Undue pretensions to skill; quackery; wheedling; empiricism.	
charlie		A familiar nickname or substitute for Charles.	
charlock		A cruciferous plant (Brassica sinapistrum) with yellow flowers; wild mustard.	
charlotte		A kind of pie or pudding made by lining a dish with slices of bread, and filling it with bread soaked in milk, and baked.	
charm		A word or combination of words sung or spoken in the practice of magic; a magical combination of words, characters, etc.; an incantation.	Middle English charme.
charmel		A fruitful field.	
charmer		One who charms, or has power to charm; one who uses the power of enchantment; a magician.	
charmeress		An enchantress.	
charmful		Abounding with charms.	
charming		Pleasing the mind or senses in a high degree; delighting; fascinating; attractive.	
charmless		Destitute of charms.	
charneco	Obsolete	A sort of sweet wine.	
charnel		Containing the bodies of the dead.	French charnel, from Latin carnale.
charnico	Obsolete	A sort of sweet wine.	
charon		The son of Erebus and Nox, whose office it was to ferry the souls of the dead over the Styx, a river of the infernal regions.	
charpie		Straight threads obtained by unraveling old linen cloth; -- used for surgical dressings.	
charqui		Jerked beef; beef cut into long strips and dried in the wind and sun.	
charr		One of the several species of fishes of the genus Salvelinus, allied to the spotted trout and salmon, inhabiting deep lakes in mountainous regions in Europe.	
charras		The gum resin of the hemp plant (Cannabis sativa).	
charre		See Charge, n., 17.	
charry		Pertaining to charcoal, or partaking of its qualities.	
chart		A sheet of paper, pasteboard, or the like, on which information is exhibited, esp. when the information is arranged in tabular form; as, an historical chart.	Middle French charte, from Latin charta, from Greek χάρτης.
charta		(a) Material on which instruments, books, etc., are written; parchment or paper.	
chartaceous		Resembling paper or parchment; of paper-like texture; papery.	Latin chartaceus.
charte		The constitution, or fundamental law, of the French monarchy, as established on the restoration of Louis XVIII., in 1814.	
charter		An instrument in writing, from the sovereign power of a state or country, executed in due form, bestowing rights, franchises, or privileges.	Old French chartre, from Latin chartula.
chartered		Granted or established by charter; having, or existing under, a charter; having a privilege by charter.	
charterer		One who charters; esp. one who hires a ship for a voyage.	
charterhouse		A well known public school and charitable foundation in the building once used as a Carthusian monastery (Chartreuse) in London.	French Chartreuse.
charterist		Same as Chartist.	
chartism		The principles of a political party in England (1838-48), which contended for universal suffrage, the vote by ballot, annual parliaments, equal electoral districts, and other radical reforms…	
chartist		A supporter or partisan of chartism.	
chartless		Without a chart; having no guide.	
chartographer		Same as Cartographer, Cartographic, Cartography, etc.	
chartographic		Same as Cartographer, Cartographic, Cartography, etc.	
chartography		Same as Cartographer, Cartographic, Cartography, etc.	
chartomancy		Divination by written paper or by cards.	Greek χάρτης.
chartometer		An instrument for measuring charts or maps.	
chartreuse		A Carthusian monastery; esp. La Grande Chartreuse, mother house of the order, in the mountains near Grenoble, France.	
chartreux		A Carthusian.	
chartulary		See Cartulary — an ecclesiastical officer who had charge of records or other public papers.	
charwoman		A woman hired for odd work or for single days.	
chary		Careful; wary; cautious; not rash, reckless, or spendthrift; saving; frugal.	
charybdis		A dangerous whirlpool on the coast of Sicily opposite Scylla on the Italian coast.	
chasable		Capable of being chased; fit for hunting.	
chase		To pursue for the purpose of killing or taking, as an enemy, or game; to hunt.	Old French chacier, from Latin captiare.
chaser		One who or that which chases; a pursuer; a driver; a hunter.	Old French chaceür.
chasible		See Chasuble — the outer vestment worn by the priest in saying Mass, consisting, in the Roman Catholic Church, of a broad, flat, back piece, and a narrower front piece…	
chasing		The art of ornamenting metal by means of chasing tools; also, a piece of ornamental work produced in this way.	
chasm		A deep opening made by disruption, as a breach in the earth or a rock; a yawning abyss; a cleft; a fissure.	Latin chasma, from Greek χάσμα.
chasmed		Having gaps or a chasm.	
chasmy		Of or pertaining to a chasm; abounding in chasms.	
chasse		A movement in dancing, as across or to the right or left.	
chasse-cafe		See Chasse, n., above.	
chasse-maree		A French coasting lugger.	
chasselas		A white grape, esteemed for the table.	
chassepot		A kind of breechloading, center-fire rifle, or improved needle gun.	
chasseur		(Mil.) One of a body of light troops, cavalry or infantry, trained for rapid movements.	French chasseur.
chassis		A traversing base frame, or movable railway, along which the carriage of a barbette or casemate gum moves backward and forward.	French châssis, from Latin capsa.
chast	Obsolete	to chasten.	
chaste		Pure from unlawful sexual intercourse; virtuous; continent.	Old French chaste, from Latin castus.
chastely		In a chaste manner; with purity.	
chasten		To correct by punishment; to inflict pain upon the purpose of reclaiming; to discipline; as, to chasten a son with a rod.	
chastened		Corrected; disciplined; refined; purified; toned down.	
chastener		One who chastens.	
chasteness		Chastity; purity.	
chastisable		Capable or deserving of chastisement; punishable.	
chastise		To inflict pain upon, by means of stripes, or in any other manner, for the purpose of punishment or reformation; to punish, as with stripes.	Old French chastier, from Latin castigare.
chastisement		The act of chastising; pain inflicted for punishment and correction; discipline; punishment.	Old French chastiement.
chastiser		One who chastises; a punisher; a corrector.	
chastity		The state of being chaste; purity of body; freedom from unlawful sexual intercourse.	
chasuble		The outer vestment worn by the priest in saying Mass, consisting, in the Roman Catholic Church, of a broad, flat, back piece, and a narrower front piece, the two connected over the shoulders only.	Old French chesible.
chat		Light, familiar talk; conversation; gossip.	
chateau		A manor house or residence of the lord of the manor; a gentleman's country seat; also, particularly, a royal residence; as, the chateau of the Louvre; the chateau of the Luxembourg.	
chatelaine		An ornamental hook, or brooch worn by a lady at her waist, and having a short chain or chains attached for a watch, keys, trinkets, etc. Also used adjectively; as, a chatelaine chain.	French châtelaine.
chatelet		A little castle.	Old French chastelet.
chatellany		Same as Castellany.	French châtellenie.
chati		A small South American species of tiger cat (Felis mitis).	
chatoyant		Having a changeable, varying luster, or color, like that of a changeable silk, or oa a cat's eye in the dark.	French chatoyant.
chatoyment		Changeableness of color, as in a mineral; play of colors.	French chatoiement.
chattel		Any item of movable or immovable property except the freehold, or the things which are parcel of it.	Middle English chatel, from Old French chatel, from Latin capitale.
chattelism		The act or condition of holding chattels; the state of being a chattel.	
chatter		To utter sounds which somewhat resemble language, but are inarticulate and indistinct.	Middle English chateren.
chatteration	Colloquial	The act or habit of chattering.	
chatterer		A prater; an idle talker.	
chattering		The act or habit of talking idly or rapidly, or of making inarticulate sounds; the sounds so made; noise made by the collision of the teeth; chatter.	
chattiness		The quality of being chatty, or of talking easily and pleasantly.	
chatty		Given to light, familiar talk; talkative.	
chatwood		Little sticks; twigs for burning; fuel.	
chaud-medley		The killing of a person in an affray, in the heat of blood, and while under the influence of passion, thus distinguished from chance- medley or killing in self-defense, or in a casual affray.	
chaudron	Obsolete	See Chawdron — entrails.	
chauffer		A table stove or small furnace, usually a cylindrical box of sheet iron, with a grate at the bottem, and an open top.	
chauffeur		One who manages the running of an automobile; esp., the paid operator of a motor vehicle.	French chauffeur.
chauffeuse		A woman chauffeur.	
chauldron	Obsolete	See Chawdron — entrails.	
chaunt		See Chant — to utter with a melodious voice; to sing. The cheerful birds … do chant sweet music.	
chaunter	Slang	A street seller of ballads and other broadsides.	
chaunterie	Obsolete	See Chantry — an endowment or foundation for the chanting of masses and offering of prayers, commonly for the founder.	
chaus		a lynxlike animal of Asia and Africa (Lynx Lybicus).	
chausses		The garment for the legs and feet and for the body below the waist, worn in Europe throughout the Middle Ages; applied also to the armor for the same parts, when fixible, as of chain mail.	
chaussure		A foot covering of any kind.	
chauvinism		Blind and absurd devotion to a fallen leader or an obsolete cause; hence, absurdly vainglorious or exaggerated patriotism. -- Chau tic (, a.	French chauvinisme.
chavender		The chub.	
chaw		To grind with the teeth; to masticate, as food in eating; to chew, as the cud; to champ, as the bit.	
chawdron	Obsolete	Entrails.	Old French chaudun.
cheap		Having a low price in market; of small cost or price, as compared with the usual price or the real value.	Middle English cheep.
cheap-jack		A seller of low-priced or second goods; a hawker.	
cheap-john		A seller of low-priced or second goods; a hawker.	
cheapen		Etym: To beat down the price of; to lessen the value of; to depreciate.	
cheapener		One who cheapens.	
cheaply		At a small price; at a low value; in a common or inferior manner.	
cheapness		Lowness in price, considering the usual price, or real value.	
chear		See Cheer — feeling; spirit; state of mind or heart.	
cheat		An act of deception or fraud; that which is the means of fraud or deception; a fraud; a trick; imposition; imposture.	
cheatable		Capable of being cheated.	
cheatableness		Capability of being cheated.	
cheater		One who cheats.	
chebacco		A narrow-sterned boat formerly much used in the Newfoundland fisheries; -- called also pinkstern and chebec.	
chebec		See Chebacco — a narrow-sterned boat formerly much used in the Newfoundland fisheries; -- called also pinkstern and chebec.	
check		(Chess) A word of warning denoting that the king is in danger; such a menace of a player's king by an adversary's move as would, if it were any other piece, expose it to immediate capture.	Old French eschec, from Latin scacus, from Arabic صکّ, from Persian چک.
checkage		The act of checking; as, the checkage of a name or of an item in a list.	
checker		One who checks.	
checkerberry		A spicy plant and its bright red berry; the wintergreen (Gaultheria procumbens).	
checkerboard		A board with sixty-four squares of alternate color, used for playing checkers or draughts.	
checkered		Marked with alternate squares or checks of different color or material.	
checkers		A game, called also daughts, played on a checkerboard by two persons, each having twelve men (counters or checkers) which are moved diagonally.	
checkerwork		Work consisting of or showing checkers varied alternately as to colors or materials.	
checklaton	Obsolete	Gilded leather.	
checkless		That can not be checked or restrained.	
checkmate		The position in the game of chess when a king is in check and cannot be released, -- which ends the game.	Middle English chekmat, from Old French eschec mat, from Persian شاه مات.
checkrein		A short rein looped over the check hook to prevent a horse from lowering his head; -- called also a bearing rein.	
checkroll		A list of servants in a household; -- called also chequer roll.	
checkstring		A cord by which a person in a carriage or horse car may signal to the driver.	
checkwork		Anything made so as to form alternate squares lke those of a checkerboard.	
checky		Divided into small alternating squares of two tinctures; -- said of the field or of an armorial bearing.	
cheddar		Of or pertaining to, or made at, Cheddar, in England; as, Cheddar cheese.	
cheek		The side of the face below the eye.	Old English cēace.
cheeked		Having a cheek; -- used in composition.	
cheeky	Slang	a Brazen-faced; impudent; bold.	
cheep		To chirp, as a young bird.	
cheer		Feeling; spirit; state of mind or heart.	Anglo-Norman chere, from Old French chiere, from Latin cara, from Greek κάρα.
cheerer		One who cheers; one who, or that which, gladdens.	
cheerful		Having or showing good spirits or joy; cheering; cheery; contented; happy; joyful; lively; animated; willing.	
cheerfully		In a cheerful manner, gladly.	
cheerfulness		Good spirits; a state of moderate joy or gayety; alacrity.	
cheerily		In a cheery manner.	
cheeriness		The state of being cheery.	
cheeringly		In a manner to cheer or encourage.	
cheerisness	Obsolete	Cheerfulness.	
cheerless		Without joy, gladness, or comfort. -- Cheer less*ness, n.	
cheerly	Obsolete	Gay; cheerful.	
cheerry		Cheerful; lively; gay; bright; pleasant; as, a cheery person.	
cheese		The curd of milk, coagulated usually with rennet, separated from the whey, and pressed into a solid mass in a hoop or mold.	Middle English chese, from Old English cese.
cheeselep		A bag in which rennet is kept.	Middle English cheslip, from Old English cyslybb.
cheesemonger		One who deals incheese.	
cheeseparing		A thin portion of the rind of a cheese. -- a.	
cheesiness		The quality of being cheesy.	
cheesy		Having the nature, qualities, taste, form, consistency, or appearance of cheese.	
cheetah		A species of leopard (Cynælurus jubatus) tamed and used for hunting in India.	Hindi चीता.
chef		A chief of head person.	
chegoe		See Chigoe — a species of flea (Pulex penetrans), common in the West Indies and South America, which often attacks the feet or any exposed part of the human body…	
chegre		See Chigoe — a species of flea (Pulex penetrans), common in the West Indies and South America, which often attacks the feet or any exposed part of the human body…	
cheiloplasty		The process of forming an artificial tip or part of a lip, by using for the purpose a piece of healthy tissue taken from some neighboring part.	
cheiropter		One of the Cheiroptera.	
cheiroptera		An order of mammalia, including the bats, having four toes of each of the anterior limbs elongated and connected by a web, so that they can be used like wings in flying.	
cheiropterous		Belonging to the Cheiroptera, or Bat family.	
cheiropterygium		The typical pentadactyloid limb of the higher vertebrates.	
cheirosophy		The art of reading character as it is delineated in the hand. -- Chei*ros"o*phist (, n.	
cheirotherium		A genus of extinct animals, so named from fossil footprints rudely resembling impressions of the human hand, and believed to have been made by labyrinthodont reptiles.	
chekelatoun	Obsolete	See Ciclatoun — a costly cloth, of uncertain material, used in the Middle Ages.	
chekmak		A turkish fabric of silk and cotton, with gold thread interwoven.	
chela		The pincherlike claw of Crustacea and Arachnida.	Latin chele, from Greek χηλή.
chelate		Same as Cheliferous.	
chelerythrine		Am alkaloidal principle obtained from the celandine, and named from the red color of its salts, It is a coloriess crystalline substance, and acts as an acrid narcotic poison.	
chelicera		One of the anterior pair of mouth organs, terminated by a pincherlike claw, in scorpions and allied Arachnida.	
chelidon		The hollow at the flexure of the arm.	
chelidonic		Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the celandine.	
chelidonius		A small stone taken from the gizzard of a young swallow. -- anciently worn as a medicinal charm.	
chelifer		See Book scorpion, under Book.	
cheliferous		Having cheliform claws, like a crab.	
cheliform		Having a movable joint or finger closing againts a preceding joint or a projecting part of it, so that the whole may be ised for grasping, as the claw of a crab; pincherlike.	
chelone		A genus of hardy perennial flowering plants, of the order Scrophulariaceaæ., natives of North America; -- called also snakehead, turtlehead, shellflower, etc.	
chelonia		An order of reptiles, including the tortoises and turtles, perculiar in having a part of the vertebræ, ribs, and sternum united with the dermal plates so as to form a firm shell.	
chelonian		Of or pertaining to animals of the tortoise kind. -- n.	
chelura		A genus of marine amphipod crustacea, which bore into and sometimes destroy timber.	
chely	Obsolete	A claw. See Chela.	
chemic	Obsolete	A chemist; an alchemist.	Latin chemicus.
chemical		Pertaining to chemistry; characterized or produced by the forces and operations of chemistry; employed in the processes of chemistry; as, chemical changes; chemical comnbinations.	
chemically		According to chemical principles; by chemical process or operation.	
chemiglyphic		Engraved by a voltaic battary.	
chemigraphy		Any mechanical engraving process depending upon chemical action; specif., a process of zinc etching not employing photography. -- Chem`i*graph"ic (#), a.	
chemiloon		A garment for women, consisting of chemise and drawers united in one.	
chemiotaxis		The sensitiveness exhibited by small free-swimming organisms, as bacteria, zoöspores of algæ, etc., to chemical substances held in solution.	
chemise		A shift, or undergarment, worn by women.	
chemisette		An under-garment, worn by women, usually covering the neck, shoulders, and breast.	
chemism		The force exerted between the atoms of elementary substance whereby they unite to form chemical compounds; chemical attaction; affinity; -- sometimes used as a general expression for chemical activity or relationship.	
chemist		A person versed in chemistry or given to chemical investigation; an analyst; a maker or seller of chemicals or drugs.	
chemistry		That branch of science which treats of the composition of substances, and of the changes which they undergo in consequence of alterations in the constitution of the molecules, which depend upon variations of the number, kind…	
chemitype		One of a number of processes by which an impression from an engraved plate is obtained in relief, to be used for printing on an ordinary printing press.	
chemolysis		A term sometimes applied to the decomposition of organic substance into more simple bodies, by the use of chemical agents alone.	
chemosis		Inflammatory swelling of the conjunctival tissue surrounding the cornea. --Che*mot"ic (#), a.	
chemosmosis		Chemical action taking place through an intervening membrane.	
chemosmotic		Pertaining to, or produced by, chemosmosis.	
chemosynthesis		Synthesis of organic compounds by energy derived from chemical changes or reactions.	
chemotaxis		The sensitiveness exhibited by small free-swimming organisms, as bacteria, zoöspores of algæ, etc., to chemical substances held in solution.	
cheng		A chinese reed instrument, with tubes, blown by the mouth.	
chenille		Tufted cord, of silk or worsted, for the trimimg of ladies' dresses, for embroidery and fringes, and for the weft of chenille rugs.	
chenomorphae		An order of birds, including the swans, ducks, geese, flamingoes and screamers.	
chepster	Dialect	The European starling.	
cheque		See Check — (Chess) A word of warning denoting that the king is in danger; such a menace of a player's king by an adversary's move as would, if it were any other piece, expose it to immediate capture.	
chequer		Same as Checker.	
chequing		A coin. See Sequin.	
chequy		Same as Checky.	
cherif		See Cherif.	
cherimoyer		A small downy-leaved tree (Anona Cherimolia), with fragrant flowers.	French chérimolier.
cherish		To treat with tenderness and affection; to nurture with care; to protect and aid.	Old French cherir.
cherisher		One who cherishes.	
cherishment	Obsolete	Encouragement; comfort.	
chermes		See Kermes — (Zoöl.) The dried bodies of the females of a scale insect (Coccus ilicis), allied to the cochineal insect, and found on several species of oak near the Mediterranean.	
cherogril		See Cony — (Zoöl.) (a) A rabbit, esp., the European rabbit (Lepus cuniculus). (b) The chief hare.	Latin choerogryllus.
cherokees		An Appalachian tribe of Indians, formerly inhabiting the region about the head waters of the Tennessee River.	
cheroot		A kind of cigar, originally brought from Mania, in the Philippine Islands; now often made of inferior or adulterated tabacco.	
cherry		(Bot.) A tree or shrub of the genus Prunus (Which also includes the plum) bearing a fleshy drupe with a bony stone; (a) The common garden cherry (Prunus Cerasus), of which several hundred varieties are cultivated for the fruit…	Old French cherise, from Latin ceresia.
chersonese		A peninsula; a tract of land nearly surrounded by water, but united to a larger tract by a neck of land or isthmus; as, the Cimbric Chersonese, or Jutland; the Tauric Chersonese, or Crimea.	Latin Chersonesus, from Greek χερσόνησος.
chert		An impure, massive, flintlike quartz or hornstone, of a dull color.	
cherty		Like chert; containing chert; flinty.	
cherub		A mysterious composite being, the winged footstool and chariot of the Almighty, described in Ezekiel i. and x.	
cherubic		Of or pertaining to cherubs; angelic.	
cherubical		Of or pertaining to cherubs; angelic.	
cherubim		The Hebrew plural of Cherub..	Hebrew כרבים.
cherubin	Obsolete	Cherubic; angelic.	
cherup		To make a short, shrill, cheerful sound; to chirp. See Chirrup.	
chervil		A plant (Anthriscus cerefolium) with pinnately divided aromatic leaves, of which several curled varieties are used in soups and salads.	
ches	Obsolete	pret. of Chese.	
chese	Obsolete	To choose Chaucer.	
chesible		See Chasuble — the outer vestment worn by the priest in saying Mass, consisting, in the Roman Catholic Church, of a broad, flat, back piece, and a narrower front piece…	
cheslip	English dialect	The wood louse.	
chess		A game played on a chessboard, by two persons, with two differently colored sets of men, sixteen in each set.	Old French eschés.
chess-apple		The wild service of Europe (Purus torminalis).	
chessboard		The board used in the game of chess, having eight rows of alternate light and dark squares, eight in each row.	
chessel		The wooden mold in which cheese is pressed.	
chesses		The platforms, consisting of two or more planks doweled together, for the flooring of a temporary military bridge.	
chessil		Gravel or pebbles.	
chessman		A piece used in the game of chess.	
chessom	Obsolete	Mellow earth; mold.	
chesstree		A piece of oak bolted perpendicularly on the side of a vessel, to aid in drawing down and securing the clew of the mainsail.	
chest		A large box of wood, or other material, having, like a trunk, a lid, but no covering of skin, leather, or cloth.	Old English cest.
chested		Having (such) a chest; -- in composition; as, broad-chested; narrow-chested.	
chesterlite		A variety of feldspar found in crystals in the county of Chester, Pennsylvania.	
chesteyn	Obsolete	The chestnut tree.	
chestnut		(Bot.) The edible nut of a forest tree (Castanea vesce) of Europe and America.	
chetah		See Cheetah — a species of leopard (Cynælurus jubatus) tamed and used for hunting in India.	
chetvert		A measure of grain equal to 0.7218 of an imperial quarter, or 5.95 Winchester bushels.	
chevachie	Obsolete	See Chivachie — a cavalry raid; hence, a military expedition.	
chevage	Obsolete	See Chiefage — a tribute by the head; a capitation tax.	Old French chevage.
cheval		A horse; hence, a support or frame.	
cheval-de-frise		A piece of timber or an iron barrel traversed with iron-pointed spikes or spears, five or six feet long, used to defend a passage, stop a breach, or impede the advance of cavalry, etc. Obstructions of chain, boom…	
chevalier		A horseman; a knight; a gallant young man.	
chevaux		See Cheval — a horse; hence, a support or frame.	
cheve		To come to an issue; to turn out; to succed; as, to cheve well in a enterprise.	Old French chevir.
chevelure		A hairlike envelope.	
cheven		A river fish; the chub.	
cheventein	Obsolete	A variant of Chieftain.	
cheveril	Obsolete	Soft leather made of kid skin.	
cheverliize	Obsolete	To make as pliable as kid leather.	
chevet		The extreme end of the chancel or choir; properly the round or polygonal part.	
cheviot		A valuable breed of mountain sheep in Scotland, which takes its name from the Cheviot hills.	
chevisance	Obsolete	Achievement; deed; performance.	Old French chevisance.
chevrette		A machine for raising guns or mortar into their carriages.	
chevron		(Her.) One of the nine honorable ordinaries, consisting of two broad bands of the width of the bar, issuing, respectively from the dexter and sinister bases of the field and conjoined at its center.	French chevron.
chevroned		Having a chevron; decorated with an ornamental figure of a zigzag from. whose nether parts, with their bases, were of watchet cloth of silver, chevroned all over with lace.	
chevronel		A bearing like a chevron, but of only half its width.	
chevronwise		In the manner of a chevron; as, the field may be divided chevronwise.	
chevrotain		A small ruminant of the family Tragulidæ a allied to the musk deer.	French chevrotain.
chevy	Slang	See Chivy, v. t.	
chew		To bite and grind with the teeth; to masticate.	Middle English chewen, from Old English ceowan.
chewer		One who chews.	
chewet	Obsolete	A kind of meat pie.	
chewink		An american bird (Pipilo erythrophthalmus) of the Finch family, so called from its note; -- called also towhee bunting and ground robin.	
cheyennes		A warlike tribe of indians, related to the blackfeet, formerly inhabiting the region of Wyoming, but now mostly on reservations in the Indian Territory.	
chian		Of or pertaining to Chios, an island in the Ægean Sea.	
chiaro-oscuro		(a) The arrangement of light and dark parts in a work of art, such as a drawing or painting, whether in monochrome or in color.	
chiaroscurist		A painter who cares for and studies light and shade rather than color.	
chiaroscuro		(a) The arrangement of light and dark parts in a work of art, such as a drawing or painting, whether in monochrome or in color.	
chiasm		A commissure; especially, the optic commissure, or crucial union of the optic nerves. -- Chi*as"mal (, a..	
chiasma		A commissure; especially, the optic commissure, or crucial union of the optic nerves. -- Chi*as"mal (, a..	
chiasmus		An inversion of the order of words or phrases, when repeated or subsequently referred to in a sentence; thus, If e'er to bless thy sons My voice or hands deny, These hands let useful skill forsake, This voice in silence die.	Latin chiasmus, from Greek χιασμός.
chiastolite		A variety of andalusite; -- called also macle.	
chibbal		See Cibol — a perennial alliaceous plant (Allium fistulosum), sometimes called Welsh onion.	
chibouk		A Turkish pipe, usually with a mouthpiece of amber, a stem, four or five feet long and not pliant, of some valuable wood, and a bowl of baked clay.	Turkish çubuk.
chibouque		A Turkish pipe, usually with a mouthpiece of amber, a stem, four or five feet long and not pliant, of some valuable wood, and a bowl of baked clay.	
chic	Slang	Good form; style.	
chica		A red coloring matter. extracted from the Bignonia Chica, used by some tribes of South American Indians to stain the skin.	
chicalote		A Mexican prickly poppy (Argemone platyceras), which has migrated into California.	
chicane		The use of artful subterfuge, designed to draw away attention from the merits of a case or question; -- specifically applied to legal proceedings; trickery; chicanery; caviling; sophistry.	
chicaner		One who uses chicanery.	
chicanery		Mean or unfair artifice to perplex a cause and obscure the truth; stratagem; sharp practice; sophistry.	French chicanerie.
chiccory		See Chicory — (Bot.) A branching perennial plant (Cichorium Intybus) with bright blue flowers, growing wild in Europe, Asia, and America; also cultivated for its roots and as a salad plant; succory…	
chich		The chick-pea.	French chiche.
chicha		See Chica — a red coloring matter. extracted from the Bignonia Chica, used by some tribes of South American Indians to stain the skin.	
chichevache		A fabulous cow of enormous size, whose food was patient wives, and which was therefore in very lean condition.	
chichling		A leguminous plant (Lathyrus sativus), with broad flattened seeds which are sometimes used for food.	
chick		To sprout, as seed in the ground; to vegetate.	Middle English chike.
chick-pea		(Bot.) A Small leguminous plant (Cicer arietinum) of Asia, Africa, and the sounth of Europe; the chick; the dwarf pea; the gram.	
chickabiddy		A chicken; a fowl; also, a trivial term of endearment for a child.	
chickadee		A small bird, the blackcap titmouse (Parus atricapillus), of North America; -- named from its note.	
chickaree		The American red squirrel (Sciurus Hudsonius); -- so called from its cry.	
chickasaws		A trible of North American Indians (Southern Appalachian) allied to the Choctaws.	
chicken		A young bird or fowl, esp. a young barnyard fowl.	
chicken-breasted		Having a narrow, projecting chest, caused by forward curvature of the vertebral column.	
chicken-hearted		Timid; fearful; cowardly.	
chickling		A small chick or chicken.	
chickweed		The name of several caryophyllaseous weeds, especially Stellaria media, the seeds and flower buds of which are a favorite food of small birds.	
chicky		A chicken; -- used as a diminutive or pet name, especially in calling fowls.	
chicle		A gumlike substance obtained from the bully tree (Mimusops globosa) and sometimes also from the naseberry or sapodilla (Sapota zapotilla).	Spanish chicle, from Classical Nahuatl tzictli.
chico		The common greasewood of the western United States (Sarcobatus vermiculatus).	
chicory		(Bot.) A branching perennial plant (Cichorium Intybus) with bright blue flowers, growing wild in Europe, Asia, and America; also cultivated for its roots and as a salad plant; succory; wild endive.	Middle French chicorée, from Old French cicoree.
chide		To rebuke; to reprove; to scold; to find fault with.	Middle English childen, from Old English cidan.
chider		One who chides or quarrels.	
chideress	Obsolete	She who chides.	
chidester	Obsolete	A female scold.	
chidingly		In a chiding or reproving manner.	
chief		The head or leader of any body of men; a commander, as of an army; a head man, as of a tribe, clan, or family; a person in authority who directs the work of others; the pricipal actio or agent.	
chief-justiceship		The office of chief justice.	
chiefage	Obsolete	A tribute by the head; a capitation tax.	Old French chevage.
chiefest	Archaic	First or foremost; chief; principal.	
chiefless		Without a chief or leader.	
chiefly		In the first place; principally; preëminently; above; especially.	
chiefrie	Obsolete	A small rent paid to the lord paramount.	
chieftain		A captain, leader, or commander; a chief; the head of a troop, army, or clan.	Middle English cheftayne, from Old French chevetaine, from Latin capitaneus.
chieftaincy		The rank, dignity, or office of a chieftain.	
chieftainship		The rank, dignity, or office of a chieftain.	
chierte	Obsolete	Love; tender regard.	Old French cherté.
chievance	Obsolete	An unlawful bargain; traffic in which money is exported as discount.	
chieve	Obsolete	See Cheve, v. i.	
chiff-chaff		A species of European warbler (Sylvia hippolais); -- called also chip-chap, and pettychaps.	
chiffon		Any merely ornamental adjunct of a woman's dress, as a bunch of ribbon, lace, etc.	
chiffonier		One who gathers rags and odds and ends; a ragpicker.	French chiffonnier.
chiffoniere		One who gathers rags and odds and ends; a ragpicker.	
chignon		A knot, boss, or mass of hair, natural or artificial, worn by a woman at the back of the head.	French chignon.
chigoe		A species of flea (Pulex penetrans), common in the West Indies and South America, which often attacks the feet or any exposed part of the human body, and burrowing beneath the skin produces great irritation.	
chigre		A species of flea (Pulex penetrans), common in the West Indies and South America, which often attacks the feet or any exposed part of the human body, and burrowing beneath the skin produces great irritation.	
chikara		(a) The Ingoat antelope (Tragops Bennettii) Of India. (b) The Indian four-horned antelope (Tetraceros quadricornis).	
chilblain		A blain, sore, or inflammatory swelling, produced by exposure of the feet or hands to cold, and attended by itching, pain, and sometimes ulceration.	
child		A son or a daughter; a male or female descendant, in the first degree; the immediate progeny of human parents; -- in law, legitimate offspring.	
childbearing		The act of producing or bringing forth children; parturition.	
childbed		The state of a woman bringing forth a child, or being in labor; parturition.	
childbirth		The act of bringing forth a child; travail; labor.	
childcrowing		The crowing noise made by children affected with spasm of the laryngeal muscles; false croup.	
childe		A cognomen formerly prefixed to his name by the oldest son, until he succeeded to his ancestral titles, or was knighted; as, Childe Roland.	Old English cild.
childed	Obsolete	Furnished with a child.	
childhood		The state of being a child; the time in which persons are children; the condition or time from infancy to puberty.	Middle English childhod, from Old English cildhad.
childing		Bearing Children; (Fig.) productive; fruitful.	
childish		Peurile; trifling; weak.	
childishly		In the manner of a child; in a trifling way; in a weak or foolish manner.	
childishness		The state or quality of being childish; simplicity; harmlessness; weakness of intellect.	
childlessness		The state of being childless.	
childlike		Resembling a child, or that which belongs to children; becoming a child; meek; submissive; dutiful.	
childly		Having tthe character of a child; belonging, or appropriate, to a child.	
childness	Obsolete	The manner characteristic of a child.	
children		pl. of Child — a son or a daughter; a male or female descendant, in the first degree; the immediate progeny of human parents; -- in law, legitimate offspring.	Middle English children.
childship		The state or relation of being a child.	
chilean		Of or pertaining to Chile.	
chili		A kind of red pepper. See Capsicum	
chiliad		A thousand; the aggregate of a thousand things; especially, a period of a thousand years.	
chiliagon		A plane figure of a thousand angles and sides.	
chiliahedron		A figure bounded by a thousand plane surfaces	
chilian		Of or pertaining to Chili. -- n.	
chiliarch		The commander or chief of a thousand men.	
chiliarchy		A body consisting of a thousand men.	
chiliasm		The doctrine of the personal reign of Christ on earth during the millennium.	Greek χιλιασμός.
chiliast		One who believes in the second coming of Christ to reign on earth a thousand years; a milllenarian.	
chiliastic		Millenarian.	
chill		A moderate but disagreeable degree of cold; a disagreeable sensation of coolness, accompanied with shivering.	Old English cele.
chilled		Hardened on the surface or edge by chilling; as, chilled iron; a chilled wheel.	
chilli		See Chili — a kind of red pepper. See Capsicum	Nahuatl languages chilli.
chilliness		A state or sensation of being chilly; a disagreeable sensation of coldness.	
chilling		Making chilly or cold; depressing; discouraging; cold; distant; as, a chilling breeze; a chilling manner. -- Chill"ing"ly, adv.	
chillness		Coolness; coldness; a chill.	
chilly		Moderately cold; cold and raw or damp so as to cause shivering; causing or feeling a disagreeable sensation of cold, or a shivering.	
chilognath		A myriapod of the order Chilognatha.	
chilognatha		One of the two principal orders of myriapods.	
chiloma		The tumid upper lip of certain mammals, as of a camel.	
chilopod		A myriapod of the order Chilopoda.	Greek χεῖλος.
chilopoda		One of the orders of myriapods, including the centipeds.	
chilostoma		An extensive suborder of marine Bryozoa, mostly with calcareous shells.	
chilostomata		An extensive suborder of marine Bryozoa, mostly with calcareous shells.	
chilostomatous		Of or pertaining to the Chilostoma.	
chimaera		A cartilaginous fish of several species, belonging to the order Holocephali.	
chimaeroid		Related to, or like, the chimæra.	
chimango		A south American carrion buzzard (Milvago chimango). See Caracara.	
chimb	Obsolete	The edge of a cask, etc; a chine. See Chine, n., 3.	
chime		The harmonious sound of bells, or of musical instruments.	Latin cymbalum, from Greek κύμβαλον.
chimer		One who chimes.	
chimera		(Myth.) A monster represented as vomiting flames, and as having the head of a lion, the body of a goat, and the tail of a dragon.	Greek χίμαιρα.
chimere		The upper robe worn by a bishop, to which lawn sleeves are usually attached.	
chimeric		Chimerical.	
chimerical		Merely imaginary; fanciful; fantastic; wildly or vainly conceived; having, or capable of having, no existence except in thought; as, chimerical projects.	
chimerically		Wildy; vainly; fancifully.	
chiminage	Obsolete	A toll for passage through a forest.	Old French cheminage.
chimney		That part of a building which contains the smoke flues; esp. an upright tube or flue of brick or stone, in most cases extending through or above the roof of the building.	Old French cheminee, from Latin caminus, from Greek κάμινος.
chimney-breast		The horizontal projection of a chimney from the wall in which it is built; -- commonly applied to its projection in the inside of a building only.	
chimney-piece		A decorative construction around the opning of a fireplace.	
chimpanzee		An african ape (Anthropithecus troglodytes or Troglodytes niger) which approaches more nearly to man, in most respects, than any other ape.	
chin		The lower extremity of the face below the mouth; the point of the under jaw.	Middle English chin, from Old English cine.
china		China ware, which is the modern popular term for porcelain. See Porcelain.	
chinaldine		See Quinaldine — a colorless liquid of a slightly pungent odor, C9H6N.CH3, first obtained as a condensation product of aldehyde and aniline, and regarded as a derivative of quinoline…	
chinaman		A native of China; a Chinese.	
chincapin		See Chinquapin — a branching, nut-bearing tree or shrub (Castanea pumila) of North America, from six to twenty feet high, allied to the chestnut.	
chinch		(Zoöl.) The bedbug (Cimex lectularius).	
chincha		A south American rodent of the genus Lagotis.	
chinche	Obsolete	Parsimonious; niggardly.	
chincherie	Obsolete	Penuriousness.	
chinchilla		(Zoöl.) A small rodent (Chinchilla lanigera), of the size of a large squirrel, remarkable for its fine fur, which is very soft and of a pearly gray color.	
chinchona		See Cinchona — (Bot.) A genus of trees growing naturally on the Andes in Peru and adjacent countries, but now cultivated in the East Indies, producing a medicinal bark of great value.	
chincona		See Cinchona — (Bot.) A genus of trees growing naturally on the Andes in Peru and adjacent countries, but now cultivated in the East Indies, producing a medicinal bark of great value.	
chine	English dialect	A chink or cleft; a narrow and deep ravine; as, Shanklin Chine in the Isle of Wight, a quarter of a mile long and 230 feet deep.	Middle English chyne, from Middle French eschine.
chined	Obsolete	Broken in the back.	
chinese		Of or pertaining to China; peculiar to China.	
chink		A small cleft, rent, or fissure, of greater length than breadth; a gap or crack; as, the chinks of wall.	
chinky		Full of chinks or fissures; gaping; opening in narrow clefts.	
chinned		Having a chin; -- used chiefly in compounds; as, short-chinned.	
chinoidine		See Quinodine.	
chinoiserie		Chinese conduct, art, decoration, or the like; also, a specimen of Chinese manners, art, decoration, etc.	French chinoiserie.
chinoline		See Quinoline — a nitrogenous base, C9H7N obtained as a pungent colorless liquid by the distillation of alkaloids, bones, coal tar, etc. It the nucleus of many organic bodies…	
chinone		See Quinone — a crystalline substance, C6H4O2 (called also benzoketone), first obtained by the oxidation of quinic acid and regarded as a double ketone; also, by extension…	
chinook		(Ethnol.) One of a tribe of North American Indians now living in the state of Washington, noted for the custom of flattening their skulls.	
chinquapin		A branching, nut-bearing tree or shrub (Castanea pumila) of North America, from six to twenty feet high, allied to the chestnut.	
chinse		To thrust oakum into (seams or chinks) with a chisel, the point of a knife, or a chinsing iron; to calk slightly.	
chintz		Cotton cloth, printed with flowers and other devices, in a number of different colors, and often glazed.	Hindi छींट.
chioppine		Same as Chopine, n.	
chip		To cut small pieces from; to diminsh or reduce to shape, by cutting away a little at a time; to hew.	Middle English chip.
chipmunk		A squirrel-like animal of the genus Tamias, sometimes called the striped squirrel, chipping squirrel, ground squirrel, hackee.	
chippendale		Designating furniture designed, or like that designed, by Thomas Chippendale, an English cabinetmaker of the 18th century.	
chipper		To chirp or chirrup.	
chippeways		A tribe of Indians formerly inhabiting the northern and weastern shores of Lake Superior; -- called also Objibways.	
chipping		A chip; a piece separated by a cutting or graving instrument; a fragment.	
chippy		Abounding in, or resembling, chips; dry and tasteless.	
chips		A ship's carpenter.	
chiragra		Gout in the hand.	
chiragrical		Having the gout in the hand, or subject to that disease.	
chiretta		A plant (Agathotes Chirayta) found in Northern India, having medicinal properties to the gentian, and esteemed as a tonic and febrifuge.	
chirk	Obsolete	To shriek; to gnash; to utter harsh or shrill cries.	
chirm	Obsolete	To chirp or to make a mournful cry, as a bird.	
chirognomy		The art of judging character by the shape and apperance of the hand.	
chirograph		(a) A writing which, reguiring a counterpart, was engrossed twice on the same piece of parchment, with a space between, in which was written the word chirographum, through which the parchment was cut…	
chirographer		One who practice the art or business of writing or engrossing.	
chirographic		Of or pertaining to chirography.	
chirographical		Of or pertaining to chirography.	
chirographist		One who tells fortunes by examining the hand.	
chirography		The art of writing or engrossing; handwriting; as, skilled in chirography.	
chirogymnast		A mechanocal contrivance for exercesing the fingers of a pianist.	
chirological		Relating to chirology.	
chirologist		One who communicates thoughts by signs made with the hands and fingers.	
chirology		The art or practice of using the manual alphabet or of communicating thoughts by sings made by the hands and fingers; a substitute for spoken or written language in intercourse with the deaf and dumb.	
chiromancer		One who practices chiromancy.	
chiromancy		The art or practice of foretelling events, or of telling the fortunes or the disposition of persons by inspecting the hand; palmistry.	
chiromanist		A chiromancer.	
chiromantic		Of or pertaining to chiromancy.	
chiromantical		Of or pertaining to chiromancy.	
chiromantist		A chiromancer.	
chiromonic		Relating to chironomy.	
chironomy	Obsolete	The art of moving the hands in oratory or in pantomime; gesture	
chiroplast		An instrument to guid the hands and fingers of pupils in playing on the piano, etc.	
chiropodist		One who treats diseases of the hands and feet; especially, one who removes corns and bunions.	
chiropody		The art of treating diseases of the hands and feet.	
chirosophist		A fortune teller.	
chirp		To make a shop, sharp, cheerful, as of small birds or crickets.	
chirper		One who chirps, or is cheerful.	
chirping		Cheering; enlivening.	
chirpingly		In a chirping manner.	
chirre	Obsolete	To coo, as a pigeon.	
chirrup		To quicken or animate by chirping; to cherup.	
chirrupy		Cheerful; joyous; chatty.	
chirurgeon	Obsolete	A surgeon.	
chirurgeonly	Obsolete	Surgically.	
chirurgery	Obsolete	Surgery.	Old French cirurgerie.
chirurgic	Obsolete	Surgical	
chirurgical	Obsolete	Surgical	
chisel		A tool with a cutting edge on one end of a metal blade, used in dressing, shaping, or working in timber, stone, metal, etc.; -- usually driven by a mallet or hammer.	Old French cisel.
chisleu		The ninth month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, answering to a part of November with a part of December.	
chisley		Having a large admixture of small pebbles or gravel; -- said of a soil.	
chit		The embryo or the growing bud of a plant; a shoot; a sprout; as, the chits of Indian corn or of potatoes.	
chitchat		Familiar or trifling talk; prattle.	
chitin		A white amorphous horny substance forming the harder part of the outer integument of insects, crustacea, and various other invertebrates; entomolin.	French chitine, from Latin chiton.
chitinization		The process of becoming chitinous.	
chitinous		Having the nature of chitin; consisting of, or containing, chitin.	
chiton		An under garment among the ancient Greeks, nearly representing the modern shirt.	Latin chiton.
chitter	Scots	To shiver or chatter with cold.	
chitterling	Obsolete	The frill to the breast of a shirt, which when ironed out resembled the small entrails.	
chitterlings		The smaller intestines of swine, etc., fried for food.	
chittra		The axis deer of India.	
chitty	Obsolete	Childish; like a babe.	
chivachie	Obsolete	A cavalry raid; hence, a military expedition.	Old French chevauchie.
chivalric		Relating to chivalry; knightly; chivalrous.	
chivalrous		Pertaining to chivalry or knight-errantry; warlike; heroic; gallant; high-spirited; high-minded; magnanimous.	
chivalrously		In a chivalrous manner; gallantly; magnanimously.	
chivalry		A body or order of cavaliers or knights serving on horseback; illustrious warriors, collectively; cavalry.	Middle English chivalrie, from Old French chevalerie.
chivarras		Leggings.	
chivarros		Leggings.	
chive	Obsolete	A filament of a stamen.	
chivy	Slang	To goad, drive, hunt, throw, or pitch.	
chlamydate		Having a mantle; -- applied to certain gastropods.	
chlamyphore		A small South American edentate (Chlamyphorus truncatus, and C. retusus) allied to the armadillo.	
chlamys		A loose and flowing outer garment, worn by the ancient Greeks; a kind of cloak.	Greek χλαμύς.
chloasma		A cutaneous affection characterized by yellow or yellowish brown pigmented spots.	
chloral		(Chem.) A colorless oily liquid, CCl3.CHO, of a pungent odor and harsh taste, obtained by the action of chlorine upon ordinary or ethyl alcohol.	
chloralamide		A compound of chloral and formic amide used to produce sleep.	
chloralism		A morbid condition of the system resulting from excessive use of chloral.	
chloralum		An impure aqueous solution of chloride of aluminium, used as an antiseptic and disinfectant.	
chloranil		A yellow crystalline substance, C6Cl4.O2, regarded as a derivative of quinone, obtained by the action of chlorine on certain benzene derivatives, as aniline.	
chlorate		A salt of chloric acid; as, chlorate of potassium.	
chloraurate		See Aurochloride — the trichloride of gold combination with the chloride of another metal, forming a double chloride; -- called also chloraurate.	
chlorhydric		Same as Hydrochloric.	
chlorhydrin		One of a class of compounds formed from certain polybasic alcohols (and especially glycerin) by the substitution of chlorine for one or more hydroxyl groups.	
chloric		Pertaining to, or obtained from, chlorine; -- said of those compounds of chlorine in which this element has a valence of five, or the next to its highest; as, chloric acid, HClO3.	
chloridate		To treat or prepare with a chloride, as a plate with chloride of silver, for the purposes of photography.	
chloride		A binary compound of chlorine with another element or radical; as, chloride of sodium (common salt).	
chloridic		Of or pertaining to a chloride; containing a chloride.	
chloridize		See Chloridate — to treat or prepare with a chloride, as a plate with chloride of silver, for the purposes of photography.	
chlorimetry		See Chlorometry — the process of testing the bleaching power of any combination of chlorine.	
chlorinate		To treat, or cause to combine, with chlorine.	
chlorination		The act or process of subjecting anything to the action of chlorine; especially, a process for the extraction of gold by exposure of the auriferous material to chlorine gas.	
chlorine		One of the elementary substances, commonly isolated as a greenish yellow gas, two and one half times as heavy as air, of an intensely disagreeable suffocating odor, and exceedingly poisonous.	Greek χλωρός.
chloriodic		Compounded of chlorine and iodine; containing chlorine and iodine.	
chloriodine		A compound of chlorine and iodine.	
chlorite		The name of a group of minerals, usually of a green color and micaceous to granular in structure.	Greek χλωρῖτις.
chloritic		Pertaining to, or containing, chlorite; as, chloritic sand.	
chlormethane		A colorless gas, CH3Cl, of a sweet odor, easily condensed to a liquid; -- called also methyl chloride.	
chloro-		A prefix denoting that chlorine is an ingredient in the substance named.	Greek χλωρός.
chlorocruorin		A green substance, supposed to be the cause of the green color of the blood in some species of worms.	
chlorodyne		A patent anodyne medicine, containing opium, chloroform, Indian hemp, etc.	
chloroform		A colorless volatile liquid, CHCl3, having an ethereal odor and a sweetish taste, formed by treating alcohol with chlorine and an alkali.	French chloroforme.
chloroleucite		Same as Chloroplastid.	
chlorometer		An instrument to test the decoloring or bleaching power of chloride of lime.	
chlorometry		The process of testing the bleaching power of any combination of chlorine.	
chloropal		A massive mineral, greenish in color, and opal-like in appearance.	
chloropeptic		Of or pertaining to an acid more generally called pepsin- hydrochloric acid.	
chlorophane		(Min.) A variety of fluor spar, which, when heated, gives a beautiful emerald green light.	
chlorophyll		Literally, leaf green; a green granular matter formed in the cells of the leaves (and other parts exposed to light) of plants, to which they owe their green color…	
chloroplast		A plastid containing chlorophyll, developed only in cells exposed to the light.	
chloroplastid		A granule of chlorophyll; -- also called chloroleucite.	
chloroplatinic		See Platinichloric — of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid consisting of platinic chloride and hydrochloric acid, and obtained as a brownish red crystalline substance, called platinichloric…	
chlorosis		(Med.) The green sickness; an anæmic disease of young women, characterized by a greenish or grayish yellow hue of the skin, weakness, palpitation, etc.	
chlorotic		Pertaining to, or affected by, chlorosis.	
chlorous		Of, pertaining to, or derived from, chlorine; -- said of those compounds of chlorine in which this element has a valence of three, the next lower than in chloric compounds; as, chlorous acid, HClO2.	
chlorpicrin		A heavy, colorless liquid, CCl3.NO2, of a strong pungent odor, obtained by subjecting picric acid to the action of chlorine.	
chloruret	Obsolete	A chloride.	
choak		See Choke — to render unable to breathe by filling, pressing upon, or squeezing the windpipe; to stifle; to suffocate; to strangle.	
choanoid		Funnel-shaped; -- applied particularly to a hollow muscle attached to the ball of the eye in many reptiles and mammals.	
chocard		The chough.	
chock		A wedge, or block made to fit in any space which it is desired to fill, esp. something to steady a cask or other body, or prevent it from moving, by fitting into the space around or beneath it.	Anglo-Norman choque.
chock-full		Quite full; choke-full.	
chockablock		Hoisted as high as the tackle will admit; brought close together, as the two blocks of a tackle in hoisting.	
chocolate		A paste or cake composed of the roasted seeds of the Theobroma Cacao ground and mixed with other ingredients, usually sugar, and cinnamon or vanilla.	Spanish chocolate.
choctaws		; sing. Choctaw. (Ethnol.) A tribe of North American Indians (Southern Appalachian), in early times noted for their pursuit of agriculture, and for living at peace with the white settlers.	
chode		the old imp. of chide. See Chide.	
chogset		See Cunner — (a) A small edible fish of the Atlantic coast (Ctenolabrus adspersus); -- called also chogset, burgall, blue perch, and bait stealer.	
choice		Act of choosing; the voluntary act of selecting or separating from two or more things that which is preferred; the determination of the mind in preferring one thing to another; election.	Middle English chois, from Old French chois.
choiceful	Obsolete	Making choices; fickle.	
choicely		With care in choosing; with nice regard to preference.	
choiceness		The quality of being of particular value or worth; nicely; excellence.	
choir		A band or organized company of singers, especially in church service.	
choke		To render unable to breathe by filling, pressing upon, or squeezing the windpipe; to stifle; to suffocate; to strangle.	Middle English choken.
choke-full		Full to the brim; quite full; chock-full.	
choke-strap		A strap leading from the bellyband to the lower part of the collar, to keep the collar in place.	
chokeberry		The small apple-shaped or pear-shaped fruit of an American shrub (Pyrus arbutifolia) growing in damp thickets; also, the shrub.	
chokebore		In a shotgun, a bore which is tapered to a slightly smaller diameter at a short distance (usually 2½ to 3 inches) to the rear of the muzzle, in order to prevent the rapid dispersion of the shot.	
chokecherry		The astringent fruit of a species of wild cherry (Prunus Virginiana); also, the bush or tree which bears such fruit.	
chokedar		A watchman; an officer of customs or police.	
choker		One who, or that which, chokes.	
chokey		Tending to choke or suffocate, or having power to suffocate.	
choking		That chokes; producing the feeling of strangulation.	
choky		Tending to choke or suffocate, or having power to suffocate.	
cholaemaa		A disease characterized by severe nervous symptoms, dependent upon the presence of the constituents of the bile in the blood.	
cholagogue		Promoting the discharge of bile from the system. -- n.	
cholate		A salt of cholic acid; as, sodium cholate.	
cholecystis		The gall bladder.	
cholecystotomy		The operation of making an opening in the gall bladder, as for the removal of a gallstone.	
choledology		A treatise on the bile and bilary organs.	
choleic		Pertaining to, or obtained from, bile; as, choleic acid.	
choler		Irritation of the passions; anger; wrath.	
cholera		One of several diseases affecting the digestive and intestinal tract and more or less dangerous to life, esp. the one commonly called Asiatic cholera.	Latin cholera, from Greek χολέρα.
choleraic		Relating to, or resulting from, or resembling, cholera.	
choleric		Abounding with, or producing choler, or bile.	Latin cholera, from Greek χολέρα.
cholericly		In a choleric manner; angrily.	
choleriform		Resembling cholera.	
cholerine		(a) The precursory symptoms of cholera. (b) The first stage of epidemic cholera.	
choleroid		Choleriform.	
cholesteric		Pertaining to cholesterin, or obtained from it; as, cholesteric acid.	
cholesterin		A white, fatty, crystalline substance, tasteless and odorless, found in animal and plant products and tissue, and especially in nerve tissue, in the bile, and in gallstones.	
choliamb		A verse having an iambus in the fifth place, and a spondee in the sixth or last.	
choliambic		A verse having an iambus in the fifth place, and a spondee in the sixth or last.	
cholic		Pertaining to, or obtained from, the bile.	
choline		See Neurine — a poisonous organic base (a ptomaine) formed in the decomposition of protagon with boiling baryta water, and in the putrefraction of proteid matter.	
cholinic		Pertaining to, or obtained from, the bile.	
cholochrome		See Bilirubin — a reddish yellow pigment present in human bile, and in that from carnivorous and herbivorous animals; the normal biliary pigment.	
cholophaein		See Bilirubin — a reddish yellow pigment present in human bile, and in that from carnivorous and herbivorous animals; the normal biliary pigment.	
choltry		A Hindoo caravansary.	
chomage		Stoppage; cessation (of labor).	
chomp	English dialect	To chew loudly and greedily; to champ.	
chondrification		Formation of, or conversion into, cartilage.	
chondrify		To convert, or be converted, into cartilage.	
chondrigen		The chemical basis of cartilage, converted by long boiling in water into a gelatinous body called chondrin.	
chondrigenous		Affording chondrin.	
chondrin		A colorless, amorphous, nitrogenous substance, tasteless and odorless, formed from cartilaginous tissue by long-continued action of boiling water.	
chondrite		A meteoric stone characterized by the presence of chondrules.	
chondritic		Granular; pertaining to, or having the granular structure characteristic of, the class of meteorites called chondrites.	
chondritis		An inflammation of cartilage.	
chondro-		A combining form meaning a grain, granular, granular cartilage, cartilaginous; as, the chondrocranium, the cartilaginous skull of the lower vertebrates and of embryos.	
chondrodite		A fluosilicate of magnesia and iron, yellow to red in color, often occurring in granular form in a crystalline limestone.	
chondroganoidea		An order of ganoid fishes, including the sturgeons; -- so called on account of their cartilaginous skeleton.	
chondrogen		Same as Chondrigen.	
chondrogenesis		The development of cartilage.	
chondroid		Resembling cartilage.	
chondrology		The science which treats of cartilages.	
chondroma		A cartilaginous tumor or growth.	
chondrometer		A steelyard for weighting grain.	
chondropterygian		Having a cartilaginous skeleton. -- n.	
chondropterygii		A group of fishes, characterized by cartilaginous fins and skeleton.	
chondrostei		An order of fishes, including the sturgeons; -- so named because the skeleton is cartilaginous.	
chondrotomy		The dissection of cartilages.	
chondrule		A peculiar rounded granule of some mineral, usually enstatite or chrysolite, found imdedded more or less aboundantly in the mass of many meteoric stones, which are hence called chondrites.	
choose		To make choice of; to select; to take by way of preference from two or more objects offered; to elect; as, to choose the least of two evils.	Middle English chosen.
chooser		One who chooses; one who has the power or right of choosing; an elector.	
chop		To cut by striking repeatedly with a sharp instrument; to cut into pieces; to mince; -- often with up.	Middle English choppen.
chop-logic		One who bandies words or is very argunentative.	
chopboat		A licensed lighter employed in the transportation of goods to and from vessels.	
chopchurch		An exchanger or an exchange of benefices.	
chopfallen		Having the lower chop or jaw depressed; hence, crestfallen; dejected; dispirited;downcast.	
chophouse		A house where chops, etc., are sold; an eating house.	
chopin		A liquid measure formerly used in France and Great Britain, varying from half a pint to a wine quart.	French chopine.
chopine		A clog, or patten, having a very thick sole, or in some cases raised upon a stilt to a height of a foot or more.	
chopness		A kind of spade.	
chopper		One who, or that which, chops.	
chopping	Obsolete	Stout or plump; large.	
choppy		Etym: Rough, with short, tumultuous waves; as, a choppy sea.	
chops		The jaws; also, the fleshy parts about the mouth.	
chopstick		One of two small sticks of wood, ivory, etc., used by the Chinese and Japanese to convey food to the mouth.	
choragic		Of or pertaining to a choragus.	
choragus		A chorus leader; esp. one who provided at his own expense and under his own supervision one of the choruses for the musical contents at Athens.	Latin choragus.
choral		Of or pertaining to a choir or chorus; singing, sung, or adapted to be sung, in chorus or harmony.	
choralist		A singer or composer of chorals.	
chorally		In the manner of a chorus; adapted to be sung by a choir; in harmony.	
chord		The string of a musical instrument.	Latin chorda, from Greek χορδή.
chordal		Of or pertaining to a chord.	
chordata		A comprehensive division of animals including all Vertebrata together with the Tunicata, or all those having a dorsal nervous cord.	
chordee		A painful erection of the penis, usually with downward curvature, occurring in gonorrhea.	
chore	Obsolete	A small job; in the pl., the regular or daily light work of a household or farm, either within or without doors.	Middle English cherre, from Old English cierr.
chorea		St. Vitus's dance; a disease attended with convulsive twitchings and other involuntary movements of the muscles or limbs.	Greek χορεία.
choree		See Choreus. (a) a trochee. (b) A tribrach.	French chorée.
choregraphic		Pertaining to choregraphy.	
choregraphical		Pertaining to choregraphy.	
choregraphy		The art of representing dancing by signs, as music is represented by notes.	
choreic		Of the nature of, or pertaining to, chorea; convulsive.	
chorepiscopal		Pertaining to a chorepiscopus or his change or authority.	
chorepiscopus		A or suffragan bishop, appointed in the ancient church by a diocesan bishop to exercise episcopal jurisdiction in a rural district.	
choreus		(a) a trochee. (b) A tribrach.	
choriamb		Same as Choriambus.	
choriambic		Pertaining to a choriamb. -- n.	Latin choriambicus.
choriambus		A foot consisting of four syllables, of which the first and last are long, and the other short (- ~ ~ -); that is, a choreus, or trochee, and an iambus united.	Latin choriambus.
choric		Of or pertaining to a chorus.	
chorion		(Anat.) (a) The outer membrane which invests the fetus in the womb; also, the similar membrane investing many ova at certain stages of development.	Latin chorion, from Greek χοριον.
chorisis		The separation of a leaf or floral organ into two more parts.	Greek χώρισις.
chorist		A singer in a choir; a chorister.	French choriste.
chorister		One who leads a choir in church music.	
choristic		Choric; choral.	
chorograph		An instrument for constructing triangles in marine surveying, etc.	
chorographer		One who describes or makes a map of a district or region.	Greek χωρογράφος.
chorographical		Pertaining to chorography. -- Cho`ro*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.	
chorography		the mapping or description of a region or district.	
choroid		resembling the chorion; as, the choroid plexuses of the ventricles of the brain, and the choroid coat of the eyeball. -- n.	
choroidal		Pertaining to the choroid coat.	
chorology		The science which treats of the laws of distribution of living organisms over the earth's surface as to latitude, altitude, locality, etc. Its distribution or chorology.	
chorometry		The art of surveying a region or district.	
chortle		A word coined by Lewis Carroll (Charles L.	
chorus		(Antiq.) A band of singers and dancers.	Latin chorus, from Greek χορός.
chose		A thing; personal property.	
chosen		Selected from a number; picked out; choice.	
chou		A kind of light pastry, usually in the form of a small round cake, and with a filling, as of jelly or cream.	
chouan		One of the royalist insurgents in western France (Brittany, etc.), during and after the French revolution.	
chough		A bird of the Crow family (Fregilus graculus) of Europe.	Middle English choȝe, from Old English ceo.
chouicha		The salmon of the Columbia River or California. See Quinnat.	
chouka		The Indian four-horned antelope; the chikara.	
choule		See Jowl — the cheek; the jaw.	
choultry		See Choltry — a hindoo caravansary.	
chouse	Colloquial	To cheat, trick, defraud; -- followed by of, or out of; as, to chouse one out of his money.	
chout		An assessment equal to a fourth part of the revenue.	
chow		A prefecture or district of the second rank in China, or the chief city of such a district; -- often part of the name of a city, as in Foochow.	
chowchow		Consisting of several kinds mingled together; mixed; as, chowchow sweetmeats (preserved fruits put together).	
chowder		(Cookery) A dish made of fresh fish or clams, biscuit, onions, etc., stewed together.	
chowry		A whisk to keep off files, used in the East Indies.	
chowter	Obsolete	To grumble or mutter like a froward child.	
chrematistics		The science of wealth; the science, or a branch of the science, of political economy.	
chreotechnics		The science of the useful arts, esp. agriculture, manufactures, and commerce.	
chrestomathic		Teaching what is useful.	
chrestomathy		A selection of passages, with notes, etc., to be used in acquiring a language; as, a Hebrew chrestomathy.	Greek χρηστομάθεια.
chrism		Olive oil mixed with balm and spices, consecrated by the bishop on Maundy Thursday, and used in the administration of baptism, confirmation, ordination, etc.	Latin crisma.
chrismal		Of or pertaining to or used in chrism.	Latin chrismalis.
chrismation		The act of applying the chrism, or consecrated oil.	
chrismatory		A cruet or vessel in which chrism is kept.	
chrisom	Obsolete	A white cloth, anointed with chrism, or a white mantle thrown over a child when baptized or christened.	
christ		The Anointed; an appellation given to Jesus, the Savior.	
christcross		The mark of the cross, as cut, painted, written, or stamped on certain objects, -- sometimes as the sign of 12 o'clock on a dial.	
christcross-row		The alphabet; -- formerly so called, either from the cross usually set before it, or from a superstitious custom, sometimes practiced, of writing it in the form of a cross, by way of a charm.	
christen		To baptize and give a Christian name to.	
christendom		That portion of the world in which Christianity prevails, or which is governed under Christian institutions, in distinction from heathen or Mohammedan lands.	
christian		One who believes, or professes or is assumed to believe, in Jesus Christ, and the truth as taught by Him; especially, one whose inward and outward life is conformed to the doctrines of Christ.	
christianism	Obsolete	The Christian religion.	
christianite		(a) Same as Anorthite. (b) See Phillipsite.	
christianity		The religion of Christians; the system of doctrines and precepts taught by Christ.	
christianization		The act or process of converting or being converted to a true Christianity.	
christianize		To make Christian; to convert to Christianity; as, to Christianize pagans.	
christianlike		Becoming to a Christian.	
christianly		In a manner becoming the principles of the Christian religion.	
christianness	Obsolete	Consonance with the doctrines of Christianity.	
christless		Without faith in Christ; unchristian.	
christlike		Resembling Christ in character, actions, etc. -- Christ"like`ness, n.	
christly		Christlike.	
christmas		An annual church festival (December 25) and in some States a legal holiday, in memory of the birth of Christ, often celebrated by a particular church service, and also by special gifts, greetings, and hospitality.	
christmastide		The season of Christmas.	
christocentric		Making Christ the center, about whom all things are grouped, as in religion or history; tending toward Christ, as the central object of thought or emotion.	
christology		A treatise on Christ; that department of theology which treats of the personality, attributes, or life of Christ.	
christom	Obsolete	See Chrisom — a white cloth, anointed with chrism, or a white mantle thrown over a child when baptized or christened.	
christophany		An appearance of Christ, as to his disciples after the crucifixion.	
chromascope		An instrument for showing the optical effects of color.	
chromate		A salt of chromic acid.	
chromatic		(Mus.) Proceeding by the smaller intervals (half steps or semitones) of the scale, instead of the regular intervals of the diatonic scale.	Greek χρῶμα.
chromatical	Obsolete	Chromatic.	
chromatically		In a chromatic manner.	
chromatics		The science of colors; that part of optics which treats of the properties of colors.	
chromatin		Tissue which is capable of being stained by dyes.	German Chromatin.
chromatism		(Optics) The state of being colored, as in the case of images formed by a lens.	
chromatogenous		Producing color.	
chromatography		A treatise on colors	
chromatology		A treatise on colors.	
chromatophore		(Zoöl.) A contractile cell or vesicle containing liquid pigment and capable of changing its form or size, thus causing changes of color in the translucent skin of such animals as possess them.	
chromatoscope		A reflecting telescope, part of which is made to rotate eccentrically, so as to produce a ringlike image of a star, instead of a point; -- used in studying the scintillation of the stars.	
chromatosphere		A chromosphere.	
chromatrope		(Physics) An instrument for exhibiting certain chromatic effects of light (depending upon the persistence of vision and mixture of colors) by means of rapidly rotating disks variously colored.	
chromatype		(Photog.) A colored photographic picture taken upon paper made sensitive with potassium bichromate or some other salt of chromium.	
chrome		Same as Chromium.	
chromic		Pertaining to, or obtained from, chromium; -- said of the compounds of chromium in which it has its higher valence.	
chromid		One of the Chromidæ, a family of fresh-water fishes abundant in the tropical parts of America and Africa.	Greek χρόμις.
chromidrosis		Secretion of abnormally colored perspiration.	
chromism		Same as Chromatism.	
chromite		(Min.) A black submetallic mineral consisting of oxide of chromium and iron; -- called also chromic iron.	
chromium		A comparatively rare element occurring most abundantly in the mineral chromite.	
chromo		A chromolithograph.	
chromoblast		An embryonic cell which develops into a pigment cell.	
chromogen		(Biol.) Vegetable coloring matter other than green; chromule.	
chromogenic		Containing, or capable of forming, chromogen; as, chromogenic bacteria.	
chromograph		An apparatus by which a number of copies of written matter, maps, plans, etc., can be made; -- called also hectograph.	
chromoleucite		A chromoplastid.	
chromolithograph		A picture printed in tints and colors by repeated impressions from a series of stones prepared by the lithographic process.	
chromolithographer		One who is engaged in chromolithography.	
chromolithographic		Pertaining to, or made by, chromolithography.	
chromolithography		Lithography adapted to printing in inks of various colors.	
chromophane		A general name for the several coloring matters, red, green, yellow, etc., present in the inner segments in the cones of the retina, held in solution by fats, and slowly decolorized by light…	
chromophore		Any chemical group or residue (as NO	
chromophotograph		A picture made by any of the processes for reproducing photographs in colors. --Chro`mo*pho`to*graph"ic (#), a.	
chromophotography		The art of producing photographs in colors.	
chromophotolithograph		A photolithograph printed in colors.	
chromoplastid		A protoplasmic granule of some other color than green; -- also called chromoleucite.	
chromosome		One of the minute bodies into which the chromatin of the nucleus is resolved during mitotic cell division; the idant of Weismann.	
chromosphere		An atmosphere of rare matter, composed principally of incandescent hydrogen gas, surrounding the sun and enveloping the photosphere.	
chromospheric		Of or pertaining to the chromosphere.	
chromotype		A sheet printed in colors by any process, as a chromolithograph. See Chromolithograph.	
chromous		Of, pertaining to, or derived from, chromium, when this element has a valence lower than that in chromic compounds.	
chromule		A general name for coloring matter of plants other than chlorophyll, especially that of petals.	
chronic		Relating to time; according to time.	
chronical		Chronic.	
chronicle		An historical register or account of facts or events disposed in the order of time.	Latin chronica, from Greek χρονικός.
chronicler		A writer of a chronicle; a recorder of events in the order of time; an historian.	
chronique		A chronicle.	
chronogram		An inscription in which certain numeral letters, made to appear specially conspicuous, on being added together, express a particular date or epoch, as in the motto of a medal struck by Gustavus Adolphus in 1632: ChrIstVs DVX…	
chronogrammatic		Belonging to a chronogram, or containing one.	
chronogrammatical		Belonging to a chronogram, or containing one.	
chronogrammatist		A writer of chronograms.	
chronograph		An instrument for measuring or recording intervals of time, upon a revolving drum or strip of paper moved by clockwork.	Greek χρονογράφος.
chronographer		One who writes a chronography; a chronologer.	
chronographic		Of or pertaining to a chronograph.	
chronography	Obsolete	A description or record of past time; history.	
chronologer		Same as Chronologist.	
chronologic		Relating to chronology; containing an account of events in the order of time; according to the order of time; as, chronological tables.	
chronological		Relating to chronology; containing an account of events in the order of time; according to the order of time; as, chronological tables.	
chronologist		A person who investigates dates of events and transactions; one skilled in chronology.	
chronology		The science which treats of measuring time by regular divisions or periods, and which assigns to events or transactions their proper dates.	
chronometer		An instrument for measuring time; a timekeeper.	
chronometric		Pertaining to a chronometer; measured by a chronometer.	
chronometrical		Pertaining to a chronometer; measured by a chronometer.	
chronometry		The art of measuring time; the measuring of time by periods or divisions.	
chronopher		An instrument signaling the correct time to distant points by electricity.	
chronophotograph		One of a set of photographs of a moving object, taken for the purpose of recording and exhibiting successive phases of the motion. --Chron`o*pho*tog"ra*phy, n.	
chronoscope		An instrument for measuring minute intervals of time; used in determining the velocity of projectiles, the duration of short-lived luminous phenomena, etc.	
chrysalid		Pertaining to a chrysalis; resembling a chrysalis. See Chrysalis.	
chrysalis		The pupa state of certain insects, esp. of butterflies, from which the perfect insect emerges.	Greek χρυσαλλίς.
chrysaniline		A yellow substance obtained as a by-product in the manufacture of rosaniline.	
chrysanthemum		A genus of composite plants, mostly perennial, and of many species including the many varieties of garden chrysanthemums (annual and perennial), and also the feverfew and the oxeye daisy.	
chrysarobin		A bitter, yellow substance forming the essential constituent of Goa powder, and yielding chrysophanic acid proper; hence formerly called also chrysphanic acid.	
chrysaurin		An orange-colored dyestuff, of artificial production.	
chryselephantine		Composed of, or adorned with, gold and ivory.	Greek χρυσελεφάντινος.
chrysene		One of the higher aromatic hydrocarbons of coal tar, allied to napthalene and anthracene.	
chrysoberyl		A mineral, found in crystals, of a yellow to green or brown color, and consisting of aluminia and glucina.	Greek χρυσός, from Mycenaean Greek 𐀓𐀬𐀰.
chrysochlore		A South African mole of the genus Chrysochloris; the golden mole, the fur of which reflects brilliant metallic hues of green and gold.	
chrysocolla		A hydrous silicate of copper, occurring massive, of a blue or greenish blue color.	
chrysogen		A yellow crystalline substance extracted from crude anthracene.	
chrysography		A writing executed in letters of gold.	
chrysoidine		An artificial, yellow, crystalline dye, C6H5N2.C6H3(NH2)2.	
chrysolite		A mineral, composed of silica, magnesia, and iron, of a yellow to green color.	Old French crisolite, from Latin crisolitus.
chrysology		That branch of political economy which relates to the production of wealth.	
chrysopa		A genus of neuropterous insects. See Lacewing.	
chrysophane		A glucoside extracted from rhubarb as a bitter, yellow, crystalline powder, and yielding chrysophanic acid on decomposition.	
chrysophanic		Pertaining to, or derived from, or resembling, chrysophane.	
chrysoprase		An apple-green variety of chalcedony, colored by nickel.	
chrysoprasus		See Chrysoprase — an apple-green variety of chalcedony, colored by nickel.	
chrysosperm	Obsolete	The seed of gold; a means of creating gold.	
chrysotype		A photographic picture taken upon paper prepared by the use of a sensitive salt of iron and developed by the application of chloride of gold.	
chthonian		Designating, or pertaining to, gods or spirits of the underworld; esp., relating to the underworld gods of the Greeks, whose worship is widely considered as more primitive in form than that of the Olympian gods.	Greek χθόνιος.
chthonic		Pertaining to the earth; earthy; as, chthonic religions. chthonic character of the wife of Zeus.	Greek χθών.
chthonophagia		A disease characterized by an irresistible desire to eat earth, observed in some parts of the southern United States, the West Indies, etc.	
chthonophagy		A disease characterized by an irresistible desire to eat earth, observed in some parts of the southern United States, the West Indies, etc.	
chub		A species to fresh-water fish of the Cyprinidæ or Carp family.	
chub-faced		Having a plump, short face.	
chubbedness		The state of being chubby.	
chubby		Like a chub; plump, short, and thick.	
chuck		To make a noise resembling that of a hen when she calls her chickens; to cluck.	
chuckle	Obsolete	To call, as a hen her chickens; to cluck.	
chucklehead	Low	A person with a large head; a numskull; a dunce.	
chuckleheaded		Having a large head; thickheaded; dull; stupid.	
chud	Obsolete	To champ; to bite.	
chuet	Obsolete	Minced meat.	
chufa		A sedgelike plant (Cyperus esculentus) producing edible tubers, native about the Mediterranean, now cultivated in many regions; the earth almond.	
chuff	English dialect	A coarse or stupid fellow.	
chuffily		Clownishly; surlily.	
chuffiness		The quality of being chuffy.	
chuffy		Fat or puffed out in the cheeks.	
chulan		The fragrant flowers of the Chloranthus inconspicuus, used in China for perfuming tea.	
chum		A roommate, especially in a college or university; an old and intimate friend.	
chump		A short, thick, heavy piece of wood.	
chunam		Quicklime; also, plaster or mortar.	Tamil சுண்ணம், from Sanskrit चूर्ण.
chunk	Colloquial	A short, thick piece of anything.	
chunky		Short and thick.	
chupatty		A kind of griddlecake of unleavened bread, used among the natives of India.	
chuprassie		A messenger or servant wearing an official badge.	
chuprassy		A messenger or servant wearing an official badge.	
church		A building set apart for Christian worship.	Middle English chirche, from Old English cirice.
church-ale		A church or parish festival (as in commemoration of the dedication of a church), at which much ale was used.	
church-bench		A seat in the porch of a church.	
church-haw	Obsolete	Churchyard.	
churchdom		The institution, government, or authority of a church.	
churchgoer		One who attends church.	
churchgoing		Habitually attending church.	
churchism		Strict adherence to the forms or principles of some church organization; sectarianism.	
churchless		Without a church.	
churchlike		Befitting a church or a churchman; becoming to a clergyman.	
churchliness		Regard for the church.	
churchly		Pertaining to, or suitable for, the church; ecclesiastical.	
churchman		One was is attached to, or attends, church.	
churchmanly		Pertaining to, or becoming, a churchman.	
churchmanship		The state or quality of being a churchman; attachment to the church.	
churchship		State of being a church.	
churchwarden		One of the officers (usually two) in an Episcopal church, whose duties vary in different dioceses, but always include the provision of what is necessary for the communion service.	
churchwardenship		The office of a churchwarden.	
churchy	Colloquial	Relating to a church; unduly fond of church forms.	
churchyard		The ground adjoining a church, in which the dead are buried; a cemetery.	
churl		A rough, surly, ill-bred man; a boor.	Middle English churl.
churlish		Like a churl; rude; cross-grained; ungracious; surly; illiberal; niggardly.	
churlishly		In a churlish manner.	
churlishness		Rudeness of manners or temper; lack of kindness or courtesy.	
churly		Rude; churlish; violent.	
churme	Obsolete	Clamor, or confused noise; buzzing.	
churn		A vessel in which milk or cream is stirred, beaten, or otherwise agitated (as by a plunging or revolving dasher) in order to separete the oily globules from the other parts, and obtain butter.	Old English ċyrin.
churning		The act of one who churns.	
churr		A vibrant or whirring noise such as that made by some insects, as the cockchafer, or by some birds, as the nightjar, the partridge, etc. To make a churr, as a cockchafer.	
churrus		A powerfully narcotic and intoxicating gum resin which exudes from the flower heads, seeds, etc., of Indian hemp.	
churrworm		An insect that turns about nimbly; the mole cricket; -- called also fan cricket.	
chuse	Obsolete	See Choose — to make choice of; to select; to take by way of preference from two or more objects offered; to elect; as, to choose the least of two evils.	
chute		A framework, trough, or tube, upon or through which objects are made to slide from a higher to a lower level, or through which water passes to a wheel.	French chute.
chutnee		A warm or spicy condiment or pickle made in India, compounded of various vegetable substances, sweets, acids, etc.	
chutney		A warm or spicy condiment or pickle made in India, compounded of various vegetable substances, sweets, acids, etc.	
chylaceous		Possessed of the properties of chyle; consisting of chyle.	
chylaqueous		Consisting of chyle much diluted with water; -- said of a liquid which forms the circulating fluid of some inferior animals.	
chyle		A milky fluid containing the fatty matter of the food in a state of emulsion, or fine mechanical division; formed from chyme by the action of the intestinal juices.	
chylifaction		The act or process by which chyle is formed from food in animal bodies; chylification, -- a digestive process.	
chylifactive		Producing, or converting into, chyle; having the power to form chyle.	
chyliferous		(Physiol.) Transmitting or conveying chyle; as, chyliferous vessels.	
chylific		Chylifactive.	
chylification		The formation of chyle. See Chylifaction.	
chylificatory		Chylifactive.	
chylify		To make chyle of; to be converted into chyle.	
chylopoetic		Concerned in the formation of chyle; as, the chylopoetic organs.	
chylous		Consisting of, or similar to, chyle.	
chyluria		A morbid condition in which the urine contains chyle or fatty matter, giving it a milky appearance.	
chyme		The pulpy mass of semi-digested food in the small intestines just after its passage from the stomach.	Latin chymus, from Greek χυμός.
chymic		See Chemic, Chemist, Chemistry.	
chymiferous		Bearing or containing chyme.	
chymification		The conversion of food into chyme by the digestive action of gastric juice.	
chymify		To form into chyme.	
chymist		See Chemic, Chemist, Chemistry.	
chymistry		See Chemic, Chemist, Chemistry.	
chymous		Of or pertaining to chyme.	
chyometer		An instrument for measuring liquids.	
