ci-devant		Former; previous; of times gone by; as, a cidevant governor.	French ci-devant.
cibarious		Pertaining to food; edible.	Latin cibarius.
cibation		The act of taking food.	Latin cibatio.
cibol		A perennial alliaceous plant (Allium fistulosum), sometimes called Welsh onion.	French ciboule, from Occitan (post 1500 cebola.
ciborium		(Arch.) A canopy usually standing free and supported on four columns, covering the high altar, or, very rarely, a secondary altar.	Latin ciborium, from Greek κιβώριον.
cicada		Any species of the genus Cicada.	
cicala		A cicada. See Cicada.	
cicatrice		A cicatrix.	Latin cicatrix.
cicatricial		Relating to, or having the character of, a cicatrix.	
cicatricle		The germinating point in the embryo of a seed; the point in the yolk of an egg at which development begins.	
cicatrisive		Tending to promote the formation of a cicatrix; good for healing of a wound.	
cicatrix		The pellicle which forms over a wound or breach of continuity and completes the process of healing in the latter, and which subsequently contracts and becomes white, forming the scar.	
cicatrizant		A medicine or application that promotes the healing of a sore or wound, or the formation of a cicatrix.	
cicatrization		The process of forming a cicatrix, or the state of being cicatrized.	
cicatrize		To heal or induce the formation of a cicatrix in, as in wounded or ulcerated flesh.	
cicatrose		Full of scars.	
cicely		Any one of several umbelliferous plants, of the genera Myrrhis, Osmorrhiza, etc.	
cicero		Pica type; -- so called by French printers.	
cicerone		One who shows strangers the curiosities of a place; a guide.	Italian cicerone.
ciceronian		Resembling Cicero in style or action; eloquent.	
ciceronianism		Imitation of, or resemblance to, the style or action Cicero; a Ciceronian phrase or expression.	
cich-pea		The chick-pea.	
cichoraceous		Belonging to, or resembling, a suborder of composite plants of which the chicory (Cichorium) is the type.	
cicisbeism		The state or conduct of a cicisbeo.	
cicisbeo		A professed admirer of a married woman; a dangler about women.	Italian cicisbeo.
ciclatoun	Obsolete	A costly cloth, of uncertain material, used in the Middle Ages.	
cicurate	Obsolete	To tame.	
cicuration	Obsolete	The act of taming.	
cicuta		a genus of poisonous umbelliferous plants, of which the water hemlock or cowbane is best known.	Latin cicuta.
cicutoxin		The active principle of the water hemlock (Cicuta) extracted as a poisonous gummy substance.	
cid		Chief or commander; in Spanish literature, a title of Ruy Diaz, Count of Bivar, a champion of Christianity and of the old Spanish royalty, in the 11th century.	
cider		The expressed juice of apples.	
ciderist	Obsolete	A maker of cider.	
ciderkin		A kind of weak cider made by steeping the refuse pomace in water.	
cierge		A wax candle used in religous rites.	French cierge, from Latin cereus.
cigar		A small roll of tobacco, used for smoking.	Spanish cigarro.
cigarette		A little cigar; a little fine tobacco rolled in paper for smoking.	French cigarette.
cilia		(Biol.) Small, generally microscopic, vibrating appendages lining certain organs, as the air passages of the higher animals, and in the lower animals often covering also the whole or a part of the exterior.	
ciliary		(Anat.) Pertaining to the cilia, or eyelashes.	Latin cilium.
ciliata		One of the orders of Infusoria, characterized by having cilia.	
ciliate		Provided with, or surrounded by, cilia; as, a ciliate leaf; endowed with vibratory motion; as, the ciliated epithelium of the windpipe.	
ciliated		Provided with, or surrounded by, cilia; as, a ciliate leaf; endowed with vibratory motion; as, the ciliated epithelium of the windpipe.	
cilice		A kind of haircloth undergarment.	French cilice, from Latin cilicium.
cilician		Of or pertaining to Cilicia in Asia Minor. -- n.	
cilicious	Obsolete	Made, or consisting, of hair.	
ciliform		Having the form of cilia; very fine or slender.	
ciliiform		Having the form of cilia; very fine or slender.	
ciliograde		Moving by means of cilia, or cilialike organs; as, the ciliograde Medusæ.	
cilium		See Cilia — (Biol.) Small, generally microscopic, vibrating appendages lining certain organs, as the air passages of the higher animals…	
cill		See Sill., n. a foundation.	
cillosis		A spasmodic trembling of the upper eyelid.	
cima		A kind of molding. See Cyma.	
cimar		See Simar — a woman's long dress or robe; also light covering; a scarf.	
cimbal	Obsolete	A kind of confectionery or cake.	Italian ciambella.
cimbia		A fillet or band placed around the shaft of a column as if to strengthen it.	
cimbrian		Of or pertaining to the Cimbri. -- n.	
cimbric		Pertaining to the Cimbri, an ancient tribe inhabiting Northern Germany. -- n.	
cimeliarch	Obsolete	A superintendent or keeper of a church's valuables; a churchwarden.	Latin cimeliarcha.
cimeter		See Scimiter — a saber with a much curved blade having the edge on the convex side, -- in use among Mohammedans, esp., the Arabs and persians.	
cimex		A genus of hemipterous insects of which the bedbug is the best known example.	
cimia		See Cimbia — a fillet or band placed around the shaft of a column as if to strengthen it.	
cimiss	Obsolete	The bedbug.	
cimmerian		Pertaining to the Cimmerii, a fabulous people, said to have lived, in very ancient times, in profound and perpetual darkness.	
cimolite		A soft, earthy, clayey mineral, of whitish or grayish color.	
cinch		A strong saddle girth, as of canvas.	Spanish cincha, from Latin cingula.
cinchona		(Bot.) A genus of trees growing naturally on the Andes in Peru and adjacent countries, but now cultivated in the East Indies, producing a medicinal bark of great value.	
cinchonaceous		Allied or pertaining to cinchona, or to the plants that produce it.	
cinchonic		Belonging to, or obtained from, cinchona.	
cinchonidine		One of the quinine group of alkaloids, found especially in red cinchona bark.	
cinchonine		One of the quinine group of alkaloids isomeric with and resembling cinchonidine; -- called also cinchonia.	
cinchonism		A condition produced by the excessive or long-continued use of quinine, and marked by deafness, roaring in the ears, vertigo, etc.	
cinchonize		To produce cinchonism in; to poison with quinine or with cinchona.	
cincinnus		A form of monochasium in which the lateral branches arise alternately on opposite sides of the false axis; -- called also scorpioid cyme. --Cin*cin"nal (#), a.	Latin cincinnus.
cincture		A belt, a girdle, or something worn round the body, -- as by an ecclesiastic for confining the alb.	Latin cinctura.
cinctured		Having or wearing a cincture or gridle.	
cinder		Partly burned or vitrified coal, or other combustible, in which fire is extinct.	Middle English cinder.
cindery		Resembling, or composed of, cinders; full of cinders.	
cinefaction	Obsolete	Cineration; reduction to ashes.	
cinematic		See Kinematic — of or pertaining to kinematics.	
cinematical		See Kinematic — of or pertaining to kinematics.	
cinematics		See Kinematics — the science which treats of motions considered in themselves, or apart from their causes; the comparison and relation of motions.	
cinematograph		A machine, combining magic lantern and kinetoscope features, for projecting on a screen a series of pictures, moved rapidly (25 to 50 a second) and intermittently before an objective lens…	
cinematographer		One who exhibits moving pictures or who takes chronophotographs by the cinematograph. -- Cin`e*mat`o*graph ic*al*ly (#), adv.	
cinemograph		An integrating anemometer.	
cineraceous		Like ashes; ash-colored; cinerous.	Latin cineraceus.
cineraria		A Linnæan genus of free-flowering composite plants, mostly from South Africa.	
cinerary		Pertaining to ashes; containing ashes.	
cineration		The reducing of anything to ashes by combustion; cinefaction.	
cinereous		Like ashes; ash-colored; grayish.	Latin cinereus.
cinerescent		Somewhat cinereous; of a color somewhat resembling that of wood ashes.	
cineritious		Like ashes; having the color of ashes, -- as the cortical substance of the brain.	
cinerulent	Obsolete	Full of ashes.	
cingalese		A native or natives of Ceylon descended from its primitive inhabitants; also (sing.), the language of the Cingalese. -- a.	
cingle		A girth. See Surcingle.	French cengle, from Latin cingulum.
cingulum		(a) A distinct girdle or band of color; a raised spiral line as seen on certain univalve shells.	
cinnabar		(Min.) Red sulphide of mercury, occurring in brilliant red crystals, and also in red or brown amorphous masses.	
cinnabarine		Pertaining to, or resembling, cinnabar; consisting of cinnabar, or containing it; as, cinnabarine sand.	
cinnamene		Styrene (which was formerly called cinnamene because obtained from cinnamic acid).	
cinnamic		Pertaining to, or obtained from, cinnamon.	
cinnamomic		See Cinnamic — pertaining to, or obtained from, cinnamon.	
cinnamon		(a) The inner bark of the shoots of Cinnamomum Zeylanicum, a tree growing in Ceylon.	
cinnamone		A yellow crystalline substance, (C6H5.C2H2)2CO, the ketone of cinnamic acid.	
cinnamyl		The hypothetical radical, (C6H5.C2H2)2C, of cinnamic compounds.	
cinnoline		A nitrogenous organic base, C8H6N2, analogous to quinoline, obtained from certain complex diazo compounds.	
cinque		Five; the number five in dice or cards.	Middle English cink, from Middle French cinc, from Latin quinque.
cinque-pace	Obsolete	A lively dance (called also galliard), the steps of which were regulated by the number five.	
cinque-spotted		Five-spotted.	
cinquecentist		An Italian of the sixteenth century, esp. a poet or artist.	
cinquecento		The sixteenth century, when applied to Italian art or literature; as, the sculpture of the Cinquecento; Cinquecento style.	
cinquefoil		(Bot.) The name of several different species of the genus Potentilla; -- also called five-finger, because of the resemblance of its leaves to the fingers of the hand.	
cinter		See Center — a point equally distant from the extremities of a line, figure, or body, or from all parts of the circumference of a circle; the middle point or place.	
cinura		The group of Thysanura which includes Lepisma and allied forms; the bristletails.	
cion		See Scion — (Bot.) (a) A shoot or sprout of a plant; a sucker. (b) A piece of a slender branch or twig cut for grafting.	
cipher		(Arith.) A character which, standing by itself, expresses nothing, but when placed at the right hand of a whole number, increases its value tenfold.	
cipherer		One who ciphers.	
cipherhood		Nothingness.	
cipolin		A whitish marble, from Rome, containiing pale greenish zones.	Italian cippollino.
cippus		A small, low pillar, square or round, commonly having an inscription, used by the ancients for various purposes, as for indicating the distances of places, for a landmark, for sepulchral inscriptions, etc. Gwilt.	
circ		An amphitheatrical circle for sports; a circus.	
circar		A district, or part of a province. See Sircar.	
circassian		Of or pertaining to Circassia, in Asia. -- n.	
circean		Having the characteristics of Circe, daughter of Sol and Perseis, a mythological enchantress, who first charmed her victims and then changed them to the forms of beasts; pleasing, but noxious; as, a Circean draught.	
circensial		Of or pertaining to, or held in, the Circus, In Rome.	
circensian		Of or pertaining to, or held in, the Circus, In Rome.	
circinal		Circinate.	
circinate	Obsolete	Rolled together downward, the tip occupying the center; -- a term used in reference to foliation or leafing, as in ferns.	Latin circinatus.
circination	Obsolete	An orbicular motion. bailey.	Latin circinationem.
circle		A plane figure, bounded by a single curve line called its circumference, every part of which is equally distant from a point within it, called the center.	
circled		Having the form of a circle; round.	
circler	Obsolete	A mean or inferior poet, perhaps from his habit of wandering around as a stroller; an itinerant poet.	
circlet		A little circle; esp., an ornament for the person, having the form of a circle; that which encircles, as a ring, a bracelet, or a headband.	
circocele		See Cirsocele — the varicose dilatation of the spermatic vein.	
circuit		The act of moving or revolving around, or as in a circle or orbit; a revolution; as, the periodical circuit of the earth round the sun.	Middle English circuit, from Old French circuit, from Latin circuitus.
circuiteer		A circuiter.	
circuiter		One who travels a circuit, as a circuit judge.	
circuition		The act of going round; circumlocution.	Latin circuitionem.
circuitous		Going round in a circuit; roundabout; indirect; as, a circuitous road; a circuitous manner of accompalishing an end. -- Cir*cu i*tous*ness, n.	
circuity		A going round in a circle; a course not direct; a roundabout way of proceeding.	
circulable		That may be circulated.	
circular		In the form of, or bounded by, a circle; round.	
circularise		to canvass by distributing letters.	
circularity		The quality or state of being circular; a circular form.	
circularly		In a circular manner.	
circulary	Obsolete	Circular; illogical.	
circulate		To move in a circle or circuitously; to move round and return to the same point; as, the blood circulates in the body.	Latin circulatus.
circulation		The act of moving in a circle, or in a course which brings the moving body to the place where its motion began.	
circulative		Promoting circulation; circulating.	
circulator		One who, or that which, circulates.	
circulatorious	Obsolete	Travelling from house to house or from town to town; itinerant.	
circulatory		Circular; as, a circulatory letter.	
circulet	Obsolete	A circlet.	
circuline	Obsolete	Proceeding in a circle; circular..	
circum-		A Latin preposition, used as a prefix in many English words, and signifying around or about.	
circumagitate		To agitate on all sides.	
circumambage	Obsolete	A roundabout or indirect course; indirectness.	
circumambiency		The act of surrounding or encompassing.	
circumambient		Surrounding; inclosing or being on all sides; encompassing.	
circumambulate		To walk round about. -- Cir`cum*am`bu*la"tion, n.	
circumbendibus		A roundabout or indirect way.	
circumcenter		The center of a circle that circumscribes a triangle.	
circumcise		To cut off the prepuce of foreskin of, in the case of males, and the internal labia of, in the case of females.	Latin circumcido.
circumciser		One who performs circumcision.	
circumcision		The act of cutting off the prepuce or foreskin of males, or the internal labia of females.	Latin circumcisio.
circumclusion		Act of inclosing on all sides.	Latin circumcludere.
circumcursation	Obsolete	The act of running about; also, rambling language.	Latin circumcursare.
circumdenudation		Denudation around or in the neighborhood of an object.	
circumduce		To declare elapsed, as the time allowed for introducing evidence.	
circumduct		To lead about; to lead astray.	Latin circumductus.
circumduction		A leading about; circumlocution.	
circumesophagal		Surrounding the esophagus; -- in Zool. said of the nerve commissures and ganglia of arthropods and mollusks.	
circumesophageal		Circumesophagal.	
circumfer	Obsolete	To bear or carry round.	
circumference		The line that goes round or encompasses a circular figure; a periphery.	Latin circumferentia.
circumferential		Pertaining to the circumference; encompassing; encircling; circuitous.	
circumferentially		So as to surround or encircle.	
circumferentor		A surveying instrument, for taking horizontal angles and bearings; a surveyor's compass.	
circumflant	Obsolete	Blowing around.	
circumflect		To bend around.	
circumflection		See Circumflexion — the act of bending, or causing to assume a curved form.	
circumflex		A wave of the voice embracing both a rise and fall or a fall and a rise on the same a syllable.	Latin circumflexus.
circumflexion		The act of bending, or causing to assume a curved form.	
circumfluence		A flowing round on all sides; an inclosing with a fluid.	
circumfluent		Flowing round; surrounding in the manner of a fluid.	
circumfluous		Flowing round; surrounding in the manner of a fluid.	
circumforanean		Going about or abroad; walking or wandering from house to house.	
circumforaneous		Going about or abroad; walking or wandering from house to house.	
circumfulgent		Shining around or about.	
circumfuse		To pour round; to spread round.	
circumfusile		Capable of being poured or spread round.	
circumfusion		The act of pouring or spreading round; the state of being spread round.	
circumgestation	Obsolete	The act or process of carrying about.	
circumgyrate		To roll or turn round; to cause to perform a rotary or circular motion.	
circumgyration		The act of turning, rolling, or whirling round.	
circumgyratory		Moving in a circle; turning round.	
circumgyre	Obsolete	To circumgyrate.	
circumincession		The reciprocal existence in each other of the three persons of the Trinity.	
circumjacence		Condition of being circumjacent, or of bordering ou every side.	
circumjacent		Lying round; borderong on every side.	
circumjovial	Obsolete	One of the moons or satellites of the planet Jupiter.	
circumlittoral		Adjointing the shore.	
circumlocution		The use of many words to express an idea that might be expressed by few; indirect or roundabout language; a periphrese. the plain Billingagate way of calling names … would save abundance of time lost by circumlocution.	Latin circumlocutio.
circumlocutional		Relating to, or consisting of, circumlocutions; periphrastic; circuitous.	
circumlocutory		Characterised by circumlocution; periphrastic.	
circummeridian		About, or near, the meridian.	
circummure		To encompass with a wall.	
circumnavigable		Capable of being sailed round.	
circumnavigate		To sail completely round.	Latin circumnavigatus.
circumnavigation		The act of circumnavigating, or sailing round.	
circumnavigator		One who sails round.	
circumnutate		To pass through the stages of circumnutation.	
circumnutation		The successive bowing or bending in different directions of the growing tip of the stems of many plants, especially seen in climbing plants.	
circumpolar		About the pole; -- applied to stars that revolve around the pole without setting; as, circumpolar stars.	
circumposition		The act of placing in a circle, or round about, or the state of being so placed.	
circumrotary		turning, rolling, or whirling round.	
circumrotate		To rotate about.	
circumrotation		The act of rolling or revolving round, as a wheel; circumvolution; the state of being whirled round.	
circumrotatory		turning, rolling, or whirling round.	
circumscissile		Dehiscing or opening by a transverse fissure extending around (a capsule or pod).	
circumscribable		Capable of being circumscribed.	
circumscribe		to write or engare around.	Latin circumscribo.
circumscriber		One who, or that which, circumscribes.	
circumscriptible		Capable of being circumscribed or limited by bounds.	
circumscription		An inscription written around anything.	Latin circumscriptio.
circumscriptive		Circumscribing or tending to circumscribe; marcing the limits or form of.	
circumscriptively		In a limited manner.	
circumscriptly		In a literal, limited, or narrow manner.	
circumspect		Attentive to all the circustances of a case or the probable consequences of an action; cautious; prudent; wary.	Latin circumspecto.
circumspection		Attention to all the facts and circumstances of a case; caution; watchfulness.	Latin circumspectio.
circumspective		Looking around everi way; cautious; careful of consequences; watchful of danger.	
circumspectively		Circumspectly.	
circumspectly		In a circumspect manner; cautiously; warily.	
circumspectness		Vigilance un guarding against evil from every quarter; caution. forces circumspectness on those abroad, who at home are nursed in security.	
circumstance		That which attends, or relates to, or in some way affects, a fact or event; an attendant thing or state of things.	
circumstanced		Placed in a particular position or condition; situated.	
circumstant		Standing or placed around; surrounding.	
circumstantiable	Obsolete	Capable of being circumstantiated.	
circumstantial		Consisting in, or pertaining to, circumstances or particular incidents.	
circumstantiality		The state, characteristic, or quality of being circumstantial; particularity or minuteness of detail.	
circumstantially		In respect to circumstances; not essentially; accidentally.	
circumstantiate		To place in particular circumstances; to invest with particular accidents or adjuncts.	
circumterraneous		Being or dwelling around the earth.	
circumundulate		To flow round, as waves.	
circumvallate		To surround with a rampart or wall.	Latin circumvallare.
circumvallation		(a) The act of surrounding with a wall or rampart. (b) A line of field works made around a besieged place and the besieging army, to protect the camp of the besiegers against the attack of an enemy from without.	
circumvection		The act of carrying anything around, or the state of being so carried.	
circumvent		To gain advantage over by arts, stratagem, or deception; to decieve; to delude; to get around.	
circumvention		The act of prevailing over another by arts, address, or fraud; deception; fraud; imposture; delusion.	Latin circumventio.
circumventive		Tending to circumvent; deceiving by artifices; deluding.	
circumventor		One who circumvents; one who gains his purpose by cunning.	
circumvest	Obsolete	To cover round, as woth a garment; to invest.	
circumvolant		Flying around.	
circumvolation		The act of flying round.	Latin circumvolate.
circumvolution		The act of rolling round; the state of being rolled.	
circumvolve		To roll round; to cause to revolve; to put into a circular motion.	
circus		(Roman Antiq.) A level oblong space surrounded on three sides by seats of wood, earth, or stone, rising in tiers one above another…	Latin circus, from Greek κίρκος.
cirque		A circle; a circus; a circular erection or arrangement of objects.	French cirque, from Latin circus, from Greek κίρκος.
cirrate		Having cirri along the margin of a part or organ.	
cirrhiferous		See Cirriferous — bearing cirri, as many plants and animals.	
cirrhose		Same as Cirrose.	
cirrhosis		A disease of the liver in which it usually becomes smaller in size and more dense and fibrous in consistence; hence sometimes applied to similar changes in other organs…	
cirrhotic		Pertaining to, caused by, or affected with, cirrhosis; as, cirrhotic degeneration; a cirrhotic liver.	
cirrhous		See Cirrose — (a) Bearing a tendril or tendrils; as, a cirrose leaf. (b) Resembling a tendril or cirrus.	
cirrhus		Same as Cirrus.	
cirri		See Cirrus — (Zoöl.) (a) A soft tactile appendage of the mantle of many Mollusca, and of the parapodia of Annelida.	
cirriferous		Bearing cirri, as many plants and animals.	
cirriform		Formed like a cirrus or tendril; -- said of appendages of both animals and plants.	
cirrigerous		Having curled locks of hair; supporting cirri, or hairlike appendages.	
cirrigrade		Moving or moved by cirri, or hairlike appendages.	
cirriped		One of the Cirripedia.	
cirripedia		An order of Crustacea including the barnacles.	
cirro-cumulus		See under Cloud.	
cirro-stratus		See under Cloud.	
cirrobranchiata		A division of Mollusca having slender, cirriform appendages near the mouth; the Scaphopoda.	
cirrose		(a) Bearing a tendril or tendrils; as, a cirrose leaf. (b) Resembling a tendril or cirrus.	
cirrostomi		The lowest group of vertebrates; -- so called from the cirri around the mouth; the Leptocardia.	
cirrous		(Zoöl.) Tufted; -- said of certain feathers of birds.	
cirrus		(Zoöl.) (a) A soft tactile appendage of the mantle of many Mollusca, and of the parapodia of Annelida.	Latin cirrus.
cirsocele		The varicose dilatation of the spermatic vein.	
cirsoid		Varicose.	
cirsotomy		Any operation for the removal of varices by incision.	
cis-		A Latin preposition, sometimes used as a prefix in English words, and signifying on this side.	
cisalpine		On the hither side of the Alps with reference to Rome, that is, on the south side of the Alps; -- opposed to transalpine.	
cisatlantic		On this side of the Atlantic Ocean; -- used of the eastern or the western side, according to the standpoint of the writer.	
cisco		The Lake herring (Coregonus Artedi), valuable food fish of the Great Lakes of North America.	
ciselure		The process of chasing on metals; also, the work thus chased.	
cisleithan		On the Austrian side of the river Leitha; Austrian.	
cismontane		On this side of the mountains. See under Ultramontane.	
cispadane		On the hither side of the river Po with reference to Rome; that is, on the south side.	
cissoid		A curve invented by Diocles, for the purpose of solving two celebrated problems of the higher geometry; viz., to trisect a plane angle, and to construct two geometrical means between two given straight lines.	
cist		(Antiq.) A box or chest. Specifically: (a) A bronze receptacle, round or oval, frequently decorated with engravings on the sides and cover, and with feet, handles, etc., of decorative castings.	Latin cista, from Greek κίστη.
cisted		Inclosed in a cyst. See Cysted.	
cistercian		A monk of the prolific branch of the Benedictine Order, established in 1098 at Cîteaux, in France, by Robert, abbot of Molesme.	
cistern		An artificial reservoir or tank for holding water, beer, or other liquids.	Old French cisterne, from Latin cisterna.
cistic		See Cystic — having the form of, or living in, a cyst; as, the cystic entozoa.	
cit		A citizen; an inhabitant of a city; a pert townsman; -- used contemptuously..	
citable		Capable of being cited.	
citadel		A fortress in or near a fortified city, commanding the city and fortifications, and intended as a final point of defense.	French citadelle, from Italian cittadella.
cital		Citation; quotation Johnson.	
citation		An official summons or notice given to a person to appear; the paper containing such summons or notice.	
citator		One who cites.	Latin citator.
citatory		Having the power or form of a citation; as, letters citatory.	
cite		To call upon officially or authoritatively to appear, as before a court; to summon.	French citer, from Latin citare.
citer		One who cites.	
citess		A city woman	
cithara		An ancient instrument resembling the harp.	
citharistic		Pertaining, or adapted, to the cithara.	
cithern		See Cittern — an instrument shaped like a lute, but strung with wire and played with a quill or plectrum.	
citicism		The manners of a cit or citizen.	
citied		Containing, or covered with, cities.	
citified		Aping, or having, the manners of a city.	
citigradae		A suborder of Arachnoidea, including the European tarantula and the wolf spiders (Lycosidae) and their allies, which capture their prey by rapidly running and jumping.	
citigrade		Pertaining to the Citigradæ. -- n.	
citiner	Obsolete	One who is born or bred in a city; a citizen.	
citizen		One who enjoys the freedom and privileges of a city; a freeman of a city, as distinguished from a foreigner, or one not entitled to its franchises.	
citizeness		A female citizen.	
citizenship		The state of being a citizen; the status of a citizen.	
citole	Obsolete	A musical instrument; a kind of dulcimer.	
citraconic		Pertaining to, derived from, or having certain characteristics of, citric and aconitic acids.	
citrange		A citrous fruit produced by a cross between the sweet orange and the trifoliate orange (Citrus trifoliata).	
citrate		A salt of citric acid.	
citric		Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the citron or lemon; as, citric acid.	
citrination		The process by which anything becomes of the color of a lemon; esp., in alchemy, the state of perfection in the philosopher's stone indicated by its assuming a deep yellow color.	
citrine		Like a citron or lemon; of a lemon color; greenish yellow.	
citron		(Bot) A fruit resembling a lemon, but larger, and pleasantly aromatic.	
citrus		A genus of trees including the orange, lemon, citron, etc., originally natives of southern Asia.	
cittern		An instrument shaped like a lute, but strung with wire and played with a quill or plectrum.	
cittern-head		Blockhead; dunce; -- so called because the handle of a cittern usually ended with a carved head.	
city		A corporate town; in the United States, a town or collective body of inhabitants, incorporated and governed by a mayor and aldermen or a city council consisting of a board of aldermen and a common council; in Great Britain…	Middle English cite, from Old French cité, from Latin civitas.
cive		Same as Chive.	
civet		A substance, of the consistence of butter or honey, taken from glands in the anal pouch of the civet (Viverra civetta).	French civette, from Arabic زباد.
civic		Relating to, or derived from, a city or citizen; relating to man as a member of society, or to civil affairs.	Latin civicus.
civicism		The principle of civil government.	
civics		The science of civil government.	Latin civicus.
civil		Pertaining to a city or state, or to a citizen in his relations to his fellow citizens or to the state; within the city or state.	Latin civilis.
civilian		One skilled in the civil law.	Old French civilien.
civilist		A civilian.	Latin civilista.
civility		Courtesy; politeness; kind attention; good breeding; a polite act or expression.	
civilizable		Capable of being civilized.	
civilization		The act of civilizing, or the state of being civilized; national culture; refinement.	
civilize		To reclaim from a savage state; to instruct in the rules and customs of civilization; to educate; to refine.	French civiliser.
civilized		Reclaimed from savage life and manners; instructed in arts, learning, and civil manners; refined; cultivated.	
civilizer		One who, or that which, civilizes or tends to civilize.	
civily		In a civil manner; as regards civil rights and privileges; politely; courteously; in a well bred manner.	
civism		State of citizenship.	
cizar	Obsolete	To clip with scissors.	
cizars	Obsolete	Scissors.	
cize	Obsolete	Bulk; largeness. See Size.	
