clabber		Milk curdled so as to become thick.	
clachan	Scots	A small village containing a church.	
clack		To make a sudden, sharp noise, or a succesion of such noises, as by striking an object, or by collision of parts; to rattle; to click.	
clacker		One who clacks; that which clacks; especially, the clapper of a mill.	
clad	Obsolete	To clothe.	
cladocera		An order of the Entomostraca.	
cladophyll		A special branch, resembling a leaf, as in the apparent foliage of the broom (Ruscus) and of the common cultivated smilax (Myrsiphillum).	
claggy		Adhesive; -- said of a roof in a mine to which coal clings.	
claik		See Clake — the bernicle goose; -- called also clack goose.	Scots claik, from Old Norse klaka.
claim		To ask for, or seek to obtain, by virtue of authority, right, or supposed right; to challenge as a right; to demand as due.	Middle English claimen, from Old French claimer.
claimable		Capable of being claimed.	
claimant		One who claims; one who asserts a right or title; a claimer.	
claimer		One who claims; a claimant.	
claimless		Having no claim.	
clair-obscur		See Chiaroscuro — (a) The arrangement of light and dark parts in a work of art, such as a drawing or painting, whether in monochrome or in color.	
clairaudience		Act of hearing, or the ability to hear, sounds not normally audible; -- usually claimed as a special faculty of spiritualistic mediums, or the like.	
clairaudient		Pertaining to, or characterized by, clairaudience.	
claire		A small inclosed pond used for gathering and greening oysters.	
clairvoyance		A power, attributed to some persons while in a mesmeric state, of discering objects not perceptible by the senses in their normal condition.	French clairvoyance.
clairvoyant		Pertaining to clairvoyance; discerning objects while in a mesmeric state which are not present to the senses.	French clairvoyant.
clake		The bernicle goose; -- called also clack goose.	
clam		(Zoöl.) A bivalve mollusk of many kinds, especially those that are edible; as, the long clam (Mya arenaria), the quahog or round clam (Venus mercenaria), the sea clam or hen clam (Spisula solidissima)…	
clamant		Crying earnestly, beseeching clamorousky.	Latin clamans.
clamation		The act of crying out.	Latin clamationem.
clamatores		A division of passerine birds in which the vocal muscles are but little developed, so that they lack the power of singing.	
clamatorial		Like or pertaining to the Clamatores.	
clambake		The backing or steaming of clams on heated stones, between layers of seaweed; hence, a picnic party, gathered on such an occasion.	
clamber		To climb with difficulty, or with hands and feet; -- also used figuratively.	
clamjamphrie	Scots	Low, worthless people; the rabble.	
clammily		In a clammy manner.	
clamminess		State of being clammy or viscous.	
clammy		Having the quality of being viscous or adhesive; soft and sticky; glutinous; damp and adhesive, as if covered with a cold perspiration.	
clamor		A great outcry or vociferation; loud and continued shouting or exclamation.	
clamorer		One who clamors.	
clamorous		Speaking and repeating loud words; full of clamor; calling or demanding loudly or urgently; vociferous; noisy; bawling; loud; turbulent. -- Clam or*ous*ness, n.	
clamp		Something rigid that holds fast or binds things together; a piece of wood or metal, used to hold two or more pieces together.	
clamper		An instrument of iron, with sharp prongs, attached to a boot or shoe to enable the wearer to walk securely upon ice; a creeper.	
clan		A tribe or collection of families, united under a chieftain, regarded as having the same common ancestor, and bearing the same surname; as, the clan of Macdonald.	Scottish Gaelic clann, from Old Irish cland, from Old Welsh plant, from Latin planta.
clan-na-gael		A secret society of Irish Fenians founded in Philadelphia in 1881.	
clancular	Obsolete	Conducted with secrecy; clandestine; concealed.	Latin clancularius.
clancularly	Obsolete	privately; secretly.	
clandestine		Conducted with secrecy; withdrawn from public notice, usually for an evil purpose; kept secret; hidden; private; underhand; as, a clandestine marriage.	French clandestin.
clandestinity		Privacy or secrecy.	
clang		To strike together so as to produce a ringing metallic sound.	
clangor		A sharp, harsh, ringing sound.	
clangorous		Making a clangor; having a ringing, metallic sound.	
clangous	Obsolete	Making a clang, or a ringing metallic sound.	
clanjamfrie	Scots	Same as Clamjamphrie.	
clank		A sharp, brief, ringing sound, made by a collision of metallic or other sonorous bodies; -- usually expressing a duller or less resounding sound than clang, and a deeper and stronger sound than clink.	
clankless		Without a clank.	
clannish		Of or pertaining to a clan; closely united, like a clan; disposed to associate only with one's clan or clique; actuated by the traditions, prejudices, habits, etc., of a clan. -- Clan nish*ness, n.	
clanship		A state of being united togheter as in a clan; an association under a chieftain.	
clansman		One belonging to the same clan with another.	
clap		To strike; to slap; to strike, or strike together, with a quick motion, so, as to make a sharp noise; as, to clap one's hands; a clapping of wings.	Old English clæppan.
clapboard		A narrow board, thicker at one edge than at the other; -- used for weatherboarding the outside of houses.	
clapbread	Obsolete	Oatmeal cake or bread clapped or beaten till it is thin.	
clapcake	Obsolete	Oatmeal cake or bread clapped or beaten till it is thin.	
clape		A bird; the flicker.	
clapper		A person who claps.	French clapier.
clapperclaw		To fight and scratch.	
claps	Obsolete	Variant of Clasp Chaucer.	
claptrap		A trick or device to gain applause; humbug.	
claque		A collection of persons employed to applaud at a theatrical exhibition.	French claquer.
claqueur		One of the claque employed to applaud at a theater.	
clare		A nun of the order of St.Clare.	
clare-obscure		See Chiaroscuro — (a) The arrangement of light and dark parts in a work of art, such as a drawing or painting, whether in monochrome or in color.	
clarence		A close four-wheeled carriage, with one seat inside, and a seat for the driver.	
clarenceux		See King-at-arms.	
clarencieux		See King-at-arms.	
clarendon		A style of type having a narrow and heave face.	
claret		The name firat given in England to the red wines of M	
claribella		A soft, sweet stop, or set of open wood pipes in an organ.	
clarichord		A musical instrument, formerly in use, in form of a spinet; -- called also manichord and clavichord.	
clarification		The act or process of making clear or transparent, by freeing visible impurities; as, the clarification of wine.	
clarifier		That which clarifies.	
clarify		To make clear or bright by freeing from feculent matter; to defecate; to fine; -- said of liquids, as wine or sirup.	French clarifier, from Latin clarificare.
clarigate	Obsolete	To declare war with certain ceremonies.	
clarinet		A wind instrument, blown by a single reed, of richer and fuller tone than the oboe, which has a double reed.	
clarino		A reed stop in an organ.	
clarion		A kind of trumpet, whose note is clear and shrill.	
clarionet		See Clarinet — a wind instrument, blown by a single reed, of richer and fuller tone than the oboe, which has a double reed.	
clarisonus	Obsolete	Having a clear sound.	
claritude	Obsolete	Clearness; splendor.	Latin claritudo.
clarity		Clearness; brightness; splendor.	Middle English claritee, from Old French clarté, from Latin claritas.
claro-obscuro		See Chiaroscuro — (a) The arrangement of light and dark parts in a work of art, such as a drawing or painting, whether in monochrome or in color.	
clarre	Obsolete	Wine with a mixture of honey and species.	
clart	English dialect	To daub, smear, or spread, as with mud, etc. Halliwell.	
clarty	English dialect	Sticky and foul; muddy; filthy; dirty.	
clary	Obsolete	To make a loud or shrill noise.	
clash		To make a noise by striking against something; to dash noisily together.	
clashingly		With clashing.	
clasp		To shut or fasten together with, or as with, a clasp; to shut or fasten (a clasp, or that which fastens with a clasp).	
clasper		One who, or that which, clasps, as a tendril.	
claspered		Furnished with tendrils.	
class		A group of individuals ranked together as possessing common characteristics; as, the different classes of society; the educated class; the lower classes.	French classe, from Latin classis.
classible		Capable of being classed.	
classic		Of or relating to the first class or rank, especially in literature or art.	French classique, from Latin classicus.
classical		Of or relating to the first class or rank, especially in literature or art.	
classicalism		A classical idiom, style, or expression; a classicism.	
classicalist		One who adheres to what he thinks the classical canons of art.	
classicality		The quality of being classical.	
classically		In a classical manner; according to the manner of classical authors.	
classicalness		The quality of being classical.	
classicism		A classic idiom or expression; a classicalism.	
classicist		One learned in the classics; an advocate for the classics.	
classifiable		Capable of being classified.	
classific		Characterizing a class or classes; relating to classification.	
classification		The act of forming into a class or classes; a distibution into groups, as classes, orders, families, etc., according to some common relations or affinities.	French classification.
classificatory		Pertaining to classification; admitting of classification.	
classifier		One who classifies.	
classify		To distribute into classes; to arrange according to a system; to arrnge in sets according to some method founded on common properties or characters.	French classifier.
classis		(Eccl.) An ecclesiastical body or judicat	
classman		A candidate for graduation in arts who is placed in an honor class, as opposed to a passman, who is not classified.	
classmate		One who is in the same class with another, as at school or college.	
clastic		Pertaining to what may be taken apart; as, clastic anatomy (of models).	Greek κλαστός.
clatch		A soft or sloppy lump or mass; as, to throw a clatch of mud.	
clathrate		(Bot.) Shaped like a lattice; cancellate.	
clatter		To make a rattling sound by striking hard bodies together; to make a succession of abrupt, rattling sounds.	
clatterer		One who clatters.	
clatteringly		With clattering.	
claudent		Shutting; confining; drawing together; as, a claudent muscle.	
claudicant		Limping.	Latin claudicans.
claudication		A halting or limping.	
clause		A separate portion of a written paper, paragraph, or sentence; an article, stipulation, or proviso, in a legal document.	
claustral		Cloistral.	
claustrum		A thin lamina of gray matter in each cerebral hemiphere of the brain of man. -- Claus"tral, a.	
clausular		Consisting of, or having, clauses.	Latin clausula.
clausure		The act of shutting up or confining; confinement.	
clavate		Club-shaped; having the form of a club; growing gradually thicker toward the top.	
clavated		Club-shaped; having the form of a club; growing gradually thicker toward the top.	
clave	Obsolete	imp. of Cleave — to adhere closely; to stick; to hold fast; to cling.	Spanish clave, from Latin clavis.
clavecin		The harpsichord.	
clavel		See Clevis — a piece of metal bent in the form of an oxbow, with the two ends perforated to receive a pin, used on the end of the tongue of a plow, wagen, etc., to attach it to a draft chain…	
clavellate		See Clavate — club-shaped; having the form of a club; growing gradually thicker toward the top.	
clavellated	Obsolete	Said of potash, probably in reference to its having been obtained from billets of wood by burning.	
claver	Scots	See Clover — a plant of differend species of the genus Trifolium; as the common red clover, T. pratense, the white, T. repens, and the hare's foot, T. arvense.	
clavichord		A keyed stringed instrument, now superseded by the pianoforte. See Clarichord.	German Klavichord, from Latin clavichordium.
clavicle		The collar bone, which is joined at one end to the scapula, or shoulder blade, and at the other to the sternum, or breastbone.	Latin clavicula.
clavicorn		Having club-shaped antennæ. See Antennæ -- n.	
clavicornes		A group of beetles having club-shaped antennæ.	
clavicular		Of or pertaining to the clavicle.	
clavier		The keyboard of an organ, pianoforte, or harmonium.	Latin clavis.
claviform		Club-shaped; clavate.	Latin clavus.
claviger		One who carries the keys of any place.	
clavigerous		Bearing a club or a key.	
clavis		A key; a glossary.	Latin clavis.
clavus		A callous growth, esp. one the foot; a corn.	
clavy		A mantelpiece.	
claw		A sharp, hooked nail, as of a beast or bird.	Middle English clawe, from Old English clawu.
clawback	Obsolete	A flatterer or sycophant.	
clawed		Furnished with claws.	
clawless		Destitute of claws.	
clay		A soft earth, which is plastuc, or may be molded with the hands, consisting of hydrous silicate of alumunium.	Middle English clay.
clayes	Obsolete	Wattles, or hurdles, made with stakes interwoven with osiers, to cover lodgments.	
clayey		Consisting of clay; abounding with clay; partaking of clay; like clay.	
clayish		Partaking of the nature of clay, or containing particles of it.	
claymore		A large two-handed sword used formerly by the Scottish Highlanders.	
claytonia		An American genus of perennial herbs with delicate blossoms; -- sometimes called spring beauty.	
cleading		A jacket or outer covering of wood, etc., to prevent radiation of heat, as from the boiler, cylinder. etc., of a steam engine.	
clean		Free from dirt or filth; as, clean clothes.	Middle English clene, from Old English clæne.
clean-cut		See Clear-cut — having a sharp, distinct outline, like that of a cameo.	
clean-limbed		With well-proportioned, unblemished limbs; as, a clean-limbed young fellow.	
clean-timbered	Poetic	Well-propotioned; symmetrical.	
cleaner		One who, or that which, cleans.	
cleaning		The act of making clean.	
cleanlily		In a cleanly manner.	
cleanliness		State of being cleanly; neatness of person or dress.	
cleanly		Habitually clean; pure; innocent.	Middle English clenly.
cleanness		The state or quality of being clean.	Old English clænnes.
cleansable		Capable of being cleansed.	
cleanse		To render clean; to free from fith, pollution, infection, guilt, etc.; to clean.	Old English clænsian.
cleanser		One who, or that which, cleanses; a detergent.	
clear		Free from opaqueness; transparent; bright; light; luminous; unclouded.	Middle English clere, from Anglo-Norman cler, from Old French cler, from Latin clarus.
clear-cut		Having a sharp, distinct outline, like that of a cameo.	
clear-headed		Having a clear understanding; quick of perception; intelligent. -- Clear"-head`ed*ness, n.	
clear-seeing		Having a clear physical or mental vision; having a clear understanding.	
clear-shining		Shining brightly.	
clear-sighted		Seeing with clearness; discerning; as, clear-sighted reason	
clear-sightedness		Acute discernment.	
clearage		The act of reforming anything; clearance.	
clearance		The act of clearing; as, to make a through clearance.	
clearcole		A priming of size mixed with whiting or white lead, used in house painting, etc.; also, a size upon which gold leaf is applied in gilding.	
clearedness		The quality of being cleared.	
clearer		One who, or that which, clears.	
clearing		The act or process of making clear.	
clearly		In a clear manner.	Middle English clerely.
clearness		The quality or state of being clear.	
clearstarch		To stiffen with starch, and then make clear by clapping with the hands; as, to clearstarch muslin.	
clearstarcher		One who clearstarches.	
clearstory		The upper story of the nave of a church, containing windows, and rising above the aisle roofs.	
clearwing		A lepidop terous insect with partially transparent wings, of the family Ægeriadæ, of which the currant and peach-tree borers are examples.	
cleat		(Carp.) A strip of wood or iron fastened on transversely to something in order to give strength, prevent warping, hold position, etc.	Middle English clete, from Old English cleat.
cleavable		Capable of cleaving or being divided.	
cleavage		(Crystallog.) The quality possessed by many crystallized substances of splitting readily in one or more definite directions, in which the cohesive attraction is a minimum, affording more or less smooth surfaces…	
cleave		To adhere closely; to stick; to hold fast; to cling.	Old English cleofian.
cleavelandite		A variety of albite, white and lamellar in structure.	
cleaver		One who cleaves, or that which cleaves; especially, a butcher's instrument for cutting animal bodies into joints or pieces.	
cleavers		A species of Galium (G.	
cleche		Charged with another bearing of the same figure, and of the color of the field, so large that only a narrow border of the first bearing remains visible; -- said of any heraldic bearing.	
clechy		See Cléché.	
cledge		The upper stratum of fuller's earth.	
cledgy		Stiff, stubborn, clayey, or tenacious; as, a cledgy soil.	
clee		A claw. [Holland.	
cleek		A large hook or crook, as for a pot over a fire; specif., an iron- headed golf club with a straight, narrow face and a long shaft.	
clef		A character used in musical notation to determine the position and pitch of the scale as represented on the staff.	
cleft		Divided; split; partly divided or split.	
cleft-footed		Having a cloven foot.	
cleftgraft		To ingraft by cleaving the stock and inserting a scion.	
cleg		A small breeze or horsefly.	Old Norse kleggi.
cleistogamic		Having, beside the usual flowers, other minute, closed flowers, without petals or with minute petals; -- said of certain species of plants which possess flowers of two or more kinds…	
cleistogamous		Having, beside the usual flowers, other minute, closed flowers, without petals or with minute petals; -- said of certain species of plants which possess flowers of two or more kinds…	
clem	Obsolete	To starve; to famish.	
clematis		A genus of flowering plants, of many species, mostly climbers, having feathery styles, which greatly enlarge in the fruit; -- called also virgin's bower.	
clemence	Obsolete	Clemency.	
clemency		Disposition to forgive and spare, as offenders; mildness of temper; gentleness; tenderness; mercy.	Latin clementia.
clement		Mild in temper and disposition; merciful; compassionate.	Latin clemens.
clementine		Of or pertaining to Clement, esp. to St.Clement of Rome and the spurious homilies attributed to him, or to Pope Clement V. and his compilations of canon law.	French clémentine.
clench		See Clinch — to hold firmly; to hold fast by grasping or embracing tightly.	Old English beclencan.
clepe	Obsolete	To call, or name.	Middle English clepen.
clepsine		A genus of freshwater leeches, furnished with a proboscis.	
clepsydra		A water clock; a contrivance for measuring time by the graduated flow of a liquid, as of water, through a small aperture.	Latin clepsydra, from Greek κλεψύδρα.
cleptomania		See Kleptomania — a propensity to steal, claimed to be irresistible.	
clerestory		The upper story of the nave of a church, containing windows, and rising above the aisle roofs.	
clergeon	Obsolete	A chorister boy.	
clergial	Obsolete	Learned; erudite; clercial.	
clergical	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to the clergy; clerical; clerkily; learned.	
clergy		The body of men set apart, by due ordination, to the service of God, in the Christian church, in distinction from the laity; in England, usually restricted to the ministers of the Established Church.	
clergyable		Entitled to, or admitting, the benefit of clergy; as, a clergyable felony.	
clergyman		An ordained minister; a man regularly authorized to peach the gospel, and administer its ordinances; in England usually restricted to a minister of the Established Church.	
cleric		A clerk, a clergyman.	Latin clericus, from Greek κληρικός.
clerical		Of or pertaining to the clergy; suitable for the clergy.	Latin clericalis.
clericalism		An excessive devotion to the interests of the sacerdotal order; undue influence of the clergy; sacerdotalism.	
clericity		The state of being a clergyman.	
clerisy		The literati, or well educated class.	
clerk		A parish officer, being a layman who leads in reading the responses of the Episcopal church service, and otherwise assists in it.	Middle English clerc, from Old English clerc, from Latin clericus, from Greek κληρικός.
clerk-ale		A feast for the benefit of the parish clerk.	
clerkless	Obsolete	Unlearned.	
clerklike	Obsolete	Scholarlike.	
clerkliness	Obsolete	Scholarship.	
clerkly	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to a clerk.	
clerkship		State, quality, or business of a clerk.	
cleromancy		A divination by throwing dice or casting lots.	
cleronomy		Inheritance; heritage.	
clerstory		See Clearstory — the upper story of the nave of a church, containing windows, and rising above the aisle roofs.	
clever		Possessing quickness of intellect, skill, dexterity, talent, or adroitness; expert.	
cleverish		Somewhat clever.	
cleverly		In a clever manner.	
cleverness		The quality of being clever; skill; dexterity; adroitness.	
clevis		A piece of metal bent in the form of an oxbow, with the two ends perforated to receive a pin, used on the end of the tongue of a plow, wagen, etc., to attach it to a draft chain, whiffletree, etc.; -- called also clavel, clevy.	
clew		A ball of thread, yarn, or cord; also, The thread itself.	
cliche		A stereotype plate or any similar reproduction of ornament, or lettering, in relief.	
click		To make a slight, sharp noise (or a succession of such noises), as by gentle striking; to tick.	
clicker	Low	One who stands before a shop door to invite people to buy.	
clicket	English dialect	The knocker of a door.	
clicky		Resembling a click; abounding in clicks.	
clidastes		A genus of exinct marine reptiles, allied to the Mosasaurus. See Illust. in Appendix.	
cliency		State of being a client.	
client		A dependent; one under the protection of another.	Latin cliens.
clientage		State of being client.	
cliental		Of or pertaining to a client.	
cliented		Supplied with clients.	
clientelage		See Clientele, n., 2.	
clientele		The persons who make habitual use of the services of another person; one's clients, collectively; as, the clientele of a lawyer, doctor, notary, etc.	French clientèle.
clientship		Condition of a client; state of being under the protection of a patron.	
cliff	Obsolete	A high, steep rock; a precipice.	Old English clif.
cliffy		Having cliffs; broken; craggy.	
clift	Obsolete	A cleft of crack; a narrow opening.	
clifted		Broken; fissured.	
climacter		See Climacteric, n.	
climacteric		Relating to a climacteric; critical.	Latin climactericus, from Greek κλίμάκτήρίκος.
climacterical		See Climacteric — relating to a climacteric; critical.	
climactic		Of or pertaining to a climax; forming, or of the nature of, a climax, or ascending series.	
climatal		Climatic.	
climatarchic		Presiding over, or regulating, climates.	
climate	Poetic	The condition of a place in relation to various phenomena of the atmosphere, as temperature, moisture, etc., especially as they affect animal or vegetable life.	French climat, from Latin clima, from Greek κλίμα.
climatic		Of or pertaining to a climate; depending on, or limited by, a climate.	
climatical		Climatic.	
climatize		To acclimate or become acclimated.	
climatography		A description of climates.	
climatological		Of or pertaining to climatology.	
climatologist		One versed in, or who studies, climatology.	
climatology		The science which treats of climates and investigates their phenomena and causes.	Latin clima, from Greek κλίμα.
climature	Obsolete	A climate.	
climax		Upward movement; steady increase; gradation; ascent.	Latin climax, from Greek κλῖμαξ.
climb		To ascend or mount laboriously, esp. by use of the hands and feet.	Middle English climben, from Old English climban.
climbable		Capable of being climbed.	
climber	Obsolete	One who, or that which, climbs: (a) (Bot.) A plant that climbs. (b) (Zoöl.) A bird that climbs, as a woodpecker or a parrot.	
climbing		p. pr. & vb. n. of Climb.	
clime		A climate; a tract or region of the earth. See Climate.	
clinanthium		The receptacle of the flowers in a composite plant; -- also called clinium.	
clinch		To hold firmly; to hold fast by grasping or embracing tightly.	
clincher		One who, or that which, clinches; that which holds fast.	
clincher-built		See Clinker-built — having the side planks (af a boat) so arranged that the lower edge of each overlaps the upper edge of the plank next below it like clapboards on a house.	
cling		To adhere closely; to stick; to hold fast, especially by twining round or embracing; as, the tendril of a vine clings to its support; -- usually followed by to or together.	
clingstone		Having the flesh attached closely to the stone, as in some kinds of peaches. -- n.	
clingy		Apt to cling; adhesive.	
clinic		One confined to the bed by sickness.	French clinique, from Latin clinicus, from Greek κλινικός.
clinical		Of or pertaining to a bed, especially, a sick bed.	
clinically		In a clinical manner.	
clinique		A clinic.	
clinium		See Clinanthium — the receptacle of the flowers in a composite plant; -- also called clinium.	
clink		To cause to give out a slight, sharp, tinkling, sound, as by striking metallic or other sonorous bodies together.	
clinkant		See Clnquant.	
clinker		A mass composed of several bricks run together by the action of the fire in the kiln.	Dutch klinkaerd.
clinker-built		Having the side planks (af a boat) so arranged that the lower edge of each overlaps the upper edge of the plank next below it like clapboards on a house.	
clinkstone		An igneous rock of feldspathic composition, lamellar in structure, and clinking under the hammer.	
clinodiagonal		That diagonal or lateral axis in a monoclinic crystal which makes an oblique angle witch the vertical axis.	
clinodome		See under Dome.	
clinographic		Pertaining to that mode of projection in drawing in which the rays of light are supposed to fall obliquely on the plane of projection.	
clinoid		Like a bed; -- applied to several processes on the inner side of the sphenoid bone.	
clinometer		An instrument for determining the dip of beds or strata, pr the slope of an embankment or cutting; a kind of plumb level.	
clinometric		Pertaining to, or ascertained by, the clinometer.	
clinometry		That art or operation of measuring the inclination of strata.	
clinopinacoid		The plane in crystals of the monoclinic system which is parallel to the vertical and the inclined lateral (clinidiagonal) axes.	
clinorhombic		Possessing the qualities of a prism, obliquely inclined to a rhombic base; monoclinic.	
clinostat		An apparatus consisting of a slowly revolving disk, usually regulated by clockwork, by means of wich the action of external agents, as light and gravity, on growing plants may be regulated or eliminated.	
clinquant	Obsolete	Glittering; dressed in, or overlaid with, tinsel finery.	
clio		The Muse who presided over history.	
clione		A genus of naked pteropods.	
clip		To embrace, hence; to encompass.	Old English clyppan.
clipper		One who clips; specifically, one who clips off the edges of coin.	
clipping		The act of cutting off, curtailing, or diminishing; the practice of clipping the edges of coins. clipping by Englishmen is robbing the honest man who receives clipped money.	
clique		A narrow circle of persons associated by common interests or for the accomplishment of a common purpose; -- generally used in a bad sense.	French clique, from Old French cliquer.
cliquish		Of or pertaining to a clique; disposed to from cliques; exclusive in spirit. -- Cli"*quish*ness, n.	
cliquism		The tendency to associate in cliques; the spirit of cliques.	
clitellus		A thickened glandular portion of the body of the adult earthworm, consisting of several united segments modified for reproductive purposes.	
clitoris		A small organ at the upper part of the vulva, homologous to the penis in the male.	Greek κλειτορίς.
clivers		See Cleavers — a species of Galium (G.	
clivity		Inclination; ascent or descent; a gradient.	Latin clivus.
cloaca		(Anat.) The common chamber into which the intestinal, urinary, and generative canals discharge in birds, reptiles, amphibians, and many fishes.	Latin cloaca.
cloacal		Of or pertaining to a cloaca.	
cloak		A loose outer garment, extending from the neck downwards, and commonly without sleeves.	
cloakedly		In a concealed manner.	
cloaking		The act of covering with a cloak; the act of concealing anything.	
cloakroom		A room, attached to any place of public resort, where cloaks, overcoats, etc., may be deposited for a time.	
cloche		An apparatus used in controlling certain kinds of aëroplanes, and consisting principally of a steering column mounted with a universal joint at the base…	French cloche, from Latin clocca.
clock		A machine for measuring time, indicating the hour and other divisions by means of hands moving on a dial plate.	
clocklike		Like a clock or like clockwork; mechanical.	
clockwise		Like the motion of the hands of a clock; -- said of that direction of a rotation about an axis, or about a point in a plane, which is ordinarily reckoned negative.	
clockwork		The machinery of a clock, or machinary resembling that of a clock; machinery which produced regularity of movement.	
clod		A lump or mass, especially of earth, turf, or clay.	
cloddish		Resembling clods; gross; low; stupid; boorish.	
cloddy		Consisting of clods; full of clods.	
clodhopper		A rude, rustic fellow.	
clodhopping		Boorish; rude.	
clodpate		A blockhead; a dolt.	
clodpated		Stupid; dull; doltish.	
clodpoll		A stupid fellow; a dolt.	
cloff		Formerly an allowance of two pounds in every three hundred weight after the tare and tret are subtracted; now used only in a general sense, of small deductions from the original weight.	
clog		That which hinders or impedes motion; hence, an encumbrance, restraint, or impediment, of any kind.	Middle English clog.
clogginess		The state of being clogged.	
clogging		Anything which clogs.	
cloggy		Clogging, or having power to clog.	
cloisonne		Inlaid between partitions: -- said of enamel when the lines which divide the different patches of fields are composed of a kind of metal wire secured to the ground; as distinguished from champlevé enamel…	
cloister		A covered passage or ambulatory on one side of a court; (pl.) the series of such passages on the different sides of any court, esp. that of a monastery or a college.	
cloisteral	Obsolete	Cloistral.	
cloistered		Dwelling in cloisters; solitary.	
cloisterer		One belonging to, or living in, a cloister; a recluse.	
cloistral		Of, pertaining to, or confined in, a cloister; recluse.	
cloke	Obsolete	See Cloak — a loose outer garment, extending from the neck downwards, and commonly without sleeves.	
clomb	Obsolete	imp. & p. p. of Climb (for climbed).	
clomben	Obsolete	imp. & p. p. of Climb (for climbed).	
clomp		See Clamp — something rigid that holds fast or binds things together; a piece of wood or metal, used to hold two or more pieces together.	
clong	Obsolete	imp. of Cling — to adhere closely; to stick; to hold fast, especially by twining round or embracing; as, the tendril of a vine clings to its support; -- usually followed by to or together.	
clonic		Having an irregular, convulsive motion.	
clonus		A series of muscular contractions due to sudden stretching of the muscle, -- a sign of certain neuropathies.	
cloom	Obsolete	To close with glutinous matter.	
cloop		The sound made when a cork is forcibly drawn from a bottle.	
cloot		One of the divisions of a cleft hoof, as in the ox; also, the whole hoof.	
clootie		A little hoof.	
close		To stop, or fill up, as an opening; to shut; as, to close the eyes; to close a door.	Middle English closen.
close-banded		Closely united.	
close-barred		Firmly barred or closed.	
close-bodied		Fitting the body exactly; setting close, as a garment.	
close-fights	Obsolete	Barriers with loopholes, formerly erected on the deck of a vessel to shelter the men in a close engagement with an enemy's boarders; -- called also close quarters.	
close-stool		A utensil to hold a chamber vessel, for the use of the sick and infirm.	
close-tongued		Closemouthed; silent.	
closefisted		Covetous; niggardly.	
closehanded		Covetous; penurious; stingy; closefisted. -- Close"hand`ed*ness, n.	
closehauled		Under way and moving as nearly as possible toward the direction from which the wind blows; -- said of a sailing vessel.	
closely		In a close manner.	
closemouthed		Cautious in speaking; secret; wary; uncommunicative.	
closen		To make close.	
closeness		The state of being close.	
closer		One who, or that which, closes; specifically, a boot closer. See under Boot.	
closereefed		Having all the reefs taken in; -- said of a sail.	
closet		A small room or apartment for retirement; a room for privacy.	
closh	Obsolete	A disease in the feet of cattle; laminitis.	
closure		The act of shutting; a closing; as, the closure of a chink.	Old French closure, from Latin clausura.
clot		A concretion or coagulation; esp. a soft, slimy, coagulated mass, as of blood; a coagulum.	
clotbur	English dialect	The burdock.	
clote	Obsolete	The common burdock; the clotbur.	
cloth		A fabric made of fibrous material (or sometimes of wire, as in wire cloth); commonly, a woven fabric of cotton, woolen, or linen, adapted to be made into garments; specifically, woolen fabrics, as distinguished from all others.	Middle English cloth.
clothe		To put garments on; to cover with clothing; to dress.	Middle English clothen, from Old English claþian.
clothes		Covering for the human body; dress; vestments; vesture; -- a general term for whatever covering is worn, or is made to be worn, for decency or comfort.	
clotheshorse		A frame to hang clothes on.	
clothesline		A rope or wire on which clothes are hung to dry.	
clothespin		A forked piece of wood, or a small spring clamp, used for fastening clothes on a line.	
clothespress		A receptacle for clothes.	
clothier		One who makes cloths; one who dresses or fulls cloth.	
clothing		Garments in general; clothes; dress; raiment; covering.	
clothred	Obsolete	Clottered.	
clotpoll	Obsolete	See Clodpoll — a stupid fellow; a dolt.	
clotted		Composed of clots or clods; having the quality or form of a clot; sticky; slimy; foul.	
clotter	Obsolete	To concrete into lumps; to clot.	
clotty		Full of clots, or clods.	
cloture		See Closure, 5.	
clotweed		Cocklebur.	
cloud		A collection of visible vapor, or watery particles, susponded in the upper atmosphere.	Middle English cloud.
cloud-built		Built of, or in, the clouds; airy; unsubstantial; imaginary.	
cloud-burst		A sudden copious rainfall, as the whole cloud had been precipitated at once.	
cloud-capped		Having clouds resting on the top or head; reaching to the clouds; as, cloud-capped mountains.	
cloud-compeller	Poetic	Cloud-gatherer; -- an epithet applied to Zeus.	
cloudage		Mass of clouds; cloudiness.	
cloudberry		A species of raspberry (Rubus Chamæmerous) growing in the northern regions, and bearing edible, amber-colored fruit.	
cloudily		In a cloudy manner; darkly; obscurely.	
cloudiness		The state of being cloudy.	
clouding		A mottled appearance given to ribbons and silks in the process of dyeing.	
cloudland		Dreamland.	
cloudless		Without a cloud; clear; bright.	
cloudlet		A little cloud.	
cloudy		Overcast or obscured with clouds; clouded; as, a cloudy sky.	
clough		A cleft in a hill; a ravine; a narrow valley.	Old English cloh.
clout		A swadding cloth.	Old English clut.
clouterly	Obsolete	Clumsy; awkward.	
clove		imp. of Cleave — to adhere closely; to stick; to hold fast; to cling.	Dutch kloof.
cloven		from Cleave, v. t.	
cloven-footed		Having the foot or hoof divided into two parts, as the ox.	
cloven-hoofed		Having the foot or hoof divided into two parts, as the ox.	
clover	Colloquial	A plant of differend species of the genus Trifolium; as the common red clover, T. pratense, the white, T. repens, and the hare's foot, T. arvense.	Middle English clovere.
clovered		Covered with growing clover.	
clowe-gilofre	Obsolete	Spice clove.	
clown		A man of coarse nature and manners; an awkward fellow; an illbred person; a boor.	
clownage	Obsolete	Behavior or manners of a clown; clownery.	
clownery		Clownishness.	
clownish		Of or resembling a clown, or characteristic of a clown; ungainly; awkward. -- Clown"ish*ly, adv.	
clownishness		The manners of a clown; coarseness or rudeness of behavior.	
cloy		To glut, or satisfy, as the appetite; to satiate; to fill to loathing; to surfeit. cloy the hungry edge of appetite By bare imagination of a feast Shak.	
cloyless		That does not cloy.	
cloyment	Obsolete	Satiety.	
club		A heavy staff of wood, usually tapering, and wielded the hand; a weapon; a cudgel.	Middle English clubbe, from Old Norse klubba.
club-rush		A rushlike plant, the reed mace or cat-tail, or some species of the genus Scirpus.	
club-shaped		Enlarged gradually at the end, as the antennæ of certain insects.	
clubbable		Suitable for membership in a club; sociable.	
clubbed		Shaped like a club; grasped like, or used as, a club.	
clubber		One who clubs.	
clubbish		Disposed to club together; as, a clubbish set.	
clubbist		A member of a club; a frequenter of clubs.	
clubfist		A large, heavy fist.	
clubfisted		Having a large fist.	
clubfoot		A short, variously distorted foot; also, the deformity, usually congenital, which such a foot exhibits; talipes.	
clubfooted		Having a clubfoot.	
clubhand		A short, distorted hand; also, the deformity of having such a hand.	
clubhaul		To put on the other tack by dropping the lee anchor as soon as the wind is out of the sails (which brings the vessel's head to the wind), and by cutting the cable as soon as she pays off on the other tack.	
clubhouse		A house occupied by a club.	
clubroom		The apartment in which a club meets.	
cluck		To make the noise, or utter the call, of a brooding hen.	Middle English clocken.
clucking		The noise or call of a brooding hen.	
clue		A ball of thread, yarn, or cord; also, The thread itself.	
clum	Obsolete	Silence; hush.	Middle English clum.
clumber		A kind of field spaniel, with short legs and stout body, which, unlike other spaniels, hunts silently.	
clump		An unshaped piece or mass of wood or other substance.	
clumper	Obsolete	To form into clumps or masses.	
clumps		A game in which questions are asked for the purpose of enabling the questioners to discover a word or thing previously selected by two persons who answer the questions…	
clumpy		Composed of clumps; massive; shapeless.	
clumsily		In a clumsy manner; awkwardly; as, to walk clumsily.	
clumsiness		The quality of being clusy.	
clumsy		Without skill or grace; wanting dexterity, nimbleness, or readiness; stiff; awkward, as if benumbed; unwieldy; unhandy; hence; ill-made, misshapen, or inappropriate; as, a clumsy person; a clumsy workman; clumsy fingers…	
clunch		(Mining) Indurated clay. See Bind, n., 3.	
clung	Obsolete	imp. & p. p. of Cling.	
cluniac		A monk of the reformed branch of the Benedictine Order, founded in 912 at Cluny (or Clugny) in France. -- Also used as a.	
cluniacensian		Cluniac.	
clupeoid		Of or pertaining to the Herring family.	
cluster		A number of things of the same kind growing together; a bunch.	Middle English cluster.
clusteringly		In clusters.	
clustery		Growing in, or full of, clusters; like clusters.	
clutch		A gripe or clinching with, or as with, the fingers or claws; seizure; grasp.	Middle English clucchen.
clutter		A confused collection; hence, confusion; disorder; as, the room is in a clutter.	
clydesdale		One of a breed of heavy draft horses originally from Clydesdale, Scotland.	
clypeastroid		Like or related to the genus Clupeaster; -- applied to a group of flattened sea urchins, with a rosette of pores on the upper side.	
clypeate		(Bot.) Shaped like a round buckler or shield; scutate.	
clypeiform		Shield-shaped; clypeate.	
clypeus		The frontal plate of the head of an insect.	
clysmian		Connected with, or related to, the deluge, or to a cataclysm; as, clysmian changes.	
clysmic		Washing; cleansing.	
clyster		A liquid injected into the lower intestines by means of a syringe; an injection; an enema.	Middle French clystere.
