co-		A form of the prefix com-, signifying with, together, in conjunction, joint.	
co-ally		A joint ally.	
co-assessor		A joint assessor.	
co-legatee		A joint legatee.	
co-lessee		A partner in a lease taen.	
co-lessor		A partner in giving a lease.	
co-mate		A companion.	
co-meddle	Obsolete	To mix; to mingle, to temper.	
co-regent		A joint regent or ruler.	
co-relation		Corresponding relation.	
co-religionist		One of the same religion with another.	
co-respondent		One who is called upon to answer a summons or other proceeding jointly with another.	
co-sufferer		One who suffers with another.	
co-une	Obsolete	To combine or unite.	
co-unite	Obsolete	To unite.	
coacervate		Raised into a pile; collected into a crowd; heaped.	Latin coacervatus.
coacervation		A heaping together.	
coach		A large, closed, four-wheeled carriage, having doors in the sides, and generally a front and back seat inside, each for two persons, and an elevated outside seat in front for the driver.	Middle French coche, from German Kutsche, from Hungarian kocsi.
coachbox		The seat of a coachman.	
coachdog		One of a breed of dogs trained to accompany carriages; the Dalmatian dog.	
coachee	Slang	A coachman	
coacher		One who coaches; specif. (Baseball), one of the side at the bat posted near first or third base to direct a base runner.	
coachfellow		One of a pair of horses employed to draw a coach; hence (Fig.), a comrade.	
coachman		A man whose business is to drive a coach or carriage.	
coachmanship		Skill in driving a coach.	
coact	Obsolete	To force; to compel; to drive.	
coaction		Force; compulsion, either in restraining or impelling.	Latin coactio.
coactive		Serving to compel or constrain; compulsory; restrictive.	
coactively		In a coactive manner.	
coactivity		Unity of action.	
coadaptation		Mutual adaption.	
coadapted		Adapted one to another; as, coadapted pulp and tooth.	
coadjument		Mutual help; coöperation.	
coadjust		To adjust by mutual adaptations.	
coadjustment		Mutual adjustment.	
coadjutant		Mutually assisting or operating; helping.	
coadjuting	Obsolete	Mutually assisting.	
coadjutive		Rendering mutual aid; coadjutant.	
coadjutor		One who aids another; an assistant; a coworker.	Old French coadjuteur, from Latin coadiutor.
coadjutorship		The state or office of a coadjutor; joint assistance.	
coadjutress		A female coadjutor or assistant.	
coadjutrix		A female coadjutor or assistant.	
coadjuvancy		Joint help; coöperation.	
coadjuvant		Coöperating.	
coadunate		United at the base, as contiguous lobes of a leaf.	
coadunation		Union, as in one body or mass; unity.	Latin coadunatio.
coadunition		Coadunation.	
coadventure		An adventure in which two or more persons are partakers.	
coadventurer		A fellow adventurer.	
coafforest		To convert into, or add to, a forest.	
coag		See Coak, a kind of tenon.	
coagency		Agency in common; joint agency or agent.	
coagent		An associate in an act; a coworker.	
coagment	Obsolete	To join together.	Latin coagmentare.
coagmentation	Obsolete	The act of joining, or the state of being joined, together; union.	Latin coagmentatio.
coagulability		The quality of being coagulable; capacity of being coagulated.	
coagulable		Capable of being coagulated.	
coagulant		That which produces coagulation.	Latin coagulans.
coagulate	Obsolete	Coagulated.	Latin coagulo.
coagulated		Changed into, or contained in, a coagulum or a curdlike mass; curdled.	
coagulation		The change from a liquid to a thickened, curdlike, insoluble state, not by evaporation, but by some kind of chemical reaction; as, the spontaneous coagulation of freshly drawn blood; the coagulation of milk by rennet, or acid…	
coagulative		Having the power to cause coagulation; as, a coagulative agent.	
coagulator		That which causes coagulation.	
coagulatory		Serving to coagulate; produced by coagulation; as, coagulatory effects.	
coagulum		The thick, curdy precipitate formed by the coagulation of albuminous matter; any mass of coagulated matter, as a clot of bloot.	
coaita		The native name of certain South American monkeys of the genus Ateles, esp. A. paniscus.	
coak		(Carp.) A kind of tenon connecting the face of a scarfed timber with the face of another timber, or a dowel or pin of hard wood or iron uniting timbers.	
coal		A thoroughly charred, and extinguished or still ignited, fragment from wood or other combustible substance; charcoal.	Middle English cole, from Old English col.
coal-black		As black as coal; jet black; very black.	
coal-meter		A licensed or official coal measurer in London. See Meter.	
coal-whipper		One who raises coal out of the hold of a ship.	
coalery		See Colliery — the place where coal is dug; a coal mine, and the buildings, etc., belonging to it.	
coalesce		To grow together; to unite by growth into one body; as, the parts separated by a wound coalesce.	Latin coalesco.
coalescence		The act or state of growing together, as similar parts; the act of uniting by natural affinity or attraction; the state of being united; union; concretion.	
coalescent		Growing together; cohering, as in the organic cohesion of similar parts; uniting.	
coalfish		(a) The pollock; -- called also, coalsey, colemie, colmey, coal whiting, etc. See Pollock.	
coalgoose		The cormorant; -- so called from its black color.	
coalite	Obsolete	To unite or coalesce.	
coalition		The act of coalescing; union into a body or mass, as of separate bodies or parts; as, a coalition of atoms.	French coalition, from Latin coalitus.
coalitioner		A coalitionist.	
coalitionist		One who joins or promotes a coalition; one who advocates coalition.	
coalmouse		A small species of titmouse, with a black head; the coletit.	
coalpit		A pit where coal is dug.	
coalsack		Any one of the spaces in the Milky Way which are very black, owing to the nearly complete absence of stars; esp., the large space near the Southern Cross sometimes called the Black Magellanic Cloud.	
coaltit		A small European titmouse (Parus ater), so named from its black color; -- called also coalmouse and colemouse.	
coaly		Pertaining to, or resembling, coal; containing coal; of the nature of coal.	
coamings		Raised pieces of wood of iron around a hatchway, skylight, or other opening in the deck, to prevent water from running bellow; esp. the fore-and-aft pieces of a hatchway frame as distinguished from the transverse head ledges.	
coannex		To annex with something else.	
coaptation		The adaptation or adjustment of parts to each other, as of a broken bone or dislocated joint.	
coarct	Obsolete	To press together; to crowd; to straiten; to confine closely.	
coarctate	Obsolete	To press together; to crowd; to straiten; to confine closely.	
coarctation		(Med.) A stricture or narrowing, as of a canal, cavity, or orifice.	
coarse		Large in bulk, or composed of large parts or particles; of inferior quality or appearance; not fine in material or close in texture; gross; thick; rough; -- opposed to fine; as, coarse sand; coarse thread; coarse cloth…	
coarse-grained		Having a coarse grain or texture, as wood; hence, wanting in refinement.	
coarsely		In a coarse manner; roughly; rudely; inelegantly; uncivilly; meanly.	
coarsen		To make coarse or vulgar; as, to coarsen one's character.	
coarseness		The quality or state of being coarse; roughness; melegance; vulgarity; grossness; as, coarseness of food, texture, manners, or language.	
coarticulation		The unoin or articulation of bones to form a joint.	
coast		The seashore, or land near it.	
coastal		Of or pertaining to a cast.	
coaster		A vessel employed in sailing along a coast, or engaged in the coasting trade.	
coasting		Sailing along or near a coast, or running between ports along a coast.	
coastways		By way of, or along, the coast.	
coastwise		By way of, or along, the coast.	
coat		An outer garment fitting the upper part of the body; especially, such a garment worn by men.	Middle English coate.
coatee		A coat with short flaps.	
coati		A mammal of tropical America of the genus Nasua, allied to the raccoon, but with a longer body, tail, and nose.	
coating		A coat or covering; a layer of any substance, as a cover or protection; as, the coating of a retort or vial.	
coatless		Not wearing a coat; also, not possessing a coat.	
coax	Obsolete	To persuade by gentle, insinuating courtesy, flattering, or fondling; to wheedle; to soothe.	
coaxation		The act of croaking.	
coaxer		One who coaxes.	
coaxingly		In a coaxing manner; by coaxing.	
cob		The axis on which the kernels of maize or indian corn grow.	
cobaea		A genus of climbing plants, native of Mexico and South America.	
cobalt		(Chem.) A tough, lustrous, reddish white metal of the iron group, not easily fusible, and somewhat magnetic.	German Kobold.
cobaltic		Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, cobalt; -- said especially of those compounds in which cobalt has higher valence; as, cobaltic oxide.	
cobaltiferous		Containing cobalt.	
cobaltine		A mineral of a nearly silver-white color, composed of arsenic, sulphur, and cobalt.	
cobaltite		A mineral of a nearly silver-white color, composed of arsenic, sulphur, and cobalt.	
cobaltous		Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, cobalt; -- said esp. of cobalt compounds in which the metal has its lower valence.	
cobbing		Haughty; purse-proud. See Cob, n.,	
cobble		A fishing boat. See Coble.	
cobbler		A clumsy workman.	
cobblestone		A large pebble; a rounded stone not too large to be handled; a small boulder; -- used for paving streets and for other purposes.	Middle English kobilstane.
cobby	Obsolete	Headstrong; obstinate.	
cobelligerent		Carryng on war in conjunction with another power.	
cobia		An oceanic fish of large size (Elacate canada); the crabeater; -- called also bonito, cubbyyew, coalfish, and sergeant fish.	
cobiron		An andiron with a knob at the top.	
cobishop		A joint or coadjutant bishop.	
coble		A flat-floored fishing boat with a lug sail, and a drop rudder extending from two to four feet below the keel.	
cobnut		(Com.) A large roundish variety of the cultivated hazelnut.	
coboose		See Caboose — (Naut.) A house on deck, where the cooking is done; -- commonly called the galley.	
cobourg		A thin worsted fabric for women's dresses.	
cobra		See Copra — the dried meat of the cocoanut, from which cocoanut oil is expressed.	Portuguese cobra, from Latin colubra.
cobstone	English dialect	Cobblestone.	
cobswan		A large swan.	
cobwall		A wall made of clay mixed with straw.	
cobweb		The network spread by a spider to catch its prey.	
cobwebbed		Abounding in cobwebs.	
cobwebby		Abounding in cobwebs, or any fine web; resembling a cobweb.	
cobwork		Built of logs, etc., laid horizontally, with the ends dovetailed together at the corners, as in a log house; in marine work, often surrounding a central space filled with stones; as, a cobwork dock or breakwater.	
coca		The dried leaf of a South American shrub (Erythroxylon Coca).	Spanish coca, from Quechua cúca.
cocagne		An imaginary country of idleness and luxury.	
cocaine		A powerful alkaloid, C17H21NO4, obtained from the leaves of coca.	Quechua kuka.
cocainism		A morbid condition produced by the habitual and excessive use of cocaine. -- Co*ca"in*ist, n.	
cocainize		To treat or anæsthetize with cocaine. -- Co*ca`in*i*za"tion (#), n.	
cocciferous		Bearing or producing berries; bacciferous; as, cocciferrous trees or plants.	
coccinella		A genus of small beetles of many species.	
coccobacterium		One of the round variety of bacteria, a vegetable organism, generally less than a thousandth of a millimeter in diameter.	
coccolite		A granular variety of pyroxene, green or white in color.	
coccolith		One of a kind of minute, calcareous bodies, probably vegetable, often abundant in deep-sea mud.	
coccosphere		A small, rounded, marine organism, capable of braking up into coccoliths.	
coccosteus		An extinct genus of Devonian ganoid fishes, having the broad plates about the head studded with berrylike tubercles.	
coccus		(Bot.) One of the separable carpels of a dry fruit.	
coccygeal		Of or pertaining to the coccyx; as, the coccygeal vertebræ.	
coccygeous		Coccygeal.	
coccyx		The end of the vertebral column beyond the sacrum in man and tailless monkeys.	Greek κόκκυξ.
cochineal		A dyestuff consisting of the dried bodies of females of the Coccus cacti, an insect native in Mexico, Central America, etc., and found on several species of cactus, esp. Opuntia cochinellifera.	
cochlea		An appendage of the labyrinth of the internal ear, which is elongated and coiled into a spiral in mammals.	Latin cochlea, from Greek κοχλίας.
cochlear		Of or pertaining to the cochlea.	
cochleare		A spoon.	
cochleariform		Spoon-shaped.	
cochleary		Same as Cochleate.	
cochleate		Having the form of a snail shell; spiral; turbinated.	
cochleated		Having the form of a snail shell; spiral; turbinated.	
cock		The male of birds, particulary of gallinaceous or domestic fowls.	Old French coque.
cock-a-hoop		Boastful; defiant; exulting.	
cock-brained		Giddy; rash.	
cock-paddle	Scots	See Lumpfish — a large, thick, clumsy, marine fish (Cyclopterus lumpus) of Europe and America.	
cock-padle	Scots	See Lumpfish — a large, thick, clumsy, marine fish (Cyclopterus lumpus) of Europe and America.	
cockade		A badge, usually in the form of a rosette, or knot, and generally worn upon the hat; -- used as an indication of military or naval service, or party allegiance…	
cockaded		Wearing a cockade.	
cockal	Obsolete	A game played with sheep's bones instead of dice	
cockaleekie		A favorite soup in Scotland, made from a capon highly seasoned, and boiled with leeks and prunes.	
cockamaroo		The Russian variety of bagatelle.	
cockateel		An Australian parrot (Calopsitta Novæ-Hollandiæ); -- so called from its note.	
cockatoo		A bird of the Parrot family, of the subfamily Cacatuinæ, having a short, strong, and much curved beak, and the head ornamented with a crest, which can be raised or depressed at will.	Malay (macrolanguage burung kakaktua.
cockatrice		A fabulous serpent whose breath and look were said to be fatal. See Basilisk.	
cockbill		To tilt up one end of so as to make almost vertical; as, to cockbill the yards as a sign of mourning.	
cockboat		A small boat, esp. one used on rivers or near the shore.	
cockchafer		A beetle of the genus Melolontha (esp. M. vulgaris) and allied genera; -- called also May bug, chafer, or dorbeetle.	
cockcrow		The time at which cooks first crow; the early morning.	
cockcrowing		The time at which cooks first crow; the early morning.	
cocker		Th treat with too great tenderness; to fondle; to indulge; to pamper.	
cockerel		A young cock.	Middle English cockerelle.
cocket		(Eng. Law) A customhouse seal; a certified document given to a shopper as a warrant that his goods have been duly enstered and have paid duty.	
cockeye		A squinting eye.	
cockfight		A match or contest of gamecocks.	
cockfighting		The act or practice of pitting gamecocks to fight.	
cockhead		The rounded or pointed top of a grinding mill spindle, forming a pivot on which the stone is balanced.	
cockhorse		A high or tall horse.	
cockieleekie		Same as Cockaleekie.	
cocking		Cockfighting.	
cockle		(Zoöl.) A bivalve mollusk, with radiating ribs, of the genus Cardium, especially C. edule, used in Europe for food; -- sometimes applied to similar shells of other genera.	Old French coquille.
cocklebur		A coarse, composite weed, having a rough or prickly fruit; one of several species of the genus Xanthium; -- called also clotbur.	
cockled		Inclosed in a shell.	
cockler		One who takes and sells cockles.	
cockleshell		One of the shells or valves of a cockle.	
cockloft		An upper loft; a garret; the highest room in a building.	
cockmaster		One who breeds gamecocks.	
cockmatch		A cockfight.	
cockney		An effeminate person; a spoilt child.	
cockneydom		The region or home of cockneys; cockneys, collectively.	
cockneyfy	Colloquial	To form with the manners or character of a cockney.	
cockneyish		Characteristic of, or resembling, cockneys.	
cockneyism		The charasteristics, manners, or dialect, of a cockney.	
cockpit		A pit, or inclosed area, for cockfights.	
cockroach		An orthopterus insect of the genus Blatta, and allied genera.	Spanish cucaracha.
cockscomb		See Coxcomb — (a) A strip of red cloth notched like the comb of a cock, which licensed jesters formerly wore in their caps.	
cockshead		(Bot.) A leguminous herb (Onobrychis Caput-galli), having small spiny-crested pods.	
cockshut	Obsolete	A kind of net to catch woodcock.	
cockshy		A game in which trinkets are set upon sticks, to be thrown at by the players; -- so called from an ancient popular sport which consisted in or throwing cudgels at live cocks.	
cockspur		A variety of Cratægus, or hawthorn (C.	
cocksure	Obsolete	Perfectly safe.	
cockswain		The steersman of a boat; a petty officer who has charge of a boat and its crew.	
cocktail		A beverage made of brandy, whisky, or gin, iced, flavored, and sweetened.	
cockup		A large, highly esteemed, edible fish of India (Lates calcarifer); -- also called begti.	
cockweed		Peppergrass.	
coco		See Cocoa — a palm tree producing the cocoanut (Cocos nucifera).	
cocoa		A palm tree producing the cocoanut (Cocos nucifera).	
cocoanut		The large, hard-shelled nut of the cocoa palm.	
cocobolas		A very beautiful and hard wood, obtained in the West India Islands.	
cocobolo		A very beautiful and hard wood, obtained in the West India Islands.	
cocoon		An oblong case in which the silkworn lies in its chrysalis state.	French cocon, from Occitan (post 1500 coucoun.
cocoonery		A building or apartment for silkworms, when feeding and forming cocoons.	
coctible		Capable of being cooked.	
coctile		Made by baking, or exposing to heat, as a brick.	Latin coctilis.
coction	Obsolete	(Med.) (a) Digestion. (b) The change which the humorists believed morbific matter undergoes before elimination.	Latin coctio.
cod	Obsolete	A small bag or pouch.	Old English codd.
coda		A few measures added beyond the natural termination of a composition.	Italian coda.
codder	Obsolete	A gatherer of cods or peas.	
codding	Obsolete	Lustful.	
coddle		To treat with excessive tenderness; to pamper.	
coddymoddy		A gull in the plumage of its first year.	
code		A body of law, sanctioned by legislation, in which the rules of law to be specifically applied by the courts are set forth in systematic form; a compilation of laws by public authority; a digest.	French code, from Latin codex.
codefendant		A joint defendant.	
codeine		One of the opium alkaloids; a white crystalline substance, C18H21NO3, similar to and regarded as a derivative of morphine, but much feebler in its action; -- called also codeia.	
codetta		A short passage connecting two sections, but not forming part of either; a short coda.	
codex		An ancient manuscript of the Sacred Scriptures, or any part of them, particularly the New Testament.	Latin codex.
codfish		A kind of fish.	
codger		A miser or mean person.	
codical		Ralating to a codex, or a code.	
codicil		A clause added to a will.	Latin codicillus.
codicillary		Of the nature of a codicil.	
codification		The act or process of codifying or reducing laws to a code.	
codifier		One who codifies.	
codify		To reduce to a code, as laws.	
codilla		The coarse tow of flax and hemp.	
codille		A term at omber, signifying that the game is won.	
codist		A codifier; a maker of codes.	
codle		See Coddle — to treat with excessive tenderness; to pamper.	
codlin		(a) An apple fit to stew or coddle. (b) An immature apple.	
codling		(a) An apple fit to stew or coddle. (b) An immature apple.	
codpiece		A part of male dress in front of the breeches, formerly made very conspicuous.	
coecilian		See Cæcilian.	
coeducation		An educating together, as of persons of different sexes or races.	
coefficacy		Joint efficacy.	
coefficiency		Joint efficiency; coöperation.	
coefficient		Coöperating; acting together to produce an effect.	
coehorn		A small bronze mortar mounted on a wooden block with handles, and light enough to be carried short distances by two men.	
coelacanth		Having hollow spines, as some ganoid fishes.	
coelectron		See Electron — amber; also, the alloy of gold and silver, called electrum.	
coelentera		A comprehensive group of Invertebrata, mostly marine, comprising the Anthozoa, Hydrozoa, and Ctenophora.	
coelenterata		A comprehensive group of Invertebrata, mostly marine, comprising the Anthozoa, Hydrozoa, and Ctenophora.	
coelenterate		Belonging to the Coelentra. -- n.	
coelia		A cavity.	
coeliac		Relating to the abdomen, or to the cavity of the abdomen.	Latin coeliacus, from Greek κοιλιακός.
coelodont		Having hollow teeth; -- said of a group lizards. -- n.	
coelospermous		Hollow-seeded; having the ventral face of the seedlike carpels incurved at the ends, as in coriander seed.	
coelum		See Body cavity, under Body.	
coemption		The act of buying the whole quantity of any commodity.	
coendoo		The Brazilian porcupine (Cercolades, or Sphingurus, prehensiles), remarkable for its prehensile tail.	
coenenchym		The common tissue which unites the polyps or zooids of a compound anthozoan or coral.	
coenenchyma		The common tissue which unites the polyps or zooids of a compound anthozoan or coral.	
coenesthesis		Common sensation or general sensibility, as distinguished from the special sensations which are located in, or ascribed to, separate organs, as the eye and ear.	
coenobite		See Cenobite — one of a religious order, dwelling in a convent, or a community, in opposition to an anchoret, or hermit, who lives in solitude.	
coenoecium		The common tissue which unites the various zooids of a bryozoan.	
coenogamy		The state of a community which permits promiscuous sexual intercourse among its members; -- as in certain primitive tribes or communistic societies.	
coenosarc		The common soft tissue which unites the polyps of a compound hydroid. See Hydroidea.	
coenurus		The larval stage of a tapeworm (Tænia coenurus) which forms bladderlike sacs in the brain of sheep, causing the fatal disease known as water brain, vertigo, staggers or gid.	
coequal		Being on an equality in rank or power. -- n.	
coequality		The state of being on an equality, as in rank or power.	
coequally		With coequality.	
coerce		To restrain by force, especially by law or authority; to repress; to curb.	Latin coercere.
coercible		Capable of being coerced. -- Co*er"ci*ble*ness, n.	
coercion		(Law) The application to another of either physical or moral force.	Latin coercitio.
coercitive		Coercive.	
coercive		Serving or intended to coerce; having power to constrain. -- Co*er cive*ness, n.	
coerulignone		A bluish violet, crystalline substance obtained in the purification of crude wood vinegar.	
coessential		Partaking of the same essence. -- Co`es*sen"tial*ly, adv.	
coessentiality		Participation of the same essence.	
coestablishment		Joint establishment.	
coestate		Joint estate.	
coetanean		A personcoetaneous with another; a contemporary.	
coetaneous		Of the same age; beginning to exist at the same time; contemporaneous. -- Co`e*ta"ne*ous*ly, adv.	Latin coaetaneus.
coeternal		Equally eternal. -- Co`e*ter"nal*ly, adv.	
coeternity		Existence from eternity equally with another eternal being; equal eternity.	
coeval		Of the same age; existing during the same period of time, especially time long and remote; -- usually followed by with.	
coevous	Obsolete	Coeaval South.	
coexecutor		A joint executor.	
coexecutrix		A joint executrix.	
coexist		To exist at the same time; -- sometimes followed by with.	
coexistence		Existence at the same time with another; -- contemporary existence.	
coexistent		Existing at the same time with another. -- n.	
coexisting		Coexistent.	
coextend		To extend through the same space or time with another; to extend to the same degree.	
coextension		The act of extending equally, or the state of being equally extended.	
coextensive		Equally extensive; having as, consciousness and knowledge are coextensive.	
coffee		The "beans" or (pyrenes) obtained from the drupes of a small evergreen tree of the genus Coffea, growing in Abyssinia, Arabia, Persia, and other warm regions of Asia and Africa, and also in tropical America.	Italian caffè, from Turkish kahve, from Arabic قَهْوَة.
coffeehouse		A house of entertainment, where guests are supplied with coffee and other refreshments, and where men meet for conversation.	
coffeeman		One who keeps a coffeehouse.	
coffeepot		A covered pot im which coffee is prepared,	
coffeeroom		A public room where coffee and other refreshments may be obtained.	
coffer		A casket, chest, or trunk; especially, one used for keeping money or other valuables.	Old French cofre, from Latin cophinus, from Greek κόφινος.
cofferdam		A water-tight inclosure, as of piles packed with clay, from which the water is pumped to expose the bottom (of a river, etc.) and permit the laying of foundations, building of piers, etc.	
cofferer		One who keeps treasures in a coffer.	
cofferwork		Rubblework faced with stone.	
coffin		The case in which a dead human body is inclosed for burial.	
coffinless		Having no coffin.	
coffle		A gang of negro slaves being driven to market.	Arabic قافلة.
cog		To seduce, or draw away, by adulation, artifice, or falsehood; to wheedle; to cozen; to cheat.	Old English cogge.
cogency		The quality of being cogent; power of compelling conviction; conclusiveness; force.	
cogenial	Obsolete	Congenial.	
cogent		Having the power to compel conviction or move the will; constraining; conclusive; forcible; powerful; not easily reasisted.	Latin cogens.
cogently		In a cogent manner; forcibly; convincigly; conclusively.	
cogger		A flatterer or deceiver; a sharper.	
coggery		Trick; deception.	
coggle	English dialect	A small fishing boat.	
cogitability		The quality of being cogitable; conceivableness.	
cogitable		Capable of being brought before the mind as a throught or idea; conceivable; thinkable.	Latin cogitabilis.
cogitabund		Full of thought; thoughtful.	
cogitate		To engage in continuous thought; to think.	
cogitation		The act of thinking; thought; meditation; contemplation.	Latin cogitatio.
cogitative		Possessing, or pertaining to, the power of thinking or meditating.	
cogman	Obsolete	A dealer in cogware or coarse cloth.	
cognac		A kind of French brandy, so called from the town of Cognac.	French cognac.
cognate		Allied by blood; kindred by birth; specifically (Law), related on the mother's side.	Latin cognatus.
cognateness		The state of being cognate.	
cognati		Relatives by the mother's side.	
cognation		Relationship by blood; descent from the same original; kindred.	
cognatus		A person cinnected through cognation.	
cognisee		See Cognizor, Cognizee.	
cognisor		See Cognizor, Cognizee.	
cognition		The act of knowing; knowledge; perception.	Middle English cognicion, from Latin cognitio.
cognitive		Knowing, or apprehending by the understanding; as, cognitive power.	Latin cognitus.
cognizable		Capable of being known or apprehended; as, cognizable causes.	
cognizably		In a cognizable manner.	
cognizance		Apprehension by the understanding; perception; observation.	
cognizant		Having cognizance or knowledge. (of).	
cognize		To know or perceive; to recognize.	Latin cognosco.
cognizee		One to whom a fine of land was ackowledged.	
cognizor		One who ackowledged the right of the plaintiff or cognizee in a fine; the defendant.	
cognomen		The last of the three names of a person among the ancient Romans, denoting his house or family.	
cognominal	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to a cognomen; of the nature of a surname.	
cognomination		A cognomen or surname.	Latin cognominatio.
cognoscence		Cognizance.	Latin cognoscentia.
cognoscente		A conoisseur.	
cognoscibility		The quality of being cognoscible.	
cognoscible		Capable of being known.	
cognoscitive	Obsolete	Having the power of knowing.	
cognovit		An instrument in writting whereby a defendant in an action acknowledges a plaintiff's demand to be just.	
cogon		A tall, coarse grass (Imperata arundinacea) of the Philippine Islands and adjacent countries, used for thatching.	Spanish cogón.
coguardian		A joint guardian.	
cogue	Scots	A small wooden vessel; a pail.	
cogware		A coarse, narrow cloth, like frieze, used by the lower classes in the sixteenth century.	
cogwheel		A wheel with cogs or teeth; a gear wheel. See Illust. of Gearing.	
cohabit		To inhabit or reside in company, or in the same place or country.	
cohabitant		One who dwells with another, or in the same place or country.	
cohabitation		The act or state of dwelling together, or in the same place with another.	French cohabitation, from Latin cohabitationem.
cohabiter		A cohabitant.	
coheir		A joint heir; one of two or more heirs; one of several entitled to an inheritance.	
coheiress		A female heir who inherits with other heiresses; a joint heiress.	
coheirship		The state of being a coheir.	
coherald		A joint herald.	
cohere		To stick together; to cleave; to be united; to hold fast, as parts of the same mass.	
coherence		A sticking or cleaving together; union of parts of the same body; cohesion.	Middle French coherence, from Latin cohaerentia.
coherency		A sticking or cleaving together; union of parts of the same body; cohesion.	Latin cohaerentia.
coherent		Sticking together; cleaving; as the parts of bodies; solid or fluid.	Latin cohaerens.
coherently		In a coherent manner.	
coherer		Any device in which an imperfectly conducting contact between pieces of metal or other conductors loosely resting against each other is materially improved in conductivity by the influence of Hertzian waves; -- so called by Sir O.	
cohesibility		The state of being cohesible.	
cohesible		Capable of cohesion.	
cohesion		The act or state of sticking together; close union.	French cohésion, from Latin cohaesionem.
cohesive		Holding the particles of a homogeneous body together; as, cohesive attraction; producing cohesion; as, a cohesive force.	
cohibit	Obsolete	To restrain.	Latin cohibitus.
cohibition	Obsolete	Hindrance; restraint.	Latin cohibitio.
cohobate		To repeat the distillation of, pouring the liquor back upon the matter remaining in the vessel.	
cohobation		The process of cohobating.	
cohorn		See Coehorn — a small bronze mortar mounted on a wooden block with handles, and light enough to be carried short distances by two men.	
cohort		(Bot.) A natural group of orders of plants, less comprehensive than a class.	Latin cohors.
cohosh		A perennial American herb (Caulophyllum thalictroides), whose roostock is used in medicine; -- also called pappoose root.	
cohune		A Central and South American pinnate-leaved palm (Attalea cohune), the very large and hard nuts of which are turned to make fancy articles, and also yield an oil used as a substitute for coconut oil.	
coif		A cap. Specifically: (a) A close-fitting cap covering the sides of the head, like a small hood without a cape.	Middle French coiffer.
coifed		Wearing a coif.	
coiffeur		A hairdresser.	French coiffer.
coiffure		A headdress, or manner of dressing the hair.	
coign		A var. spelling of Coin, Quoin, a corner, wedge; -- chiefly used in the phrase coign of vantage, a position advantageous for action or observation.	Old French coigne, from Latin cuneus.
coigne		A quoin. See you yound coigne of the Capitol yon corner stone Shak.	
coigny		The practice of quartering one's self as landlord on a tenant; a quartering of one's self on anybody.	
coil		To wind cylindrically or spirally; as, to coil a rope when not in use; the snake coiled itself before springing.	Middle French coillir, from Latin colligere.
coilon	Obsolete	A testicle.	
coin		A quoin; a corner or external angle; a wegde. See Coigne, and Quoin.	
coinage		The act or process of converting metal into money.	
coincide		To occupy the same place in space, as two equal triangles, when placed one on the other.	French coïncider, from Latin coincidere.
coincidence		The condition of occupying the same place in space; as, the coincidence of circles, surfaces, etc. Bentley.	
coincidency		Coincidence.	
coincident		Having coincidence; occupying the same place; contemporaneous; concurrent; -- followed by with.	
coincidental		Coincident.	
coincidently		With coincidence.	
coincider		One who coincides with another in an opinion.	
coindication		One of several signs or sumptoms indicating the same fact; as, a coindication of disease.	
coiner		One who makes or stamps coin; a maker of money; -- usually, a maker of counterfeit money.	
coinhabitant		One who dwells with another, or with others.	
coinhere		To inhere or exist together, as in one substance.	
coinheritance		Joint inheritance.	
coinheritor		A coheir.	
coinitial		Having a common beginning.	
coinquinate	Obsolete	Topollute.	
coinquination	Obsolete	Defilement.	
coinstantaneous		Happening at the same instant.	
coinsurance		Insurance jointly with another or others; specif., that system of fire insurance in which the insurer is treated as insuring himself to the extent of that part of the risk not covered by his policy…	
cointense		Equal in intensity or degree; as, the relations between 6 and 12, and 8 and 16, are cointense.	
cointension		The condition of being of equal in intensity; -- applied to relations; as, 3 : 6 and 6 : 12 are relations of cointension.	
coir		A material for cordage, matting, etc., consisting of the prepared fiber of the outer husk of the cocoanut.	Malayalam കയറ്.
coistril		An inferior groom or lad employed by an esquire to carry the knight's arms and other necessaries.	
coit	Obsolete	A quoit.	
coition		A coming together; sexual intercourse; copulation.	Latin coitionem.
cojoin		To join; to conjoin.	
cojuror		One who swears to another's credibility.	
coke		Mineral coal charred, or depriver of its bitumen, sulphur, or other volatile matter by roasting in a kiln or oven, or by distillation, as in gas works.	
cokenay	Obsolete	A cockney.	
cokernut		The cocoanut.	
cokes	Obsolete	A simpleton; a gull; a dupe.	
cokewold	Obsolete	Cuckold.	
col		- (with, together. See Com-.	French col, from Latin collum.
col-		- (with, together. See Com-.	
cola		(a) A genus of sterculiaceous trees, natives of tropical Africa, esp. Guinea, but now naturalized in tropical America, esp. in the West Indies and Brazil.	
colaborer		One who labors with another; an associate in labor.	
colander		A utensil with a bottom perforated with little holes for straining liquids, mashed vegetable pulp, etc.; a strainer of wickerwork, perfprated metal, or the like.	
colation		The act or process of straining or filtering.	
colatitude		The complement of the latitude, or the difference between any latitude and ninety degrees.	
colature		The process of straining; the matter strained; a strainer.	
colbertine	Obsolete	A kind of lace.	
colchicine		A powerful vegetable alkaloid, C17H19NO5, extracted from the Colchicum autumnale, or meadow saffron, as a white or yellowish amorphous powder, with a harsh, bitter taste; -- called also colchicia.	
colchicum		A genus of bulbous-rooted plants found in many parts of Europe, including the meadow saffron.	
colcothar		Polishing rouge; a reddish brown oxide of iron, used in polishing glass, and also as a pigment; -- called also crocus Martis.	Arabic qolqotar.
cold		Deprived of heat, or having a low temperature; not warm or hot; gelid; frigid.	Old English cald.
cold-blooded		Having cold blood; -- said of fish or animals whose blood is but little warmer than the water or air about them.	
cold-hearted		Wanting passion or feeling; indifferent. -- Cold"-heart`ed*ness, n.	
cold-short		Brittle when cold; as, cold-short iron.	
cold-shut		Closed while too cold to become thoroughly welded; -- said of a forging or casting. -- n.	
coldfinch		A British wagtail.	
coldish		Somewhat cold; cool; chilly.	
coldly		In a cold manner; without warmth, animation, or feeling; with indifference; calmly.	
coldness		The state or quality of being cold.	
cole		A plant of the Brassica or Cabbage genus; esp. that form of B. oleracea called rape and coleseed.	
colegoose		See Coalgoose — the cormorant; -- so called from its black color.	
colemanite		A hydrous borate of lime occurring in transparent colorless or white crystals, also massive, in Southern California.	
colemouse		See Coletit — a small European titmouse (Parus ater), so named from its black color; -- called also coalmouse and colemouse.	
coleopter		One of the Coleoptera.	
coleoptera		An order of insects having the anterior pair of wings (elytra) hard and horny, and serving as coverings for the posterior pair, which are membranous, and folded transversely under the others when not in use.	
coleopteral		Having wings covered with a case or sheath; belonging to the Coleoptera.	
coleopteran		One of the order of Coleoptera.	
coleopterist		One versed in the study of the Coleoptera.	
coleopterous		Having wings covered with a case or sheath; belonging to the Coleoptera.	
coleorhiza		A sheath in the embryo of grasses, inclosing the caulicle.	
coleperch		A kind of small black perch.	
colera	Obsolete	Bile; choler.	
coleridgian		Pertaining to Samuel Taylor Coleridge, or to his poetry or metaphysics.	
coleseed		The common rape or cole.	
coleslaw		A salad made of sliced cabbage.	Dutch koolsla.
colestaff		See Colstaff — a staff by means of which a burden is borne by two persons on their shoulders.	
colet	Obsolete	An inferior church servant. See Acolyte.	
coletit		A small European titmouse (Parus ater), so named from its black color; -- called also coalmouse and colemouse.	
coleus		A plant of several species of the Mint family, cultivated for its bright-colored or variegated leaves.	
colewort		A variety of cabbage in which the leaves never form a compact head.	
colfox	Obsolete	A crafty fox.	
colic		A severe paroxysmal pain in the abdomen, due to spasm, obstruction, or distention of some one of the hollow viscera.	
colical		Of, pertaining to, or of the nature of, colic.	
colicky		Pertaining to, or troubled with, colic; as, a colicky disorder.	
colicroot		A bitter American herb of the Bloodwort family, with the leaves all radical, and the small yellow or white flowers in a long spike (Aletris farinosa and A. aurea).	
colin		The American quail or bobwhite.	
coliseum		The amphitheater of Vespasian at Rome, the largest in the world.	
colitis		An inflammation of the large intestine, esp. of its mucous membrane; colonitis.	
coll	Obsolete	To embrace.	French coler.
collaborateur		See Collaborator — an associate in labor, especially in literary or scientific labor.	
collaboration		The act ofworking together; united labor.	
collaborator		An associate in labor, especially in literary or scientific labor.	French collaborateur.
collagen		The chemical basis of ordinary connective tissue, as of tendons or sinews and of bone.	
collagenous		Containing or resembling collagen.	
collapse		To fall together suddenly, as the sides of a hollow vessel; to close by falling or shrinking together; to have the sides or parts of (a thing) fall in together, or be crushed in together; as…	Latin collapsus.
collapsion		Collapse.	Latin collapsio.
collar		Something worn round the neck, whether for use, ornament, restraint, or identification; as, the collar of a coat; a lady's collar; the collar of a dog.	Middle English coler, from Old French coler, from Latin collare.
collards	Colloquial	Young cabbage, used as; esp. a kind cultivated for that purpose; colewort.	
collared		(Her.) Wearing a collar; -- said of a man or beast used as a bearing when a collar is represented as worn around the neck or loins.	
collaret		A small collar; specif., a woman's collar of lace, fur, or other fancy material.	
collarette		A small collar; specif., a woman's collar of lace, fur, or other fancy material.	French collerette.
collatable		Capable of being collated.	
collate		To compare critically, as books or manuscripts, in order to note the points of agreement or disagreement.	Latin collatum.
collateral		Coming from, being on, or directed toward, the side; as, collateral pressure.	
collaterally		Side by side; by the side.	
collateralness		The state of being collateral.	
collation		The act of collating or comparing; a comparison of one copy er thing (as of a book, or manuscript) with another of a like kind; comparison, in general.	Old French collation, from Latin collationem.
collationer		One who examines the sheets of a book that has just been printed, to ascertain whether they are correctly printed, paged, etc.	
collatitious	Obsolete	Brought together; contributed; done by contributions.	Latin collatitius.
collative		Passing or held by collation; -- said of livings of which the bishop and the patron are the same person.	
collator		One who collates manuscripts, books, etc. Addison.	
collaud	Obsolete	To join in praising.	
colleague		A partner or associate in some civil or ecclesiastical office or employment.	Old French collegue, from Latin collega.
colleagueship		Partnership in office.	
collect		To gather into one body or place; to assemble or bring together; to obtain by gathering.	Middle English collecten, from Old French collecter, from Latin collectare.
collectanea		Passages selected from various authors, usually for purposes of instruction; miscellany; anthology.	
collected		Gathered together.	
collectedly		Composedly; coolly.	
collectedness		A collected state of the mind; self-possession.	
collectible		Capable of being collected.	
collection		The act or process of collecting or of gathering; as, the collection of specimens.	
collectional		Of or pertaining to collecting.	
collective		Formed by gathering or collecting; gathered into a mass, sum, or body; congregated or aggregated; as, the collective body of a nation.	Latin collectivus.
collectively		In a mass, or body; in a collected state; in the aggregate; unitedly.	
collectiveness		A state of union; mass.	
collectivism		The doctrine that land and capital should be owned by society collectively or as a whole; communism.	
collectivist		An advocate of collectivism. -- a.	
collectivity		Quality or state of being collective.	
collector		One who collects things which are separate; esp., one who makes a business or practice of collecting works of art, objects in natural history, etc.; as, a collector of coins.	
collectorate		The district of a collector of customs; a collectorship.	
collectorship		The office of a collector of customs or of taxes.	
colleen		A girl; a maiden.	
collegatary		A joint legatee.	
college		A collection, body, or society of persons engaged in common pursuits, or having common duties and interests, and sometimes, by charter, peculiar rights and privileges; as, a college of heralds; a college of electors…	Old French college, from Latin collegium.
collegial		Collegiate.	
collegian		A member of a college, particularly of a literary institution so called; a student in a college.	
collegiate		Of or pertaining to a college; as, collegiate studies; a collegiate society.	Latin collegiatus.
collembola		The division of Thysanura which includes Podura, and allied forms.	
collenchyma		A tissue of vegetable cells which are thickend at the angles and (usually) elongated.	
collet		A small collar or neckband.	
colleterial		Of or pertaining to the colleterium of insects.	
colleterium		An organ of female insects, containing a cement to unite the ejected ova.	
colletic		Agglutinant. -- n.	
colley		See Collie — the scotch shepherd dog.	
collide	Obsolete	To strike or dash against each other; to come into collision; to clash; as, the vessels collided; their interests collided.	Latin collidere.
collidine		One of a class of organic bases, C8H11N, usually pungent oily liquids, belonging to the pyridine series, and obtained from bone oil, coal tar, naphtha, and certain alkaloids.	
collie		The Scotch shepherd dog.	
collied		Darkened. See Colly, v. t.	
collier		One engaged in the business of digging mineral coal or making charcoal, or in transporting or dealing in coal.	Middle English colier.
colliery		The place where coal is dug; a coal mine, and the buildings, etc., belonging to it.	
colliflower		See Cauliflower — (Bot.) An annual variety of Brassica oleracea, or cabbage of which the cluster of young flower stalks and buds is eaten as a vegetable.	
colligate		To tie or bind together.	
colligation		A binding together.	Latin colligatio.
collimate		To render parallel to a certain line or direction; to bring into the same line, as the axes of telescopes, etc.; to render parallel, as rays of light.	
collimation		The act of collimating; the adjustment of the line of the sights, as the axial line of the telescope of an instrument, into its proper position relative to the other parts of the instrument.	
collimator		(Astron.) A telescope arranged and used to determine errors of collimation, both vertical and horizontal.	
collin		A very pure form of gelatin.	Greek κόλλα.
colline	Obsolete	A small hill or mount.	French colline, from Italian collina.
collineation		The act of aiming at, or directing in a line with, a fixed object.	
colling	Obsolete	An embrace; dalliance.	
collingly	Obsolete	With embraces.	
collingual		Having, or pertaining to, the same language.	
colliquable	Obsolete	Liable to melt, grow soft, or become fluid.	
colliquament		The first rudiments of an embryo in generation.	
colliquate	Obsolete	To change from solid to fluid; to make or become liquid; to melt.	
colliquation		A melting together; the act of melting; fusion.	
colliquative		Causing rapid waste or exhaustion; melting; as, collequative sweats.	
colliquefaction		A melting together; the reduction of different bodies into one mass by fusion.	
collish		A tool to polish the edge of a sole.	
collision		The act of striking together; a striking together, as of two hard bodies; a violent meeting, as of railroad trains; a clashing.	Latin collisio.
collisive	Obsolete	Colliding; clashing.	
collitigant	Obsolete	Disputing or wrangling. -- n.	
collocate	Obsolete	Set; placed.	
collocation		The act of placing; the state of being placed with something else; disposition in place; arrangement.	
collocution		A speaking or conversing together; conference; mutual discourse.	
collocutor		One of the speakers in a dialogue.	
collodion		A solution of pyroxylin (soluble gun cotton) in ether containing a varying proportion of alcohol.	
collodionize		To prepare or treat with collodion.	
collodiotype		A picture obtained by the collodion process; a melanotype or ambrotype.	
collodium		See Collodion — a solution of pyroxylin (soluble gun cotton) in ether containing a varying proportion of alcohol.	
collogue	Archaic or colloq	To talk or confer secretly and confidentially; to converse, especially with evil intentions; to plot mischief.	
colloid		Resembling glue or jelly; characterized by a jellylike appearance; gelatinous; as, colloid tumors.	
colloidal		Pertaining to, or of the nature of, colloids.	
colloidality		The state or quality of being colloidal.	
collop		A small slice of meat; a piece of flesh.	
colloped		Having ridges or bunches of flesh, like collops.	
collophore		(a) A suckerlike organ at the base of the abdomen of insects belonging to the Collembola.	
colloquial		Pertaining to, or used in, conversation, esp. common and familiar conversation; conversational; hence, unstudied; informal; as, colloquial intercourse; colloquial phrases; a colloquial style. -- Col*lo"qui*al*ly, adv.	
colloquialism		A colloquial expression, not employed in formal discourse or writing.	
colloquialize		To make colloquial and familiar; as, to colloquialize one's style of writing.	
colloquist		A speaker in a colloquy or dialogue.	
colloquy		Mutual discourse of two or more persons; conference; conversation.	
collotype		A photomechanical print made directly from a hardened film of gelatin or other colloid; also, the process of making such prints.	
collow	Obsolete	Soot; smut. See 1st Colly.	
colluctancy	Obsolete	A struggling to resist; a striving against; resistance; opposition of nature.	
colluctation	Obsolete	A struggling; a contention.	
collude		To have secretly a joint part or share in an action; to play into each other's hands; to conspire; to act in concert.	
colluder		One who conspires in a fraud.	
collum		(Anat.) A neck or cervix.	
collusion		A secret agreement and cooperation for a fraudulent or deceitful purpose; a playing into each other's hands; deceit; fraud; cunning.	
collusive		Characterized by collusion; done or planned in collusion.	
collusory		Collusive.	Latin collusorius.
collutory		A medicated wash for the mouth.	Latin colluere.
colluvies		A collection or gathering, as of pus, or rubbish, or odds and ends.	
colly	Obsolete	The black grime or soot of coal.	
collybist	Obsolete	A money changer.	
collyrium		An application to the eye, usually an eyewater.	Latin collyrium, from Greek κολλύριον.
coloboma		A defect or malformation; esp., a fissure of the iris supposed to be a persistent embryonic cleft.	
colocolo		A South American wild cat (Felis colocolo), of the size of the ocelot.	Spanish colocolo, from Mapudungun Colo Colo.
colocynth		The light spongy pulp of the fruit of the bitter cucumber (Citrullus, or Cucumis, colocynthis), an Asiatic plant allied to the watermelon; coloquintida.	
colocynthin		The active medicinal principle of colocynth; a bitter, yellow, crystalline substance, regarded as a glucoside.	
cologne		A perfumed liquid, composed of alcohol and certain aromatic oils, used in the toilet; -- called also cologne water and eau de cologne.	
colombier		A large size of paper for drawings. See under Paper.	
colombin		See Calumbin — a bitter principle extracted as a white crystalline substance from the calumba root.	
colombo		See Calumba — the root of a plant (Jateorrhiza Calumba, and probably Cocculus palmatus), indigenous in Mozambique.	
colon		(Anat.) That part of the large intestines which extends from the cæcum to the rectum.	Latin colon, from Greek κόλον.
colonel		The chief officer of a regiment; an officer ranking next above a lieutenant colonel and next below a brigadier general.	
colonelcy		The office, rank, or commission of a colonel.	
colonelship		Colonelcy.	
coloner	Obsolete	A colonist.	
colonial		Of or pertaining to a colony; as, colonial rights, traffic, wars.	
colonialism		The state or quality of, or the relationship involved in, being colonial.	
colonical	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to husbandmen.	
colonist		A member or inhabitant of a colony.	
colonitis		See Colitis — an inflammation of the large intestine, esp. of its mucous membrane; colonitis.	
colonization		Tha act of colonizing, or the state of being colonized; the formation of a colony or colonies.	
colonizationist		A friend to colonization, esp. (U.	
colonize		To plant or establish a colony or colonies in; to people with colonists; to migrate to and settle in.	
colonizer		One who promotes or establishes a colony; a colonist.	
colonnade		A series or range of columns placed at regular intervals with all the adjuncts, as entablature, stylobate, roof, etc.	French colonnade.
colony		A company of people transplanted from their mother country to a remote province or country, and remaining subject to the jurisdiction of the parent state; as, the British colonies in America.	Latin colonia.
colophany		See Colophony.	
colophene		A colorless, oily liquid, formerly obtained by distillation of colophony.	
colophon		An inscription, monogram, or cipher, containing the place and date of publication, printer's name, etc., formerly placed on the last page of a book.	Greek κολοφών.
colophonite		A coarsely granular variety of garnet.	
coloquintida		See Colocynth — the light spongy pulp of the fruit of the bitter cucumber (Citrullus, or Cucumis, colocynthis), an Asiatic plant allied to the watermelon; coloquintida.	
color		A property depending on the relations of light to the eye, by which individual and specific differences in the hues and tints of objects are apprehended in vision; as, gay colors; sad colors, etc.	Middle English color, from Anglo-Norman colur, from Old French colour.
color-blind		Affected with color blindness. See Color blindness, under Color, n.	
colorable		Specious; plausible; having an appearance of right or justice.	
coloradoite		Mercury telluride, an iron-black metallic mineral, found in Colorado.	
colorate	Obsolete	Colored.	Latin coloratus.
coloration		The act or art of coloring; the state of being colored.	
colorature		Vocal music colored, as it were, by florid ornaments, runs, or rapid passages.	
colored		Having color; tinged; dyed; painted; stained.	
colorific		Capable of communicating color or tint to other bodies.	
colorimeter		An instrument for measuring the depth of the color of anything, especially of a liquid, by comparison with a standard liquid.	
colorimetry		The quantitative determination of the depth of color of a substance.	
coloring		The act of applying color to; also, that which produces color.	
colorist		One who colors; an artist who excels in the use of colors; one to whom coloring is of prime importance.	
colorless		Without color; not distinguished by any hue; transparent; as, colorless water.	
colorman		A vender of paints, etc. Simmonds.	
colossal		Of enormous size; gigantic; huge; as, a colossal statue.	French colossal.
colossean		Colossal.	
colosseum		The amphitheater of Vespasian in Rome.	Latin Colosseum.
colossus		A statue of gigantic size.	Latin colossus, from Greek κολοσσός.
colostrum		(a) The first milk secreted after delivery; biestings. (b) A mixture of turpentine and the yolk of an egg, formerly used as an emulsion.	Latin colostrum.
colotomy		An operation for opening the colon	
colour		See Color — a property depending on the relations of light to the eye, by which individual and specific differences in the hues and tints of objects are apprehended in vision; as, gay colors…	Middle English color, from Anglo-Norman colur, from Old French colour.
colp		See Collop — a small slice of meat; a piece of flesh.	
colportage		The distribution of religious books, tracts, etc., by colporteurs.	
colporter		Same as Colporteur.	
colporteur		A hawker; specifically, one who travels about selling and distributing religious tracts and books.	French colporteur.
colstaff		A staff by means of which a burden is borne by two persons on their shoulders.	
colt		The young of the equine genus or horse kind of animals; -- sometimes distinctively applied to the male, filly being the female.	
colter		A knife or cutter, attached to the beam of a plow to cut the sward, in advance of the plowshare and moldboard.	Old English culter, from Latin culter.
coltish		Like a colt; wanton; frisky.	
coltsfoot		A perennial herb (Tussilago Farfara), whose leaves and rootstock are sometimes employed in medicine.	
coluber		A genus of harmless serpents.	
colubrine		(Zoöl.) like or related to snakes of the genus Coluber.	Latin colubrinus.
colugo		A peculiar East Indian mammal (Galleopithecus volans), having along the sides, connecting the fore and hind limbs, a parachutelike membrane, by means of which it is able to make long leaps, like the flying squirrel…	
columba		See Calumba — the root of a plant (Jateorrhiza Calumba, and probably Cocculus palmatus), indigenous in Mozambique.	
columbae		An order of birds, including the pigeons.	
columbarium		(a) A dovecote or pigeon house. (b) A sepulchral chamber with niches for holding cinerary urns.	
columbary		A dovecote; a pigeon house.	Latin columbarium.
columbate		A salt of columbic acid; a niobate. See Columbium.	
columbella		A genus of univale shells, abundant in tropical seas.	
columbia		America; the United States; -- a poetical appellation given in honor of Columbus, the discoverer.	
columbiad		A form of seacoast cannon; a long, chambered gun designed for throwing shot or shells with heavy charges of powder, at high angles of elevation.	
columbian		Of or pertaining to the United States, or to America.	
columbic		Pertaining to, or containing, columbium or niobium; niobic.	
columbier		See Colombier — a large size of paper for drawings. See under Paper.	
columbiferous		Producing or containing columbium.	
columbin		A white, crystalline, bitter substance. See Calumbin.	
columbine		Of or pertaining to a dove; dovelike; dove-colored.	Old French columbin, from Latin columbinus.
columbite		A mineral of a black color, submetallic luster, and high specific specific gravity.	
columbium		A rare element of the vanadium group, first found in a variety of the mineral columbite occurring in Connecticut, probably at Haddam.	
columbo		See Calumba — the root of a plant (Jateorrhiza Calumba, and probably Cocculus palmatus), indigenous in Mozambique.	
columella		(Bot.) (a) An axis to which a carpel of a compound pistil may be attached, as in the case of the geranium; or which is left when a pod opens.	Latin columella.
columelliform		Shaped like a little column, or columella.	
column		(Arch.) A kind of pillar; a cylindrical or polygonal support for a roof, ceiling, statue, etc., somewhat ornamented, and usually composed of base, shaft, and capital.	Middle English columne.
columnar		Formed in columns; having the form of a column or columns; like the shaft of a column.	
columnarity		The state or quality of being columnar.	
columnated		Having columns; as, columnated temples.	
columned		Having columns.	
columniation		The employment or arrangement of columns in a structure.	
colure		One of two great circles intersecting at right angles in the poles of the equator.	
coly		Any bird of the genus Colius and allied genera.	
colza		A variety of cabbage (Brassica oleracea), cultivated for its seeds, which yield an oil valued for illuminating and lubricating purposes; summer rape.	Dutch koolzaad.
com-		A prefix from the Latin preposition cum, signifying with, together, in conjunction, very, etc. It is used in the form com- before b, m, p, and sometimes f, and by assimilation becomes col- before l, cor- before r…	Latin com.
coma		A state of profound insensibility from which it is difficult or impossible to rouse a person.	Greek κῶμα.
comanches		A warlike, savage, and nomadic tribe of the Shoshone family of Indians, inhabiting Mexico and the adjacent parts of the United States; -- called also Paducahs.	
comart	Obsolete	A covenant.	
comate		Encompassed with a coma, or bushy appearance, like hair; hairy.	
comatose		Relating to, or resembling, coma; drowsy; lethargic; as, comatose sleep; comatose fever.	
comatous		Comatose.	
comatula		A crinoid of the genus Antedon and related genera.	
comatulid		Any crinoid of the genus Antedon or allied genera.	
comb		An instrument with teeth, for straightening, cleansing, and adjusting the hair, or for keeping it in place.	
comb-shaped		Pectinate.	
combat		To struggle or contend, as with an opposing force; to fight.	
combatable		Such as can be, or is liable to be, combated; as, combatable foes, evils, or arguments.	
combatant		Contending; disposed to contend.	
combater		One who combats.	
combativeness		The quality of being combative; propensity to contend or to quarrel.	
combattant		In the position of fighting; -- said of two lions set face to face, each rampant.	
combbroach		A tooth of a wool comb.	
combe		That unwatered portion of a valley which forms its continuation beyond and above the most elevated spring that issues into it.	Old English cumb.
comber		One who combs; one whose occupation it is to comb wool, flax, etc. Also, a machine for combing wool, flax, etc.	
combinable		Capable of combinding; consistent with.	
combinate		United; joined; betrothed.	
combination		The act or process of combining or uniting persons and things.	
combine		To unite or join; to link closely together; to bring into harmonious union; to cause or unite so as to form a homogeneous, as by chemical union.	Middle French combiner, from Latin combinare.
combined		United closely; confederated; chemically united.	
combinedly		; jointly.	
combiner		One who, or that which, combines.	
combing		The act or process of using a comb or a number of combs; as, the combing of one's hair; the combing of wool.	
combless		Without a comb or crest; as, a combless ceck.	
comboloio		A Mohammedan rosary, consisting of ninety-nine beads.	
combust	Obsolete	Burnt; consumed.	Latin combūstus.
combustibility		The quality of being combustible.	
combustible		Capable of taking fire and burning; apt to catch fire; inflammable.	
combustibleness		Combustibility.	
combustion		(Chem.) The combination of a combustible with a supporter of combustion, producing heat, and sometimes both light and heat.	Old French combustion, from Latin combustio.
combustious	Obsolete	Inflammable.	
come		To move hitherward; to draw near; to approach the speaker, or some place or person indicated; -- opposed to go.	Middle English comen.
come-along		A gripping device, as for stretching wire, etc., consisting of two jaws so attached to a ring that they are closed by pulling on the ring.	
come-outer	Colloquial	One who comes out or withdraws from a religious or other organization; a radical reformer.	
comedian		An actor or player in comedy.	Greek κωμῳδία.
comedienne		A women who plays in comedy.	French comédienne.
comedietta		A dramatic sketch; a brief comedy.	
comedo		A small nodule or cystic tumor, common on the nose, etc., which on pressure allows the escape of a yellow wormlike mass of retained oily secretion, with a black head (dirt).	Latin comedo.
comedown	Colloquial	A downfall; an humillation.	
comedy		A dramatic composition, or representation of a bright and amusing character, based upon the foibles of individuals, the manners of society, or the ludicrous events or accidents of life…	
comelily		In a suitable or becoming manner.	
comeliness		The quality or state of being comely.	
comely		Pleasing or agreeable to the sight; well-proportioned; good- looking; handsome.	Old English cymlic.
comer		One who comes, or who has come; one who has arrived, and is present.	
comes		The answer to the theme (dux) in a fugue.	
comessation	Obsolete	A reveling; a rioting.	
comestible		Suitable to be eaten; eatable; esculent.	French comestible.
comet		A member of the solar system which usually moves in an elongated orbit, approaching very near to the sun in its perihelion, and receding to a very great distance from it at its aphelion.	Old French comete, from Latin cometes, from Greek κομήτης.
comet-finder		A telescope of low power, having a large field of view, used for finding comets.	
comet-seeker		A telescope of low power, having a large field of view, used for finding comets.	
cometarium		An instrument, intended to represent the revolution of a comet round the sun.	
cometary		Pertaining to, or resembling, a comet.	
comether		Matter; affair.	
cometic		Relating to a comet.	
cometographer		One who describes or writes about comets.	
cometography		A description of, or a treatise concerning, comets.	
cometology		The department of astronomy relating to comets.	
comfit		A dry sweetmeat; any kind of fruit, root, or seed preserved with sugar and dried; a confection.	
comfiture		See Comfit, n.	French confiture, from Latin confectura.
comfort		To impart strength and hope to; to encourage; to relieve; to console; to cheer, Light excelleth in comforting the spirits of men.	Old French conforter, from Latin confortare.
comfortable		Affording or imparting comfort or consolation; able to comfort; cheering; as, a comfortable hope.	
comfortableness		State of being comfortable or comforting manner.	
comfortably		In a comfortable or comforting manner.	
comforter		One who administers comfort or consolation.	
comfortless		Without comfort or comforts; in want or distress; cheerless.	
comfortment	Obsolete	Act or process of administering comfort.	
comfortress		A woman who comforts.	
comfrey		A rough, hairy, perennial plant of several species, of the genus Symphytum.	
comic		Relating to comedy, as distinct from tragedy.	Latin comicus, from Greek κωμικός.
comical		Exciting mirth; droll; laughable; as, a comical story. -- Humorous; laughable; funny.	
comicality		The quality of being comical; something comical.	
comicry		The power of exciting mirth; comicalness.	
coming		Approaching; of the future, especially the near future; the next; as, the coming week or year; the coming exhibition.	
comitia		A public assembly of the Roman people for electing officers or passing laws.	Latin comitium.
comitial		Relating to the comitia, or popular assembles of the Romans for electing officers and passing laws.	
comitiva		A body of followers; -- applied to the lawless or brigand bands in Italy and Sicily.	
comity		Mildness and suavity of manners; courtesy between equals; friendly equals; friendly civility; as, comity of manners; the comity of States.	Latin comitas.
comma		A character or point marking the smallest divisions of a sentence, written or printed.	Latin comma, from Greek κόμμα.
command		To order with authority; to lay injunction upon; to direct; to bid; to charge.	Old French comander.
commandable		Capable of being commanded.	
commandant		A commander; the commanding officer of a place, or of a body of men; as, the commandant of a navy-yard.	
commandatory	Obsolete	Mandatory; as, commandatory authority.	
commandeer		(Mil.) To compel to perform military service; to seize for military purposes; -- orig. used of the Boers.	
commander		A chief; one who has supreme authority; a leader; the chief officer of an army, or of any division of it.	
commandership		The office of a commander.	
commandery		A district or a manor with lands and tenements appertaining thereto, under the control of a member of an order of knights who was called a commander; -- called also a preceptory.	
commanding		Exercising authority; actually in command; as, a commanding officer.	
commandingly		In a commanding manner.	
commandment		An order or injunction given by authority; a command; a charge; a precept; a mandate.	
commando		In South Africa, a military body or command; also, sometimes, an expedition or raid; as, a commando of a hundred Boers.	Afrikaans kommando, from Portuguese comando.
commandress		A woman invested with authority to command.	
commandry		See Commandery — a district or a manor with lands and tenements appertaining thereto, under the control of a member of an order of knights who was called a commander; -- called also a preceptory.	
commark	Obsolete	The frontier of a country; confines.	
commaterial	Obsolete	Consisting of the same material.	
commatic		Having short clauses or sentences; brief; concise.	Latin commaticus.
commatism		Conciseness in writing.	
commeasurable		Having the same measure; commensurate; proportional.	
commeasure		To be commensurate with; to equal.	
commemorable		Worthy to be commemorated.	Latin commemorabilis.
commemorate		To call to remembrance by a special act or observance; to celebrate with honor and solemnity; to honor, as a person or event, by some act of respect of affection, intended to preserve the remembrance of the person or event; as…	
commemoration		The act of commemorating; an observance or celebration designed to honor the memory of some person or event.	
commemorative		Tending or intended to commemorate.	
commemorator		One who commemorates.	
commemoratory		Serving to commemorate; commomerative.	
commence	Archaic	To begin to be, or to act as. We commence judges ourselves.	Old French commencer.
commencement		The first existence of anything; act or fact of commencing; rise; origin; beginnig; start.	French commencement, from Old French comencement.
commend		To commit, intrust, or give in charge for care or preservation.	Latin commendare.
commendable		Worthy of being commended or praised; laudable; praiseworthy.	Latin commendabilis.
commendam		A vacant living or benefice commended to a cleric (usually a bishop) who enjoyed the revenue until a pastor was provided.	
commendatary		One who holds a living in commendam.	
commendation		The act of commending; praise; favorable representation in words; recommendation.	
commendator		One who holds a benefice in commendam; a commendatary.	
commendatory		Serving to commend; containing praise or commendation; commending; praising.	
commender		One who commends or praises.	
commensal		(Zoöl.) An animal, not truly parasitic, which lives in with, or on, another, partaking usually of the same food.	Latin commensalis.
commensalism		The act of eating together; table fellowship.	
commensality	Obsolete	Fellowship at table; the act or practice of eating at the same table.	Latin commensalis.
commensation	Obsolete	Commensality.	
commensurability		The quality of being commersurable.	French commensurabilité.
commensurable		Having a common measure; capable of being exactly measured by the same number, quantity, or measure. -- Com*men"su*ra*ble*ness, n.	
commensurably		In a commensurable manner; so as to be commensurable.	
commensurate		To reduce to a common measure.	
commensurately		In a commensurate manner; so as to be equal or proportionate; adequately.	
commensurateness		The state or quality of being commensurate.	
commensuration		The act of commensurating; the state of being commensurate.	
comment		A remark, observation, or criticism; gossip; discourse; talk.	Latin commentum.
commentary		A series of comments or annotations; esp., a book of explanations or expositions on the whole or a part of the Scriptures or of some other work.	Latin commentarius.
commentate		To write comments or notes upon; to make comments.	
commentation		The act or process of commenting or criticising; exposition.	
commentator		One who writes a commentary or comments; an expositor; an annotator.	
commentatorial		Pertaining to the making of commentaries.	
commentatorship		The office or occupation of a commentator.	
commenter		One who makes or writes comments; a commentator; an annotator.	
commentitious	Obsolete	Fictitious or imaginary; unreal; as, a commentitious system of religion.	Latin commenticius.
commerce		The exchange or buying and selling of commodities; esp. the exchange of merchandise, on a large scale, between different places or communities; extended trade or traffic.	French commerce, from Middle French commerce, from Latin commercium.
commercial		Of or pertaining to commerce; carrying on or occupied with commerce or trade; mercantile; as, commercial advantages; commercial relations.	
commercialism		The commercial spirit or method.	
commercially		In a commercial manner.	
commigrate		To migrate together.	Latin commigrare.
commigration		Migration together.	Latin commigratio.
commination		An office in the liturgy of the Church of England, used on Ash Wednesday, containing a recital of God's anger and judgments against sinners.	
comminatory		Threatening or denouncing punishment; as, comminatory terms.	
commingle		To mingle together; to mix in one mass, or intimately; to blend.	
commingler		One that commingles; specif., a device for noiseless heating of water by steam, in a vessel filled with a porous mass, as of pebbles.	
comminute		To reduce to minute particles, or to a fine powder; to pulverize; to triturate; to grind; as, to comminute chalk or bones; to comminute food with the teeth.	
comminution		The act of reducing to a fine powder or to small particles; pulverization; the state of being comminuted.	
commiserable	Obsolete	Pitiable.	
commiserate		To feel sorrow, pain, or regret for; to pity.	Latin commiseratus.
commiseration		The act of commiserating; sorrow for the wants, afflictions, or distresses of another; pity; compassion.	
commiserative		Feeling or expressing commiseration.	
commiserator		One who pities.	
commissarial		Of or pertaining to a commissary.	
commissariat		(a) The organized system by which armies and military posts are supplied with food and daily necessaries.	
commissary		One to whom is committed some charge, duty, or office, by a superior power; a commissioner.	
commissaryship		The office or employment of a commissary.	
commission		The act of committing, doing, or performing; the act of perpetrating.	Latin commissio.
commissionaire		One intrusted with a commission, now only a small commission, as an errand; esp., an attendant or subordinate employee in a public office, hotel, or the like.	
commissional		Of pertaining to, or conferring, a commission; conferred by a commission or warrant.	
commissionary		Of pertaining to, or conferring, a commission; conferred by a commission or warrant.	
commissionate	Obsolete	To commission	
commissioner		A person who has a commission or warrant to perform some office, or execute some bussiness, for the goverment, corporation, or person employing him; as, a commissioner to take affidavits or to adjust claims.	
commissionnaire		An agent or factor; a commission merchant.	
commissionship		The office of commissioner.	
commissive		Relating to commission; of the nature of, or involving, commission.	
commissural		Of or pertaining to a commissure.	
commissure		A joint, seam, or closure; the place where two bodies, or parts of a body, meet and unite; an interstice, cleft, or juncture.	
commit		To give in trust; to put into charge or keeping; to intrust; to consign; -- used with to, unto.	Latin committere.
commitment		The act of commiting, or putting in charge, keeping, or trust; consigment; esp., the act of commiting to prison.	
committable		Capable of being committed.	
committal		The act of commiting, or the state of being committed; commitment.	
committee		One or more persons elected or appointed, to whom any matter or bussiness is referred, either by a legislative body, or by a court, or by any collective body of men acting together.	
committeeman		A member of a committee.	
committer		One who commits; one who does or perpetrates.	
committible		Capable of being committed; liable to be committed.	
commix		To mix or mingle together; to blend.	
commixion		Commixture.	
commixtion		Commixture; mingling.	
commixture		The act or process of mixing; the state of being mingled; the blending of ingredients in one mass or compound.	
commodate		A gratuitous loan.	
commode		A kind of headdress formerly worn by ladies, raising the hair and fore part of the cap to a great height.	French commode, from Latin commodus.
commodious		Adapted to its use or purpose, or to wants and necessities; serviceable; spacious and convenient; roomy and comfortable; as, a commodious house.	
commodiously		In a commodious manner.	
commodiousness		State of being commodious; suitableness for its purpose; convience; roominess.	
commodity		That which affords convenience, advantage, or profit, especially in commerce, including everything movable that is bought and sold (except animals), -- goods, wares, merchandise, produce of land and manufactures, etc.	
commodore		(Brititsh Navy) A captain commanding a squadron, or a division of a fleet, or having the temporary rank of rear admiral.	Dutch kommandeur, from French commandeur.
common		Belonging or relating equally, or similary, to more than one; as, you and I have a common interest in the property.	Middle English comun, from Anglo-Norman comun, from Old French comun, from Latin communis.
commonable		Allowed to pasture on public commons.	
commonage		The right of pasturing on a common; the right of using anything in common with others.	
commonalty		The common people; those classes and conditions of people who are below the rank of nobility; the commons.	
commoner		One of the common people; one having no rank of nobility.	
commonish		Somewhat common; commonplace; vulgar.	
commonition	Obsolete	Advice; warning; instruction.	Latin commonitio.
commonitive	Obsolete	Monitory.	
commonitory	Obsolete	Calling to mind; giving admonition.	Latin commonitorius.
commonly		Usually; generally; ordinarily; frequently; for the most part; as, confirmed habits commonly continue trough life.	
commonness		State or quality of being common or usual; as, the commonness of sunlight.	
commonplace		Common; ordinary; trite; as, a commonplace person, or observation.	
commonplaceness		The quality of being commonplace; commonness.	
commons		The mass of the people, as distinguished from the titled chasses or nobility; the commonalty; the common people.	
commonty		A common; a piece of land in which two or more persons have a common right.	
commonweal		Commonwealth.	
commonwealth		A state; a body politic consisting of a certain number of men, united, by compact or tacit agreement, under one form of government and system of laws.	
commorance		See Commorancy — (Law) A dwelling or ordinary residence in a place; habitation.	
commorancy		(Law) A dwelling or ordinary residence in a place; habitation.	
commorant		(Law) Ordinarily residing; inhabiting.	
commoration	Obsolete	The act of staying or residing in a place.	Latin commoratio.
commorient		Dying together or at the same time.	Latin commoriens.
commorse	Obsolete	Remorse.	Latin commorsus.
commote		To commove; to disturb; to stir up.	Welsh cwmwd.
commotion		Disturbed or violent motion; agitation. commotion in the winds!	Latin commotionem.
commove	Obsolete	To urge; to persuade; to incite.	Middle English commoeven.
communal		Pertaining to a commune.	Latin communalis.
communalism		A French theory of government which holds that commune should be a kind of independent state, and the national government a confederation of such states, having only limited powers.	
communalist		An advocate of communalism.	
communalistic		Pertaining to communalism.	
commune		To converse together with sympathy and confidence; to interchange sentiments or feelings; to take counsel.	French commune, from Latin communia.
communicability		The quality of being communicable; capability of being imparted.	
communicable		Capable of being communicated, or imparted; as, a communicable disease; communicable knowledge.	
communicant		One who partakes of, or is entitled to partake of, the sacrament of the Lord's supper; a church member.	
communicate		To impart; to convey; as, to communicate a disease or a sensation; to communicate motion by means of a crank.	Latin communicatus.
communication		The act or fact of communicating; as, communication of smallpox; communication of a secret.	Old French communicacion, from Latin communicationem.
communicative		Inclined to communicate; ready to impart to others.	
communicativeness		The quality of being communicative.	
communicator		One who communicates.	
communicatory		Imparting knowledge or information.	
communion		The act of sharing; community; participation.	
communism		A scheme of equalizing the social conditions of life; specifically, a scheme which contemplates the abolition of inequalities in the possession of property, as by distributing all wealth equally to all…	
communist		An advocate for the theory or practice of communism.	
communistic		Of or pertaining to communism or communists; as, communistic theories.	
community		Common possession or enjoyment; participation; as, a community of goods.	Old French communité.
commutability		The quality of being commutable.	
commutable		Capable of being commuted or interchanged.	
commutableness		The quality of being commutable; interchangeableness.	
commutation		A passing from one state to another; change; alteration; mutation.	French commutation, from Latin commutationem.
commutative		Relative to exchange; interchangeable; reciprocal. -- Com*mut ly, adv.	
commutator		A piece of apparatus used for reversing the direction of an electrical current; an attachment to certain electrical machines, by means of which alternating currents are made to be continuous or to have the same direction.	
commute		To exchange; to put or substitute something else in place of, as a smaller penalty, obligation, or payment, for a greater, or a single thing for an aggregate; hence; to lessen; to diminish; as…	Latin commuto.
commuter		One who commutes; especially, one who commutes in traveling.	
commutual		Mutual; reciprocal; united.	
comose		Bearing a tuft of soft hairs or down, as the seeds of milkweed.	
compact		Closely or firmly united, as the particles of solid bodies; firm; close; solid; dense.	Latin compactum.
compacted		Compact; pressed close; concentrated; firmly united.	
compactedly		In a compact manner.	
compactedness		A state of being compact.	
compacter		One who makes a compact.	
compactible		That may be compacted.	
compaction	Obsolete	The act of making compact, or the state of being compact.	French compaction, from Latin compactionem.
compactly		In a compact manner; with close union of parts; densely; tersely.	
compactness		The state or quality of being compact; close union of parts; density.	
compacture	Obsolete	Close union or connection of parts; manner of joining; construction.	Latin compactura.
compages		A system or structure of many parts united.	
compaginate	Obsolete	To unite or hold together; as, the side pieces compaginate the frame.	
compagination	Obsolete	Union of parts; structure.	Latin compaginatio.
companable	Obsolete	Companionable; sociable.	Old French compaignable.
companator		Same as Impanator.	
companiable	Obsolete	Companionable; sociable.	
companion		One who accompanies or is in company with another for a longer or shorter period, either from choice or casually; one who is much in the company of, or is associated with, another or others; an associate; a comrade; a consort…	Middle English companion, from Old French compaignon.
companionable		Fitted to be a companion; fit for good fellowship; agreeable; sociable. -- Com*pan ion*a*bly, adv.	
companionless		Without a companion.	
companionship		Fellowship; association; the act or fact of keeping company with any one.	
company		The state of being a companion or companions; the act of accompaying; fellowship; companionship; society; friendly intercourse.	Old French compaignie.
comparable		Capable of being compared; worthy of comparison.	
comparate		One of two things compared together.	
comparation	Obsolete	A making ready; provision.	Latin comparatio.
comparative		Proceeding from, or by the method of, comparison; as, the comparative anatomy.	
comparatively		According to estimate made by comparison; relatively; not positively or absolutely.	
comparator		An instrument or machine for comparing anything to be measured with a standard measure; -- applied especially to a machine for comparing standards of length.	
compare		To examine the character or qualities of, as of two or more persons or things, for the purpose of discovering their resemblances or differences; to bring into comparison; to regard with discriminating attention.	
comparer		One who compares.	
comparison		The act of comparing; an examination of two or more objects with the view of discovering the resemblances or differences; relative estimate.	Old French comparaison, from Latin comparatio.
compart		To divide; to mark out into parts or subdivisions.	
compartition	Obsolete	The act of dividing into parts or compartments; division; also, a division or compartment.	Latin compartitio.
compartment		One of the parts into which an inclosed portion of space is divided, as by partitions, or lines; as, the compartments of a cabinet, a house, or a garden.	
compartner	Obsolete	See Copartner — one who is jointly concerned with one or more persons in business, etc.; a partner; an associate; a partaker; a sharer. the associates and copartners of our loss.	
compass		A passing round; circuit; circuitous course.	
compassable		Capable of being compassed or accomplished.	
compassed	Obsolete	Rounded; arched.	
compasses		An instrument for describing circles, measuring figures, etc., consisting of two, or (rarely) more, pointed branches, or legs, usually joined at the top by a rivet on which they move.	
compassing		Curved; bent; as, compassing timbers.	
compassion	Obsolete	Literally, suffering with another; a sensation of sorrow excited by the distress or misfortunes of another; pity; commiseration.	
compassionable		Deserving compassion or pity; pitiable.	
compassionate		Having a temper or disposition to pity; sympathetic; merciful.	
compassionately		In a compassionate manner; mercifully.	
compassionateness		The quality or state of being compassionate.	
compassless		Having no compass.	
compaternity	Obsolete	The relation of a godfather to a person.	Latin compaternitas.
compatibility		The quality or power of being compatible or congruous; congruity; as, a compatibility of tempers; a compatibility of properties.	
compatible		Capable of existing in harmony; congruous; suitable; not repugnant; -- usually followed by with.	Middle French compatible, from Latin compatibilis.
compatibleness		Compatibility; consistency; fitness; agreement.	
compatibly		In a compatible manner.	
compatient	Obsolete	Suffering or enduring together.	Latin compatients.
compatriot		One of the same country, and having like interests and feeling.	
compatriotism		The condition of being compatriots.	
compear	Scots	(Law) To appear in court personally or by attorney.	
compeer		An equal, as in rank, age, prowess, etc.; a companion; a comrade; a mate.	
compeir		See Conpear.	
compel		To drive or urge with force, or irresistibly; to force; to constrain; to oblige; to necessitate, either by physical or moral force.	Middle English compellen, from Middle French compellir, from Latin compellere.
compellable		Capable of being compelled or constrained.	
compellably		By compulsion.	
compellation		Style of address or salutation; an appellation.	Latin compellatio.
compellative		The name by which a person is addressed; an appellative.	
compellatory		Serving to compel; compulsory.	
compeller		One who compels or constrains.	
compend		A compendium; an epitome; a summary.	
compendiarious	Obsolete	Short; compendious.	
compendiate	Obsolete	To sum or collect together.	
compendious		Containing the substance oe general principles of a subject or work in a narrow compass; abridged; summarized.	
compendiously		In a compendious manner.	
compendiousness		The state or quality of being compendious.	
compendium		A brief compilation or composition, containing the principal heads, or general principles, of a larger work or system; an abridgment; an epitome; a compend; a condensed summary.	
compensate		To make equal return to; to remunerate; to recompence; to give an equivalent to; to requite suitably; as, to compensate a laborer for his work, or a merchant for his losses.	Latin compensatus.
compensation		That which constitutes, or is regarded as, an equivalent; that which makes good the lack or variation of something else; that which compensates for loss or privation; amends; remuneration; recompense.	
compensative		Affording compensation.	
compensator		One who, or that which, compensates; -- a name applied to various mechanical devices.	
compensatory		Serving for compensation; making amends.	
compense	Obsolete	To compensate.	French compenser.
comperendinate		To delay.	
compesce		To hold in check; to restrain.	Latin compesco.
compete		To contend emulously; to seek or strive for the same thing, position, or reward for which another is striving; to contend in rivalry, as for a prize or in business; as, tradesmen compete with one another.	
competence		The state of being competent; fitness; ability; adequacy; power.	
competency		The state of being competent; fitness; ability; adequacy; power.	Latin competentia.
competent		Answering to all requirements; adeqouate; sufficient; suitable; capable; legally qualified; fit. /	
competently		In a competent manner; adequately; suitably.	
competible	Obsolete	Compatible; suitable; consistent.	
competition		The act of seeking, or endevearing to gain, what another is endeavoring to gain at the same time; common strife for the same objects; strife for superiority; emulous contest; rivalry, as for approbation, for a prize…	Latin competitio.
competitive		Of or pertaining to competition; producing competition; competitory; as, a competitive examination.	
competitor		One who seeks what another seeks, or claims what another claims; one who competes; a rival.	
competitory		Acting in competition; competing; rival.	
competitress		A woman who competes.	
competitrix		A competitress.	
compilation		The act or process of compiling or gathering together from various sources.	
compilator	Obsolete	Compiler.	
compile		To put together in a new form out of materials already existing; esp., to put together or compose out of materials from other books or documents.	Old French compiler, from Latin compilo.
compilement		Compilation.	
compiler		One who compiles; esp., one who makes books by compilation.	
compinge	Obsolete	To compress; to shut up.	
complacence		Calm contentment; satisfaction; gratification.	
complacency		Calm contentment; satisfaction; gratification.	
complacent		Self-satisfied; contented; kindly; as, a complacent temper; a complacent smile.	Latin complacens.
complacential	Obsolete	Marked by, or causing, complacence.	
complacently		In a complacent manner.	
complain		To give utterance to expression of grief, pain, censure, regret. etc.; to lament; to murmur; to find fault; -- commonly used with of.	Middle English complaynen, from Old French complaindre, from Latin complangere.
complainable		That may be complained of.	
complainant		One who makes complaint.	Old French complaignant.
complainer		One who complains or laments; one who finds fault; a murmurer.	
complaint		Expression of grief, regret, pain, censure, or resentment; lamentation; murmuring; accusation; fault-finding.	Middle English compleynte, from Anglo-Norman compleint.
complaintful	Obsolete	Full of complaint.	
complaisance		Disposition to please or oblige; obliging compliance with the wishes of others; a deportment indicative of a desire to please; courtesy; civility.	
complaisant		Desirous to please; courteous; obliging; compliant; as, a complaisant gentleman.	French complaire, from Latin complacere.
complanar		See Coplanar — situated in one plane.	
complanate		Flattened to a level surface.	
complected	Low	Complexioned.	
complement		That which fills up or completes; the quantity or number required to fill a thing or make it complete.	Latin complementum.
complemental		Supplying, or tending to supply, a deficiency; fully completing.	
complementary	Obsolete	Serving to fill out or to complete; as, complementary numbers.	
complete		Filled up; with no part or element lacking; free from deficienty; entire; perfect; consummate.	Middle English compleet.
completely		In a complete manner; fully.	
completement	Obsolete	Act of completing or perfecting; completion.	
completeness		The state of being complete.	
completion		The act or process of making complete; the getting through to the end; as, the completion of an undertaking, an education, a service.	
completive		Making complete.	Latin completivus.
completory		Serving to fulfill.	
complex		Composed of two or more parts; composite; not simple; as, a complex being; a complex idea.	French complexe, from Latin complexus.
complexed	Obsolete	Complex, complicated.	
complexedness		The quality or state of being complex or involved; complication.	
complexion		The color or hue of the skin, esp. of the face.	Middle English complexion, from Old French complexion.
complexional		Of or pertaining to constitutional complexion.	
complexionally		Constitutionally.	
complexionary		Pertaining to the complexion, or to the care of it.	
complexioned		Having (such) a complexion; -- used in composition; as, a dark- complexioned or a ruddy-complexioned person.	
complexity		The state of being complex; intricacy; entanglement.	
complexly		In a complex manner; not simply.	
complexness		The state of being complex; complexity.	
complexus		A complex; an aggregate of parts; a complication.	Latin complexus.
compliable		Capable of bending or yielding; apt to yield; compliant.	
compliance		The act of complying; a yielding; as to a desire, demand, or proposal; concession; submission.	
compliancy		Compliance; disposition to yield to others.	
compliant		Yielding; bending; pliant; submissive.	
compliantly		In a compliant manner.	
complicacy		A state of being complicate or intricate.	
complicant		Overlapping, as the elytra of certain beetles.	
complicate		Composed of two or more parts united; complex; complicated; involved.	Latin complicatus.
complicately		In a complex manner.	
complicateness		Complexity.	
complication		The act or process of complicating; the state of being complicated; intricate or confused relation of parts; entaglement; complexity.	Latin complicare.
complice	Obsolete	An accomplice.	
complicity		The state of being an accomplice; participation in guilt.	French complicité.
complier		One who complies, yields, or obeys; one of an easy, yieldy temper.	
compliment		An expression, by word or act, of approbation, regard, confidence, civility, or admiration; a flattering speech or attention; a ceremonious greeting; as, to send one's compliments to a friend.	
complimental	Obsolete	Complimentary.	
complimentary		Expressive of regard or praise; of the nature of, or containing, a compliment; as, a complimentary remark; a complimentary ticket.	
complimentative		Complimentary.	
complimenter		One who compliments; one given to complimenting; a flatterer.	
complin		The last division of the Roman Catholic breviary; the seventh and last of the canonical hours of the Western church; the last prayer of the day, to be said after sunset.	
compline		The last division of the Roman Catholic breviary; the seventh and last of the canonical hours of the Western church; the last prayer of the day, to be said after sunset.	
complot		A plotting together; a confederacy in some evil design; a conspiracy.	Middle French complot.
complotment		A plotting together.	
complotter		One joined in a plot.	
complutensian		Of or pertaining to Complutum (now Alcala de Henares) a city near Madrid; as, the Complutensian Bible.	
compluvium		A space left unroofed over the court of a Roman dwelling, through which the rain fell into the impluvium or cistern.	
comply		To yield assent; to accord; agree, or acquiesce; to adapt one's self; to consent or conform; -- usually followed by with.	
compo		Short for Composition; -- used, esp. in England, colloq. in various trade applications; as : (a) A mortar made of sand and cement.	
compone	Obsolete	To compose; to settle; to arrange.	
component		Serving, or helping, to form; composing; constituting; constituent.	Latin componens.
compony		Divided into squares of alternate tinctures in a single row; -- said of any bearing; or, in the case of a bearing having curved lines, divided into patches of alternate colors following the curve.	French componé.
comport		To agree; to accord; to suit; -- sometimes followed by with.	
comportable	Obsolete	Suitable; consistent.	
comportance	Obsolete	Behavior; comport.	
comportation	Obsolete	A bringing together.	Latin comportatio.
comportment		Manner of acting; behavior; bearing.	
compos-mentis	Colloquial	One who is compos mentis.	
compose		To form by putting together two or more things or parts; to put together; to make up; to fashion.	Old French composer, from Latin componere.
composed		Free from agitation; calm; sedate; quiet; tranquil; self- possessed.	
composer		One who composes; an author. Specifically, an author of a piece of music.	
composing		Tending to compose or soothe.	
compositae		A large family of dicotyledonous plants, having their flowers arranged in dense heads of many small florets and their anthers united in a tube.	
composite		Made up of distinct parts or elements; compounded; as, a composite language.	Old French composite, from Latin compositus.
composition		The act or art of composing, or forming a whole or integral, by placing together and uniting different things, parts, or ingredients.	Latin compositio.
compositive		Having the quality of entering into composition; compounded.	Latin compositivus.
compositor		One who composes or sets in order.	
compositous		Belonging to the Compositæ; composite.	
compossible		Able to exist with another thing; consistent.	
compost		(Agric.) A mixture for fertilizing land; esp., a composition of various substances (as muck, mold, lime, and stable manure) thoroughly mingled and decomposed, as in a compost heap.	
composture	Obsolete	Manure; compost.	
composure		A settled state; calmness; sedateness; tranquillity; repose.	
compotation		The act of drinking or tippling together.	
compotator		One who drinks with another.	
compote		A preparation of fruit in sirup in such a manner as to preserve its form, either whole, halved, or quartered; as, a compote of pears.	French compote, from Latin compositus.
compotier		A dish for holding compotes, fruit, etc.	
compound		In the East Indies, an inclosure containing a house, outbuildings, etc.	Middle English compounen, from Middle French componre.
compoundable		That may be compounded.	
compounder		One who, or that which, compounds or mixes; as, a compounder of medicines.	
comprador		A kind of steward or agent.	Portuguese comprador.
comprecation	Obsolete	A praying together.	Latin comprecatio.
comprehend		To contain; to embrace; to include; as, the states comprehended in the Austrian Empire.	Latin comprehendere.
comprehensibility		The quality or state of being comprehensible; capability of being understood.	
comprehensible		Capable of being comprehended, included, or comprised.	
comprehensibleness		The quality of being comprehensible; comprehensibility.	
comprehensibly		With great extent of signification; comprehensively.	
comprehension		The act of comprehending, containing, or comprising; inclusion.	Middle French compréhension.
comprehensive		Including much; comprising many things; having a wide scope or a full view.	Latin comprehensivus.
comprehensively		In a comprehensive manner; with great extent of scope.	
comprehensiveness		The quality of being comprehensive; extensiveness of scope.	
comprehensor	Obsolete	One who comprehends; one who has attained to a full knowledge.	
compress		To press or squeeze together; to force into a narrower compass; to reduce the volume of by pressure; to compact; to condense; as, to compress air or water.	Middle French compressen.
compressed		Pressed together; compacted; reduced in volume by pressure.	
compressibility		The quality of being compressible of being compressible; as, the compressibility of elastic fluids.	
compressible		Capable of being pressed together or forced into a narrower compass, as an elastic or spongy substance.	
compressibleness		The quality of being compressible; compressibility.	
compression		The act of compressing, or state of being compressed.	
compressive		Compressing, or having power or tendency to compress; as, a compressive force.	
compressor		Anything which serves to compress; as: (a) (Anat.) A muscle that compresses certain parts.	
compressure		Compression.	
comprint		To print together.	
comprisal		The act of comprising or comprehending; a compendium or epitome.	
comprise		To comprehend; to include.	Old French compris.
comprobate	Obsolete	To agree; to concur.	
comprobation	Obsolete	Joint attestation; proof.	Latin comprobatio.
compromise		A settlement by arbitration or by mutual consent reached by concession on both sides; a reciprocal abatement of extreme demands or rights, resulting in an agreement.	Middle French compromis.
compromiser		One who compromises.	
compromissorial		Relating to compromise.	
compromit		To pledge by some act or declaration; to promise.	
comprovincial	Obsolete	Belonging to, or associated in, the same province. -- n.	
compsognathus		A genus of Dinosauria found in the Jurassic formation, and remarkable for having several birdlike features.	
compt	Obsolete	Account; reckoning; computation.	Latin comptus.
compter	Obsolete	A counter.	
comptible	Obsolete	Accountable; responsible; sensitive.	
comptograph		A machine for adding numbers and making a printed record of the sum.	
comptometer		A calculating machine; an arithmometer.	
comptrol		See Control — that which serves to check, restrain, or hinder; restraint.	
comptroler		A controller; a public officer whose duty it is to examine certify accounts.	
compulsative		Compulsatory.	Latin compulsare.
compulsatively		By compulsion.	
compulsatory		Operating with force; compelling; forcing; constraininig; resulting from, or enforced by, compulsion.	
compulsion		The act of compelling, or the state of being compelled; the act of driving or urging by force or by physical or moral constraint; subjection to force.	Latin compulsio.
compulsive		Having power to compel; exercising or applying compulsion.	Latin compulsus.
compulsively		By compulsion; by force.	
compulsorily		; by force or constraint.	
compulsory		Having the power of compulsion; constraining.	Latin compulsorius.
compunct	Obsolete	Affected with compunction; conscience-stricken.	Latin compunctus.
compunction		A picking of heart; poignant grief proceeding from a sense of guilt or consciousness of causing pain; the sting of conscience.	
compunctionless		Without compunction.	
compunctious		Of the nature of compunction; caused by conscience; attended with, or causing, compunction.	
compunctiously		With compunction.	
compunctive	Obsolete	Sensitive in respect of wrongdoing; conscientious.	
compurgation		(Law) The act or practice of justifying or confirming a man's veracity by the oath of others; -- called also wager of law.	
compurgator		One who bears testimony or swears to the veracity or innocence of another.	
compurgatorial		Relating to a compurgator or to compurgation.	
computable		Capable of being computed, numbered, or reckoned.	
computation		The act or process of computing; calculation; reckoning.	
compute		To determine calculation; to reckon; to count.	French computer, from Latin computare.
computer		One who computes.	
computist		A computer.	
comrade		A mate, companion, or associate.	
comradery		The spirit of comradeship; comradeship., said Dunham, with the comradery of the smoker.	
comradeship		The state of being a comrade; intimate fellowship.	
comrogue	Obsolete	A fellow rogue.	
comtism		Positivism; the positive philosophy. See Positivism.	
comtist		A disciple of Comte; a positivist.	
con		- (cum, signifying with, together, etc. See Com-.	Middle English connen, from Old English cunnan.
con-		- (cum, signifying with, together, etc. See Com-.	
conacre		To underlet a proportion of, for a single crop; -- said of a farm.	
conarium		The pineal gland.	
conation		The power or act which directs or impels to effort of any kind, whether muscular or psychical.	Latin conatio.
conative		Of or pertaining to conation.	Latin conatio.
conatus		A natural tendency inherent in a body to develop itself; an attempt; an effort.	
concamerate		To arch over; to vault.	Latin concameratus.
concameration		A chamber of a multilocular shell.	Latin concameratio.
concatenate		To link together; to unite in a series or chain, as things depending on one another.	
concatenation		A series of links united; a series or order of things depending on each other, as if linked together; a chain, a succession.	
concause		A joint cause.	
concavation		The act of making concave.	
concave		Hollow and curved or rounded; vaulted; -- said of the interior of a curved surface or line, as of the curve of the of the inner surface of an eggshell, in opposition to convex; as, a concave mirror; the concave arch of the sky.	Latin concavus.
concaved		Bowed in the form of an arch; -- called also arched.	
concaveness		Hollowness; concavity.	
concavity		A concave surface, or the space bounded by it; the state of being concave.	
concavo-concave		Concave or hollow on both sides; double concave.	
concavo-convex		Concave on one side and convex on the other, as an eggshell or a crescent.	
concavous		Concave.	Latin concavus.
conceal		To hide or withdraw from observation; to cover; to cover or keep from sight; to prevent the discovery of; to withhold knowledge of.	Old French conceler, from Latin concelare.
concealable		Capable of being concealed.	
concealed		Hidden; kept from sight; secreted. -- Con*ceal ed*ness, n.	
concealer		One who conceals.	
concealment		The act of concealing; the state of being concealed.	
concede		To yield or suffer; to surrender; to grant; as. to concede the point in question.	Old French conceder, from Latin concedo.
conceit		That which is conceived, imagined, or formed in the mind; idea; thought; image; conception.	
conceited		Entertaining a flattering opinion of one's self; vain.	
conceitedly		In an egotistical manner.	
conceitedness		The state of being conceited; conceit; vanity.	
conceitless	Obsolete	Without wit; stupid.	
conceivable		Capable of being conceived, imagined, or understood.	
conceive		To receive into the womb and begin to breed; to begin the formation of the embryo of.	Middle English conceiven, from Old French concevoir.
conceiver		One who conceives.	
concelebrate	Obsolete	To celebrate together.	
concent	Archaic	Concert of voices; concord of sounds; harmony; as, a concent of notes.	
concenter		To come to one point; to meet in, or converge toward, a common center; to have a common center.	
concentrate		To bring to, or direct toward, a common center; to unite more closely; to gather into one body, mass, or force; to fix; as, to concentrate rays of light into a focus; to concentrate the attention.	French concentrer.
concentration		The act or process of concentrating; the process of becoming concentrated, or the state of being concentrated; concentration.	
concentrative		Serving or tending to concentrate; characterized by concentration.	
concentrativeness		(Phren.) The faculty or propensity which has to do with concentrating the intellectual the intellectual powers.	
concentrator		An apparatus for the separation of dry comminuted ore, by exposing it to intermittent puffs of air.	
concentre		To come to one point; to meet in, or converge toward, a common center; to have a common center.	
concentric		Having a common center, as circles of different size, one within another.	
concentrical		Having a common center, as circles of different size, one within another.	
concentrically		In a concentric manner.	
concentricity		The state of being concentric.	
concentual		Possesing harmony; accordant.	
concept		An abstract general conception; a notion; a universal.	Latin conceptus.
conceptacle		(Bot.) (a) A pericarp, opening longitudinally on one side and having the seeds loose in it; a follicle; a double follicle or pair of follicles.	
conceptibility		The quality of being conceivable; conceivableness.	
conceptible		Capable of being conceived; conceivable.	
conception		The act of conceiving in the womb; the initiation of an embryonic animal life.	Middle English conceptioun, from Old French conception, from Latin conceptio.
conceptional		Pertaining to conception.	
conceptionalist		A conceptualist.	
conceptious	Obsolete	Apt to conceive; fruitful.	
conceptive		Capable of conceiving.	
conceptual		Pertaining to conception.	Latin conceptualis.
conceptualism		A theory, intermediate between realism and nominalism, that the mind has the power of forming for itself general conceptions of individual or single objects.	
conceptualist		One who maintains the theory of conceptualism.	
concern		To relate or belong to; to have reference to or connection with; to affect the interest of; to be of importance to.	Latin concernere.
concerned		Disturbed; troubled; solicitous; as, to be much concerned for the safety of a friend.	
concernedly		In a concerned manner; solicitously; sympathetically.	
concerning		That in which one is concerned or interested; concern; affair; interest.	
concert		To plan together; to settle or adjust by conference, agreement, or consultation.	French concert, from Italian concerto.
concertante		A concert for two or more principal instruments, with orchestral accompaniment.	
concertation	Obsolete	Strife; contention.	Latin concertatio.
concertative	Obsolete	Contentious; quarrelsome.	Latin concertativus.
concerted		Mutually contrived or planned; agreed on; as, concerted schemes, signals.	
concertina		A small musical imstrument on the principle of the accordion.	
concertino		A piece for one or more solo instruments with orchestra; -- more concise than the concerto.	
concertion		Act of concerting; adjustment.	
concertmeister		The head violinist or leader of the strings in an orchestra; the sub-leader of the orchestra; concert master.	
concerto		A composition (usually in symphonic form with three movements) in which one instrument (or two or three) stands out in bold relief against the orchestra, or accompaniment, so as to display its qualities or the performer's skill.	
concession		The act of conceding or yielding; usually implying a demand, claim, or request, and thus distinguished from giving, which is voluntary or spontaneous.	
concessionaire		The beneficiary of a concession or grant.	
concessionary		Of or pertaining to a concession. -- n.; pl. -ries.	
concessionist		One who favors concession.	
concessionnaire		The beneficiary of a concession or grant.	
concessive		Implying concession; as, a concessive conjunction.	
concessively		By way of concession.	
concessory		Conceding; permissive.	
concettism		The use of concetti or affected conceits.	
concetto		Affected wit; a conceit.	
conch		(Zoöl.) A name applied to various marine univalve shells; esp. to those of the genus Strombus, which are of large size.	Latin concha, from Greek κογχε.
concha		(Arch.) The plain semidome of an apse; sometimes used for the entire apse.	Latin concha, from Greek κογχε.
conchal		Pertaining to the concha, or external ear; as, the conchal cartilage.	
conchifer		One of the Conchifera.	
conchifera		That class of Mollusca which includes the bivalve shells; the Lamellibranchiata.	
conchiferous		Producing or having shells.	
conchiform		Shaped like one half of a bivalve shell; shell-shaped.	
conchinine		See Quinidine — an alkaloid isomeric with, and resembling, quinine, found in certain species of cinchona, from which it is extracted as a bitter white crystalline substance; conchinine.	
conchite		A fossil or petrified conch or shell.	
conchitic		Composed of shells; containing many shells.	
concho-spiral		A kind of spiral curve found in certain univalve shells.	
conchoid		A curve, of the fourth degree, first made use of by the Greek geometer, Nicomedes, who invented it for the purpose of trisecting an angle and duplicating the cube.	
conchoidal		Having elevations or depressions in form like one half of a bivalve shell; -- applied principally to a surface produced by fracture.	
conchological		Pertaining to, or connected with, conchology.	
conchologist		One who studies, or is versed in, conchology.	
conchology		The science of Mollusca, and of the shells which they form; malacology.	
conchometer		An instrument for measuring shells, or the angle of their spire.	
conchometry		The art of measuring shells or their curves; conchyliometry.	
conchylaceous		Of or pertaining to shells; resembling a shell; as, conchyliaceous impressions.	
conchyliaceous		Of or pertaining to shells; resembling a shell; as, conchyliaceous impressions.	
conchyliologist		See Conchologist, and Conchology.	
conchyliology		See Conchologist, and Conchology.	
conchyliometry		Same as Conchometry.	
conchylious		Conchylaceous.	
conciator		The person who weighs and proportions the materials to be made into glass, and who works and tempers them.	Italian conciatore.
concierge		One who keeps the entrance to an edifice, public or private; a doorkeeper; a janitor, male or female.	French concierge.
conciergerie		A celebrated prison, attached to the Palais de Justice in Paris.	
conciliable	Obsolete	A small or private assembly, especially of an ecclesiastical nature.	
conciliabule		An obscure ecclesiastical council; a conciliable.	
conciliar		Of or pertaining to, or issued by, a council.	
conciliary		Of or pertaining to, or issued by, a council.	
conciliate		To win ower; to gain from a state of hostility; to gain the good will or favor of; to make friendly; to mollify; to propitiate; to appease.	
conciliation		The act or process of conciliating; the state of being conciliated.	
conciliative		Conciliatory.	
conciliator		One who conciliates.	
conciliatory		Tending to conciliate; pacific; mollifying; propitiating.	
concinnate	Obsolete	To place fitly together; to adapt; to clear.	
concinnity		Internal harmony or fitness; mutual adaptation of parts; elegance; -- used chiefly of style of discourse.	
concinnous		Characterized by concinnity; neat; elegant.	Latin concinnus.
concionate	Obsolete	To preach.	
concionator		An haranguer of the people; a preacher.	
concionatory	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to preaching or public addresses.	
concise		Expressing much in a few words; condensed; brief and compacted; -- used of style in writing or speaking.	Latin concisus.
concisely		In a concise manner; briefly.	
conciseness		The quality of being concise.	
concision		A cutting off; a division; a schism; a faction.	
concitation	Obsolete	The act of stirring up, exciting, or agitating.	Latin concitationem.
concite	Obsolete	To excite or stir up.	
conclamation		An outcry or shout of many together.	Latin conclamatio.
conclave		The set of apartments within which the cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church are continuously secluded while engaged in choosing a pope.	
conclavist		One of the two ecclesiastics allowed to attend a cardinal in the conclave.	French conclaviste.
conclude		To reach as an end of reasoning; to infer, as from premises; to close, as an argument, by inferring; -- sometimes followed by a dependent clause.	Latin concludere.
concludency	Obsolete	Deduction from premises; inference; conclusion.	
concludent	Obsolete	Bringing to a close; decisive; conclusive.	
concluder		One who concludes.	
concludingly		Conclusively.	
conclusible	Obsolete	Demonstrable; determinable.	
conclusion		The last part of anything; close; termination; end.	
conclusive		Belonging to a close or termination; decisive; convincing; putting an end to debate or question; leading to, or involving, a conclusion or decision.	French conclusif, from Latin conclusivus.
conclusively		In the way of conclusion; decisively; positively.	
conclusiveness		The quality of being conclusive; decisiveness.	
conclusory		Conclusive.	
concoct		To prepare from crude materials, as food; to invent or prepare by combining different ingredients; as, to concoct a new dish or beverage.	
concocter		One who concocts.	
concoction		The act of concocting or preparing by combining different ingredients; also, the food or compound thus prepared.	Latin concoctionem.
concoctive		Having the power of digesting or ripening; digestive. Hence the concoctive powers, with various art, Subdue the cruder aliments to chyle.	
concolor		Of the same color; of uniform color.	
concolorous		Of the same color throughout.	
concomitance		The state of accompanying; accompaniment.	
concomitancy		The state of accompanying; accompaniment.	
concomitant		Accompanying; conjoined; attending.	
concomitantly		In company with others; unitedly; concurrently.	
concord		A state of agreement; harmony; union.	French concorder, from Latin concordo.
concordable		Capable of according; agreeing; harmonious.	Latin concordabilis.
concordance		Agreement; accordance.	
concordancy		Agreement.	
concordant		Agreeing; correspondent; harmonious; consonant.	Latin concordans.
concordantly		In a concordant manner.	
concordat		A compact, covenant, or agreement concerning anything.	French concordat, from Latin concordatum.
concordist		The compiler of a concordance.	
concorporate	Archaic	To unite in one mass or body; to incorporate.	
concorporation		Union of things in one mass or body.	Latin concorporatio.
concourse		A moving, flowing, or running together; confluence.	
concreate		To create at the same time.	
concremation	Obsolete	The act of burning different things together.	Latin concrematio.
concrement	Obsolete	A growing together; the collection or mass formed by concretion, or natural union.	
concrescence		Coalescence of particles; growth; increase by the addition of particles.	
concrescible	Obsolete	Capable of being changed from a liquid to a solid state.	
concrescive		Growing together, or into union; uniting.	
concrete		United in growth; hence, formed by coalition of separate particles into one mass; united in a solid form.	Latin concretus.
concretely		In a concrete manner.	
concreteness		The quality of being concrete.	
concretion		The process of concreting; the process of uniting or of becoming united, as particles of matter into a mass; solidification.	Latin concretio.
concretional		Concretionary.	
concretionary		Pertaining to, or formed by, concretion or aggregation; producing or containing concretions.	
concretive		Promoting concretion.	
concretively		In a concrete manner.	
concreture	Obsolete	A mass formed by concretion.	
concrew	Obsolete	To grow together.	
concrimination		A joint accusation.	
concubinacy	Obsolete	The practice of concubinage.	
concubinage		The cohabiting of a man and a woman who are not legally married; the state of being a concubine.	
concubinal		Of or pertaining to concubinage.	Latin concubinalis.
concubinarian		Concubinary.	
concubinary		Relating to concubinage; living in concubinage.	
concubinate	Obsolete	Concubinage.	Latin concubinatus.
concubine		A woman who cohabits with a man without being his wife; a paramour.	
conculcate	Obsolete	To tread or trample under foot.	
concupiscence		Sexual lust; morbid carnal passion.	Latin concupisco.
concupiscent		Having sexual lust; libidinous; lustful; lecherous; salacious.	Latin concupiscens.
concupiscential	Obsolete	Relating to concupiscence.	Latin concupiscentialis.
concupiscentious	Obsolete	Concupiscent.	
concupiscible		Exciting to, or liable to be affected by, concupiscence; provoking lustful desires.	French concupiscible, from Latin concupiscibilis.
concupiscibleness	Obsolete	The state of being concupiscible.	
concupy		Concupiscence.	
concur		To meet in the same point; to combine or conjoin; to contribute or help toward a common object or effect.	Latin concurrere.
concurrence		The act of concurring; a meeting or coming together; union; conjunction; combination.	
concurrency		Concurrence.	
concurrent		Acting in conjunction; agreeing in the same act or opinion; contibuting to the same event of effect; coöperating.	
concurrently		With concurrence; unitedly.	
concurrentness		The state or quality of being concurrent; concurrence.	
concurring		Agreeing.	
concuss		To shake or agitate.	Latin concussus.
concussation	Obsolete	A violent shock or agitation.	
concussion		A shaking or agitation; a shock; caused by the collision of two bodies.	
concussive		Having the power or quality of shaking or agitating.	
cond		To con, as a ship.	
condemn		To declare the guilt of; to make manifest the faults or unworthiness of; to convict of guilt.	Latin condemnare.
condemnable		Worthy of condemnation; blamable; culpable.	
condemnation		The act of condemning or pronouncing to be wrong; censure; blame; disapprobation.	Latin condemnatio.
condemnatory		Condemning; containing or imposing condemnation or censure; as, a condemnatory sentence or decree.	
condemned		Pronounced to be wrong, guilty, worthless, or forfeited; adjudged or sentenced to punishment, destruction, or confiscation.	
condemner		One who condemns or censures.	
condensability		Capability of being condensed.	
condensable		Capable of being condensed; as, vapor is condensable.	
condensate		Made dense; condensed.	
condensation		The act or process of condensing or of being condensed; the state of being condensed.	
condensative		Having the property of condensing.	
condense		To make more close, compact, or dense; to compress or concentrate into a smaller compass; to consolidate; to abridge; to epitomize.	Latin condensare.
condenser		One who, or that which, condenses.	
condensible		Capable of being condensed; as, a gas condensible to a liquid by cold.	
conder		One who watches shoals of fish; a balker. See Balker.	
condescend		To stoop or descend; to let one's self down; to submit; to waive the privilege of rank or dignity; to accommodate one's self to an inferior. xii. 16.	Middle English condescenden, from Old French condescendre, from Latin condescendere.
condescendence	Obsolete	Condescension.	
condescendency	Obsolete	Condescension.	
condescendingly		In a condescending manner.	
condescension		The act of condescending; voluntary descent from one's rank or dignity in intercourse with an inferior; courtesy toward inferiors.	
condescent	Obsolete	An act of condescension.	
condign		Deserved; adequate; suitable to the fault or crime.	
condignity		Merit, acguired by works, which can claim reward on the score of general benevolence.	
condignly		According to merit.	
condignness		Agreeableness to deserts; suitableness.	
condiment		Something used to give relish to food, and to gratify the taste; a pungment and appetizing substance, as pepper or mustard; seasoning.	Latin condimentum.
condisciple		A schoolfellow; a fellow-student.	
condite	Obsolete	Preserved; pickled.	
condition		Mode or state of being; state or situation with regard to external circumstances or influences, or to physical or mental integrity, health, strength, etc.; predicament; rank; position, estate.	Latin conditio.
conditional		Containing, implying, or depending on, a condition or conditions; not absolute; made or granted on certain terms; as, a conditional promise.	
conditionality		The quality of being conditional, or limited; limitation by certain terms.	
conditionally		In a conditional manner; subject to a condition or conditions; not absolutely or positively.	
conditionate		To put under conditions; to render conditional.	
conditioned		Surrounded; circumstanced; in a certain state or condition, as of property or health; as, a well conditioned man.	
conditionly	Obsolete	Conditionally.	
conditory		A repository for holding things; a hinding place.	Latin conditorium.
condog		To concur; to agree.	
condolatory		Expressing condolence.	
condole		To express sympathetic sorrow; to grieve in sympathy; -- followed by with.	
condolement		Sorrow; mourning; lamentation.	
condolence		Expression of sympathy with another in sorrow or grief.	Latin condoleo.
condoler		One who condoles.	
condonation		(Law) Forgiveness, either express or implied, by a husband of his wife or by a wife of her husband, for a breach of marital duty, as adultery, with an implied condition that the offense shall not be repeated.	
condone		(Law) To pardon; to overlook the offense of; esp., to forgive for a violation of the marriage law; -- said of either the husband or the wife.	
condor		A very large bird of the Vulture family (Sarcorhamphus gryphus), found in the most elevated parts of the Andes.	Quechua kuntur.
condottiere		A military adventurer of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries, who sold his services, and those of his followers, to any party in any contest.	
conduce	Obsolete	To lead or tend, esp. with reference to a favorable or desirable result; to contribute; -- usually followed by to or toward.	Latin conducere.
conducent		Conducive; tending.	
conducibility		The state or quality of being conducible; conducibleness.	
conducible		Conducive; tending; contributing.	Latin conducibilis.
conducibleness		Quality of being conducible.	
conducibly		In a manner to promote.	
conducive		Loading or tending; helpful; contributive; tending to promote.	
conduciveness		The quality of conducing.	
conduct		The act or method of conducting; guidance; management.	Latin conductus.
conductance		Conducting power; -- the reciprocal of resistance.	
conductibility		Capability of being conducted; as, the conductibility of heat or electricity.	
conductible		Capable of being conducted.	
conduction		(Physics) Transmission through, or by means of, a conductor; also, conductivity. communication from one body to another when they are in contact, or through a homogenous body from particle to particle, constitutes conduction.	
conductive		Having the quality or power of conducting; as, the conductive tissue of a pistil.	
conductivity		The quality or power of conducting, or of receiving and transmitting, as, the conductivity of a nerve.	
conductor		One who, or that which, conducts; a leader; a commander; a guide; a manager; a director.	Latin conductor.
conductory		Having the property of conducting.	
conductress		A woman who leads or directs; a directress.	
conduit		A pipe, canal, channel, or passage for conveying water or fluid.	Old French conduit, from Latin conductus.
conduplicate		Folded lengthwise along the midrib, the upper face being within; -- said of leaves or petals in vernation or æstivation.	
conduplication		A doubling together or folding; a duplication.	
condurango		See Cundurango — the bark of a South American vine (Gonolobus Condurango) of the Milkweed family.	
condurrite		A variety of the mineral domeykite, or copper arsenide, from the Condurra mine in Cornwall, England.	
condylar		Of or pertaining to a condyle.	
condyle		A bony prominence; particularly, an eminence at the end of a bone bearing a rounded articular surface; -- sometimes applied also to a concave articular surface.	French condyle, from Latin condylus, from Greek κόνδυλος.
condyloid		Shaped like or pertaining to a condyle.	
condyloma		A wartlike new growth on the outer skin or adjoining mucous membrance.	
condylome		A wartlike new growth on the outer skin or adjoining mucous membrance.	
condylopod		An arthropod.	
cone		(Geom.) A solid of the form described by the revolution of a right- angled triangle about one of the sides adjacent to the right angle; - - called also a right cone.	Latin conus.
cone-in-cone		Consisting of a series of parallel cones, each made up of many concentric cones closely packed together; -- said of a kind of structure sometimes observed in sedimentary rocks.	
cone-nose		A large hemipterous insect of the family Reduviidæ, often found in houses, esp. in the southern and western United States.	
coneflower		Any plant of the genus Rudbeckia; -- so called from the cone- shaped disk of the flower head.	
coneine		See Conine — a powerful and very poisonous vegetable alkaloid found in the hemlock (Conium maculatum) and extracted as a colorless oil, C8H17N, of strong repulsive odor and acrid taste.	
conepate		The skunk.	
conepatl		The skunk.	
coney		(Zoöl.) A rabbit. See Cony.	
confab	Colloquial	Familiar talk or conversation.	
confabulate		To talk familiarly together; to chat; to prattle.	
confabulation		Familiar talk; easy, unrestrained, unceremonious conversation.	
confabulatory		Of the nature of familiar talk; in the form of a dialogue.	
confalon		One of a fraternity of seculars, also called Penitents.	
confarreation		A form of marriage among the Romans, in which an offering of bread was made, in presence of the high priest and at least ten witnesses.	
confated		Fated or decreed with something else.	
confect	Obsolete	To prepare, as sweetmeats; to make a confection of.	
confection		A preparation of fruits or roots, etc., with sugar; a sweetmeat.	
confectionary	Obsolete	A confectioner.	Latin confectionarius.
confectioner		One whose occupation it is to make or sell confections, candies, etc. CONFECTIONERS' SUGAR Con*fec"tion*ers' sug`ar.	
confectionery		Sweetmeats, in general; things prepared and sold by a confectioner; confections; candies.	
confectory	Obsolete	Pertaining to the art of making sweetmeats.	
confecture	Obsolete	Same as Confiture.	
confeder	Obsolete	To confederate.	
confederacy		A league or compact between two or more persons, bodies of men, or states, for mutual support or common action; alliance.	
confederate		United in a league; allied by treaty; engaged in a confederacy; banded together; allied.	
confederater		A confederate.	
confederation		The act of confederating; a league; a compact for mutual support; alliance, particulary of princes, nations, or states.	
confederative		Of or pertaining to a confederation.	
confederator		A confederate.	
confer	Obsolete	To bring together for comparison; to compare.	Latin confero.
conferee		One who is conferred with, or who takes part in a conference; as, the conferees on the part of the Senate.	
conference		The act of consulting together formally; serious conversation or discussion; interchange of views.	
conferential		Relating to conference.	
conferrable		Capable of being conferred.	
conferree		Same as Conferee.	
conferrer		One who confers; one who converses.	
conferruminate		Closely united by the coalescence, or sticking together, of contiguous faces, as in the case of the cotyledons of the live-oak acorn.	
conferruminated		Closely united by the coalescence, or sticking together, of contiguous faces, as in the case of the cotyledons of the live-oak acorn.	
conferva		Any unbranched, slender, green plant of the fresh-water algae.	
confervaceous		Belonging to the confervae.	
confervoid		Like, or related to, the confervae.	
confervous		Pertaining to confervae; consisting of, or resembling, the confervae.	
confess		To make acknowledgment or avowal in a matter pertaining to one's self; to acknowledge, own, or admit, as a crime, a fault, a debt.	Middle English confessen, from Anglo-Norman confesser, from Old French confesser, from Latin confessāre.
confessant	Obsolete	One who confesses to a priest.	French confessant.
confessary	Obsolete	One who makes a confession.	Latin confessarius.
confessedly		By confession; without denial.	
confesser		One who makes a confession.	
confession		Acknowledgment; avowal, especially in a matter pertaining to one's self; the admission of a debt, obligation, or crime.	Latin confessio.
confessional		The recess, seat, or inclosed place, where a priest sits to hear confessions…	
confessionalism		An exaggerated estimate of the importance of giving full assent to any particular formula of the Christian faith.	
confessionalist		A priest hearing, or sitting to hear, confession.	
confessionary	Obsolete	A confessional.	
confessionist		One professing a certain faith.	
confessor		One who confesses; one who acknowledges a fault, or the truth of a charge, at the risk of suffering; specifically, one who confesses himself a follower of Christ and endures persecution for his faith.	Anglo-Norman confessour.
confessorship		The act or state of suffering persecution for religious faith.	
confestly		See Cofessedly.	
confetti		Bonbons; sweetmeats; confections; also, plaster or paper imitations of, or substitutes for, bonbons, often used by carnival revelers, at weddings, etc.	
confidant		One to whom secrets, especially those relating to affairs of love, are confided or intrusted; a confidential or bosom friend.	
confidante		One to whom secrets, especially those relating to affairs of love, are confided or intrusted; a confidential or bosom friend.	
confide		To put faith (in); to repose confidence; to trust; -- usually followed by in; as, the prince confides in his ministers.	Latin confido.
confidence		The act of confiding, trusting, or putting faith in; trust; reliance; belief; -- formerly followed by of, now commonly by in.	Latin confidentia.
confident		See Confidant — one to whom secrets, especially those relating to affairs of love, are confided or intrusted; a confidential or bosom friend.	Latin confidens.
confidential		Enjoying, or treated with, confidence; trusted in; trustworthy; as, a confidential servant or clerk.	
confidentially		In confidence; in reliance on secrecy.	
confidently		With confidence; with strong assurance; positively.	
confidentness		The quality of being confident.	
confider		One who confides.	
confiding		That confides; trustful; unsuspicious. -- Con*fid ing*ness, n.	
configurate		To take form or position, as the parts of a complex structure; to agree with a pattern.	
configuration		Form, as depending on the relative disposition of the parts of a thing' shape; figure.	
configure		To arrange or dispose in a certain form, figure, or shape.	
confinable		Capable of being confined, restricted, or limited.	
confine		Common boundary; border; limit; -- used chiefly in the plural.	
confineless		Without limitation or end; boundless.	
confinement		Restraint within limits; imprisonment; any restraint of liberty; seclusion.	
confiner	Obsolete	One who, or that which, limits or restrains.	
confinity		Community of limits; contiguity.	
confirm		To make firm or firmer; to add strength to; to establish; as, health is confirmed by exercise.	
confirmable		That may be confirmed.	
confirmance	Obsolete	Confirmation.	
confirmation		The act of confirming or strengthening; the act of establishing, ratifying, or sanctioning; as, the confirmation of an appointment.	Latin confirmatio.
confirmative		Tending confirm or establish.	
confirmator		One who, or that which, confirms; a confirmer.	
confirmatory		Serving to confirm; corroborative.	
confirmedly		With confirmation.	
confirmedness		A fixed state.	
confirmee		One to whom anuthing is confirmed.	
confirmer		One who, or that which, confirms, establishes, or ratifies; one who corroborates.	
confirmingly		In a confirming manner.	
confiscable		Capable of being confiscated; liable to forfeiture.	
confiscate		Seized and appropriated by the government to the public use; forfeited.	Latin confiscare.
confiscation		The act or process of taking property or condemning it to be taken, as forfeited to the public use.	
confiscator		One who confiscates.	
confiscatory		Effecting confiscation; characterized by confiscations.	
confit	Obsolete	Same as Comfit.	French confit.
confitent	Obsolete	One who confesses his sins and faults.	Latin confitens.
confiteor		A form of prayer in which public confession of sins is made.	
confiture		The state or quality of being congenial; natural affinity; adaptation; suitableness.	French confiture, from Latin confectura.
confix	Obsolete	To fix; to fasten.	
confixure	Obsolete	Act of fastening.	
conflagrant		Burning together in a common flame.	
conflagration		A fire extending to many objects, or over a large space; a general burning.	Latin conflagratio.
conflate		To blow together; to bring together; to collect; to fuse together; to join or weld; to consolidate.	
conflation		A blowing together, as of many instruments in a concert, or of many fires in a foundry.	
conflict		A striking or dashing together; violent collision; as, a conflict of elements or waves.	Latin conflictus.
conflicting		Being in conflict or collision, or in opposition; contending; contradictory; incompatible; contrary; opposing.	
conflictive		Tending to conflict; conflicting.	
confluence		The act of flowing together; the meeting or junction of two or more streams; the place of meeting.	
confluent		Flowing together; meeting in their course; running one into another.	
conflux		A flowing together; a meeting of currents.	
confluxibility		The tendency of fluids to run together.	
confluxible		Inclined to flow or run together. --Con*flux"i*ble*ness, n.	
confocal		Having the same foci; as, confocal quadrics.	
conform		Of the same form; similar in import; conformable.	Middle English conformen, from Old French conformer, from Latin conformare.
conformability		The state of being conformable.	
conformable		Corresponding in form, character, opinions, etc.; similar; like; consistent; proper or suitable; --usually followed by to.	
conformableness		The quality of being conformable; conformability.	
conformably		With conformity or in conformity; suitably; agreeably.	
conformance		Conformity.	
conformate		Having the same form.	
conformation		The act of conforming; the act of producing conformity.	
conformator		An apparatus for taking the conformation of anything, as of the head for fitting a hat, or, in craniometry, finding the largest horizontal area of the head.	
conformer		One who conforms; one who complies with established forms or doctrines.	
conformist		One who conforms or complies; esp., one who conforms to the Church of England, or to the Established Church, as distinguished from a dissenter or nonconformist.	
conformity		Correspondence in form, manner, or character; resemblance; agreement; congruity; -- followed by to, with, or between.	
confortation	Obsolete	The act of strengthening.	
confound		To mingle and blend, so that different elements can not be distinguished; to confuse.	Anglo-Norman cunfundre, from Old French confondre.
confounded		Confused; perplexed.	
confoundedly	Colloquial	Extremely; odiously; detestably.	
confoundedness		The state of being confounded.	
confounder		One who confounds.	
confract	Obsolete	Broken in pieces; severed.	
confragose	Obsolete	Broken; uneven.	
confraternity		A society or body of men united for some purpose, or in some profession; a brotherhood.	
confrere		Fellow member of a fraternity; intimate associate.	
confrication	Obsolete	A rubbing together; friction.	
confrier	Obsolete	A confrère.	
confront		To stand facing or in front of; to face; esp. to face hostilely; to oppose with firmness.	Old French confronter, from Latin confrontare.
confrontation		Act of confronting.	
confronte		Same as Affronté.	
confronter		One who confronts.	
confronting		dealing with (a person or problem) directly; taking the bull by the horns.	
confrontment		The act of confronting; the state of being face to face.	
confucian		Of, or relating to, Confucius, the great Chinese philosopher and teacher. -- n.	
confucianism		The political morality taught by Confucius and his disciples, which forms the basis of the Chinese jurisprudence and education.	
confucianist		A follower of Confucius; a Confucian.	
confus	Obsolete	Confused, disturbed.	
confusability		Capability of being confused.	
confusable		Capable of being confused.	
confuse		To mix or blend so that things can not be distinguished; to jumble together; to confound; to render indistinct or obscure; as, to confuse accounts; to confuse one's vision.	
confusedly		In a confused manner.	
confusedness		A state of confusion.	
confusely	Obsolete	Confusedly; obscurely.	
confusion		The state of being mixed or blended so as to produce indistinctness or error; indistinct combination; disorder; tumult.	Old French confusion.
confusive		Confusing; having a tendency to confusion.	
confutable		That may be confuted.	
confutant		One who undertakes to confute.	
confutation		The act or process of confuting; refutation.	
confutative		Adapted or designed to confute.	
confute		To overwhelm by argument; to refute conclusively; to prove or show to be false or defective; to overcome; to silence.	French confuter.
confutement	Obsolete	Confutation.	
confuter		One who confutes or disproves.	
cong		An abbreviation of Congius.	
conge		To take leave with the customary civilities; to bow or courtesy.	
congeable		Permissible; done lawfully; as, entry congeable.	
congeal		To change from a fluid to a solid state by cold; to freeze.	Middle English congelen, from Middle French congeler, from Latin congelare.
congealable		Capable of being congealed. --Con*geal"a*ble*ness, n.	
congealedness		The state of being congealed.	
congealment		The act or the process of congealing; congeliation.	
congee		Boiled rice; rice gruel.	Old French congié, from Latin commeatus.
congelation		The act or process of passing, or causing to pass, from a fluid to a solid state, as by the abstraction of heat; the act or process of freezing.	
congener		A thing of the same genus, species, or kind; a thing allied in nature, character, or action.	
congeneracy	Obsolete	Similarity of origin; affinity.	
congeneric		Belonging to the same genus; allied in origin, nature, or action.	
congenerical		Belonging to the same genus; allied in origin, nature, or action.	
congenerous	Obsolete	Allied in origin or cause; congeneric; as, congenerous diseases.	
congenial		Partaking of the same nature; allied by natural characteristics; kindred; sympathetic.	
congeniality		The state or quality of being congenial; natural affinity; adaptation; suitableness.	
congenialize		To make congenial.	
congenially		In a congenial manner; as, congenially married or employed.	
congenialness		Congeniality.	
congenious	Obsolete	Congeneric.	
congenital		Existing at, or dating from, birth; pertaining to one from birth; born with one; connate; constitutinal; natural; as, a congenital deformity.	
congenitally		In a congenital manner.	
congenite	Obsolete	Congenital; connate; inborn. See Congenital.	
conger		The conger eel; -- called also congeree.	
congeries		A collection of particles or bodies into one mass; a heap; an aggregation.	Latin congeries.
congest		To collect or gather into a mass or aggregate; to bring together; to accumulate.	
congested		(Bot.) Crowded together.	
congestion		(Med.) Overfullness of the capillary and other blood vessels, etc., in any locality or organ (often producing other morbid symptoms); local hyperas, arterial congestion; venous congestion; congestion of the lungs.	
congestive		Pertaining to, indicating, or attended with, congestion in some part of the body; as, a congestive fever.	
congiary		A present, as of corn, wine, or oil, made by a Roman emperor to the soldiers or the people; -- so called because measured to each in a congius.	Latin congiarium.
congius		(Roman Antiq.) A liquid measure containing about three quarts.	
conglaciate	Obsolete	To turn to ice; to freeze.	
conglaciation		The act or process of changing into ice, or the state of being converted to ice; a freezing; congelation; also, a frost.	
conglobate		Collected into, or forming, a rounded mass or ball; as, the conglobate glands; conglobate flowers.	Latin conglobare.
conglobation		The act or process of forming into a ball.	
conglobe		To gather into a ball; to collect into a round mass.	
conglobulate		To gather into a small round mass.	
conglomerate		Gathered into a ball or a mass; collected together; concentrated; as, conglomerate rays of light.	
conglomeration		The act or process of gathering into a mass; the state of being thus collected; collection; accumulation; that which is conglomerated; a mixed mass.	
conglutin		A variety of vegetable casein, resembling legumin, and found in almonds, rye, wheat, etc.	
conglutinant		Cementing together; uniting closely; causing to adhere; promoting healing, as of a wound or a broken bone, by adhesion of the parts.	
conglutinate		Glued together; united, as by some adhesive substance.	
conglutination		A gluing together; a joining by means of some tenacious substance; junction; union.	
conglutinative		Conglutinant.	
congo		Black tea, of higher grade (finer leaf and less dusty) than the present bohea.	
congou		Black tea, of higher grade (finer leaf and less dusty) than the present bohea.	
congratulant		Rejoicing together; congratulatory.	
congratulate		To address with expressions of sympathetic pleasure on account of some happy event affecting the person addressed; to wish joy to.	Latin congratulor.
congratulation		The act of congratulating; an expression of sympathetic pleasure.	
congratulator		One who offers congratulation.	
congratulatory		Expressive of sympathetic joy; as, a congratulatory letter.	
congree		To agree.	
congreet	Obsolete	To salute mutually.	
congregate		Collected; compact; close.	Latin congregatus.
congregation		The act of congregating, or bringing together, or of collecting into one aggregate or mass.	Latin congregatio.
congregational		Of or pertaining to a congregation; conducted, or participated in, by a congregation; as, congregational singing.	
congregationalism		That system of church organization which vests all ecclesiastical power in the assembled brotherhood of each local church.	
congregationalist		One who belongs to a Congregational church or society; one who holds to Congregationalism.	
congress		The coming together of a male and female in sexual commerce; the act of coition.	Latin congressum.
congression		A coming or bringing together, as in a public meeting, in a dispute, in the act of comparing, or in sexual intercourse.	
congressional		Of or pertaining to a congress, especially, to the Congress of the United States; as, congressional debates.	
congressive		Encountering, or coming together.	
congressman		A member of the Congress of the United States, esp. of the House of Representatives.	
congrue	Obsolete	To agree; to be suitable.	
congruence		Suitableness of one thing to another; agreement; consistency.	
congruency		Congruence.	
congruent		Possessing congruity; suitable; agreeing; corresponding.	
congruism		See Congruity — the state or quality of being congruous; the relation or agreement between things; fitness; harmony; correspondence; consistency.	
congruity		The state or quality of being congruous; the relation or agreement between things; fitness; harmony; correspondence; consistency.	
congruous		Suitable or concordant; accordant; fit; harmonious; correspondent; consistent.	
congruously		In a congruous manner.	
conhydrine		A vegetable alkaloid found with conine in the poison hemlock (Conium maculatum).	
conia		Same as Conine.	
conic		Having the form of, or resembling, a geometrical cone; round and tapering to a point, or gradually lessening in circumference; as, a conic or conical figure; a conical vessel.	Greek κωνικός.
conical		Having the form of, or resembling, a geometrical cone; round and tapering to a point, or gradually lessening in circumference; as, a conic or conical figure; a conical vessel.	
conicality		Conicalness.	
conically		In the form of a cone.	
conicalness		State or quality of being conical.	
conico-		A combining form, meaning somewhat resembling a cone; as, conico-cylindrical, resembling a cone and a cylinder; conico- hemispherical; conico-subulate.	
conicoid		Same as Conoidal.	
conics		That branch of geometry which treats of the cone and the curves which arise from its sections.	
conidium		A peculiar kind of reproductive cell found in certain fungi, and often containing zoöspores.	
conifer		A tree or shrub bearing cones; one of the order Coniferae, which includes the pine, cypress, and (according to some) the yew.	Latin conifer.
coniferin		A glucoside extracted from the cambium layer of coniferous trees as a white crystalline substance.	
coniferous		(a) Bearing cones, as the pine and cypress. (b) Pertaining to the order Coniferae, of which the pine tree is the type.	
coniform		Cone-shaped; conical.	
coniine		See Conine — a powerful and very poisonous vegetable alkaloid found in the hemlock (Conium maculatum) and extracted as a colorless oil, C8H17N, of strong repulsive odor and acrid taste.	
conimene		Same as Olibene.	
conine		A powerful and very poisonous vegetable alkaloid found in the hemlock (Conium maculatum) and extracted as a colorless oil, C8H17N, of strong repulsive odor and acrid taste.	
coniroster		One of the Conirostres.	
conirostral		Belonging to the Conirostres.	
conirostres		A tribe of perching birds, including those which have a strong conical bill, as the finches.	
conisor		See Cognizor — one who ackowledged the right of the plaintiff or cognizee in a fine; the defendant.	
conistra		Originally, a part of the palestra, or gymnasium among the Greeks; either the place where sand was stored for use in sprinkling the wrestlers, or the wrestling ground itself.	
conite		A magnesian variety of dolomite.	Greek κόνις.
conium		(Bot.) A genus of biennial, poisonous, white-flowered, umbelliferous plants, bearing ribbed fruit ("seeds") and decompound leaves.	
conject	Obsolete	To throw together, or to throw.	
conjector	Obsolete	One who guesses or conjectures.	
conjecturable		Capable of being conjectured or guessed.	
conjectural		Dependent on conjecture; fancied; imagined; guessed at; undetermined; doubtful.	
conjecturalist		A conjecturer.	
conjecturally		That which depends upon guess; guesswork.	
conjecture		An opinion, or judgment, formed on defective or presumptive evidence; probable inference; surmise; guess; suspicion.	Latin coniectura.
conjecturer		One who conjectures.	
conjoin		To join together; to unite.	Old French conjoindre, from Latin coniungo.
conjoined		Joined together or touching.	
conjoint		United; connected; associated.	
conjointly		In a conjoint manner; untitedly; jointly; together.	
conjointness		The qquality of being conjoint.	
conjubilant		Shouting together for joy; rejoicing together.	
conjugal		Belonging to marriage; suitable or appropriate to the marriage state or to married persons; matrimonial; connubial.	
conjugality		The conjugal state; sexual intercourse.	
conjugally		In a conjugal manner; matrimonially; connubially.	
conjugate		United in pairs; yoked together; coupled.	
conjugation		(Gram.) (a) The act of conjugating a verb or giving in order its various parts and inflections.	Latin coniugatio.
conjugational		relating to conjugation.	
conjugial		Conjugal.	Latin coniugialis.
conjugium		The marriage tie.	
conjunct	Archaic	United; conjoined; concurrent.	Latin conjunctus.
conjunction		The act of conjoining, or the state of being conjoined, united, or associated; union; association; league.	
conjunctional		Relating to a conjunction.	
conjunctiva		The mucous membrane which covers the external surface of the ball of the eye and the inner surface of the lids; the conjunctival membrance.	
conjunctival		Joining; connecting.	
conjunctive		Serving to unite; connecting together.	
conjunctively		In conjunction or union; together.	
conjunctiveness		The state or quality of being conjunctive.	
conjunctivitis		Inflammation of the conjunctiva.	
conjunctly		In union; conjointly; unitedly; together.	
conjuncture		The act of joining, or state of being joined; union; connection; combination.	
conjuration		The act of calling or summoning by a sacred name, or in solemn manner; the act of binding by an oath; an earnest entreaty; adjuration.	
conjurator		One who swears or is sworn with others; one bound by oath with others; a compurgator.	
conjure		To call on or summon by a sacred name or in solemn manner; to implore earnestly; to adjure.	
conjurement	Obsolete	Serious injunction; solemn demand or entreaty.	
conjurer		One who conjures; one who calls, entreats, or charges in a solemn manner.	
conjuror	Obsolete	One bound by a common cath with others.	
conjury		The practice of magic; enchantment.	
conn		See Con, to direct a ship.	
connascence		The common birth of two or more at the same tome; production of two or more together.	
connascency		The common birth of two or more at the same tome; production of two or more together.	
connascent		Born together; produced at the same time.	
connate		Born with another; being of the same birth.	Latin connatus.
connate-perfoliate		Connate or coalescent at the base so as to produce a broad foliaceous body through the center of which the stem passes; -- applied to leaves, as the leaves of the boneset.	
connation	Obsolete	Connection by birth; natural union.	
connatural		Connected by nature; united in nature; inborn; inherent; natural.	
connaturality		Participation of the same nature; natural union or connection.	
connaturalize	Obsolete	To bring to the same nature as something else; to adapt.	
connaturally		By the act of nature; originally; from birth.	
connaturalness		Participation of the same nature; natural union.	
connature		Participation in a common nature or character.	
connect		To join, or fasten together, as by something intervening; to associate; to combine; to unite or link together; to establish a bond or relation between.	Latin connecto.
connectedly		In a connected manner.	
connection		The act of connecting, or the state of being connected; junction; union; alliance; relationship.	Old French connexion, from Latin connexio.
connective		Connecting, or adapted to connect; involving connection.	
connectively		In connjunction; jointly.	
connector		One who, or that which, connects; as: (a) A flexible tube for connecting the ends of glass tubes in pneumatic experiments.	
conner		A marine European fish (Crenilabrus melops); also, the related American cunner.	
connex		To connect.	Latin connexus.
connexion		Connection. See Connection.	Old French connexion, from Latin connexio.
connexive		See Connective — connecting, or adapted to connect; involving connection.	
connivance		Intentional failure or forbearance to discover a fault or wrongdoing; voluntary oversight; passive consent or co	
connive		To close the eyes upon a fault; to wink (at); to fail or forbear by intention to discover an act; to permit a proceeding, as if not aware of it; -- usually followed by at.	
connivency	Obsolete	Connivance.	
connivent		Forbearing to see; designedly inattentive; as, connivent justice.	
conniver		One who connives.	
connoisseur		One well versed in any subject; a skillful or knowing person; a critical judge of any art, particulary of one of the fine arts.	
connoisseurship		State of being a connoisseur.	
connotate		To connote; to suggest or designate (something) as additional; to include; to imply.	
connotation		The act of connoting; a making known or designating something additional; implication of something more than is asserted.	
connotative		Implying something additional; illative.	
connotatively		In a connotative manner; expressing connotation.	
connote		To mark along with; to suggest or indicate as additional; to designate by implication; to include in the meaning; to imply.	Latin connoto.
connubial		Of or pertaining to marriage, or the marriage state; conjugal; nuptial.	
connubiality		The quality of being connubial; something characteristics of the conjugal state; an expression of connubial tenderness.	
connumeration		A reckoning together.	Latin connumeratio.
connusance	Obsolete	See Cognizance — apprehension by the understanding; perception; observation.	
connusant	Obsolete	See Cognizant — having cognizance or knowledge. (of).	
connusor	Obsolete	See Cognizor — one who ackowledged the right of the plaintiff or cognizee in a fine; the defendant.	
connutritious	Obsolete	Nutritious by force of habit; -- said of certain kinds of food.	
conny	English dialect	Brave; fine; canny.	
conodont		A peculiar toothlike fossil of many forms, found especially in carboniferous rocks.	
conoid		Anything that has a form resembling that of a cone.	
conoidal		Nearly, but not exactly, conical.	
conoidic		Pertaining to a conoid; having the form of a conoid.	
conoidical		Pertaining to a conoid; having the form of a conoid.	
conominee		One nominated in conjunction with another; a joint nominee.	
conquadrate		To bring into a square.	
conquassate	Obsolete	To shake; to agitate.	
conquer		To gain or acquire by force; to take possession of by violent means; to gain dominion over; to subdue by physical means; to reduce; to overcome by force of arms; to cause to yield; to vanquish.	Old French conquerre, from Latin conquaerere.
conquerable		Capable of being conquered or subdued.	
conqueress		A woman who conquers.	
conqueror		One who conquers.	Old French conquereor.
conquest		The act or process of conquering, or acquiring by force; the act of overcoming or subduing opposition by force, whether physical or moral; subjection; subjugation; victory.	Old French conqueste.
conquian		A game for two, played with 40 cards, in which each player tries to form three or four of a kind or sequences.	
consanguineal		Of the same blood; related by birth.	
consanguined		Of kin blood; related.	
consanguineous		Of the same blood; related by birth; descended from the same parent or ancestor.	
consanguinity		The relation of person by blood, is distinction from affinity or relation by marriage; blood relationship; as, lineal consanguinity; collateral consanguinity.	
consarcination	Obsolete	A patching together; patchwork.	Latin consarcinare.
conscience		The faculty, power, or inward principle which decides as to the character of one's own actions, purposes, and affections, warning against and condemning that which is wrong, and approving and prompting to that which is right…	Old French conscience, from Latin conscientia.
conscienced		Having a conscience.	
conscienceless		Without conscience; indifferent to conscience; unscrupulous.	
conscient		Conscious.	
conscientious		Influenced by conscience; governed by a strict regard to the dictates of conscience, or by the known or supposed rules of right and wrong; -- said of a person.	
conscientiously		In a conscientious manner; as a matter of conscience; hence; faithfully; accurately; completely.	
conscientiousness		The quality of being conscientious; a scrupulous regard to the dictates of conscience.	
conscionable		Governed by, or according to, conscience; reasonable; just.	
conscionableness		The quality of being conscionable; reasonableness.	
conscionably		Reasonably; justly.	
conscious		Possessing the faculty of knowing one's own thoughts or mental operations.	Latin conscius.
consciously		In a conscious manner; with knowledge of one's own mental operations or actions.	
consciousness		The state of being conscious; knowledge of one's own existence, condition, sensations, mental operations, acts, etc. Consciousness is thus, on the one hand, the recognition by the mind or "ego" of its acts and affections…	
conscribe	Obsolete	To enroll; to enlist.	
conscript		Enrolled; written; registered.	Latin conscriptus.
conscription		A compulsory enrollment of men for military or naval service; a draft.	Latin conscriptio.
consecrate		Consecrated; devoted; dedicated; sacred.	
consecrater		Consecrator.	
consecration		The act or ceremony of consecrating; the state of being consecrated; dedication.	Latin consecratio.
consecrator		One who consecrates; one who performs the rites by which a person or thing is devoted or dedicated to sacred purposes.	
consecratory		Of or pertaining to the act of consecration; dedicatory.	
consectaneous		Following as a matter of course.	Latin consectaneus.
consectary		Following by consequence; consequent; deducible.	
consecute	Obsolete	To follow closely; to endeavor to overtake; to pursue.	
consecution		A following, or sequel; actual or logical dependence.	Middle English consecucioun, from Latin consecutio.
consecutive		Following in a train; suceeding one another in a regular order; successive; uninterrupted in course or succession; with no interval or break; as, fifty consecutive years.	
consecutively		In a consecutive manner; by way of sequence; successively.	
consecutiveness		The state or quality of being consecutive.	
consension		Agreement; accord.	Latin consensio.
consensual		(Law) Existing, or made, by the mutual consent of two or more parties.	
consensus		Agreement; accord; consent.	Latin consensus.
consent		To agree in opinion or sentiment; to be of the same mind; to accord; to concur.	
consentaneity		Mutual agreement.	
consentaneous		Consistent; agreeable; suitable; accordant to; harmonious; concurrent.	Latin consentaneus.
consentant	Obsolete	Consenting.	
consenter		One who consents.	
consentient		Agreeing in mind; accordant.	
consentingly		With consent; in a compliant manner.	
consequence		That which follows something on which it depends; that which is produced by a cause; a result.	
consequencing		Drawing inference.	
consequent		Following as a result, inference, or natural effect.	Latin consequens.
consequential		Following as a consequence, result, or logical inference; consequenment.	
consequentially		With just deduction of consequence; with right connection of ideas; logically.	
consequentialness		The quality of being consequential.	
consequently		By consequence; by natural or logical sequence or connection.	
consertion		Junction; adaptation Consertion of design, how exquisite.	Latin consertio.
conservable		Capable of being preserved from decay or injury.	Latin conservabilis.
conservancy		Conservation, as from injury, defilement, or irregular use. passed in 1866, for vesting in the Conservators of the River Thames the conservancy of the Thames and Isis.	
conservant		Having the power or quality of conservation.	
conservation		The act of preserving, guarding, or protecting; the keeping (of a thing) in a safe or entire state; preservation.	
conservational		Tending to conserve; preservative.	
conservatism		The disposition and tendency to preserve what is established; opposition to change; the habit of mind; or conduct, of a conservative.	Latin conservare.
conservative		Having power to preserve in a safe of entire state, or from loss, waste, or injury; preservative.	Latin servare.
conservativeness		The quality of being conservative.	
conservatoire		A public place of instruction in any special branch, esp. music and the arts..	
conservator		One who preserves from injury or violation; a protector; a preserver.	Latin conservator.
conservatory		Having the quality of preserving from loss, decay, or injury.	
conservatrix		A woman who preserves from loss, injury, etc.	
conserve		To keep in a safe or sound state; to save; to preserve; to protect.	Old French conserver, from Latin conservare.
conserver		One who conserves.	
consider		To fix the mind on, with a view to a careful examination; to thank on with care; to ponder; to study; to meditate on.	Middle English consideren, from Middle French considerer, from Latin considero.
considerable		Worthy of consideration, borne in mind, or attended to.	
considerableness		Worthiness of consideration; dignity; value; size; amount.	
considerably		In a manner or to a degree not trifling or unimportant; greatly; much.	
considerance	Obsolete	Act of considering; consideration.	Latin considerantia.
considerate		Given to consideration or to sober reflection; regardful of consequences or circumstances; circumspect; careful; esp. careful of the rights, claims, and feelings of other.	
consideration		The act or process of considering; continuous careful thought; examination; contemplation; deliberation; attention.	
considerative	Archaic	Considerate; careful; thoughtful.	
considerator	Obsolete	One who considers.	
considerer		One who considers; a man of reflection; a thinker.	
consideringly		With consideration or deliberation.	
consign		To give, transfer, or deliver, in a formal manner, as if by signing over into the possession of another, or into a different state, with the sense of fixedness in that state, or permanence of possession; as…	
consignatary	Obsolete	A consignee.	
consignation		The act of ratifying or establishing, as if signing; confirmation; ratuficator.	
consignatory		One of several that jointly sign a written instrument, as a treaty.	
consignature		Joint signature.	
consigne		(a) A countersign; a watchword. (b) One who is orders to keep within certain limits.	
consignee		The person to whom goods or other things are consigned; a factor; -- correlative to consignor.	
consigner		One who consigns. See Consignor.	
consignificant		Having joint or equal signification; synonymous.	
consignification		Joint signification.	
consignificative		Consignificant; jointly significate.	
consignify		To signify or denote in combination with something else.	
consignment		The act of consigning; consignation.	
consignor		One who consigns something to another; -- opposed to consignee.	
consilience		Act of concurring; coincidence; concurrence.	
consimilitude	Obsolete	Common resemblance.	
consimility	Obsolete	Common resemblance.	
consist		To stand firm; to be in a fixed or permanent state, as a body composed of parts in union or connection; to hold together; to be; to exist; to subsist; to be supported and maintained.	Latin consisto.
consistence		The condition of standing or adhering together, or being fixed in union, as the parts of a body; existence; firmness; coherence; solidity.	
consistency		The condition of standing or adhering together, or being fixed in union, as the parts of a body; existence; firmness; coherence; solidity.	
consistent		Possessing firmness or fixedness; firm; hard; solid.	
consistently		In a consistent manner.	
consistorial		Of or pertaining to a consistory.	
consistorian		Pertaining to a Presbyterian consistory; -- a contemptuous term of 17th century controversy.	
consistory		Primarily, a place of standing or staying together; hence, any solemn assembly or council.	
consociate		To bring into alliance, confederacy, or relationship; to bring together; to join; to unite.	
consociation		Intimate union; fellowship; alliance; companionship; confederation; association; intimacy.	Latin consociatio.
consociational		Of or pertaining to a consociation.	
consol		A consolidated annuity (see Consols); -- chiefly in combination or attributively.	
consolable		Capable of receiving consolation.	
consolate	Obsolete	To console; to comfort.	
consolation		The act of consoling; the state of being consoled; allevation of misery or distress of mind; refreshment of spirit; comfort; that which consoles or comforts the spirit.	
consolator		One who consoles or comforts.	
consolatory		Of a consoling or comforting nature.	
console		To cheer in distress or depression; to alleviate the grief and raise the spirits of; to relieve; to comfort; to soothe.	French consoler, from Latin consolari.
consoler		One who gives consolation.	
consolidant		Serving to unite or consolidate; having the quality of consolidating or making firm.	Latin consolidans.
consolidate		Formed into a solid mass; made firm; consolidated.	Latin consolidare.
consolidated		Made solid, hard, or compact; united; joined; solidified.	
consolidation		The act or process of consolidating, making firm, or uniting; the state of being consolidated; solidification; combination.	Latin consolidationem.
consolidative		Tending or having power to consolidate; healing.	
consoling		Adapted to console or comfort; cheering; as, this is consoling news.	
consols		The leading British funded government security.	
consomme		A clear soup or bouillion boiled down so as to be very rich.	
consonance		(Mus.) Accord or agreement of sounds produced simultaneously, as a note with its third, fifth, and eighth.	
consonancy		(Mus.) Accord or agreement of sounds produced simultaneously, as a note with its third, fifth, and eighth.	
consonant		Having agreement; congruous; consistent; according; -- usually followed by with or to.	Latin consonans.
consonantize		To change into, or use as, a consonant.	
consonantly		In a consonant, consistent, or congruous manner; agreeably.	
consonantness		The quality or condition of being consonant, agreeable, or consistent.	
consonous		Agreeing in sound; symphonious.	Latin consonus.
consopiation	Obsolete	The act of sleeping, or of lulling, to sleep.	
consopite	Obsolete	Lulled to sleep.	
consort		One who shares the lot of another; a companion; a partner; especially, a wife or husband.	
consortable	Obsolete	Suitable for association or companionship.	
consortion	Obsolete	Fellowship; association; companionship.	Latin consortio.
consortship		The condition of a consort; fellowship; partnership.	
consound		A name applied loosely to several plants of different genera, esp. the comfrey.	
conspecific		Of the same species.	
conspectuity		The faculty of seeing; sight; eye.	
conspectus		A general sketch or outline of a subject; a synopsis; an epitome.	Latin conspectus.
conspersion	Obsolete	The act of sprinkling.	Latin conspersio.
conspicuity		The state or quality of being clear or bright; brightness; conspicuosness.	
conspicuous		Open to the view; obvious to the eye; easy to be seen; plainly visible; manifest; attracting the eye.	Latin conspicuus.
conspiracy		A combination of men for an evil purpose; as agreement, between two or more persons, to commit a crime in concert, as treason; a plot.	
conspirant	Obsolete	Engaging in a plot to commit a crime; conspiring.	
conspiration		Agreement or concurrence for some end or purpose; conspiracy.	
conspirator		One who engages in a conspiracy; a plotter. 2 Sam. xv. 31.	
conspire		To make an agreement, esp. a secret agreement, to do some act, as to commit treason or a crime, or to do some unlawful deed; to plot together.	Latin conspirare.
conspirer		One who conspires; a conspirator.	
conspiringly		In the manner of a conspirator; by conspiracy.	
conspissation		A making thick or viscous; thickness; inspissation.	Latin conspissatio.
conspurcate	Obsolete	To pollute; to defile.	Latin conspurcatus.
conspurcation		This act of defiling; defilement; pollution.	
constable		A high officer in the monarhical establishments of the Middle Ages.	Old French conestable, from Latin comes stabuli.
constablery	Obsolete	The constabulary.	
constableship		The office or functions of a constable.	
constabless	Obsolete	The wife of a constable.	
constablewick	Obsolete	The district to which a constable's power is limited.	
constabulary		Of or pertaining to constables; consisting of constables.	
constabulatory	Obsolete	A constabulary.	
constancy		The state or quality of being constant or steadfast; freedom from hange; stability; fixedness; immutabilitu; asm the constancy of God in his nature and attributes.	
constant		Not liable, or given, to change; permanent; regular; continuous; continually recurring; steadfast; faithful; not fickle.	Latin constantem.
constantia		A superior wine, white and red, from Constantia, in Cape Colony.	
constantly		With constancy; steadily; continually; perseveringly; without cessation; uniformly.	
constat		A certificate showing what appears upon record touching a matter in question.	Latin constat.
constate		To ascertain; to verify; to establish; to prove.	French constater.
constellate		To join luster; to shine with united radiance, or one general light.	
constellation		A cluster or group of fixed stars, or dvision of the heavens, designated in most cases by the name of some animal, or of some mythologial personage, within whose imaginary outline, as traced upon the heavens…	Middle English constellacioun.
consternation		Amazement or horror that confounds the faculties, and incapacitates for refletion; terror, combined with amaxement; dismay.	Latin consternatio.
constipate		To stop (a channel) by filling it, and preventing passage through it; as, to constipate the capillary vessels.	
constipation		A state of the bowels in which the evacuations are infrequent and difficult, or the intestines become filled with hardened faces; costiveness.	
constituency		A body of constituents, as the body of citizens or voters in a representative district.	
constituent		Serving to form, compose, or make up; elemental; component.	Latin constituens.
constitute	Obsolete	To appoint, depute, or elect to an offie; to make and empower.	
constituter		One who constitutes or appoints.	
constitution		The act or process of constituting; the action of enacting, establishing, or appointing; enactment; establishment; formation.	
constitutional		Belonging to, or inherent in, the constitution, or in the structure of body or mind; as, a constitutional infirmity; constitutional ardor or dullness.	
constitutionalism		The theory, principles, or authority of constitutional government; attachment or adherene to a constitution or constitutional government.	
constitutionalist		One who advocates a constitutional form of government; a constitutionalist.	
constitutionality		The quality or state of being constitutional, or inherent in the natural frame.	
constitutionally		In accordance with the constitution or natural disposition of the mind or body; naturally; as, he was constitutionally timid.	
constitutionist		One who adheres to the constitution of the country.	
constitutive		Tending or assisting to constitute or compose; elemental; essential.	
constitutively		In a constitutive manner.	
constrain		To secure by bonds; to chain; to bond or con He binds in hains The droway prophet, and his limbs constrains.	Middle French constraindre.
constrainable		Capable of being constrained; liable to constraint, or to restraint.	
constrained		Marked by constraint; not free; not voluntary; embarrassed; as, a constrained manner; a constrained tone.	
constrainedly		By constraint or compulsion; in a constrained manner.	
constrainer		One who constrains.	
constraint		The act of constraining, or the state of being constrained; that which compels to, or restrains from, action; compulsion; restraint; necessity.	
constraintive		Constraining; compulsory.	
constrict		To draw together; to render narrower or smaller; to bind; to cramp; to contract or ause to shrink.	
constricted		Drawn together; bound; contracted; cramped.	
constriction		The act of constricting by means of some inherent power or by movement or change in the thing itself, as distinguished from compression.	
constrictive		Serving or tending to bind or constrict.	
constrictor		That which constricts, draws together, or contracts.	
constringe		To dawn together; to contract; to force to contract itself; to constrict; to cause to shrink.	Latin constringere.
constringent		Having the quality of contracting, binding, or compressing.	
construct		To put together the constituent parts of (something) in their proper place and order; to build; to form; to make; as, to construct an edlifice.	Latin construo.
constructer		One who, or that which, constructs or frames.	
construction		The process or art of constructing; the act of building; erection; the act of devising and forming; fabrication; composition.	Latin constructio.
constructional		Pertaining to, or deduced from, construction or interpretation.	
constructionist		One who puts a certain construction upon some writing or instrument, as the Constitutions of the United States; as, a strict constructionist; a broad constructionist.	
constructive		Having ability to construct or form; employed in construction; as, to exhibit constructive power.	
constructively		In a constructive manner; by construction or inference.	
constructiveness		(Phren.) The faculty which enables one to construct, as in mechanical, artistic, or literary matters.	
constructor		A constructer.	
constructure	Obsolete	That which is constructed or formed; an edifice; a fabric.	
construe		To apply the rules of syntax to (a sentence or clause) so as to exhibit the structure, arrangement, or connection of, or to discover the sense; to explain the construction of; to interpret; to translate.	Latin construo.
constuprate		To ravish; to debauch.	
constupration		The act of ravishing; violation; defilement.	
consubstantial		Of the same kind or nature; having the same substance or essence; coessential.	Latin consubstantialis.
consubstantialism		The doctrine of consubstantiation.	
consubstantialist		One who believes in consubstantiation.	
consubstantiality		Participation of the same nature; coexistence in the same substance.	
consubstantially		In a consubstantial manner; with identity of substance or nature.	
consubstantiate		To cause to unite, or to regard as united, in one common substance or nature.	
consubstantiation		(Theol.) The actual, substantial presence of the body of Christ with the bread and wine of the sacrament of the Lord's Supper; impanation; -- opposed to transubstantiation.	
consuetude		Custom, habit; usage.	
consuetudinal		According to custom; customary; usual.	Latin consuetudinarius.
consuetudinary		Customary.	
consul		(Fr. Hist.) One of the three chief magistrates of France from 1799 to 1804, who were called, respectively, first, second, and third consul.	Latin consul.
consulage		A duty or tax paid by merchants for the protection of their connerce by means of a consul in a foreign place.	
consular		Of or pertaining to a consul; performing the duties of a consul; as, consular power; consular dignity; consular officers.	Latin consularis.
consulary	Obsolete	Consular.	
consulate		Consular government; term of office of a consul.	
consulship		The office of a consul; consulate.	
consult		To seek the opinion or advice of another; to take consel; to deliberate together; to confer.	French consulter, from Latin consultare.
consultary		Formed by consultation; resulting from conference.	
consultation		The act of consulting or conferring; deliberation of two or more persons on some matter, with a view to a decision.	
consultative		Pertaining to consultation; having the privilege or right of conference.	
consultatory		Formed by, or resulting from, consultation; advisory.	
consulter		One who consults, or asks counsel or information.	
consulting		That consults.	
consultive		Determined by, or pertaining to, consultation; deliberate; consultative.	
consumable		Capable of being consumed; that may be destroyed, dissipated, wasted, or spent.	
consume		To destroy, as by decomposition, dissipation, waste, or fire; to use up; to expend; to waste; to burn up; to eat up; to devour.	Latin consumere.
consumedly	Low	Excessively.	
consumer		One who, or that which, consumes; as, the consumer of food.	
consumingly		In a consuming manner.	
consummate		Carried to the utmost extent or degree; of the highest quality; complete; perfect.	Latin consummatus.
consummately		In a consummate manner; completely.	
consummation		The act of consummating, or the state of being consummated; completed; completion; perfection; termination; end (as of the world or of life).	
consummative		Serving to consummate; completing.	
consumption		The act or process of consuming by use, waste, etc.; decay; destruction.	
consumptive		Of or pertaining to consumption; having the quality of consuming, or dissipating; destructive; wasting.	
consumptively		In a way tending to or indication consumption.	
consumptiveness		A state of being consumptive, or a tendency to a consumption.	
contabescent		Wasting away gradually.	
contact		A close union or junction of bodies; a touching or meeting.	Latin contactus.
contaction	Obsolete	Act of touching.	
contagion		(Med.) The transmission of a disease from one person to another, by direct or indirect contact.	
contagioned		Affected by contagion.	
contagionist		One who believes in the contagious character of certain diseases, as of yellow fever.	
contagious		(Med.) Communicable by contact, by a virus, or by a bodily exhalation; catching; as, a contagious disease.	
contagiously		In a contagious manner.	
contagiousness		Quality of being contagious.	
contagium		Contagion; contagious matter.	Latin contagium.
contain		To hold within fixed limits; to comprise; to include; to inclose; to hold.	
containable		Capable of being contained or comprised.	
containant		A container.	
container		One who, or that which, contains.	
containment	Obsolete	That which is contained; the extent; the substance.	
contaminable		Capable of being contaminated.	
contaminate		To soil, stain, or corrupt by contact; to tarnish; to sully; to taint; to pollute; to defile.	Latin contaminare.
contamination		The act or process of contaminating; pollution; defilement; taint; also, that which contaminates.	
contamitive		Tending or liable to contaminate.	
contango		(Stock Exchange) The premium or interest paid by the buyer to the seller, to be allowed to defer paying for the stock purchased until the next fortnightly settlement day.	
conte		A short narrative or tale, esp. one dealing with surprising or marvelous events.	
contection	Obsolete	A covering.	
contek	Obsolete	Quarrel; contention; contest.	
contemn		To view or treat with contempt, as mean and despicable; to reject with disdain; to despise; to scorn.	Latin contemnere.
contemner		One who contemns; a despiser; a scorner.	
contemningly		Contemptuously.	
contemper	Obsolete	To modify or temper; to allay; to qualify; to moderate; to soften.	Latin contemperare.
contemperate	Obsolete	To temper; to moderate.	
contemperation		Proportionate mixture or combination.	
contemperature	Obsolete	The condition of being tempered; proportionate mixture; temperature.	
contemplance	Obsolete	Contemplation.	
contemplant		Given to contemplation; meditative.	Latin contemplans.
contemplate		To look at on all sides or in all its bearings; to view or consider with continued attention; to regard with deliberate care; to meditate on; to study.	
contemplation		The act of the mind in considering with attention; continued attention of the mind to a particular subject; meditation; musing; study.	
contemplatist		A contemplator.	
contemplative		Pertaining to contemplation; addicted to, or employed in, contemplation; meditative.	Old French contemplatif.
contemplatively		With contemplation; in a contemplative manner.	
contemplativeness		The state of being contemplative; thoughtfulness.	
contemplator		One who contemplates.	
contemporaneity		The state of being contemporaneous.	
contemporaneous		Living, existing, or occurring at the same time; contemporary.	
contemporaneously		At the same time with some other event.	
contemporariness		Existence at the same time; contemporaneousness.	
contemporary		Living, occuring, or existing, at the same time; done in, or belonging to, the same times; contemporaneous.	
contempt		The act of contemning or despising; the feeling with which one regards that which is esteement mean, vile, or worthless; disdain; scorn.	Latin contemptus.
contemptibility		The quality of being contemptible; contemptibleness.	
contemptible		Worthy of contempt; deserving of scorn or disdain; mean; vile; despicable.	
contemptibleness		The state or quality of being contemptible, or of being despised.	
contemptibly		In a contemptible manner.	
contemptuous		Manifecting or expressing contempt or disdain; scornful; haughty; insolent; disdainful.	
contemptuously		In a contemptuous manner; with scorn or disdain; despitefully.	
contemptuousness		Disposition to or manifestion of contempt; insolence; haughtiness.	
contend		To struggle or exert one's self to obtain or retain possession of, or to defend.	
contendent	Obsolete	n antagonist; a contestant.	
contender		One who contends; a contestant.	
contendress		A female contestant.	
contenement		That which is held together with another thing; that which is connected with a tenetment, or thing holden, as a certin quantity of land a Burrill.	
content		Contained within limits; hence, having the desires limited by that which one has; not disposed to repine or grumble; satisfied; contented; at rest.	Old French contenter, from Latin contentare.
contentation	Obsolete	Content; satisfaction.	Latin contentatio.
contented		Content; easy in mind; satisfied; quiet; willing. -- Con*tent ed*ness, n.	
contentful	Obsolete	Full of content.	
contention		A violent effort or struggle to obtain, or to resist, something; contest; strife.	Middle English contencion, from Old French contencion, from Latin contentio.
contentious		Fond of contention; given to angry debate; provoking dispute or contention; quarrelsome.	Latin contentiosus.
contentless		Discontented; dissatisfied.	
contently	Obsolete	In a contented manner.	
contentment		The state of being contented or satisfied; content.	
contents		See Content, n.	
conterminable		Having the same bounds; terminating at the same time or place; conterminous.	
conterminal		Conterminous.	Latin conterminus.
conterminant		Having the same limits; ending at the same time; conterminous.	
conterminate	Obsolete	Having the same bounds; conterminous.	
conterminous		Having the same bounds, or limits; bordering upon; contiguous.	Latin conterminus.
conterranean		Of or belonging to the same country.	
conterraneous		Of or belonging to the same country.	
contesseration	Obsolete	An assemblage; a collection; harmonious union.	Latin contesseratio.
contest		To make a subject of dispute, contention, litigation, or emulation; to contend for; to call in question; to controvert; to oppose; to dispute.	Old French contester, from Latin contestor.
contestable		Capable of being contested; debatable.	
contestant		One who contests; an opponent; a litigant; a disputant; one who claims that which has been awarded to another.	
contestation		The act of contesting; emulation; rivalry; strife; dispute.	
contestingly		In a contending manner.	
contex	Obsolete	To context.	
context	Obsolete	Knit or woven together; close; firm.	Latin contextus.
contextural		Pertaining to contexture or arrangement of parts; producing contexture; interwoven.	
contexture		The arrangement and union of the constituent parts of a thing; a weaving together of parts; structural character of a thing; system; constitution; texture.	
contextured		Formed into texture; woven together; arranged; composed.	
contignation		The act or process of framing together, or uniting, as beams in a fabric.	Latin contignatio.
contiguate	Obsolete	Contiguous; touching.	Latin contiguatus.
contiguity		The state of being contiguous; intimate association; nearness; proximity.	
contiguous		In actual contact; touching; also, adjacent; near; neighboring; adjoining.	Latin contiguus.
continence		Self-restraint; self-command.	
continency		Self-restraint; self-command.	
continent		Exercising restraint as to the indulgence of desires or passions; temperate; moderate.	Old French continent, from Latin continentem.
continental		Of or pertaining to the main land of Europe, in distinction from the adjacent islands, especially England; as, a continental tour; a continental coalition.	
continently		In a continent manner; chastely; moderately; temperately.	
contingence		See Contingency — union or connection; the state of touching or contact.	
contingency		Union or connection; the state of touching or contact.	
contingent		Possible, or liable, but not certain, to occur; incidental; casual.	Latin contingens.
contingently		In a contingent manner; without design or foresight; accidentally.	
contingentness		The state of being contingent; fortuitousness.	
continuable		Capable of being continued	
continual		Proceeding without interruption or cesstaion; continuous; unceasing; lasting; abiding.	Middle English continuel, from Old French continuel, from Latin continuus.
continually		Without cessation; unceasingly; continuously; as, the current flows continually.	
continuance		A holding on, or remaining in a particular state; permanence, as of condition, habits, abode, etc.; perseverance; constancy; duration; stay.	
continuant		Continuing; prolonged; sustained; as, a continuant sound. -- n.	
continuate		Immediately united together; intimately connocted.	
continuation		That act or state of continuing; the state of being continued; uninterrupted extension or succession; prolongation; propagation.	
continuative		(Logic) A term or expression denoting continuance.	
continuator		One who, or that which, continues; esp., one who continues a series or a work; a continuer.	
continue		To remain ina given place or condition; to remain in connection with; to abide; to stay.	Middle French continuer, from Latin continuare.
continued		Having extension of time, space, order of events, exertion of energy, etc.; extended; protacted; uninterrupted; also, resumed after interruption; extending through a succession of issues, session, etc.; as, a continued story.	
continuedly		Continuously.	
continuer		One who continues; one who has the power of perseverance or persistence.	
continuity		the state of being continuous; uninterupted connection or succession; close union of parts; cohesion; as, the continuity of fibers.	
continuo		Basso continuo, or continued bass.	
continuous		Without break, cessation, or interruption; without intervening space or time; uninterrupted; unbroken; continual; unceasing; constant; continued; protracted; extended; as, a continuous line of railroad…	
continuously		In a continuous maner; without interruption. -- Con*tin"u*ous*ness, n.	
contline		(Ropemaking) The space between the strands on the outside of a rope.	
contorniate		A species of medal or medallion of bronze, having a deep furrow on the contour or edge; -- supposed to have been struck in the days of Constantine and his successors.	
contorsion		See Contortion — a twisting; a writhing; wry motion; a twist; as, the contortion of the muscles of the face.	
contort		To twist, or twist together; to turn awry; to bend; to distort; to wrest.	
contorted		Twisted, or twisted together.	
contortion		A twisting; a writhing; wry motion; a twist; as, the contortion of the muscles of the face.	
contortionist		One who makes or practices contortions.	
contortive		Expressing contortion.	
contortuplicate		Plaited lengthwise and twisted in addition, as the bud of the morning-glory.	
contour		The outline of a figure or body, or the line or lines representing such an outline; the line that bounds; periphery.	
contourne		Turned in a direction which is not the usual one; -- said of an animal turned to the sinister which is usually turned to the dexter, or the like.	
contourniated		Having furrowed edges, as if turned in a lathe.	
contra		A Latin adverb and preposition, signifying against, contrary, in opposition, etc., entering as a prefix into the composition of many English words.	
contraband		Illegal or prohobited traffic.	
contrabandism		Traffic in contraband gods; smuggling.	
contrabandist		One who traffic illegaly; a smuggler.	
contrabass		, n. (Mus.) Double bass; -- applied to any instrument of the same deep range as the stringed double bass; as, the contrabass ophicleide; the cotrabass tuba or bombardon.	Italian contrabbasso.
contrabasso		The largest kind of bass viol. See Violone.	
contract		To draw together or nearer; to reduce to a less compass; to shorten, narrow, or lesen; as, to contract one's shpere of action.	
contracted		Drawn together; shrunken; wrinkled; narrow; as, a contracted brow; a contracted noun.	
contractedness		The state of being contracted; narrowness; meannes; selfishness.	
contractibility		Capability of being contracted; quality of being contractible; as, the contractibiliy and dilatability of air.	
contractible		Capable of contraction.	
contractibleness		Contractibility.	
contractile		tending to contract; having the power or property of contracting, or of shrinking into shorter or smaller dimensions; as, the contractile tissues.	
contractility		The quality or property by which bodies shrink or contract.	
contraction		The act or process of contracting, shortening, or shrinking; the state of being contracted; as, contraction of the heart, of the pupil of the eye, or of a tendion; the contraction produced by cold.	Latin contractio.
contractive		Tending to contract; having the property or power or power of contracting.	
contractor		One who contracts; one of the parties to a bargain; one who covenants to do anything for another; specifically, one who contracts to perform work on a rather large scale, at a certain price or rate…	
contracture		A state of permanent rigidity or contraction of the muscles, generally of the flexor muscles.	
contradance		A dance in which the partners are arranged face to face, or in opposite lines.	
contradict		To assert the contrary of; to oppose in words; to take issue with; to gainsay; to deny the truth of, as of a statement or a speaker; to impugn.	
contradictable		Capable of being contradicting.	
contradicter		one who contradicts.	
contradiction		An assertion of the contrary to what has been said or affirmed; denial of the truth of a statement or assertion; contrary declaration; gainsaying.	Latin contradictio.
contradictional		Contradictory; inconsistent; opposing.	
contradictious	Obsolete	Filled with contradictions; inconsistent.	
contradictive		Contradictory; inconsistent. -- Con`tra*dict"ive*ly, adv..	
contradictor		A contradicter.	Latin contradictor.
contradictorily		In a contradictory manner.	
contradictoriness		The quality of being contradictory; opposition; inconsistency.	
contradictory		Affirming the contrary; implying a denial of what has been asserted; also, mutually contradicting; inconsistent.	
contradistinct		Distinguished by opposite qualities.	
contradistinction		Distinction by contrast.	
contradistinctive		having the quality of contradistinction; distinguishing by contrast. -- Con`tra*dis*tinc"tive, n.	
contradistinguish		To distinguish by a contrast of opposite qualities.	
contrafagetto		The double bassoon, an octave deeper than the bassoon.	
contrafissure		A fissure or fracture on the side opposite to that which received the blow, or at some distance from it.	
contrahent	Obsolete	Entering into covenant; contracting; as, contrahent parties.	
contraindicant		Something, as a symptom, indicating that the usual mode of treatment is not to be followed.	
contraindicate		To indicate, as by a symptom, some method of treatment contrary to that which the general tenor of the case would seem to require.	
contraindication		An indication or symptom which forbids the method of treatment usual in such cases.	
contralto		(a) The part sung by the highest male or lowest female voices; the alto or counter tenor.	
contramure	Obsolete	An outer wall.	
contranatural		Opposed to or against nature; unnatural.	
contraplex		Pertaining to the sending of two messages in opposite directions at the same time.	
contraposition		(Logic) A so-called immediate inference which consists in denying the original subject of the contradictory predicate; e.g.: Every S is P; therefore, no Not-P is S.	
contraption	Colloquial	A contrivance; a new-fangled device; -- used scornfully. -- Con*trap"tious (#), a.	
contrapuntal		Pertaining to, or according to the rules of, counterpoint.	Latin ''[[punctus]] [[contra]] [[punctum]]''.
contrapuntist		One skilled in counterpoint.	Italian contrappuntista.
contraremonstrant		One who remonstrates in opposition or answer to a remonstraint.	
contrariant		Contrary; opposed; antagonistic; inconsistent; contradictory.	
contrariantly	Obsolete	Contrarily.	
contraries		Propositions which directly and destructively contradict each other, but of which the falsehood of one does not establish the truth of the other.	
contrariety		The state or quality of being contrary; opposition; repugnance; disagreement; antagonism.	Middle French contrariété, from Latin contrarietas.
contrariness		state or quality of being contrary; opposition; inconsistency; contrariety; perverseness; obstinancy.	
contrarious	Archaic	Showing contrariety; repugnant; perverse.	
contrariously		Contrarily; oppositely.	
contrariwise		On the contrary; oppositely; on the other hand.	
contrarotation		Circular motion in a direction contrary to some other circular motion.	
contrary		Opposite; in an opposite direction; in opposition; adverse; as, contrary winds.	Middle English contrarie.
contrast		To stand in opposition; to exhibit difference, unlikeness, or opposition of qualities.	French contraster, from Italian contrastare.
contrastimulant		Counteracting the effects of stimulants; relating to a course of medical treatment based on a theory of contrastimulants. -- n.	
contrate		Having cogs or teeth projecting parallel to the axis, instead of radiating from it.	
contratenor		Counter tenor; contralto.	
contravallation		A trench guarded with a parapet, constructed by besiegers, to secure themselves and check sallies of the besieged.	
contravene		To meet in the way of opposition; to come into conflict with; to oppose; to contradict; to obstruct the operation of; to defeat.	Latin contravenio.
contravener		One who contravenes.	
contravention		The act of contravening; opposition; obstruction; transgression; violation.	
contraversion		A turning to the opposite side; antistrophe.	
contrayerva		A species of Dorstenia (D.	Spanish contrayerba.
contrecoup		A concussion or shock produced by a blow or other injury, in a part or region opposite to that at which the blow is received, often causing rupture or disorganisation of the parts affected.	
contredanse		(Music) A piece of music in the rhythm of such a dance.	
contretemps		An unexpected and untoward accident; something inopportune or embarassing; a hitch.	
contributable		Capable of being contributed.	
contributary		Tributary; contributing.	
contribute		To give or grant i common with others; to give to a common stock or for a common purpose; to furnish or suply in part; to give (money or other aid) for a specified object; as, to contribute food or fuel for the poor.	
contribution		That which is contributed; -- either the portion which an individual furnishes to the common stock, or the whole which is formed by the gifts of individuals.	Latin contributionem.
contributional		Pertaining to, or furnishing, a contribution.	
contributive		Contributing, or tending to contribute.	
contributor		One who, or that which, contributes; specifically, one who writes articles for a newspaper or magazine.	
contributory		Contributing to the same stock or purpose; promoting the same end; bringing assistance to some joint design, or increase to some common stock; contributive.	
contrist	Obsolete	To make sad.	
contristate	Obsolete	To make sorrowful.	
contrite		Broken down with grief and penitence; deeply sorrowful for sin because it is displeasing to God; humbly and thoroughly penitent.	Latin contritus.
contriteness		Deep sorrow and penitence for sin; contrition.	
contrition		The state of being contrite; deep sorrow and repentance for sin, because sin is displeasing to God; humble penitence; through repentance.	
contriturate		To triturate; to pulverize.	
contrivable		Capable of being contrived, planned, invented, or devised.	
contrivance		The act or faculty of contriving, inventing, devising, or planning.	
contrive		To form by an exercise of ingenuity; to devise; to invent; to design; to plan.	Middle English contreve.
contrivement	Obsolete	Contrivance; invention; arrangement; design; plan.	
contriver		One who contrives, devises, plans, or schemas.	
control		That which serves to check, restrain, or hinder; restraint.	Middle English conterrolle, from Old French contrerole, from Latin contrarotulum.
controllability		Capability of being controlled; controllableness.	
controllable		Capable of being controlled, checked, or restrained; amenable to command.	
controllableness		Capability of being controlled.	
controller		One who, or that which, controls or restraines; one who has power or authority to regulate or control; one who governs.	Middle English countreroller, from Anglo-Norman countrerolleour, from Old French contrerelleor, from Latin contrarotulator.
controllership		The office of a controller.	
controlment		The power or act of controlling; the state of being rstrained; control; restraint; regulation; superintendence.	
controversal	Obsolete	Turning or looking opposite ways.	
controversary	Obsolete	Controversial.	
controverse	Obsolete	Controversy.	
controverser	Obsolete	A disputant.	
controversial		Relating to, or consisting of, controversy; disputatious; polemical; as, controversial divinity.	
controversialist		One who carries on a controversy; a disputant.	
controversially		In a controversial manner.	
controversion	Obsolete	Act of controverting; controversy.	
controversor	Obsolete	A controverser.	
controversy		Contention; dispute; debate; discussion; agitation of contrary opinions.	Latin controversia.
controvert		To make matter of controversy; to dispute or oppose by reasoning; to contend against in words or writings; to contest; to debate.	
controverter		One who controverts; a controversial writer; a controversialist.	
controvertible		Capable of being controverted; disputable; admitting of question. -- Con`tro*ver"ti*bly, adv.	
controvertist		One skilled in or given to controversy; a controversialist.	
contubernal		Living or messing together; familiar; in companionship.	Latin contubernalis.
contubernial		Living or messing together; familiar; in companionship.	
contumacious		Exhibiting contumacy; contemning authority; obstinate; perverse; stubborn; disobedient.	Latin contumax.
contumacy		Stubborn perverseness; pertinacious resistance to authority.	
contumelious		Exhibiting contumely; rudely contemptuous; insolent; disdainful.	Latin contumeliosus.
contumely		Rudeness compounded of haughtiness and contempt; scornful insolence; despiteful treatment; disdain; contemptuousness in act or speech; disgrace.	Old French contumelie, from Latin contumelia.
contuse		To beat, pound, or together.	
contusion		The act or process of beating, bruising, or pounding; the state of being beaten or bruised.	French contusion, from Latin contusionem.
conundrum		A kind of riddle based upon some fanciful or fantastic resemblance between things quite unlike; a puzzling question, of which the answer is or involves a pun.	
conure		An American parrakeet of the genus Conurus.	
conus		(Zoöl.) A Linnean genus of mollusks having a conical shell. See Cone, n., 4.	
conusable	Obsolete	Cognizable; liable to be tried or judged.	
conusant		See Cognizant — having cognizance or knowledge. (of).	
conusor		See Cognizor — one who ackowledged the right of the plaintiff or cognizee in a fine; the defendant.	
convalesce		To recover health and strength gradually, after sickness or weakness; as, a patient begins to convalesce.	
convalesced		Convalescent.	
convalescence		The recovery of heath and strength after disease; the state of a body renewing its vigor after sickness or weakness; the time between the subsidence of a disease and complete restoration to health.	French convalescence, from Latin convalescentia.
convalescency		The recovery of heath and strength after disease; the state of a body renewing its vigor after sickness or weakness; the time between the subsidence of a disease and complete restoration to health.	
convalescent		Recovering from siclness or debility; partially restored to health or strength.	
convalescently		In the manner of a convalescent; with increasing strength or vigor.	
convallamarin		A white, crystalline, poisonous substance, regarded as a glucoside, extracted from the lily of the valley (Convallaria Majalis).	
convallaria		The lily of the valley.	
convallarin		A white, crystalline glucoside, of an irritating taste, extracted from the convallaria or lily of the valley.	
convection		(Physics) A process of transfer or transmission, as of heat or electricity, by means of currents in liquids or gases, resulting from changes of temperature and other causes.	Latin convectionem.
convective		Caused or accomplished by convection; as, a convective discharge of electricity.	
convectively		In a convective manner.	
convellent	Obsolete	Tending to tear or pull up.	
convenable	Obsolete	Capable of being convened or assembled.	French convenable.
convenance		That which is suitable, agreeable, or convenient.	French convenir, from Latin convenire.
convene		To come together; to meet; to unite.	Latin ''[[convenire]]; [[con-]] + [[venire]]''.
convener	Scots	One who calls an assembly together or convenes a meeting; hence, the chairman of a committee or other organized body.	
convenience		The state or quality of being convenient; fitness or suitableness, as of place, time, etc.; propriety.	Latin convenientia.
conveniency		The state or quality of being convenient; fitness or suitableness, as of place, time, etc.; propriety.	
convenient		Affording accommodation or advantage; well adapted to use; handly; as, a convenient house; convenient implements or tools.	Middle English convenient, from Latin conveniens.
conveniently		In a convenient manner, form, or situation; without difficulty.	
convent		An association or community of recluses devoted to a religious life; a body of monks or nuns.	Latin conventus.
conventical		Of or from, or pertaining to, a convent.	
conventicle		A small assembly or gathering; esp., a secret assembly.	
conventicler		One who supports or frequents conventicles.	
conventicling	Obsolete	Belonging or going to, or resembling, a conventicle.	
convention		The act of coming together; the state of being together; union; coalition.	
conventional		Formed by agreement or compact; stipulated.	
conventionalism		That which is received or established by convention or arbitrary agreement; that which is in accordance with the fashion, tradition, or usage.	
conventionalist		One who adheres to a convention or treaty.	
conventionality		The state of being conventional; adherence to social formalities or usages; that which is established by conventional use; one of the customary usages of social life.	
conventionalization		(a) The act of making conventional. (b) The state of being conventional.	
conventionalize		To make conventional; to bring under the influence of, or cause to conform to, conventional rules; to establish by usage.	
conventionally		In a conventional manner.	
conventionary	Obsolete	Acting under contract; settled by express agreement; as, conventionary tenants.	
conventioner		One who belongs to a convention or assembly.	
conventionist		One who enters into a convention, covenant, or contract.	
conventual		Of or pertaining to a convent; monastic.	Latin conventualis.
converge		To tend to one point; to incline and approach nearer together; as, lines converge.	Latin convergere.
convergence		The condition or quality of converging; tendency to one point.	
convergency		The condition or quality of converging; tendency to one point.	
convergent		tending to one point of focus; tending to approach each other; converging.	
converging		Tending to one point; approaching each other; convergent; as, converging lines.	
conversable		Qualified for conversation; disposed to converse; sociable; free in discourse.	
conversableness		The quality of being conversable; disposition to converse; sociability.	
conversably		In a conversable manner.	
conversance		The state or quality of being conversant; habit of familiarity; familiar acquaintance; intimacy.	
conversancy		Conversance	
conversant		Having frequent or customary intercourse; familiary associated; intimately acquainted.	
conversantly		In a familiar manner.	
conversation		Familiar intercourse; intimate fellowship or association; close acquaintance.	French conversation, from Latin conversationem.
conversational		Pertaining to conversation; in the manner of one conversing; as, a conversational style.	
conversationalist		A conversationist.	
conversationed	Obsolete	Acquainted with manners and deportment; behaved.	
conversationism		A word or phrase used in conversation; a colloqualism.	
conversationist		One who converses much, or who excels in conversation.	
conversative		Relating to intercourse with men; social; -- opposed to contemplative.	
conversazione		A meeting or assembly for conversation, particularly on literary or scientific subjects.	
converse		To keep company; to hold intimate intercourse; to commune; -- followed by with.	Old French converser, from Latin conversare.
conversely		In a converse manner; with change of order or relation; reciprocally.	
converser		One who engages in conversation.	
conversible		Capable of being converted or reversed.	
conversion		The act of turning or changing from one state or condition to another, or the state of being changed; transmutation; change.	
conversive		Capable of being converted or changed.	
convert		To change or turn from one state or condition to another; to alter in form, substance, or quality; to transform; to transmute; as, to convert water into ice.	Old French convertir, from Latin converto.
convertend		Any proposition which is subject to the process of conversion; -- so called in its relation to itself as converted, after which process it is termed the conversae.	
converter		One who converts; one who makes converts.	
convertibility		The condition or quality of being convertible; capability of being exchanged; convertibleness.	
convertible		Capable of being converted; susceptible of change; transmutable; transformable.	
convertibleness		The state of being convertible; convertibility.	
convertibly		In a convertible manner.	
convertite	Obsolete	A convert.	
convex		Rising or swelling into a spherical or rounded form; regularly protuberant or bulging; -- said of a spherical surface or curved line when viewed from without, in opposition to concave.	Latin convexus.
convexed		Made convex; protuberant in a spherical form.	
convexedly		In a convex form; convexly.	
convexedness		Convexity.	
convexity		The state of being convex; the exterior surface of a convex body; roundness.	
convexly		In a convex form; as, a body convexly shaped.	
convexness		The state of being convex; convexity.	
convexo-concave		Convex on one side, and concave on the other.	
convexo-convex		Convex on botConvex, a.	
convexo-plane		Convex on one side, and flat on the other; plano-convex.	
convey		To carry from one place to another; to bear or transport.	Old French conveier, from Latin convio.
conveyable		Capable of being conveyed or transferred.	
conveyance		The act of conveying, carrying, or transporting; carriage.	
conveyancer		One whose business is to draw up conveyances of property, as deeds, mortgages, leases, etc. Burrill.	
conveyancing		The business of a conveyancer; the act or business of drawing deeds, leases, or other writings, for transferring the title to property from one person to another.	
conveyer		One who, or that which, conveys or carries, transmits or transfers.	
conveyor		A contrivance for carrying objects from place to place; esp., one for conveying grain, coal, etc., -- as a spiral or screw turning in a pipe or trough, an endless belt with buckets, or a truck running along a rope.	
conviciate	Obsolete	To utter reproaches; to raise a clamor; to rail.	
convicinity		Immediate vicinity; neighborhood.	
convicious	Obsolete	Expressing reproach; abusive; railing; taunting.	
convict		A person proved guilty of a crime alleged against him; one legally convicted or sentenced to punishment for some crime.	Anglo-Norman convicter, from Latin convictus.
convictible		Capable of being convicted.	
conviction		The act of convicting; the act of proving, finding, or adjudging, guilty of an offense.	Anglo-Norman conviction, from Latin convictio.
convictism		The policy or practice of transporting convicts to penal settlements.	
convictive		Convincing.	
convince		To overcome by argument; to force to yield assent to truth; to satisfy by proof.	Latin convincere.
convincement		Act of convincing, or state of being convinced; conviction.	
convincer		One who, or that which, convinces; one who wins over by proof.	
convincible		Capable of being convinced or won over.	
convincingly		in a convincing manner; in a manner to compel assent.	
convincingness		The power of convincing, or the quality of being convincing.	
convival	Obsolete	pertaining to a feast or to festivity; convivial.	Latin convivalis.
convive	Obsolete	To feast together; to be convivial.	
convivial		Of or relating to a feast or entertainment, or to eating and drinking, with accompanying festivity; festive; social; gay; jovial.	Latin convivium.
convivialist		A person of convivial habits.	
conviviality		The good humor or mirth indulged in upon festive occasions; a convivial spirit or humor; festivity.	
convivially		In a convivial manner.	
convocate	Obsolete	To convoke; to call together.	
convocation		(Ch. of Eng.) An assembly of the clergy, by their representatives, to consult on ecclesiastical affairs.	Latin convocare.
convocational		Of or pertaining to a convocation.	
convocationist		An advocate or defender of convocation.	
convoke		To call together; to summon to meet; to assemble by summons.	Latin convocare.
convolute		Rolled or wound together, one part upon another; -- said of the leaves of plants in æstivation.	Latin convolūtum.
convoluted		Having convolutions. beaks recurved and convoluted like a ram's horn.	
convolution		The act of rolling anything upon itself, or one thing upon another; a winding motion.	Latin convolutus.
convolve		To roll or wind together; to roll or twist one part on another.	Latin convolvere.
convolvulaceous		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants of which the bindweed and the morning-glory are common examples.	
convolvulin		A glucoside occurring in jalap (the root of a convolvulaceous plant), and extracted as a colorless, tasteless, gummy mass of powerful purgative properties.	
convolvulus		A large genus of plants having monopetalous flowers, including the common bindweed (C. arwensis), and formerly the morning-glory, but this is now transferred to the genus Ipomæa.	Latin convolvulus.
convoy		To accompany for protection, either by sea or land; to attend for protection; to escort; as, a frigate convoys a merchantman.	
convulse		To contract violently and irregulary, as the muscular parts of an animal body; to shake with irregular spasms, as in excessive laughter, or in agony from grief or pain.	Latin convulsus.
convulsion		(Med.) An unnatural, violent, and unvoluntary contraction of the muscular parts of an animal body.	
convulsional		Pertaining to, or having, convulsions; convulsionary.	
convulsionary		Pertaining to convulsion; convulsive.	
convulsionist		One who has convulsions; esp., one of a body of fanatics in France, early in the eighteenth century, who went into convulsions under the influence of religious emotion; as, the Convulsionists of St. Médard.	
convulsive		Producing, or attended with, convulsions or spasms; characterized by convulsions; convulsionary.	
convulsively		in a convulsive manner.	
cony		(Zoöl.) (a) A rabbit, esp., the European rabbit (Lepus cuniculus). (b) The chief hare.	Middle English coni, from Old French conis.
cony-catch	Obsolete	To deceive; to cheat; to trick.	
cony-catcher	Obsolete	A cheat; a sharper; a deceiver.	
conylene		An oily substance, C8H14, obtained from several derivatives of conine.	
conyrine		A blue, fluorescent, oily base (regarded as a derivative of pyridine), obtained from conine.	
coo		To make a low repeated cry or sound, like the characteristic note of pigeons or doves.	
cooee		A peculiar whistling sound made by the Australian aborigenes as a call or signal.	
cooey		A peculiar whistling sound made by the Australian aborigenes as a call or signal.	
cook		One whose occupation is to prepare food for the table; one who dresses or cooks meat or vegetables for eating.	Middle English coken.
cookbook		A book of directions and receipts for cooking; a cookery book. : a key to the cookbooks.	
cookee		A female cook.	
cookery		The art or process of preparing food for the table, by dressing, compounding, and the application of heat.	
cookey		See Cooky — a small, flat, sweetened cake of various kinds.	
cookie		See Cooky — a small, flat, sweetened cake of various kinds.	Dutch koekje.
cookmaid		A female servant or maid who dresses provisions and assists the cook.	
cookroom		A room for cookery; a kitchen; the galley or caboose of a ship.	
cookshop		An eating house.	
cooky		A small, flat, sweetened cake of various kinds.	
cool		Moderately cold; between warm and cold; lacking in warmth; producing or promoting coolness.	Middle English colen, from Old English colian.
cool-headed		Having a temper not easily excited; free from passion. -- Cool"-head`ed*ness, n.	
cooler		That which cools, or abates heat or excitement. if acid things were used only as coolers, they would not be so proper in this case.	
coolie		Same as Cooly.	
cooling	Obsolete	Adapted to cool and refresh; allaying heat.	
coolish		Somewhat cool.	
coolly	Obsolete	Coolish; cool.	
coolness		The state of being cool; a moderate degree of cold; a moderate degree, or a want, of passion; want of ardor, zeal, or affection; calmness.	
coolung		The great gray crane of India (Grus cinerea).	
cooly		An East Indian porter or carrier; a laborer transported from the East Indies, China, or Japan, for service in some other country.	
coom		Soot; coal dust; refuse matter, as the dirty grease which comes from axle boxes, or the refuse at the mouth of an oven.	
coomb	English dialect	A dry measure of four bushels, or half a quarter.	
coombe	English dialect	A hollow in a hillside. See Comb, Combe.	
coon		A raccoon. See Raccoon.	
cooncan		A game of cards derived from conquian, played by two or more players with one or two full packs of cards.	
coontie		A cycadaceous plant of Florida and the West Indies, the Zamia integrifolia, from the stems of which a kind of sago is prepared.	
coop		An inclosure for keeping small animals; a pen; especially, a grated box for confining poultry.	
coopee	Obsolete	See Coupe — the front compartment of a French diligence; also, the front compartment (usually for three persons) of a car or carriage on British railways.	
cooper		One who makes barrels, hogsheads, casks, etc. To do the work of a cooper upon; as, to cooper a cask or barrel.	
cooperage		Work done by a cooper.	
cooperant		Operating together; as, coöperant forces.	
cooperate		To act or operate jointly with another or others; to concur in action, effort, or effect.	
cooperation		The act of coöperating, or of operating together to one end; joint operation; concurrent effort or labor.	
cooperative		Operating jointly to the same end.	
cooperator		One who labors jointly with others to promote the same end.	
coopering		Work done by a cooper in making or repairing barrels, casks, etc.; the business of a cooper.	
coopery	Obsolete	Relating to a cooper; coopered.	
coopt		To choose or elect in concert with another.	
cooptate	Obsolete	To choose; to elect; to coöpt.	Latin coöptatus.
cooptation	Obsolete	The act of choosing; selection; choice.	
coordain		To ordain or appoint for some purpose along with another.	
coordinance		Joint ordinance.	
coordinate		Equal in rank or order; not subordinate.	Latin coordinatus.
coordinately		In a coördinate manner.	
coordinateness		The state of being coördinate; equality of rank or authority.	
coordination		The act of coördinating; the act of putting in the same order, class, rank, dignity, etc.; as, the coördination of the executive, the legislative, and the judicial authority in forming a government…	Latin coordinationem.
coordinative		Expressing coördination.	
coot		(Zoöl.) (a) A wading bird with lobate toes, of the genus Fulica.	
cooter		(a) A fresh-water tortoise (Pseudemus concinna) of Florida. (b) The box tortoise.	
cootfoot		The pharalope; -- so called because its toes are like the coot's.	
coothay		A striped satin made in India.	
cop		A conical or conical-ended mass of coiled thread, yarn, or roving, wound upon a spindle, etc.	Middle English coppe.
cop-rose		The red, or corn, poppy.	
copaiba		A more or less viscid, vellowish liquid, the bitter oleoresin of several species of Copaifera, a genus of trees growing in South America and the West Indies.	
copaiva		A more or less viscid, vellowish liquid, the bitter oleoresin of several species of Copaifera, a genus of trees growing in South America and the West Indies.	
copal		A resinous substance flowing spontaneously from trees of Zanzibar, Madagascar, and South America (Trachylobium Hornemannianum, T. verrocosum, and Hymenæa Courbaril), and dug from earth where forests have stood in Africa…	Spanish copal, from Classical Nahuatl copalli.
copalm		The yellowish, fragrant balsam yielded by the sweet gum; also, the tree itself.	
coparcenary		Partnership in inheritance; joint heirship; joint right of sucession to an inheritance.	
coparcener		One who has an equal portion with others of an inheritance.	Old French copartsonnier.
coparceny		An equal share of an inheritance.	
copart	Obsolete	To share.	
copartment	Obsolete	A compartment.	
copartner		One who is jointly concerned with one or more persons in business, etc.; a partner; an associate; a partaker; a sharer. the associates and copartners of our loss.	
copartnership		The state of being a copartner or of having a joint interest in any matter.	
copartnery		the state of being copartners in any undertaking.	
copatain	Obsolete	Having a high crown, or a point or peak at top.	
copatriot		A joint patriot.	
cope		Anything regarded as extended over the head, as the arch or concave of the sky, the roof of a house, the arch over a door.	Middle English coupen, from Old French couper.
cope-chisel		A narrow chisel adapted for cutting a groove.	
copeck		A Russian copper coin. See Kopeck.	
coped		Clad in a cope.	
copelata		See Larvalla.	
copeman	Obsolete	A chapman; a dealer; a merchant.	
copenhagen		A sweetened hot drink of spirit and beaten eggs.	
copepod		Of or pertaining to the Copepoda. -- n.	
copepoda		An order of Entomastraca, including many minute Crustacea, both freshwater and marine.	
copernican		Pertaining to Copernicus, a Prussian by birth (b. 1473, d. 1543), who taught the world the solar system now received, called the Copernican system.	
copesmate	Obsolete	An associate or companion; a friend; a partner.	
copestone		A stone for coping. See Coping.	
copier		One who copies; one who writes or transcribes from an original; a transcriber.	
coping		The highest or covering course of masonry in a wall, often with sloping edges to carry off water; -- sometimes called capping.	
copious		Large in quantity or amount; plentiful; abundant; fruitful.	
copiously		In a copious manner.	
copiousness		The state or quality of being copious; abudance; plenty; also, diffuseness in style.	
copist	Obsolete	A copier.	French copiste.
coplanar		Situated in one plane.	
copland	Obsolete	A piece of ground terminating in a point or acute angle.	
coportion	Obsolete	Equal share.	
copped		Rising to a point or head; conical; pointed; crested.	
coppel		See Cupel — a shallow porus cup, used in refining precious metals, commonly made of bone ashes (phosphate of lime).	
copper		A common metal of a reddish color, both ductile and malleable, and very tenacious.	Middle English coper, from Old English coper.
copper-bottomed		Having a bottom made of copper, as a tin boiler or other vessel, or sheathed with copper, as a ship.	
copper-faced		Faced or covered with copper; as, copper-faced type.	
copper-fastened		Fastened with copper bolts, as the planks of ships, etc.; as, a copper-fastened ship.	
copper-nickel		Nicolite.	
copper-nose		A red nose.	
copperas		Green vitriol, or sulphate of iron; a green crystalline substance, of an astringent taste, used in making ink, in dyeing black, as a tonic in medicine, etc. It is made on a large scale by the oxidation of iron pyrites.	
copperhead		(Zoöl.) A poisonous American serpent (Ancistrodon conotortrix), closely allied to the rattlesnake, but without rattles; -- called also copper-belly, and red viper.	
coppering		The act of covering with copper.	
copperish		Containing, or partaking of the nature of, copper; like copper; as, a copperish taste.	
copperplate		(a) A plate of polished copper on which a design or writing is engraved.	
coppersmith		One whose occupation is to manufacture copper utensils; a worker in copper.	
copperworm		(a) The teredo; -- so called because it injures the bottoms of vessels, where not protected by copper.	
coppery		Mixed with copper; containing copper, or made of copper; like copper.	
coppice		A grove of small growth; a thicket of brushwood; a wood cut at certain times for fuel or other purposes.	Old French coupeiz.
coppin		A cop of thread.	
copple		Something rising in a conical shape; specifically, a hill rising to a point.	
copple-crown		A created or high-topped crown or head. -- Cop"ple-crowned`, a.	
coppled	Obsolete	Rising to a point; conical; copped.	
copplestone	Obsolete	A cobblestone.	
copps	Obsolete	See Copse — a wood of small growth; a thicket of brushwood. See Coppice.	
copra		The dried meat of the cocoanut, from which cocoanut oil is expressed.	
coprolite		A piece of petrified dung; a fossil excrement.	
coprolitic		Containing, pertaining to, or of the nature of, coprolites.	
coprophagan		A kind of beetle which feeds upon dung.	
coprophagous		Feeding upon dung, as certain insects.	
cops	English dialect	The connecting crook of a harrow.	
copse		A wood of small growth; a thicket of brushwood. See Coppice.	
copsewood		Brushwood; coppice.	
copsy		Characterized by copses.	
coptic		Of or pertaining to the Copts. -- n.	
copts		An Egyptian race thought to be descendants of the ancient Egyptians.	
copula		(Logic & Gram.) The word which unites the subject and predicate.	
copulate		(Gram.) Joining subject and predicate; copulative.	
copulation		The act of coupling or joining; union; conjunction.	
copulative		Serving to couple, unite, or connect; as, a copulative conjunction like "and".	
copulatively		In a copulative manner.	
copulatory		Pertaining to copulation; tending or serving to unite; copulative.	
copy		An imitation, transcript, or reproduction of an original work; as, a copy of a letter, an engraving, a painting, or a statue.	French copie, from Latin copia.
copyer		See Copier — one who copies; one who writes or transcribes from an original; a transcriber.	
copygraph		A contrivance for producing manifold copies of a writing or drawing.	
copyhold		(a) A tenure of estate by copy of court roll; or a tenure for which the tenant has nothing to show, except the rolls made by the steward of the lord's court.	
copyholder		(print.) (a) A device for holding copy for a compositor. (b) One who reads copy to a proof reader.	
copying		From Copy, v.	
copyist		A copier; a transcriber; an imitator; a plagiarist.	
copyright		The right of an author or his assignee, under statute, to print and publish his literary or artistic work, exclusively of all other persons.	
coque		A small loop or bow of ribbon used in making hats, boas, etc.	
coquelicot		(Bot.) The wild poppy, or red corn rose.	
coquet		To attempt to attract the notice, admiration, or love of; to treat with a show of tenderness or regard, with a view to deceive and disappoint.	
coquetry		Attempts to attract admoration, notice, or love, for the mere gratification of vanity; trifling in love.	
coquette		A vain, trifling woman, who endeavors to attract admiration from a desire to grafity vanity; a flirt; -- formerly sometimes applied also to men.	French coquette.
coquettish		Practicing or exhibiting coquetry; alluring; enticing.	
coquettishly		In a coquettish manner.	
coquille		(a) A shell or shell-like dish or mold in which viands are served. (b) The expansion of the guard of a sword, dagger, etc. (c) A form of ruching used as a dress trimming or for neckwear…	French coquille.
coquimbite		A mineral consisting principally of sulphate of iron; white copperas; -- so called because found in the province of Coquimbo, Chili.	
coquina		A soft, whitish, coral-like stone, formed of broken shells and corals, found in the southern United States, and used for roadbeds and for building material, as in the fort at St. Augustine, Florida.	
cor		A Hebrew measure of capacity; a homer.	
cor-		A prefix signifying with, together, etc. See Com-.	
cora		The Arabian gazelle (Gazella Arabica), found from persia to North Africa.	
coracle		A boat made by covering a wicker frame with leather or oilcloth.	
coracoid		Shaped like a crow's beak.	
corage	Obsolete	See Courage To Canterbury with full devout corage.	
corah		Plain; undyed; -- applied to Indian silk. -- n.	
coral		(Zoöl.) The hard parts or skeleton of various Anthozoa, and of a few Hydrozoa.	Greek κοράλλιον.
coral-rag		Same as Corallian.	
coraled		Having coral; covered with coral.	
corallaceous		Like coral, or partaking of its qualities.	
corallian		A deposit of coralliferous limestone forming a portion of the middle division of the oölite; -- called also coral-rag.	
coralliferous		Containing or producing coral.	
coralliform		resembling coral in form.	
coralligena		Same as Anthozoa.	
coralligenous		producing coral; coraligerous; coralliferous.	
coralligerous		Producing coral; coraliferous.	
corallin		A yellow coal-tar dyestuff which probably consists chiefly of rosolic acid.	
coralline		Composed of corallines; as, coralline limestone.	French corallin, from Latin corallinus.
corallinite		A fossil coralline.	
corallite		(Min.) A mineral substance or petrifaction, in the form of coral.	
coralloid		Having the form of coral; branching like coral.	
coralloidal		resembling coral; coralloid.	
corallum		The coral or skeleton of a zoöphyte, whether calcareous of horny, simple or compound.	
coralwort		A cruciferous herb of certain species of Dentaria; -- called also toothwort, tooth violet, or pepper root.	
coranach	Scots	A lamentation for the dead; a dirge.	
corant		A sprightly but somewhat stately dance, now out of fashion.	
coranto		A sprightly but somewhat stately dance, now out of fashion.	
corb		A basket used in coal mines, etc. see Corf.	
corban		(Jewish Antiq.) An offering of any kind, devoted to God and therefore not be appropriated to any other use; esp., an offering in fulfillment of a vow.	
corbe	Obsolete	Crooked.	Old French corbe, from Latin corvus.
corbeil		pl. (Fort.) Small gabions.	
corbel		A bracket supporting a superincumbent object, or receiving the spring of an arch.	
corbel-table		A horizontal row of corbels, with the panels or filling between them; also, less properly used to include the stringcourse on them.	
corbeling		Corbel work or the construction of corbels; a series of corbels or piece of continuous corbeled masonry, sometimes of decorative purpose, as in the stalactite ornament of the Moslems.	
corbelling		Corbel work or the construction of corbels; a series of corbels or piece of continuous corbeled masonry, sometimes of decorative purpose, as in the stalactite ornament of the Moslems.	
corbie	Scots	(her.) A raven, crow, or chough, used as a charge.	Old French corb.
corbiestep		One of the steps in which a gable wall is often finished in place of a continuous slope; -- also called crowstep.	
corby	Scots	(her.) A raven, crow, or chough, used as a charge.	
corchorus		The common name of the kerria Japonica or Japan globeflower, a yellow-flowered, perennial, rosaceous plant, seen in old-fashioned gardens.	
corcle	Obsolete	The heart of the seed; the embryo or germ.	
corcule	Obsolete	The heart of the seed; the embryo or germ.	
cord		A string, or small rope, composed of several strands twisted together.	Old French corde, from Latin chorda, from Greek χορδή.
cordage		Ropes or cords, collectively; hence, anything made of rope or cord, as those parts of the rigging of a ship which consist of ropes.	French cordage.
cordal		Same as Cordelle.	
cordate		Heart-shaped; as, a cordate leaf.	
cordately		In a cordate form.	
corded		Bound or fastened with cords.	
cordelier		(Eccl. Hist.) A Franciscan; -- so called in France from the girdle of knotted cord worn by all Franciscans.	
cordeling		Twisting.	
cordelle		A twisted cord; a tassel.	
cordial		Hearty; sincere; warm; affectionate.	Middle French cordial, from Latin cordialis.
cordiality		Sincere affection and kindness; warmth of regard; heartiness.	
cordialize		To make into a cordial.	
cordially		In a cordial manner.	
cordialness		Cordiality.	
cordierite		See Iolite — a silicate of alumina, iron, and magnesia, having a bright blue color and vitreous luster; cordierite.	
cordiform		Heart-shaped.	
cordillera		A mountain ridge or chain.	
cordiner	Obsolete	A cordwainer.	
cordite		A smokeless powder composed of nitroglycerin, guncotton, and mineral jelly, and used by the British army and in other services.	
cordon		A cord or ribbon bestowed or borne as a badge of honor; a broad ribbon, usually worn after the manner of a baldric, constituting a mark of a very high grade in an honorary order.	French cordon.
cordonnet		Doubled and twisted thread, made of coarse silk, and used for tassels, fringes, etc. McElrath.	
cordovan		Same as Cordwain. in England the name is applied to leather made from horsehide.	
corduroy		A sort of cotton velveteen, having the surface raised in ridges.	
cordwain		A term used in the Middle Ages for Spanish leather (goatskin tanned and dressed), and hence, any leather handsomely finished, colored, gilded, or the like.	
cordwainer	Archaic	A worker in cordwain, or cordovan leather; a shoemaker.	
cordy		Of, or like, cord; having cords or cordlike parts.	
core		The heart or inner part of a thing, as of a column, wall, rope, of a boil, etc.; especially, the central part of fruit, containing the kernels or seeds; as, the core of an apple or quince.	Middle English core.
coreopsis		A genus of herbaceous composite plants, having the achenes two- horned and remotely resembling some insect; tickseed.	
coreplasty		A plastic operation on the pupil, as for forming an artificial pupil. -- Cor`e*plas tik), a.	
corer		That which cores; an instrument for coring fruit; as, an apple corer.	
corf		(Mining) (a) A large basket used in carrying or hoisting coal or ore. (b) A wooden frame, sled, or low-wheeled wagon, to convey coal or ore in the mines.	
corfiote		A native or inhabitant of Corfu, an island in the Mediterranean Sea.	
corfute		A native or inhabitant of Corfu, an island in the Mediterranean Sea.	
coriaceous		Consisting of or resembling, leather; leatherlike; tough.	
coriander		An umbelliferous plant, the Coriandrum sativum, the fruit or seeds of which have a strong smell and a spicy taste, and in medicine are considered as stomachic and carminative.	French coriandre, from Latin coriandrum, from Greek κορίαννον.
coridine		A colorless or yellowish oil, C10H15N, of a leathery odor, occuring in coal tar, Dippel's oil, tobacco smoke, etc., regarded as an organic base, homologous with pyridine.	
corindon		See Corrundum.	
corinne		The common gazelle (Gazella dorcas). See Gazelle.	
corinth		A city of Greece, famed for its luxury and extravagance.	
corinthiac		Pertaining to Corinth.	
corinthian		(Arch.) Of or pertaining to the Corinthian order of architecture, invented by the Greeks, but more commonly used by the Romans.	
corium		Armor made of leather, particularly that used by the Romans; used also by Enlish soldiers till the reign of Edward I.	Latin corium.
corival		A rival; a corrival.	
corivalry		Joint rivalry.	
corivalship		Joint rivalry.	
cork		The outer layer of the bark of the cork tree (Quercus Suber), of which stoppers for bottles and casks are made.	Middle English cork.
corkage		The charge made by innkeepers for drawing the cork and taking care of bottles of wine bought elsewhere by a guest.	
corked		having acquired an unpleasant taste from the cork; as, a bottle of wine is corked.	
corkiness		The quality of being corky.	
corkscrew	Colloquial	An instrument with a screw or a steel spiral for drawing corks from bottles.	
corkwing		A fish; the goldsinny.	
corkwood		Any one of several trees or shrubs having light or corky wood; esp.: (a) In the United States, the tree Leitneria floridana.	
corky		Consisting of, or like, cork; dry shriveled up.	
corm		(Bot.) A solid bulb-shaped root, as of the crocus. See Bulb.	
cormogeny		The embryological history of groups or families of individuals.	
cormophylogeny		The phylogeny of groups or families of individuals.	
cormophyta		A term proposed by Endlicher to include all plants with an axis containing vascular tissue and with foliage.	
cormophytes		A term proposed by Endlicher to include all plants with an axis containing vascular tissue and with foliage.	
cormorant		(Zoöl.) Any species of Phalacrocorax, a genus of sea birds having a sac under the beak; the shag.	
cormoraut		Ravenous; voracious.	
cormus		(Biol.) A vegetable or animal made up of a number of individuals, such as, for example, would be formed by a process of budding from a parent stalk wherre the buds remain attached.	
corn		A thickening of the epidermis at some point, esp. on the toees, by friction or pressure.	Old English corn.
cornage		Anancient tenure of land, which obliged the tenant to give notice of an invasion by blowing a horn.	
cornamute	Obsolete	A cornemuse.	
cornbind	English dialect	A weed that binds stalks of corn, as Convolvulus arvensis, Polygonum Convolvulus.	
corncob		The cob or axis on which the kernels of Indian corn grow.	
corncrake		A bird (Crex crex or C. pratensis) which frequents grain fields; the European crake or land rail; -- called also corn bird.	
corncrib		A crib for storing corn.	
corncutter		A machine for cutting up stalks of corn for food of cattle.	
corndodger		A cake made of the meal of Indian corn, wrapped in a covering of husks or paper, and baked under the embers.	
cornea		The transparent part of the coat of the eyeball which covers the iris and pupil and admits light to the interior.	Latin cornea tela.
corneal		Pertaining to the cornea.	
cornel		(Bot.) The cornelian cherry (Cornus Mas), a European shrub with clusters of small, greenish flowers, followed by very acid but edible drupes resembling cherries.	Latin cornus.
cornelian		Same as Carnelian.	
cornemuse		A wind instrument nearly identical with the bagpipe.	
corneocalcareous		(Zoöl.) Formed of a mixture of horny and calcareous materials, as some shells and corals.	
corneous		Of a texture resembling horn; horny; hard.	
corner		The point where two converging lines meet; an angle, either external or internal.	Middle English corner, from Anglo-Norman cornere, from Old French corne.
cornercap	Obsolete	The chief ornament.	
cornered		1 Having corners or angles.	
cornerwise		With the corner in front; diagonally; not square.	
cornet		(Mus.) (a) An obsolete rude reed instrument (Ger. Zinken), of the oboe family.	Middle French cornette.
cornet-a-piston		A brass wind instrument, like the trumpet, furnished with valves moved by small pistons or sliding rods; a cornopean; a cornet.	
cornetcy		The commission or rank of a cornet.	
corneter		One who blows a cornet.	
corneule		One of the corneas of a compound eye in the invertebrates.	
cornfield		A field where corn is or has been growing; -- in England, a field of wheat, rye, barley, or oats; in America, a field of Indian corn.	
cornfloor		A thrashing floor.	
cornflower		A conspicuous wild flower (Centaurea Cyanus), growing in grainfields.	
cornic		Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, the dogwood (Cornus florida).	
cornice		Any horizontal, molded or otherwise decorated projection which crowns or finishes the part to which it is affixed; as, the cornice of an order, pedestal, door, window, or house.	
corniced		Having a cornice.	
cornicle	Obsolete	A little horn.	
cornicular	Obsolete	A secretary or clerk.	
corniculate		Horned; having horns.	
corniculum		A small hornlike part or process.	
corniferous		Of or pertaining to the lowest period of the Devonian age.(See the Diagram, under Geology.) The Corniferous period has been so called from the numerous seams of hornstone which characterize the later part of the period…	
cornific		Producing horns; forming horn.	
cornification		Conversion into, or formation of, horn; a becoming like horn.	
cornified		Converted into horn; horny.	
corniform		Having the shape of a horn; horn-shaped.	
cornigerous	Obsolete	Horned; having horns; as, cornigerous animals.	
cornin		(a) A bitter principle obtained from dogwood (Cornus florida), as a white crystalline substance; -- called also cornic acid.	
corniplume		A hornlike tuft of feathers on the head of some birds.	
cornish		Of or pertaining to Cornwall, in England.	
cornist		A performer on the cornet or horn.	
cornloft		A loft for corn; a granary.	
cornmuse		A cornemuse.	
cornopean		An obsolete name for the cornet-à-piston.	
cornsheller		A machine that separates the kernels of corn from the cob.	
cornshuck	Colloquial	The husk covering an ear of Indian corn.	
cornstalk		A stalk of Indian corn.	
cornstarch		Starch made from Indian corn, esp. a fine white flour used for puddings, etc.	
cornu		A horn, or anything shaped like or resembling a horn.	
cornucopia		The horn of plenty, from which fruits and flowers are represented as issuing.	Latin Cornucopiae.
cornute		Bearing horns; horned; horn-shaped.	
cornuted		Bearing horns; horned; horn-shaped.	
cornuto		A man that wears the horns; a cuckold.	
cornutor		A cuckold maker.	
corny		Strong, stiff, or hard, like a horn; resembling horn.	
corocore		A kind of boat of various forms, used in the Indian Archipelago.	
corody		An allowance of meat, drink, or clothing due from an abbey or other religious house for the sustenance of such of the king's servants as he may designate to receive it.	
corol		A corolla.	
corolla		The inner envelope of a flower; the part which surrounds the organs of fructification, consisting of one or more leaves, called petals.	Latin corolla.
corollaceous		Pertaining to, or resembling, a corolla; having the form or texture of a corolla.	
corollary		Something which follows from the demonstration of a proposition; an additional inference or deduction from a demonstrated proposition; a consequence.	
corollate		Having a corolla or corollas; like a corolla.	
corollated		Having a corolla or corollas; like a corolla.	
corollet	Obsolete	A floret in an aggregate flower.	
corollifloral		Having the stamens borne on the petals, and the latter free from the calyx.	
corolliflorous		Having the stamens borne on the petals, and the latter free from the calyx.	
corolline		Of or pertaining to a corolla.	
coromandel		The west coast, or a portion of the west coast, of the Bay of Bengal.	
corona		A crown or garland bestowed among the Romans as a reward for distinguished services.	Latin corona, from Greek κορώνη.
coronach		See Coranach — a lamentation for the dead; a dirge.	
coronal		Of or pertaining to a corona (in any of the senses).	Latin coronalis.
coronamen		The upper margin of a hoof; a coronet.	
coronary		Of or pertaining to a crown; ferming, or adapted to form, a crown or garland.	Latin coronarius.
coronate		(Zoöl.) (a) Having the coronal feathers lengthened or otherwise distinguished; -- said of birds.	
coronated		(Zoöl.) (a) Having the coronal feathers lengthened or otherwise distinguished; -- said of birds.	
coronation		The act or solemnity of crowning a sovereign; the act of investing a prince with the insignia of royalty, on his succeeding to the sovereignty.	
coronel	Obsolete	A colonel.	
coroner		An officer of the peace whose principal duty is to inquire, with the help of a jury, into the cause of any violent, sudden or mysterious death, or death in prison…	
coronet		An ornamental or honorary headdress, having the shape and character of a crown; particularly, a crown worn as the mark of high rank lower than sovereignty.	
coroneted		Wearing, or entitled to wear, a coronet; of noble birth or rank.	
coroniform		Having the form of a crown or coronet; resembling a crown.	
coronilla		A genus of plants related to the clover, having their flowers arranged in little heads or tufts resembling coronets.	
coronis		In Greek grammar, a sign sometimes placed over a contracted syllable.	
coronium		The principal gaseous substance forming the solar corona, characterized by a green line in the coronal spectrum.	
coronoid		Resembling the beak of a crow; as, the coronoid process of the jaw, or of the ulna.	
coronule		A coronet or little crown of a seed; the downy tuft on seeds. See Pappus.	Latin coronula.
corosso		The name in Central America for the seed of a true palm; also, a commercial name for the true ivory nut.	
corozo		The name in Central America for the seed of a true palm; also, a commercial name for the true ivory nut.	
corporace		See Corporas — the corporal, or communion cloth.	
corporal		A noncommissioned officer, next below a sergeant.	Latin corporalis.
corporale		A fine linen cloth, on which the sacred elements are consecrated in the eucharist, or with which they are covered; a communion cloth.	
corporality		The state of being or having a body; bodily existence; corporeality; -- opposed to spirituality.	Latin corporalitas.
corporally		In or with the body; bodily; as, to be corporally present.	
corporalship		A corporal's office.	
corporas	Obsolete	The corporal, or communion cloth.	
corporate		Formed into a body by legal enactment; united in an association, and endowed by law with the rights and liabilities of an individual; incorporated; as, a corporate town.	Latin corporatus.
corporately		In a corporate capacity; acting as a coprporate body.	
corporation		A body politic or corporate, formed and authorized by law to act as a single person, and endowed by law with the capacity of succession; a society having the capacity of transacting business as an individual.	Latin corporatio.
corporator		A member of a corporation, esp. one of the original members.	
corporature	Obsolete	The state of being embodied; bodily existence.	
corporeal		Having a body; consisting of, or pertaining to, a material body or substance; material; -- opposed to spiritual or immaterial.	Latin corporeus.
corporealism		Materialism.	
corporealist		One who denies the reality of spiritual existences; a materialist.	
corporeality		The state of being corporeal; corporeal existence.	
corporeally		In the body; in a bodily form or manner.	
corporealness		Corporeality; corporeity.	
corporeity		The state of having a body; the state of being corporeal; materiality.	
corporify	Obsolete	To embody; to form into a body.	
corposant		St. Elmo's fire. See under Saint.	
corps		By what craft in my corps, it cometh and where.	French corps, from Latin corpus.
corpse		The dead body of a human being; -- used also Fig.	Latin corpus.
corpulence		Excessive fatness; fleshiness; obesity.	Latin corpulentia.
corpulency		Excessive fatness; fleshiness; obesity.	
corpulent		Very fat; obese.	
corpulently		In a corpulent manner.	
corpus		A body, living or dead; the corporeal substance of a thing.	Latin corpus.
corpuscle		A minute particle; an atom; a molecule.	Latin corpusculum.
corpuscular		Pertaining to, or composed of, corpuscles, or small particles.	
corpuscularian	Obsolete	Corpuscular.	
corpuscule	Obsolete	A corpuscle.	
corpusculous		Corpuscular.	
corrade		(Geol.) To erode, as the bed of a stream. See Corrosion.	
corradial		Radiating to or from the same point.	
corradiate		To converge to one point or focus, as light or rays.	
corradiation		A conjunction or concentration of rays in one point.	
corral		A pen for animals; esp., an inclosure made with wagons, by emigrants in the vicinity of hostile Indians, as a place of security for horses, cattle, etc. To surround and inclose; to coop up; to put into an inclosed space…	
corrasion		The erosion of the bed of a stream by running water, principally by attrition of the detritus carried along by the stream, but also by the solvent action of the water.	
corrasive	Obsolete	Corrosive.	
correct		Set right, or made straight; hence, conformable to truth, rectitude, or propriety, or to a just standard; nnot faulty or imperfect; free from error; as, correct behavior; correct views.	Latin correctus.
correctable		Capable of being corrected.	
correctible		Capable of being corrected.	
correctify	Obsolete	To correct.	
correction		The act of correcting, or making that right which was wrong; change for the better; amendment; rectification, as of an erroneous statement.	Latin correctio.
correctional		Tending to, or intended for, correction; used for correction; as, a correctional institution.	
correctioner	Obsolete	One who is, or who has been, in the house of correction.	
corrective		Having the power to correct; tending to rectify; as, corrective penalties.	
correctly		In a correct manner; exactly; acurately; without fault or error.	
correctness		The state or quality of being correct; as, the correctness of opinions or of manners; correctness of taste; correctness in writing or speaking; the correctness of a text or copy.	
corrector		One who, or that which, corrects; as, a corrector of abuses; a corrector of the press; an alkali is a corrector of acids.	
correctory		Containing or making correction; corrective.	
correctress		A woman who corrects.	
corregidor		The chief magistrate of a Spanish town.	
correi		A hollow in the side of a hill, where game usually lies.	
correlatable		Such as can be correlated; as, correlatable phenomena.	
correlate		To have reciprocal or mutual relations; to be mutually related.	
correlation		Reciprocal relation; corresponding similarity or parallelism of relation or law; capacity of being converted into, or of giving place to, one another, under certain conditions; as, the correlation of forces…	
correlative		Having or indicating a reciprocal relation.	
correlatively		In a correlative relation.	
correlativeness		Quality of being correlative.	
correligionist		A co-religion	
correption	Obsolete	Chiding; reproof; reproach.	Latin correptio.
correspond		To be like something else in the dimensions and arrangement of its parts; -- followed by with or to; as, concurring figures correspond with each other throughout.	Middle French correspondre.
correspondence		Friendly intercourse; reciprocal exchange of civilities; especially, intercourse between persons by means of letters.	
correspondency		Same as Correspondence, 3.	
correspondent		Suitable; adapted; fit; corresponding; congruous; conformable; in accord or agreement; obedient; willing.	
correspondently		In a a corresponding manner; conformably; suitably.	
corresponding		Answering; conformable; agreeing; suiting; as, corresponding numbers.	
correspondingly		In a corresponding manner; conformably.	
corresponsive		Corresponding; conformable; adapted.	
corridor		(Arch.) A gallery or passageway leading to several apartments of a house.	
corrie	Scots	Same as Correi.	
corrigendum		A fault or error to be corrected.	Latin corrigendum.
corrigent		A substance added to a medicine to mollify or modify its action.	
corrigibility		Quality of being corrigible; capability of being corrected; corrigibleness.	
corrigible		Capable of being set right, amended, or reformed; as, a corrigible fault.	
corrigibleness		The state or quality of being corrigible; corrigibility.	
corrival		A fellow rival; a competitor; a rival; also, a companion.	
corrivalry		Corivalry.	
corrivalship		Corivalry.	
corrivate	Obsolete	To cause to flow together, as water drawn from several streams.	Latin corrivatus.
corrivation	Obsolete	The flowing of different streams into one.	Latin corrivatio.
corroborant		Strengthening; supporting; corroborating.	
corroborate	Obsolete	To make strong, or to give additional strength to; to strengthen.	Latin corroboratus.
corroboration		The act of corroborating, strengthening, or confirming; addition of strength; confirmation; as, the corroboration of an argument, or of information.	
corroborative		Tending to strengthen of confirm.	
corroboratory		Tending to strengthen; corroborative; as, corroboratory facts.	
corroboree		A nocturnal festivity with which the Australian aborigines celebrate tribal events of importance.	
corrobory		See Corroboree — a nocturnal festivity with which the Australian aborigines celebrate tribal events of importance.	
corrode		To eat away by degrees; to wear away or diminish by gradually separating or destroying small particles of, as by action of a strong acid or a caustic alkali.	
corrodent		Corrosive.	
corrodiate	Obsolete	To eat away by degrees; to corrode.	
corrodibility		The qualityof being corrodible.	
corrodible		Capable of being corroded; corrosible.	
corrosibility		Corrodibility.	
corrosible		Corrodible.	
corrosibleness		The quality or state of being corrosible.	
corrosion		The action or effect of corrosive agents, or the process of corrosive change; as, the rusting of iron is a variety of corrosion.	Old French corrosion.
corrosive		Eating away; having the power of gradually wearing, changing, or destroying the texture or substance of a body; as, the corrosive action of an acid.	
corroval		A dark brown substance of vegetable origin, allied to curare, and used by the natives of New Granada as an arrow poison.	
corrovaline		A poisonous alkaloid extracted from corroval, and characterized by its immediate action in paralyzing the heart.	
corrugant		Having the power of contracting into wrinkles.	Latin corrugans.
corrugate		Wrinkled; crumpled; furrowed; contracted into ridges and furrows.	
corrugation		The act corrugating; contraction into wrinkles or alternate ridges and grooves.	
corrugator		A muscle which contracts the skin of the forehead into wrinkles.	
corrugent	Obsolete	Drawing together; contracting; -- said of the corrugator.	
corrump	Obsolete	To corrupt. See Corrupt.	
corrumpable	Obsolete	Corruptible.	
corrupt		Changed from a sound to a putrid state; spoiled; tainted; vitiated; unsound.	
corrupter		One who corrupts; one who vitiates or taints; as, a corrupter of morals.	
corruptful	Obsolete	Tending to corrupt; full of corruption.	
corruptibility		The quality of being corruptible; the possibility or liability of being corrupted; corruptibleness.	
corruptible		Capable of being made corrupt; subject to decay.	
corruptingly		In a manner that corrupts.	
corruption		The act of corrupting or making putrid, or state of being corrupt or putrid; decomposition or disorganization, in the process of putrefaction; putrefaction; deterioration.	French corruption, from Latin corruptio.
corruptionist		One who corrupts, or who upholds corruption.	
corruptive		Having the quality of taining or vitiating; tending to produce corruption.	
corruptless		Not susceptible of corruption or decay; incorruptible.	
corruptly		In a corrupt manner; by means of corruption or corrupting influences; wronfully.	
corruptness		The quality of being corrupt.	
corruptress		A woman who corrupts.	
corsac		The corsak.	
corsage		The waist or bodice of a lady's dress; as. a low corsage.	
corsair		A pirate; one who cruises about without authorization from any government, to seize booty on sea or land.	French corsaire, from Latin cursarius.
corsak		A small foxlike mammal (Cynalopex corsac), found in Central Asia.	
corse	Archaic or poetic	A corpse; the dead body of a human being.	Old French cors, from Latin corpus.
corselet		Armor for the body, as, the body breastplate and backpiece taken together; -- also, used for the entire suit of the day, including breastplate and backpiece, tasset and headpiece.	French corselet.
corsepresent		An offering made to the church at the interment of a dead body.	
corset		In the Middle Ages, a gown or basque of which the body was close fitting, worn by both men and women.	Old French corset.
corslet	Obsolete	A corselet.	
corsned		The morsel of execration; a species of ordeal consisting in the eating of a piece of bread consecrated by imprecation.	
cortege		A train of attendants; a procession.	French cortège, from Italian corteggio.
cortes		The legislative assembly, composed of nobility, clergy, and representatives of cities, which in Spain and in Portugal answers, in some measure, to the Parliament of Great Britain.	
cortex		Bark, as of a tree; hence, an outer covering.	Latin cortex.
cortical		Belonging to, or consisting of, bark or rind; resembling bark or rind; external; outer; superficial; as, the cortical substance of the kidney.	Latin cortex.
corticate		Having a special outer covering of a nature unlike the interior part.	
corticated		Having a special outer covering of a nature unlike the interior part.	
corticifer		One of the Gorgoniacea; -- so called because the fleshy part surrounds a solid axis, like a bark.	
corticiferous		Producing bark or something that resembling that resembles bark.	Latin cortex.
corticiform		Resembling, or having the form of, bark or rind.	Latin cortex.
corticine		A material for carpeting or floor covering, made of ground cork and caoutchouc or India rubber.	
corticose		Abounding in bark; resembling bark; barky.	Latin corticosus.
corticous		Relating to, or resembling, bark; corticose.	
cortile		An open internal courtyard inclosed by the walls of a large dwelling house or other large and stately building.	
corundum		The earth alumina, as found native in a crystalline state, including sapphire, which is the fine blue variety; the oriental ruby, or red sapphire; the oriental amethyst, or purple sapphire; and adamantine spar…	Tamil குருந்தம்.
coruscant		Glittering in flashes; flashing.	Latin coruscare.
coruscate		To glitter in flashes; to flash.	
coruscation		A sudden flash or play of light.	
corve		See Corf — (Mining) (a) A large basket used in carrying or hoisting coal or ore. (b) A wooden frame, sled, or low-wheeled wagon, to convey coal or ore in the mines.	
corvee		An obligation to perform certain services, as the repair of roads, for the lord or sovereign.	French corvée, from Latin corrogata.
corven		p. p. of Carve — to cut, as wood, stone, or other material, in an artistic or decorative manner; to sculpture; to engrave.	Middle English corven, from Old English corfen.
corvet		A war vessel, ranking next below a frigate, and having usually only one tier of guns; -- called in the United States navy a sloop of war.	
corvette		A war vessel, ranking next below a frigate, and having usually only one tier of guns; -- called in the United States navy a sloop of war.	French corvette.
corvetto		A curvet.	
corvine		Of or pertaining to the crow; crowlike.	Latin corvinus.
corvorant		See Cormorant — (Zoöl.) Any species of Phalacrocorax, a genus of sea birds having a sac under the beak; the shag.	
corybant		One of the priests of Cybele in Phrygia.	
corybantiasm		A kind of frenzy in which the patient is tormented by fantastic visions and want of sleep.	
corybantic		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the Corybantes or their rites; frantic; frenzied; as, a corybantic dance.	
corymb		(a) A flat-topped or convex cluster of flowers, each on its own footstalk, and arising from different points of a common axis, the outermost blossoms expanding first, as in the hawthorn.	
corymbed		Corymbose.	
corymbiferous		Bearing corymbs of flowers or fruit.	Latin corymbifer.
corymbose		Consisting of corymbs, or resembling them in form.	
corymbosely		In corymbs.	
coryphaenoid		Belonging to, or like, the genus Coryphæna. See Dolphin.	
coryphee		A ballet dancer.	
coryphene		A fish of the genus Coryphæna. See Dolphin. (2)	Greek κορυφή.
corypheus		The conductor, chief, or leader of the dramatic chorus; hence, the chief or leader of a party or interest.	Latin coryphaeus, from Greek κορυφαῖος.
coryphodon		A genus of extinct mammals from the eocene tertiary of Europe and America.	
coryphodont		Pertaining to, or resembling, the genus Coryphodon.	
coryza		Nasal catarrh.	
coscinomancy		Divination by means of a suspended sieve.	
coscoroba		A large, white, South American duck, of the genus Cascoroba, resembling a swan.	
cosecant		The secant of the complement of an arc or angle. See Illust. of Functions.	
cosen		See Cozen — to cheat; to defrand; to beguile; to deceive, usually by small arts, or in a pitiful way.	
cosenage		See Cozenage — the art or practice of cozening; artifice; fraud.	
cosening		Anything done deceitfully, and which could not be properly designated by any special name, whether belonging to contracts or not.	
cosentient		Perceiving together.	
cosey		See Cozy — snug; comfortable; easy; contented.	
cosher		(Old Law) To levy certain exactions or tribute upon; to lodge and eat at the expense of.	
cosherer		One who coshers.	
coshering		A feudal prerogative of the lord of the soil entitling him to lodging and food at his tenant's house.	
cosier	Obsolete	A tailor who botches his work.	
cosignificative		Having the same signification.	
cosignitary		Signing some important public document with another or with others; as, a treaty violated by one of the cosignitary powers.	
cosily		See Cozily — snugly; comfortably.	
cosinage		(a) Collateral relationship or kindred by blood; consanguinity.	
cosine		The sine of the complement of an arc or angle. See Illust. of Functions.	
cosmetic		Imparting or improving beauty, particularly the beauty of the complexion; as, a cosmetical preparation.	
cosmetical		Imparting or improving beauty, particularly the beauty of the complexion; as, a cosmetical preparation.	
cosmic		Pertaining to the universe, and having special reference to universal law or order, or to the one grand harmonious system of things; hence; harmonious; orderly.	
cosmical		Pertaining to the universe, and having special reference to universal law or order, or to the one grand harmonious system of things; hence; harmonious; orderly.	
cosmically		With the sun at rising or setting; as, a star is said to rise or set cosmically when it rises or sets with the sun.	
cosmogonal		Belonging to cosmogony.	
cosmogonic		Belonging to cosmogony.	
cosmogonical		Belonging to cosmogony.	
cosmogonist		One who treats of the origin of the universe; one versed in cosmogony.	
cosmogony		The creation of the world or universe; a theory or account of such creation; as, the poetical cosmogony of Hesoid; the cosmogonies of Thales, Anaxagoras, and Plato.	Greek κοσμογονία.
cosmographer		One who describes the world or universe, including the heavens and the earth.	
cosmographic		Of or pertaining to cosmography.	
cosmographical		Of or pertaining to cosmography.	
cosmographically		In a cosmographic manner; in accordance with cosmography.	
cosmography		A description of the world or of the universe; or the science which teaches the constitution of the whole system of worlds, or the figure, disposition, and relation of all its parts.	
cosmolabe		An instrument resembling the astrolabe, formerly used for measuring the angles between heavenly bodies; -- called also pantacosm.	
cosmolatry		Worship paid to the world.	
cosmoline		A substance obtained from the residues of the distillation of petroleum, essentially the same as vaseline, but of somewhat stiffer consistency, and consisting of a mixture of the higher paraffines; a kind of petroleum jelly.	
cosmological		Of or pertaining to cosmology.	
cosmologist		One who describes the universe; one skilled in cosmology.	
cosmology		The science of the world or universe; or a treatise relating to the structure and parts of the system of creation, the elements of bodies, the modifications of material things, the laws of motion…	
cosmometry		The art of measuring the world or the universe.	
cosmoplastic		Pertaining to a plastic force as operative in the formation of the world independently of God; world-forming.	
cosmopolitan		One who has no fixed residence, or who is at home in every place; a citizen of the world.	
cosmopolitanism		The quality of being cosmopolitan; cosmopolitism.	
cosmopolite		One who has no fixed residence, or who is at home in every place; a citizen of the world.	
cosmopolitical		Having the character of a cosmopolite.	
cosmopolitism		The condition or character of a cosmopolite; disregard of national or local peculiarities and prejudices.	
cosmorama		An exhibition in which a series of views in various parts of the world is seen reflected by mirrors through a series of lenses, with such illumination, etc., as will make the views most closely represent reality.	
cosmoramic		Of or pertaining to a cosmorama.	
cosmos		The universe or universality of created things; -- so called from the order and harmony displayed in it.	Greek κόσμος.
cosmosphere		An apparattus for showing the position of the earth, at any given time, with respect to the fixed stars.	
cosmotheism		Same as Pantheism.	
cosmothetic		Assuming or positing the actual existence or reality of the physical or external world.	
cosovereign		A joint sovereign.	
coss		A Hindoo measure of distance, varying from one and a half to two English miles.	Hindi कोस.
cossack		One of a warlike, pastoral people, skillful as horsemen, inhabiting different parts of the Russian empire and furnishing valuable contingents of irregular cavalry to its armies…	
cossas		Plain India muslin, of various qualities and widths.	
cosset		A lamb reared without the aid of the dam. Hence: A pet, in general.	
cossette		One of the small chips or slices into which beets are cut in sugar making.	
cossic	Obsolete	Of or relating to algebra; as, cossic numbers, or the cossic art.	Italian cossico.
cossical	Obsolete	Of or relating to algebra; as, cossic numbers, or the cossic art.	
cost		To require to be given, expended, or laid out therefor, as in barter, purchase, acquisition, etc.; to cause the cost, expenditure, relinquishment, or loss of; as, the ticket cost a dollar; the effort cost his life.	Middle English costen, from Old French coster.
costa		(Anat.) A rib of an animal or a human being.	Latin costa.
costage	Obsolete	Expense; cost.	
costal		(Anat.) Pertaining to the ribs or the sides of the body; as, costal nerves.	
costal-nerved		Having the nerves spring from the midrib.	
costard		An apple, large and round like the head.	
costardmonger		A costermonger.	
costate		Having ribs, or the appearance of ribs; (Bot.) having one or more longitudinal ribs.	
costated		Having ribs, or the appearance of ribs; (Bot.) having one or more longitudinal ribs.	
costean		To search after lodes. See Costeaning.	
costeaning		The process by which miners seek to discover metallic lodes.	
costellate		Finely ribbed or costated.	
coster		One who hawks about fruit, green vegetables, fish, etc.	
costermonger		An apple seller; a hawker of, or dealer in, any kind of fruit or vegetables; a fruiterer.	
costiferous		Rib-bearing, as the dorsal vertebræ.	
costive		Retaining fecal matter in the bowels; having too slow a motion of the bowels; constipated.	
costively		In a costive manner.	
costiveness		An unnatural retention of the fecal matter of the bowels; constipation.	
costless		Costing nothing.	
costliness		The quality of being costy; expensiveness; sumptuousness.	
costly		Of great cost; expensive; dear.	
costmary		A garden plant (Chrysanthemum Balsamita) having a strong balsamic smell, and nearly allied to tansy.	
costotome		An instrument (chisel or shears) to cut the ribs and open the thoracic cavity, in post-mortem examinations and dissections.	
costrel	Archaic	A bottle of leather, earthenware, or wood, having ears by which it was suspended at the side.	
costume		Dress in general; esp., the distinctive style of dress of a people, class, or period.	French costume, from Italian costuma, from Latin costuma.
costumer		One who makes or deals in costumes, as for theaters, fancy balls, etc.	
cosupreme		A partaker of supremacy; one jointly supreme.	
cosurety		One who is surety with another.	
cosy		See Cozy — snug; comfortable; easy; contented.	
cot		A small house; a cottage or hut.	Hindi खाट.
cotangent		The tangent of the complement of an arc or angle. See Illust. of Functions.	
cotarnine		A white, crystalline substance, C12H13NO3, obtained as a product of the decomposition of narcotine.	
cote	Obsolete	A shed, shelter, or inclosure for small domestic animals, as for sheep or doves.	
coteau		A hilly upland including the divide between two valleys; a divide.	
cotemporaneous		Living or being at the same time; contemporaneous. -- Co*tem`po*ra ne*ous*ness, n.	
cotemporary		Living or being at the same time; contemporary.	
cotenant		A tenant in common, or a joint tenant.	
coterie		A set or circle of persons who meet familiarly, as for social, literary, or other purposes; a clique.	
coterminous		Bordering; conterminous; -- followed by with.	
cotgare	Obsolete	Refuse wool.	
cothurn		A buskin anciently used by tragic actors on the stage; hence, tragedy in general.	Latin cothurnus, from Greek κόθορνος.
cothurnate		Relating to tragedy; solemn; grave.	
cothurnated		Relating to tragedy; solemn; grave.	
cothurnus		Same as Cothurn.	Latin cothurnus, from Greek κόθορνος.
coticular		Pertaining to whetstones; like or suitable for whetstones.	
cotidal		Marking an equality in the tides; having high tide at the same time.	
cotillion		A brisk dance, performed by eight persons; a quadrille.	
cotillon		A brisk dance, performed by eight persons; a quadrille.	
cotinga		A bird of the family Cotingidæ, including numerous bright- colored South American species; -- called also chatterers.	Latin cotinga, from Tupí cutinga.
cotise		See Cottise — a diminutive of the bendlet, containing one half its area or one quarter the area of the bend.	
cotised		See Cottised — set between two cottises, -- said of a bend; or between two barrulets, -- said of a bar or fess.	
cotland		Land appendant to a cot or cottage, or held by a cottager or cotter.	
cotquean		A man who busies himself with affairs which properly belong to women.	
cotqueanity	Obsolete	The condition, character, or conduct of a cotquean.	
cotrustee		A joint trustee.	
cotswold		An open country abounding in sheepcotes, as in the Cotswold hills, in Gloucestershire, England.	
cotta		(Eccl.) A surplice, in England and America usually one shorter and less full than the ordinary surplice and with short sleeves, or sometimes none.	
cottage		A small house; a cot; a hut.	
cottaged		Set or covered with cottages.	
cottagely	Obsolete	Cottagelike; suitable for a cottage; rustic.	
cottager		One who lives in a cottage.	
cottar		A cottager; a cottier.	
cotter		A piece of wood or metal, commonly wedge-shaped, used for fastening together parts of a machine or structure.	
cottier		In Great Britain and Ireland, a person who hires a small cottage, with or without a plot of land.	Old French cotier.
cottise		A diminutive of the bendlet, containing one half its area or one quarter the area of the bend.	
cottised		Set between two cottises, -- said of a bend; or between two barrulets, -- said of a bar or fess.	
cottoid		Like a fish of the genus Cottus. -- n.	
cottolene		A product from cottonseed, used as lard.	
cotton		A soft, downy substance, resembling fine wool, consisting of the unicellular twisted hairs which grow on the seeds of the cotton plant.	Middle English cotoun, from Anglo-Norman cotun.
cottonade		A somewhat stoun and thick fabric of cotton.	
cottonary	Obsolete	Relating to, or composed of, cotton; cottony.	
cottonous		Resembling cotton.	
cottonseed		The seed of the cotton plant.	
cottontail		The American wood rabbit (Lepus sylvaticus); -- also called Molly cottontail.	
cottonweed		See Cudweed — a small composite plant with cottony or silky stem and leaves, primarily a species of Gnaphalium, but the name is now given to many plants of different genera, as Filago, Antennaria, etc.…	
cottonwood		An American tree of the genus Populus or polar, having the seeds covered with abundant cottonlike hairs; esp., the P. monilifera and P. angustifolia of the Western United States.	
cottony		Covered with hairs or pubescence, like cotton; downy; nappy; woolly.	
cottrel		A trammel, or hook to support a pot over a fire.	
cotyla		A cuplike cavity or organ.	
cotyle		A cuplike cavity or organ.	
cotyledon		(Anat.) One of the patches of villi found in some forms of placenta.	
cotyledonal		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a cotyledon.	
cotyledonary		Having a cotyledon; tufted; as, the cotyledonary placenta of the cow.	
cotyledonous		Of or pertaining to a cotyledon or cotyledons; having a seed lobe.	
cotyliform		Shaped like a cotyle or a cup.	
cotyligerous		Having cotyles.	
cotyloid		(a) Shaped like a cup; as, the cotyloid cavity, which receives the head of the thigh bone.	
coucal		A large, Old World, ground cuckoo of the genus Centropus, of several species.	
couch		To lay upon a bed or other resting place.	Old French couchier, from Latin collocare.
couchancy		State of lying down for repose.	
couchant		Lying down with head erect; squatting.	French couchant.
couche		(a) Not erect; inclined; -- said of anything that is usually erect, as an escutcheon.	
couched		Same as Couch.	
couchee	Obsolete	A reception held at the time of going to bed, as by a sovereign or great prince.	French couche.
coucher		One who couches.	
couching		(Med.) The operation of putting down or displacing the opaque lens in cataract.	
couchless		Having no couch or bed.	
coudee		A measure of length; the distance from the elbow to the end of the middle finger; a cubit.	French coudée.
cougar		An American feline quadruped (Felis concolor), resembling the African panther in size and habits.	French cougar.
cough		To expel air, or obstructing or irritating matter, from the lungs or air passages, in a noisy and violent manner.	
cougher		One who coughs.	
couhage		See Cowhage — a leguminous climbing plant of the genus Mucuna, having crooked pods covered with sharp hairs, which stick to the fingers, causing intolerable itching.	
could		Was, should be, or would be, able, capable, or susceptible. Used as an auxiliary, in the past tense or in the conditional present.	Middle English coude, from Old English cuþ.
coulee		A stream; (Geol.) a stream of lava.	French coulée.
couleur		Color; -- chiefly used in a few French phrases, as couler de rose, color of rose; and hence, adjectively, rose-colored; roseate.	
coulisse		A piece of timber having a groove in which something glides.	
couloir		A deep gorge; a gully.	French couloir.
coulomb		The standard unit of quantity in electrical measurements.	
coulter		Same as Colter.	
coulterneb		The puffin.	
coulure		A disease affecting grapes, esp. in California, manifested by the premature dropping of the fruit.	
coumaric		Relating to, derived from, or like, the Dipterix odorata, a tree of Guiana.	
coumarin		The concrete essence of the tonka bean, the fruit of Dipterix (formerly Coumarouna) odorata and consisting essentially of coumarin proper, which is a white crystalline substance, C9H6O2, of vanilla- like odor…	
coumarou		The tree (Dipteryx odorata) which bears the tonka bean; also, the bean itself.	
council		An assembly of men summoned or convened for consultation, deliberation, or advice; as, a council of physicians for consultation in a critical case.	Anglo-Norman cuncile, from Old French concile, from Latin concilium.
councilist	Obsolete	One who belong to a council; one who gives an opinion.	
councilman		A member of a council, especially of the common council of a city; a councilor.	
councilor		A member of a council.	
counsel		Interchange of opinions; mutual advising; consultation.	Middle English counseil, from Old French conseil.
counselable		Willing to receive counsel or follow advice.	
counselor		One who counsels; an adviser.	
counselorship		The function and rank or office of a counselor.	
count		To tell or name one by one, or by groups, for the purpose of ascertaining the whole number of units in a collection; to number; to enumerate; to compute; to reckon.	Middle English counten, from Anglo-Norman conter, from Old French conter, from Latin computare.
count-wheel		The wheel in a clock which regulates the number of strokes.	
countable		Capable of being numbered.	
countenance		Appearance or expression of the face; look; aspect; mien.	
countenancer		One who countenances, favors, or supports.	
counter		A prefix meaning contrary, opposite, in opposition; as, counteract, counterbalance, countercheck.	Anglo-Norman countour, from Old French conteor, from Latin computatorium.
counter-compony		See Compony — divided into squares of alternate tinctures in a single row; -- said of any bearing; or, in the case of a bearing having curved lines…	
counter-couchant		Lying down, with their heads in opposite directions; -- said of animals borne in a coat of arms.	
counter-courant		Running in opposite directions; -- said of animals borne in a coast of arms.	
counter-paly		Paly, and then divided fesswise, so that each vertical piece is cut into two, having the colors used alternately or counterchanged.	French contre-palé.
counter-revolutionary		marked by opposition or antipathy to revolution; as, ostracized for his counterrevolutionary tendencies.	
counter-roll		A duplicate roll (record or account) kept by an officer as a check upon another officer's roll.	
counter-salient		Leaping from each other; -- said of two figures on a coast of arms.	
counteract		To act in opposition to; to hinder, defeat, or frustrate, by contrary agency or influence; as, to counteract the effect of medicines; to counteract good advice.	
counteraction		Action in opposition; hindrance resistance. do not … overcome the counteraction of a false principle or of stubborn partiality.	
counteractive		Tending to counteract.	
counteractively		By counteraction.	
counterbalance		To oppose with an equal weight or power; to counteract the power or effect of; to countervail; to equiponderate; to balance.	
counterbore		A flat-bottomed cylindrical enlargement of the mouth of a hole, usually of slight depth, as for receiving a cylindrical screw head.	
counterbrace		(Naut.) To brace in opposite directions; as, to counterbrace the yards, i. e., to brace the head yards one way and the after yards another.	
counterbuff		To strike or drive back or in an opposite direction; to stop by a blow or impulse in front.	
countercast	Obsolete	A trick; a delusive contrivance.	
countercaster		A caster of accounts; a reckoner; a bookkeeper; -- used conteptuously.	
counterchange		To give and receive; to cause to change places; to exchange.	Middle French contrechange.
counterchanged		(Her.) Having the tinctures exchanged mutually; thus, if the field is divided palewise, or and azure, and cross is borne counterchanged, that part of the cross which comes on the azure side will be or…	
countercharge		An opposing charge.	
countercharm		To destroy the effect of a charm upon.	
countercheck		To oppose or check by some obstacle; to check by a return check.	
counterclaim		A claim made by a person as an offset to a claim made on him.	
countercurrent		Running in an opposite direction.	
counterdraw		To copy, as a design or painting, by tracing with a pencil on oiled paper, or other transparent substance.	
counterfaisance	Obsolete	See Counterfesance — the act of forging; forgery.	
counterfeit		Representing by imitation or likeness; having a resemblance to something else; portrayed.	Anglo-Norman countrefait.
counterfeiter		One who counterfeits; one who copies or imitates; especially, one who copies or forges bank notes or coin; a forger.	
counterfeitly		By forgery; falsely.	
counterfesance	Obsolete	The act of forging; forgery.	Old French contrefaisance.
counterfleury		Counterflory.	French contrefleuri.
counterflory		Adorned with flowers (usually fleurs-de-lis) so divided that the tops appear on one side and the bottoms on the others; -- said of any ordinary.	
counterfoil		That part of a tally, formerly in the exchequer, which was kept by an officer in that court, the other, called the stock, being delivered to the person who had lent the king money on the account; - - called also counterstock.	
counterforce		An opposing force.	
counterfort		(Fort.) A kind of buttress of masonry to strengthen a revetment wall.	
countergage		An adjustable gage, with double points for transferring measurements from one timber to another, as the breadth of a mortise to the place where the tenon is to be made.	
counterglow		An exceedingly faint roundish or somewhat oblong nebulous light near the ecliptic and opposite the sun, best seen during September and October, when in the constellations Sagittarius and Pisces.	
counterguard		A low outwork before a bastion or ravelin, consisting of two lines of rampart parallel to the faces of the bastion, and protecting them from a breaching fire.	
counterirritant		See Counter irritant, etc., under Counter, a.	
counterirritate		To produce counter irritation in; to treat with one morbid process for the purpose of curing another.	
counterirritation		See Counter irritant, etc., under Counter, a.	
counterjumper	Slang	A salesman in a shop; a shopman; -- used contemtuously.	
counterlath		(a) A batten laid lengthwise between two rafters to afford a bearing for laths laid crosswise.	
counterman		A man who attends at the counter of a shop to sell goods.	
countermand		To revoke (a former command); to cancel or rescind by giving an order contrary to one previously given; as, to countermand an order for goods.	
countermandable		Capable of being countermanded; revocable.	
countermarch		To march back, or to march in reversed order.	
countermark		A mark or token added to those already existing, in order to afford security or proof; as, an additional or special mark put upon a package of goods belonging to several persons…	
countermine		(Mil.) An underground gallery excavated to intercept and destroy the mining of an enemy.	
countermove		To move in a contrary direction to.	
countermovement		A movement in opposition to another.	
countermure		A wall raised behind another, to supply its place when breached or destroyed.	
counternatural		Contrary to nature.	
counterpane		A coverlet for a bed, -- originally stitched or woven in squares or figures.	
counterpart		A part corresponding to another part; anything which answers, or corresponds, to another; a copy; a duplicate; a facsimile.	
counterpassant		Passant in opposite directions; -- said of two animals.	
counterplead		To plead the contrary of; to plead against; to deny.	
counterplot		To oppose, as another plot, by plotting; to attempt to frustrate, as a stratagem, by stratagem.	
counterpoint	Obsolete	An opposite point Sir E.	
counterpoise		To act against with equal weight; to equal in weght; to balance the weight of; to counterbalance.	Old French contrepois.
counterpole		The exact opposite.	
counterponderate		TO equal in weight; to counterpoise; to equiponderate.	
counterprove		To take a counter proof of, or a copy in reverse, by taking an impression directly from the face of an original.	
counterrevolutionary		marked by opposition or antipathy to revolution; as, ostracized for his counterrevolutionary tendencies.	
counterrolment	Obsolete	A counter account. See Control.	
counterscale	Obsolete	Counterbalance; balance, as of one scale against another.	
counterscarf		The exterior slope or wall of the ditch; -- sometimes, the whole covered way, beyond the ditch, with its parapet and glacis; as, the enemy have lodged themselves on the counterscarp.	
counterseal		To seal or ratify with another or others.	
countersecure		To give additional security to or for.	
countershaft		An intermediate shaft; esp., one which receives motion from a line shaft in a factory and transmits it to a machine.	
countersign		To sign on the opposite side of (an instrument or writing); hence, to sign in addition to the signature of a principal or superior, in order to attest the authenticity of a writing.	
countersink		To chamfer or form a depression around the top of (a hole in wood, metal, etc.) for the reception of the head of a screw or bolt below the surface, either wholly or in part; as, to countersink a hole for a screw.	
counterstand		Resistance; opposition; a stand against.	
counterstep		A contrary method of procedure; opposite course of action.	
counterstock		See Counterfoil — that part of a tally, formerly in the exchequer, which was kept by an officer in that court, the other, called the stock…	
counterstroke		A stroke or blow in return.	
countersunk		Chamfered at the top; -- said of a hole.	
countersway	Obsolete	A swaying in a contrary direction; an opposing influence.	
counterterm		A term or word which is the opposite of, or antithesis to, another; an antonym; -- the opposite of synonym; as, "foe friend".	
countertime		(Man.) The resistance of a horse, that interrupts his cadence and the measure of his manege, occasioned by a bad horseman, or the bad temper of the horse.	
countertrippant		Trippant in opposite directions. See Trippant.	
countertripping		Same as Countertrippant.	
counterturn		The critical moment in a play, when, contrary to expectation, the action is embroiled in new difficulties.	
countervail	Obsolete	To act against with equal force, power, or effect; to thwart or overcome by such action; to furnish an equivalent to or for; to counterbalance; to compensate.	Anglo-Norman countrevaloir, from Latin contra valere.
countervallation		See Contravallation — a trench guarded with a parapet, constructed by besiegers, to secure themselves and check sallies of the besieged.	
counterview		An opposite or opposing view; opposition; a posture in which two persons front each other.	
countervote		To vote in opposition ti; to balance or overcome by viting; to outvote.	
counterwait	Obsolete	To wait or watch for; to be on guard against.	
counterweigh		To weigh against; to counterbalance.	
counterwheel		To cause to wheel or turn in an opposite direction.	
counterwork		To work in oppositeion to; to counteract.	
countess		The wife of an earl in the British peerage, or of a count in the Continental nobility; also, a lady possessed of the same dignity in her own right.	Anglo-Norman cuntesse, from Old French contesse, from Latin comitessa.
countinghouse		The house or room in which a merchant, trader, or manufacturer keeps his books and transacts business.	
countingroom		The house or room in which a merchant, trader, or manufacturer keeps his books and transacts business.	
countless		Incapable of being counted; not ascertainable; innumerable.	
countor	Obsolete	An advocate or professional pleader; one who counted for his client, that is, orally pleaded his cause.	
countour	Obsolete	A merchant's office; a countinghouse.	
countourhouse	Obsolete	A merchant's office; a countinghouse.	
countre-	Obsolete	Same as prefix Counter-.	
countreplete	Obsolete	To counterplead.	
countretaille	Obsolete	A counter tally; correspondence (in sound).	
countrified		Having the appearance and manners of a rustic; rude.	
countrify		To give a rural appearance to; to cause to appear rustic.	
country		A tract of land; a region; the territory of an independent nation; (as distinguished from any other region, and with a personal pronoun) the region of one's birth, permanent residence, or citizenship.	Middle English contree, from Old French contree.
country-base		Same as Prison base.	
country-dance		See Contradance — a dance in which the partners are arranged face to face, or in opposite lines.	
countryman		One born in the same country with another; a compatriot; -- used with a possessive pronoun.	
countryside		A particular rural district; a country neighborhood.	
countrywoman		A woman born, or dwelling, in the country, as opposed to the city; a woman born or dwelling in the same country with another native or inhabitant.	
county		A circuit or particular portion of a state or kingdom, separated from the rest of the territory, for certain purposes in the administration of justice and public affairs; -- called also a shire.	
coup		A sudden stroke; an unexpected device or stratagem; -- a term used in various ways to convey the idea of promptness and force.	
coupable	Obsolete	Culpable.	
coupe		The front compartment of a French diligence; also, the front compartment (usually for three persons) of a car or carriage on British railways.	
coupe-gorge		Any position giving the enemy such advantage that the troops occupying it must either surrender or be cut to pieces.	
couped		Cut off smoothly, as distinguished from erased; -- used especially for the head or limb of an animal.	
coupee		A motion in dancing, when one leg is a little bent, and raised from the floor, and with the other a forward motion is made.	French coupée.
couple		Two of the same kind connected or considered together; a pair; a brace.	Old French cople, from Latin copula.
couple-beggar		One who makes it his business to marry beggars to each other.	
couple-close		(Her.) A diminutive of the chevron, containing one fourth of its surface.	
couplement	Obsolete	Union; combination; a coupling; a pair.	
coupler		One who couples; that which couples, as a link, ring, or shackle, to connect cars.	
couplet		Two taken together; a pair or couple; especially two lines of verse that rhyme with each other.	
coupling		The act of bringing or coming together; connection; sexual union.	
coupon		(Com.) A certificate of interest due, printed at the bottom of transferable bonds (state, railroad, etc.), given for a term of years, designed to be cut off and presented for payment when the interest is due; an interest warrant.	French coupon.
coupstick		A stick or switch used among some American Indians in making or counting a coup.	
coupure		A passage cut through the glacis to facilitate sallies by the besieged.	
courage	Obsolete	The heart; spirit; temper; disposition.	Old French corage, from Latin cors.
courageous		Possessing, or characterized by, courage; brave; bold.	Old French corageus.
courageously		In a courageous manner.	
courageousness		The quality of being courageous; courage.	
courant		Represented as running; -- said of a beast borne in a coat of arms.	French courante.
couranto		A sprightly dance; a coranto; a courant.	
courap		A skin disease, common in India, in which there is perpetual itching and eruption, esp. of the groin, breast, armpits, and face.	
courb	Obsolete	Curved; rounded.	French courber.
courbaril		See Animé, n.	
courche	Scots	A square piece of linen used formerly by women instead of a cap; a kerchief.	
courier		A messenger sent with haste to convey letters or dispatches, usually on public busuness.	
courlan		A South American bird, of the genus Aramus, allied to the rails.	
course		The act of moving from one point to another; progress; passage.	Old French cours, from Latin cursus.
coursed		Hunted; as, a coursed hare.	
courser		One who courses or hunts. leash is a leathern thong by which … a courser leads his greyhound.	
coursey		A space in the galley; a part of the hatches.	
coursing		The pursuit or running game with dogs that follow by sight instead of by scent.	
court		An inclosed space; a courtyard; an uncovered area shut in by the walls of a building, or by different building; also, a space opening from a street and nearly surrounded by houses; a blind alley.	Old French cort, from Latin cortem.
court-baron		An inferior court of civil jurisdiction, attached to a manor, and held by the steward; a baron's court; -- now fallen into disuse.	
court-craft		The artifices, intrigues, and plottings, at courts.	
court-cupboard	Obsolete	A movable sideboard or buffet, on which plate and other articles of luxury were displayed on special ocasions.	
court-leet		A court of record held once a year, in a particular hundred, lordship, or manor, before the steward of the leet.	
court-martial		A court consisting of military or naval officers, for the trial of one belonging to the army or navy, or of offenses against military or naval law.	
court-plaster		Sticking plaster made by coating taffeta or silk on one side with some adhesive substance, commonly a mixture of isinglass and glycerin.	
courtbred		Bred, or educated, at court; polished; courtly.	
courtelle		a wool-like fabric.	
courteous		Of courtlike manners; pertaining to, or exxpressive of, courtesy; characterized by courtesy; civil; obliging; well bred; polite; affable; complaisant.	Middle English courteous, from Old French cort, from Latin cortem.
courteously		In a courteous manner.	
courteousness		The quality of being courteous; politeness; courtesy.	
courtepy	Obsolete	A short coat of coarse cloth.	
courter		One who courts; one who plays the lover, or who solicits in marriage; one who flatters and cajoles.	
courtesan		A woman who prostitutes herself for hire; a prostitute; a harlot.	French courtisane.
courtesanship		Harlotry.	
courtesy		Politeness; civility; urbanity; courtliness.	Middle English curtesie, from Anglo-Norman curtesie.
courthouse		A house in which established courts are held, or a house appropriated to courts and public meetings.	
courtier		One who is in attendance at the court of a prince; one who has an appointment at court.	
courtiery	Obsolete	The manners of a courtier; courtliness.	
courtlike		After the manner of a court; elegant; polite; courtly.	
courtliness		The quality of being courtly; elegance or dignity of manners.	
courtling		A sycophantic courtier.	
courtly		Elegant; polite; courtlike; flattering.	
courtship		The act of paying court, with the intent to solicit a favor.	
courtyard		A court or inclosure attached to a house.	
couscous		A kind of food used by the natives of Western Africa, made of millet flour with flesh, and leaves of the baobab; -- called also lalo.	
couscousou		A favorite dish in Barbary. See Couscous.	
cousin		One collaterally related more remotely than a brother or sister; especially, the son or daughter of an uncle or aunt.	Old French cosin, from Latin consobrinus.
cousin-german		A first cousin. See Note under Cousin, 1.	
cousinage	Obsolete	Relationship; kinship.	French cousinage.
cousinhood		The state or condition of a cousin; also, the collective body of cousins; kinsfolk.	
cousinly		Like or becoming a cousin.	
cousinry		A body or collection of cousins; the whole number of persons who stand in the relation of cousins to a given person or persons.	
cousinship		The relationship of cousins; state of being cousins; cousinhood.	
coussinet		(a) A stone placed on the impost of a pier for receiving the first stone of an arch.	
couteau		A knife; a dagger.	
couth	Obsolete	Could; was able; knew or known; understood.	Middle English couth.
couvade		A custom, among certain barbarous tribes, that when a woman gives birth to a child her husband takes to his bed, as if ill.	French couvade.
couveuse		An incubator for sickly infants, esp. those prematurely born.	
covariant		A function involving the coefficients and the variables of a quantic, and such that when the quantic is lineally transformed the same function of the new variables and coefficients shall be equal to the old function multiplied by…	
cove		A retired nook; especially, a small, sheltered inlet, creek, or bay; a recess in the shore.	Old English cofa.
covelline		A native sulphide of copper, occuring in masses of a dark blue color; -- hence called indigo copper.	
covellite		A native sulphide of copper, occuring in masses of a dark blue color; -- hence called indigo copper.	
covenable	Obsolete	Fit; proper; suitable.	French covenable.
covenably	Obsolete	Fitly; suitably.	
covenant		A mutual agreement of two or more persons or parties, or one of the stipulations in such an agreement.	
covenantee		The person in whose favor a covenant is made.	
covenanter		One who makes a covenant.	
covenanting		Belonging to a covenant. Specifically, belonging to the Scotch Covenanters.	
covenantor		The party who makes a covenant.	
covenous		See Covinous, and Covin.	
covent	Obsolete	A convent or monastery.	Old French covent.
coventry		A town in the county of Warwick, England.	
cover		To overspread the surface of (one thing) with another; as, to cover wood with paint or lacquer; to cover a table with a cloth.	Middle English coveren, from Old French covrir, from Latin cooperire.
cover-point		The fielder in the games of cricket and lacrosse who supports	
cover-shame	Obsolete	Something used to conceal infamy.	
coverage		The aggregate of risks covered by the terms of a contract of insurance.	
coverchief	Obsolete	A covering for the head.	
covercle	Obsolete	A small cover; a lid.	
covered		Under cover; screened; sheltered; not exposed; hidden.	
coverer		One who, or that which, covers.	
covering		Anything which covers or conceals, as a roof, a screen, a wrapper, clothing, etc. Noah removed the covering of the ark.	
coverlet		The uppermost cover of a bed or of any piece of furniture.	
coverlid		A coverlet.	
coverside		A region of country having covers; a hunting country.	
covert		Covered over; private; hid; secret; disguised.	Old French covert, from Latin coopertus.
covertly		Secretly; in private; insidiously.	
covertness		Secrecy; privacy.	
coverture		Covering; shelter; defence; hiding.	
covet		To wish for with eagerness; to desire possession of; -- used in a good sen Covet earnestly the best gifts. 1.	Middle English coveiten, from Old French covoiter.
covetable		That may be coveted; desirable.	
coveter		One who covets.	
covetise	Obsolete	Avarice.	Old French coveitise.
covetiveness		Acquisitiveness.	
covetous		Inordinately desirous; excessively eager to obtain and possess (esp. money); avaricious; -- in a bad sense.	Middle English coveitous.
covetously		In a covetous manner.	
covetousness		A strong or inordinate desire of obtaining and possessing some supposed good; excessive desire for riches or money; -- in a bad sense.	
covey		A brood or hatch of birds; an old bird with her brood of young; hence, a small flock or number of birds together; -- said of game; as, a covey of partridges.	Old French covee, from Latin cubo.
covin		(Law) A collusive agreement between two or more persons to prejudice a third.	
coving		(a) A cove or series of coves, as the concaved surface under the overhang of a projecting upper story.	
covinous		Deceitful; collusive; fraudulent; dishonest.	
cow		A chimney cap; a cowl	Middle English cou.
cow-pilot		A handsomely banded, coral-reef fish, of Florida and the West Indies (Pomacentrus saxatilis); -- called also mojarra.	
cowage		See Cowhage — a leguminous climbing plant of the genus Mucuna, having crooked pods covered with sharp hairs, which stick to the fingers, causing intolerable itching.	
cowalker		A phantasmic or body deemed to be separable from the physical body and capable of acting independently; a doppelgänger.	
cowan	Scots	One who works as a mason without having served a regular apprenticeship.	
coward		(Her.) Borne in the escutcheon with his tail doubled between his legs; -- said of a lion.	Old French coart.
cowardice		Want of courage to face danger; extreme timidity; pusillanimity; base fear of danger or hurt; lack of spirit.	Middle English cowardise, from Anglo-Norman cuardise.
cowardie	Obsolete	Cowardice.	Old French couardie.
cowardish	Obsolete	Cowardly.	
cowardize	Obsolete	To render cowardly.	
cowardliness		Cowardice.	
cowardly		Wanting courage; basely or weakly timid or fearful; pusillanimous; spiritless.	
cowardship	Obsolete	Cowardice.	
cowbane		A poisonous umbelliferous plant; in England, the Cicuta virosa; in the United States, the Cicuta maculata and the Archemora rigida.	
cowberry		A species of Vaccinium (V.	
cowbird		The cow blackbird (Molothrus ater), an American starling.	
cowblakes	English dialect	Dried cow dung used as fuel.	
cowboy		A cattle herder; a drover; specifically, one of an adventurous class of herders and drovers on the plains of the Western and Southwestern United States.	
cowcatcher		A strong inclined frame, usually of wrought-iron bars, in front of a locomotive engine, for catching or throwing off obstructions on a railway, as cattle; the pilot.	
cowdie		See Kauri — a lofty coniferous tree of New Zealand Agathis, or Dammara, australis), furnishing valuable timber and yielding one kind of dammar resin.	
cower	Obsolete	To stoop by bending the knees; to crouch; to squat; hence, to quail; to sink through fear.	
cowfish		(a) The grampus. (b) A California dolphin (Tursiops Gillii). (c) A marine plectognath fish (Ostracoin quadricorne, and allied species), having two projections, like horns, in front; -- called also cuckold, coffer fish, trunkfish.	
cowhage		A leguminous climbing plant of the genus Mucuna, having crooked pods covered with sharp hairs, which stick to the fingers, causing intolerable itching.	
cowhearted		Cowardly.	
cowherd		One whose occupation is to tend cows.	
cowhide		Leather made of the hide of a cow.	
cowish		Timorous; fearful; cowardly.	
cowitch		See Cowhage — a leguminous climbing plant of the genus Mucuna, having crooked pods covered with sharp hairs, which stick to the fingers, causing intolerable itching.	
cowl		A monk's hood; -- usually attached to the gown.	Middle English coule, from Old English cule.
cowled		Wearing a cowl; hooded; as, a cowled monk.	
cowleech		One who heals disease of cows; a cow doctor.	
cowleeching		Healing the distemper of cows.	
cowlick		A tuft of hair turned up or awry (usually over the forehead), as if licked by a cow.	
cowlike		Resembling a cow.	
cowlstaff		A staff or pole on which a vessel is supported between two persons.	
coworker		One who works with another; a co	
cowpea		The seed of one or more leguminous plants of the genus Dolichos; also, the plant itself.	
cowpock		See Cowpox — a pustular eruptive disease of the cow, which, when communicated to the human system, as by vaccination, protects from the smallpox; vaccinia; -- called also kinepox, cowpock, and kinepock.	
cowpox		A pustular eruptive disease of the cow, which, when communicated to the human system, as by vaccination, protects from the smallpox; vaccinia; -- called also kinepox, cowpock, and kinepock.	
cowquake		A genus of plants (Briza); quaking grass.	
cowrie		Same as Kauri.	
cowry		A marine shell of the genus Cypræa.	
cowslip		A common flower in England (Primula veris) having yellow blossoms and appearing in early spring.	Middle English cowslyppe, from Old English cuslyppe.
cowslipped		Adorned with cowslips.	
cowweed		Same as Cow parsley.	
cowwheat		A weed of the genus Melampyrum, with black seeds, found on European wheatfields.	
cox	Obsolete	A coxcomb; a simpleton; a gull.	
coxa		The first joint of the leg of an insect or crustacean.	
coxalgia		Pain in the hip.	
coxalgy		Pain in the hip.	
coxcomb		(a) A strip of red cloth notched like the comb of a cock, which licensed jesters formerly wore in their caps.	
coxcombical		Befitting or indicating a coxcomb; like a coxcomb; foppish; conceited. -- Cox*comb"ic*al*ly, adv.	
coxcombly	Obsolete	like a coxcomb.	
coxcombry		The manners of a coxcomb; foppishness.	
coxcomical		Coxcombical.	
coxcomically		Conceitedly.	
coxswain		See Cockswain — the steersman of a boat; a petty officer who has charge of a boat and its crew.	
coy		Shrinking from approach or familiarity; reserved; bashful; shy; modest; -- usually applied to women, sometimes with an implication of coquetry.	French coi.
coyish		Somewhat coy or reserved.	
coyly		In a coy manner; with reserve.	
coyness		The quality of being coy; feigned o When the kind nymph would coyness feign, And hides but to be found again.	
coyote		A carnivorous animal (Canis latrans), allied to the dog, found in the western part of North America; -- called also prairie wolf.	Spanish coyote, from Nahuatl languages coyotl.
coyotillo		A low rhamnaceous shrub (Karwinskia humboldtiana) of the southwestern United States and Mexico.	
coypu		A South American rodent (Myopotamus coypus), allied to the beaver.	Spanish coipú, from Mapudungun koypu.
coystrel		Same as Coistril.	
coz		A contraction of cousin.	
cozen		To cheat; to defrand; to beguile; to deceive, usually by small arts, or in a pitiful way.	
cozenage		The art or practice of cozening; artifice; fraud.	
cozener		One who cheats or defrauds.	
cozier		See Cosier — a tailor who botches his work.	
cozily		Snugly; comfortably.	
coziness		The state or quality of being cozy.	
cozy		Snug; comfortable; easy; contented.	
