crab		(Zoöl.) One of the brachyuran Crustacea.
crab-yaws		A disease in the West Indies.
crabbed		Characterized by or manifesting, sourness, peevishness, or moroseness; harsh; cross; cynical; -- applied to feelings, disposition, or manners.
crabber		One who catches crabs.
crabbing		The act or art of catching crabs.
crabbish		Somewhat sour or cross.
crabby		Crabbed; difficult, or perplexing.
crabeater		(a) The cobia. (b) An etheostomoid fish of the southern United States (Hadropterus nigrofasciatus).
craber		The water rat.
crabfaced		Having a sour, disagreeable countenance.
crabsidle		To move sidewise, as a crab..
crabstick		A stick, cane, or cudgel, made of the wood of the carb tree.
crache	Obsolete	To scratch.
crack		To break or burst, with or without entire separation of the parts; as, to crack glass; to crack nuts.
crack-brained		Having an impaired intellect; whimsical; crazy.
crack-loo		A kind of gambling game consisting in pitching coins to or towards the ceiling of a room so that they shall fall as near as possible to a certain crack in the floor.
crackajack	Slang	An individual of marked ability or excellence, esp. in some sport; as, he is a crackajack at tennis.
crackaloo		A kind of gambling game consisting in pitching coins to or towards the ceiling of a room so that they shall fall as near as possible to a certain crack in the floor.
cracked		Coarsely ground or broken; as, cracked wheat.
cracker		One who, or that which, cracks.
crackle		To make slight cracks; to make small, sharp, sudden noises, rapidly or frequently repeated; to crepitate; as, burning thorns crackle.
crackled		Covered with minute cracks in the glaze; -- said of some kinds of porcelain and fine earthenware.
crackleware		See Crackle, n., 3.
crackling		The making of small, sharp cracks or reports, frequently repeated.
cracknel		A hard brittle cake or biscuit.
cracksman	Slang	A burglar.
cracovian		Of or pertaining to Cracow in Poland.
cracovienne		A lively Polish dance, in 2-4 time.
cracowes		Long-toed boots or shoes formerly worn in many parts of Europe; -- so called from Cracow, in Poland, where they were first worn in the fourteenth century.
cradle		A bed or cot for a baby, oscillating on rockers or swinginng on pivots; hence, the place of origin, or in which anything is nurtured or protected in the earlier period of existence; as, a cradle of crime; the cradle of liberty.
cradleland		Land or region where one was cradled; hence, land of origin.
cradling		(Coopering) Cutting a cask into two pieces lengthwise, to enable it to pass a narrow place, the two parts being afterward united and rehooped.
craft		Art or skill; dexterity in particular manual employment; hence, the occupation or employment itself; manual art; a trade.
crafter		a creator of great skill in the manual arts.
craftily		With craft; artfully; cunningly.
craftiness		Dexterity in devising and effecting a purpose; cunning; artifice; stratagem.
craftless		Without craft or cunning.
craftsman		One skilled in some trade or manual occupation; an artificer; a mechanic.
craftsmanship		The work of a craftsman.
craftsmaster		One skilled in his craft or trade; one of superior cunning.
crafty		Possessing dexterity; skilled; skillful.
crag		A steep, rugged rock; a cough, broken cliff, or point of a rock, on a ledge.
cragged		Full of crags, or steep, broken Into its cragged rents descend.
craggedness		The quality or state of being cragged; cragginess.
cragginess		The state of being craggy.
craggy		Full of crags; rugged with projecting points of rocks; as, the craggy side of a mountain.
cragsman		One accustomed to climb rocks or crags; esp., one who makes a business of climbing the cliffs overhanging the sea to get the eggs of sea birds or the birds themselves.
craie	Obsolete	See Crare — a slow unwieldy trading vessel.
crail		A creel or osier basket.
crake		To cry out harshly and loudly, like the bird called crake.
crakeberry		See Crowberry — a heathlike plant of the genus Empetrum, and its fruit, a black, scarcely edible berry; -- also called crakeberry.
craker	Obsolete	One who boasts; a braggart.
cram		To press, force, or drive, particularly in filling, or in thrustung one thing into another; to stuff; to crowd; to fill to superfluity; as, to cram anything into a basket; to cram a room with people.
crambo		A game in which one person gives a word, to which another finds a rhyme.
crammer		One who crams; esp., one who prepares a pupil hastily for an exxamination, or a pupil who is thus prepared.
cramoisie	Obsolete	Crimson.
cramoisy	Obsolete	Crimson.
cramp		That which confines or contracts; a restraint; a shakle; a hindrance.
crampet		A cramp iron or cramp ring; a chape, as of a scabbard.
crampfish		The torpedo, or electric ray, the touch of which gives an electric shock.
crampit		See Crampet — a cramp iron or cramp ring; a chape, as of a scabbard.
cramponee		Having a cramp or square piece at the end; -- said of a cross so furnished.
crampoons		A clutch formed of hooked pieces of iron, like double calipers, for raising stones, lumber, blocks of ice, etc.
crampy		Affected with cramp.
cran	Scots	A measure for fresh herrings, -- as many as will fill a barrel.
cranage		The liberty of using a crane, as for loading and unloading vessels.
cranberry		A red, acid berry, much used for making sauce, etc.; also, the plant producing it (several species of Vaccinum or Oxycoccus.) The high cranberry or cranberry tree is a species of Viburnum (V.
cranch		See Craunch — to crush with the teeth; to chew with violence and noise; to crunch.
crandall		A kind of hammer having a head formed of a group of pointed steel bars, used for dressing ashlar, etc. -- v. t.
crane	Scots	A measure for fresh herrings, -- as many as will fill a barrel.
crang		See Krang — the carcass of a whale after the blubber has been removed.
crania		A genus of living Brachiopoda; -- so called from its fancied resemblance to the cranium or skull.
cranial		Of or pertaining to the cranium.
cranioclasm		The crushing of a child's head, as with the cranioclast or craniotomy forceps in cases of very difficult delivery.
cranioclast		An instrument for crushing the head of a fetus, to facilitate delivery in difficult eases.
craniofacial		Of or pertaining to the cranium and face; as, the craniofacial angle.
craniognomy		The science of the form and characteristics of the skull.
craniological		Of or pertaining to craniology.
craniologist		One proficient in craniology; a phrenologist.
craniology		The department of science (as of ethnology or archæology) which deals with the shape, size, proportions, indications, etc., of skulls; the study of skulls.
craniometer		An instrument for measuring the size of skulls.
craniometric		Pertaining to craniometry.
craniometrical		Pertaining to craniometry.
craniometry		The art or act of measuring skulls.
cranioscopist		One skilled in, or who practices, cranioscopy.
cranioscopy		Scientific examination of the cranium.
craniota		A comprehensive division of the Vertebrata, including all those that have a skull.
craniotomy		The operation of opening the fetal head, in order to effect delivery.
cranium		The skull of an animal; especially, that part of the skull, either cartilaginous or bony, which immediately incloses the brain; the brain case or brainpan.
crank		(Mach.) A bent portion of an axle, or shaft, or an arm keyed at right angles to the end of a shaft, by which motion is imparted to or received from it; also used to change circular into reciprocating motion…
crankbird		A small European woodpecker (Picus minor).
cranked		Formed with, or having, a bend or crank; as, a cranked axle.
crankiness		Crankness.
crankle		To break into bends, turns, or angles; to crinkle.
crankness		(Naut.) Liability to be overset; -- said of a ship or other vessel.
cranky		Full of spirit; crank.
crannied		Having crannies, chinks, or fissures; as, a crannied wall.
crannog		One of the stockaded islands in Scotland and Ireland which in ancient times were numerous in the lakes of both countries.
crannoge		One of the stockaded islands in Scotland and Ireland which in ancient times were numerous in the lakes of both countries.
cranny		A small, narrow opening, fissure, crevice, or chink, as in a wall, or other substance.
crantara		The fiery cross, used as a rallying signal in the Highlands of Scotland.
crants	Obsolete	A garland carried before the bier of a maiden.
crap		In the game of craps, a first throw of the dice in which the total is two, three, or twelve, in which case the caster loses.
crapaud		(Pronounced kra`po") As a proper name, Johnny Crapaud, or Crapaud, a nickname for a Frenchman.
crapaudine		Turning on pivots at the top and bottom; -- said of a door.
crape		A thin, crimped stuff, made of raw silk gummed and twisted on the mill.
crapefish		Salted codfish hardened by pressure.
crapnel		A hook or drag; a grapnel.
crappie		A kind of fresh-water bass of the genus Pomoxys, found in the rivers of the Southern United States and Mississippi valley.
craps	Dialect	A gambling game with dice.
crapula		Same as Crapulence.
crapule		Same as Crapulence.
crapulence		The sickness occasioned by intemperance; surfeit.
crapulent		Surcharged with liquor; sick from excessive indulgence in liquor; drunk; given to excesses.
crapulous		Surcharged with liquor; sick from excessive indulgence in liquor; drunk; given to excesses.
crapy		Resembling crape.
crare	Obsolete	A slow unwieldy trading vessel.
crase	Obsolete	To break in pieces; to crack.
crash		To break in pieces violently; to dash together with noise and violence.
crashing		The noise of many things falling and breaking at once.
crasis		(Med.) A mixture of constituents, as of the blood; constitution; temperament.
craspedota		The hydroid or naked-eyed medusæ. See Hydroidea.
craspedote		Of or pertaining to the Craspedota.
crass		Cross; thick; dense; coarse; not elaborated or refined.
crassament		A semisolid mass or clot, especially that formed in coagulation of the blood.
crassamentum		A semisolid mass or clot, especially that formed in coagulation of the blood.
crassiment		See Crassament — a semisolid mass or clot, especially that formed in coagulation of the blood.
crassitude		Crossness; coarseness; thickness; density.
crassness	Obsolete	Grossness.
crastination	Obsolete	Procrastination; a putting off till to-morrow.
crataegus		A genus of small, hardy trees, including the hawthorn, much used for ornamental purposes.
cratch	Obsolete	A manger or open frame for hay; a crib; a rack.
crate		A large basket or hamper of wickerwork, used for the transportation of china, crockery, and similar wares.
crater		The basinlike opening or mouth of a volcano, through which the chief eruption comes; similarly, the mouth of a gevser, about which a cone of silica is often built up.
crateriform		Having the form of a shallow bowl; -- said of a corolla.
craterous		Pertaining to, or resembling, a crater.
craunch		To crush with the teeth; to chew with violence and noise; to crunch.
cravat		A neckcloth; a piece of silk, fine muslin, or other cloth, worn by men about the neck.
cravatted		Wearing a cravat.
crave		To ask with earnestness or importunity; to ask with submission or humility; to beg; to entreat; to beseech; to implore.
craven	Obsolete	Cowardly; fainthearted; spiritless.
craver		One who craves or begs.
craving		Vehement or urgent desire; longing for; beseeching.
craw		(a) The crop of a bird. (b) The stomach of an animal.
crawfish		Any crustacean of the family Astacidæ, resembling the lobster, but smaller, and found in fresh waters.
crawford		A Crawford peach; a well-known freestone peach, wich yellow flesh, first raised by Mr. William Crawford, of New Jersey.
crawl		To move slowly by drawing the body along the ground, as a worm; to move slowly on hands and kness; to creep.
crawler		One who, or that which, crawls; a creeper; a reptile.
cray	Obsolete	See Crare — a slow unwieldy trading vessel.
crayer	Obsolete	See Crare — a slow unwieldy trading vessel.
crayfish		Any crustacean of the family Astacidæ, resembling the lobster, but smaller, and found in fresh waters.
crayon		An implement for drawing, made of clay and plumbago, or of some preparation of chalk, usually sold in small prisms or cylinders.
craze		To break into pieces; to crush; to grind to powder. See Crase.
craze-mill		A mill for grinding tin ore.
crazedness		A broken state; decrepitude; an impaired state of the intellect.
crazily		In a crazy manner.
craziness		The state of being broken down or weakened; as, the craziness of a ship, or of the limbs.
crazing-mill		A mill for grinding tin ore.
crazy		Characterized by weakness or feeblness; decrepit; broken; falling to decay; shaky; unsafe.
creable	Obsolete	Capable of being created.
creaght	Obsolete	A drove or herd.
creak		To make a prolonged sharp grating or ssqueaking sound, as by the friction of hard substances; as, shoes creak.
creaking		A harsh grating or squeaking sound, or the act of making such a sound.
cream		The rich, oily, and yellowish part of milk, which, when the milk stands unagitated, rises, and collects on the surface.
cream-colored		Of the color of cream; light yellow.
cream-faced		White or pale, as the effect of fear, or as the natural complexion.
cream-fruit		A plant of Sierra Leone which yields a wholesome, creamy juice.
cream-slice		A wooden knife with a long thin blade, used in handling cream or ice cream.
cream-white		As white as cream.
creamcake		A kind of cake filled with custard made of cream, eggs, etc.
creamery		A place where butter and cheese are made, or where milk and cream are put up in cans for market.
creaminess		The quality of being creamy.
creamy		Full of, or containing, cream; resembling cream, in nature, appearance, or taste; creamlike; unctuous.
creance	Obsolete	Faith; belief; creed.
creant		Creative; formative.
crease		See Creese — a dagger or short sword used by the Malays, commonly having a serpentine blade.
creaser		A tool, or a sewing-mashine attachment, for making lines or creases on leather or cloth, as guides to sew by.
creasing		A layer of tiles forming a corona for a wall.
creasote		See Creosote — wood-tar oil; an oily antiseptic liquid, of a burning smoky taste, colorless when pure, but usually colored yellow or brown by impurity or exposure.
creasy		Full of creases.
creat		An usher to a riding master.
creatable		That may be created.
create		To bring into being; to form out of nothing; to cause to exist.
creatic		Relating to, or produced by, flesh or animal food; as, creatic nausea.
creatin		A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance found abundantly in muscle tissue.
creatinin		A white, crystalline, nitrogenous body closely related to creatin but more basic in its properties, formed from the latter by the action of acids, and occurring naturally in muscle tissue and in urine.
creation		The act of creating or causing to exist. Specifically, the act of bringing the universe or this world into existence.
creational		Of or pertaining to creation.
creationism		The doctrine that a soul is specially created for each human being as soon as it is formed in the womb; -- opposed to traducianism.
creative		Having the power to create; exerting the act of creation.
creativeness		The qualiyu of being creative.
creator		One who creates, produces, or constitutes. Specifically, the Supreme Being.
creatorship		State or condition of a creator.
creatress		She who creates.
creatrix		A creatress.
creatural		Belonging to a creature; having the qualities of a creature.
creature		Anything created; anything not self-existent; especially, any being created with life; an animal; a man.
creatureless		Without created beings; alone.
creaturely		Creatural; characteristic of a creature.
creatureship		The condition of being a creature.
creaturize	Obsolete	To make like a creature; to degrade Degrade and creaturize that mundane soul.
creaze		The tin ore which collects in the central part of the washing pit or buddle.
crebricostate		Marked with closely set ribs or ridges.
crebrisulcate		Marked with closely set transverse furrows.
crebritude	Obsolete	Frequency.
crebrous	Obsolete	Frequent; numerous.
creche		A public nursery, where the young children of poor women are cared for during the day, while their mothers are at work.
credence		Reliance of the mind on evidence of facts derived from other sources than personal knowledge; belief; credit; confidence.
credendum		A thing to be believed; an article of faith; -- distinguished from agendum, a practical duty.
credent		Believing; giving credence; credulous.
credential		Giving a title or claim to credit or confidence; accrediting.
credibility		The quality of being credible; credibleness; as, the credibility of facts; the credibility of witnesses.
credible		Capable of being credited or believed; worthy of belief; entiled to confidence; trustworthy.
credibleness		The quality or state of being credible; worthness of belief; credibility.
credibly		In a manner inducing belief; as, I have been credibly informed of the event.
credit		Reliance on the truth of something said or done; belief; faith; trust; confidence.
creditable		Deserving or possessing reputation or esteem; reputable; estimable.
creditableness		The quality of being creditable.
creditably		In a creditable manner; reputably; with credit.
creditor		One who credits, believes, or trusts.
creditress		A female creditor.
creditrix		A female creditor.
credo		The creed, as sung or read in the Roman Catholic church.
credulity		Readiness of belief; a disposition to believe on slight evidence.
credulous		Apt to believe on slight evidence; easly imposed upon; unsuspecting.
credulously		With credulity.
credulousness		Readiness to believe on slight evidence; credulity.
creed		A definite summary of what is believed; esp., a summary of the articles of Christian faith; a confession of faith for public use; esp., one which is brief and comprehensive.
creedless		Without a creed.
creek		A small inlet or bay, narrower and extending further into the land than a cove; a recess in the shore of the sea, or of a river.
creekfish		The chub sucker.
creeks		A tribe or confederacy of North American Indians, including the Muskogees, Seminoles, Uchees, and other subordinate tribes.
creeky		Containing, or abounding in, creeks; characterized by creeks; like a creek; winding.
creel		An osier basket, such as anglers use.
creep		To move along the ground, or on any other surface, on the belly, as a worm or reptile; to move as a child on the hands and knees; to crawl.
creeper		One who, or that which, creeps; any creeping thing.
creephole		A hole or retreat onto which an animal may creep, to escape notice or danger.
creepie	Scots	A low stool.
creepiness		An uneasy sensation as of insects creeping on the skin.
creeping		Crawling, or moving close to the ground. vi. 20.
creepingly		by creeping slowly; in the manner of a reptile; insidiously; cunningly.
creeple	Obsolete	A creeping creature; a reptile.
creepy	Colloquial	Crawly; having or producing a sensation like that caused by insects creeping on the skin.
crees		An Algonquin tribe of Indians, inhabiting a large part of British America east of the Rocky Mountains and south of Hudson's Bay.
creese		A dagger or short sword used by the Malays, commonly having a serpentine blade.
cremaillere		An indented or zigzaged line of intrenchment.
cremaster		(Anat.) A thin muscle which serves to draw up the testicle.
cremasteric		Of or pertaining to the cremaster; as, the cremasteric artery.
cremate		To burn; to reduce to ashes by the action of fire, either directly or in an oven or retort; to incremate or incinerate; as, to cremate a corpse, instead of burying it.
cremation		A burning; esp., the act or practice of cremating the dead.
cremationist		One who advocates the practice of cremation.
cremator		One who, or that which, cremmates or consumes to ashes.
crematorium		A furnace for cremating corpses; a building containing such a furnace.
crematory		A furnace for cremating corpses; a building containing such a furnace.
creme		Cream; -- a term used esp. in cookery, names of liqueurs, etc.
cremocarp		The peculiar fruit of fennel, carrott, parsnip, and the like, consisting of a pair of carpels pendent from a supporting axis.
cremona		A superior kind of violin, formerly made at Cremona, in Italy.
cremor		Cream; a substance resembling cream; yeast; scum.
cremosin	Obsolete	See Crimson — a deep red color tinged with blue; also, red color in general.
crems		See Krems — a variety of white lead. See Krems lead, under Lead, n.
crenate		Having the margin cut into rounded teeth notches, or scallops.
crenated		Having the margin cut into rounded teeth notches, or scallops.
crenation		(Bot.) A rounded tooth on the edge of a leaf.
crenature		(Bot.) A rounded tooth or notch of a crenate leaf, or any part that is crenate; -- called also crenelle.
crenel		See Crenelle — an embrasure or indentation in a battlement; a loophole in a fortress; an indentation; a notch.
crenelate		To furnish with crenelles.
crenelation		The act of crenelating, or the state of being crenelated; an indentation or an embrasure.
crenelle		An embrasure or indentation in a battlement; a loophole in a fortress; an indentation; a notch.
crenelled		Same as Crenate.
crengle		See Cringle — a withe for fastening a gate.
crenkle		See Cringle — a withe for fastening a gate.
crenulate		Minutely crenate.
crenulated		Minutely crenate.
crenulation		A minute crenation.
creole		One born of European parents in the American colonies of France or Spain or in the States which were once such colonies, esp. a person of French or Spanish descent, who is a native inhabitant of Louisiana…
creolean		Pertaining to, or characteristic of, the Creoles. -- n.
creolian		Pertaining to, or characteristic of, the Creoles. -- n.
creosol		A colorless liquid resembling phenol or carbolic acid, homologous with pyrocatechin, and obtained from beechwood tar and gum guaiacum.
creosote		Wood-tar oil; an oily antiseptic liquid, of a burning smoky taste, colorless when pure, but usually colored yellow or brown by impurity or exposure.
crepance		An injury in a horse's leg, caused by the shoe of one hind foot striking and cutting the other leg.
crepane		An injury in a horse's leg, caused by the shoe of one hind foot striking and cutting the other leg.
crepe		Same as Crape.
crepitant		Having a crackling sound; crackling; rattling.
crepitate		To make a series of small, sharp, rapidly repeated explosions or sounds, as salt in fire; to crackle; to snap.
crepitation		(Med.) (a) A grating or crackling sensation or sound, as that produced by rubbing two fragments of a broken bone together, or by pressing upon cellular tissue containing air.
crepitus		(a) The noise produced bu a sudden discharge of wind from the bowels. (b) Same as Crepitation, 2.
crepon		A thin stuff made of the finest wool or silk, or of wool and silk.
crept		imp. & p. p. of Creep.
crepuscle		Twilight.
crepuscular		Pertaining to twilight; glimmering; hence, imperfectly clear or luminous.
crepuscule		Twilight.
crepusculine	Obsolete	Crepuscular.
crepusculous		Pertaining to twilight; glimmering; hence, imperfectly clear or luminous.
crescence	Obsolete	Increase; enlargement.
crescendo		With a constantly increasing volume of voice; with gradually increasing strength and fullness of tone; -- a direction for the performance of music, indicated by the mark, or by writing the word on the score.
crescent		The increasing moon; the moon in her first quarter, or when defined by a concave and a convex edge; also, applied improperly to the old or decreasing moon in a like state.
crescentic		Crescent-shaped.
crescentwise		In the form of a crescent; like a crescent.
crescive		Increasing; growing.
cresol		Any one of three metameric substances, CH3.C6H4.OH, homologous with and resembling phenol.
cresorcin		Same as Isorcin.
cress		A plant of various species, chiefly cruciferous.
cresselle		A wooden rattle sometimes used as a substitute for a bell, in the Roman Catholic church, during the latter part of Holy Week, or the last week of Lent.
cresset		An open frame or basket of iron, filled with combustible material, to be burned as a beacon; an open lamp or firrepan carried on a pole in nocturnal processions.
cressy		Abounding in cresses.
crest		A tuft, or other excrescence or natural ornament, growing on animal's head; the comb of a cock; the swelling on the head of a serpent; the lengthened feathers of the crown or nape of bird, etc. Darwin. his rising crest…
crested		(Zoöl.) Having a crest of feathers or hair upon the head.
crestfallen		With hanging head; hence, dispirited; dejected; cowed.
cresting		An ornamental finish on the top of a wall or ridge of a roof.
crestless		Without a crest or escutcheon; of low birth.
cresylic		Pertaining to, or derived from, cresol, creosote, etc. Cresylic acid. (Chem.) See Cresol.
cretaceous		Having the qualities of chalk;abounding with chalk; chalky; as, cretaceous rocks and formations.
cretaceously		In a chalky manner; as chalk.
cretacic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, the period of time following the Jurassic and preceding the Eocene.
cretan		Pertaining to Crete, or Candia. -- n.
crete		A Cretan
cretian		See Cretan — pertaining to Crete, or Candia. -- n.
cretic		A poetic foot, composed of one short syllable between two long ones (-Bentley.
creticism		Falsehood; lying; cretism.
cretin		One afflicted with cretinism.
cretinism		A condition of endemic or inherited idiocy, accompanied by physical degeneracy and deformity (usually with goiter), frequent in certain mountain valleys, esp. of the Alps.
cretinous		Having the characteristics of a cretin.
cretism		A Cretan practice; iying; a falsehood.
cretonne		A strong white fabric with warp of hemp and welt of flax.
cretose	Obsolete	Chalky; cretaceous.
creutzer		(kroitn. See Kreutzer.
creux		Used in English only in the expression en creux.
crevalle		(a) The cavally or jurel. See Cavally, and Jurel. (b) The pompano (Trachynotus Carolinus).
crevasse		A deep crevice or fissure, as in embankment; one of the clefts or fissure by which the mass of a glacier is divided.
crevet		A crucible or melting pot; a cruset.
crevice		A narrow opening resulting from a split or crack or the separation of a junction; a cleft; a fissure; a rent.
creviced		Having a crevice or crevices; as, a creviced structure for storing ears of corn.
crevis	English dialect	The crawfish.
crew		The Manx shearwater.
crewel		Worsted yarn,, slackly twisted, used for embroidery.
crewelwork		Embroidery in crewels, commonly done upon some plain material, such as linen.
crewet		See Cruet — a bottle or vessel; esp., aviai or small glass bottle for holding vinegar, oil, pepper, or the like, for the table; a caster.
crib		A manger or rack; a feeding place for animals.
crib-biter		A horse that has the habit of cribbing.
crib-biting		Same as Cribbing, 4.
cribbage		A game of cards, played by two or four persons, in which there is a crib.
cribber		A horse that has the habit of cribbing.
cribbing		The act of inclosing or confining in a crib or in close quarters.
cribble		A coarse sieve or screen.
cribellum		A peculiar perforated organ of certain spiders (Ciniflonidæ), used for spinning a special kind of silk.
cribrate		Cribriform.
cribration		The act or process of separating the finer parts of drugs from the coarser by sifting.
cribriform		Resembling, or having the form of, a sieve; pierced with hokes; as, the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bone; a cribriform compress.
cribrose		Perforated like a sieve; cribriform.
cric		The ring which turns inward and condenses the flame of a lamp.
crick		A painful, spasmodic affection of the muscles of some part of the body, as of the neck or back, rendering it difficult to move the part.
cricket		An orthopterous insect of the genus Gryllus, and allied genera.
cricketer		One who plays at cricket.
cricoid		Resembling a ring; -- said esp. of the cartilage at the larynx, and the adjoining parts.
cricothyroid		Of or pertaining both to the cricoid and the thyroid cartilages.
cried		imp. & p. p. of Cry.
crier		One who cries; one who makes proclamation. Specifically, an officer who proclams the orders or directions of a court, or who gives public notice by loud proclamation; as, a town-crier.
crime		Any violation of law, either divine or human; an omission of a duty commanded, or the commission of an act forbidden by law.
crimeful	Obsolete	Criminal; wicked; contrary to law, right, or dury.
crimeless		Free from crime; innocent.
criminal		Involving a crime; of the nature of a crime; -- said of an act or of conduct; as, criminal carelessness.
criminalist		One versed in criminal law.
criminality		The quality or state of being criminal; that which constitutes a crime; guiltiness; guilt.
criminally		In violation of law; wickedly.
criminalness		Criminality.
criminate		To accuse of, or charge with, a crime.
crimination		The act of accusing; accusation; charge; complaint.
criminative		Charging with crime; accusing; criminatory.
criminatory		Relating to, or involving, crimination; accusing; as, a criminatory conscience.
criminology		A treatise on crime or the criminal population. -- Crim`i*nol"o*gist (-j, n.
criminous	Obsolete	Criminal; involving great crime or grave charges; very wicked; heinous.
crimosin		See Crimson — a deep red color tinged with blue; also, red color in general.
crimp		To fold or plait in regular undulation in such a way that the material will retain the shape intended; to give a wavy apperance to; as, to crimp the border of a cap; to crimp a ruffle.
crimpage		The act or practice of crimping; money paid to a crimp for shipping or enlisting men.
crimper		One who, or that which, crimps; as: (a) A curved board or frame over which the upper of a boot or shoe is stretched to the required shape.
crimple		To cause to shrink or draw together; to contract; to curl.
crimpy		Having a crimped appearance; frizzly; as, the crimpy wool of the Saxony sheep.
crimson		A deep red color tinged with blue; also, red color in general.
crinal		Of or pertaining to the hair.
crinated		Having hair; hairy.
crinatory		Crinitory.
crincum	Colloquial	A twist or bend; a turn; a whimsey.
crincum-crancum	Colloquial	A twist; a whimsey or whim.
crined		Having the hair of a different tincture from the rest of the body; as, a charge crined of a red tincture.
crinel		A very fine, hairlike feather.
crinet		A very fine, hairlike feather.
cringe	Obsolete	To draw one's self together as in fear or servility; to bend or crouch with base humility; to wince; hence; to make court in a degrading manner; to fawn.
cringeling		One who cringes meanly; a fawner.
cringer		One who cringes.
cringingly		In a cringing manner.
cringle		A withe for fastening a gate.
crinicultural		Relating to the growth of hair.
crinigerous		Bearing hair; hairy.
crinital		He the star crinital adoreth.
crinite		Having the appearance of a tuft of hair; having a hairlike tail or train.
crinitory		Of or relating to hair; as, a crinitory covering.
crinkle		To form with short turns, bends, or wrinkles; to mold into inequalites or sinuosities; to cause to wrinkle or curl.
crinkled		Having short bends, turns, or wrinkles; wrinkled; wavy; zigzag.
crinkly		Having crinkles; wavy; wrinkly.
crinoid		Crinoidal. -- n.
crinoidal		Of pertaining to crinoids; consisting of, or containing, crinoids.
crinoidea		A large class of Echinodermata, including numerous extinct families and genera, but comparatively few living ones.
crinoidean		One of the Crinoidea.
crinoline		A kind of stiff cloth, used chiefly by women, for underskirts, to expand the gown worn over it; -- so called because originally made of hair.
crinosity		Hairiness.
crinum		A genus of bulbous plants, of the order Amaryllidace, cultivated as greenhouse plants on account of their beauty.
criosphinx		A sphinx with the head of a ram.
cripple		One who creeps, halts, or limps; one who has lost, or never had, the use of a limb or limbs; a lame person; hence, one who is partially disabled.
crippled		Lamed; lame; disabled; impeded.
crippleness		Lameness.
crippler		A wooden tool used in graining leather.
crippling		Spars or timbers set up as a support against the side of a building.
cripply		Lame; disabled; in a crippled condition.
crisis		The point of time when it is to be decided whether any affair or course of action must go on, or be modified or terminate; the decisive moment; the turning point.
crisp		Curling in stiff curls or ringlets; as, crisp hair.
crispate		Having a crisped appearance; irregularly curled or twisted.
crispated		Having a crisped appearance; irregularly curled or twisted.
crispation		The act or process of curling, or the state of being curled.
crispature		The state of being crispate.
crisper		One who, or that which, crisps or curls; an instrument for making little curls in the nap of cloth, as in chinchilla.
crispin		A shoemaker; -- jocularly so called from the patron sant of the craft.
crisply		In a crisp manner.
crispness		The state or quality of being crisp.
crispy		Formed into short, close ringlets; frizzed; crisp; as, crispy locks.
crissal		Pertaining to the crissum; as, crissal feathers.
crisscross		A mark or cross, as the signature of a person who is unable to write.
crisscross-row		See Christcross-row — the alphabet; -- formerly so called, either from the cross usually set before it, or from a superstitious custom, sometimes practiced, of writing it in the form of a cross…
crissum		That part of a bird, or the feathers, surrounding the cloacal opening; the under tail coverts.
cristallology		The science of the crystalline structure of inorganic bodies.
cristate		Crested.
criterion		A standard of judging; any approved or established rule or test, by which facts, principles opinions, and conduct are tried in forming a correct judgment respecting them.
crith		The unit for estimating the weight of a
crithomancy		A kind of divination by means of the dough of the cakes offered in the ancient sacrifices, and the meal strewed over the victims.
critic		One skilled in judging of the merits of literary or artistic works; a connoisseur; an adept; hence, one who examines literary or artistic works, etc., and passes judgment upon them; a reviewer.
critical		Qualified to criticise, or pass judgment upon, literary or artistic productions.
critically		In a critical manner; with nice discernment; accurately; exactly.
criticalness		The state or quality of being critical, or of occurring at a critical time.
criticaster		A contemptible or vicious critic.
criticisable		Capable of being criticised.
criticise		To examine and judge as a critic; to pass literary or artistic judgment upon; as, to criticise an author; to criticise a picture.
criticiser		One who criticises; a critic.
criticism		The rules and principles which regulate the practice of the critic; the art of judging with knowledge and propriety of the beauties and faults of a literary performance, or of a production in the fine arts; as, dramatic criticism.
critique		A critical examination or estimate of a work of literature or art; a critical dissertation or essay; a careful and through analysis of any subject; a criticism; as…
crizzel		A kind of roughness on the surface of glass, which clouds its transparency.
croak		To make a low, hoarse noise in the throat, as a frog, a raven, or a crow; hence, to make any hoarse, dismal sound.
croaker		One who croaks, murmurs, grumbles, or complains unreasonably; one who habitually forebodes evil.
croat		A native of Croatia, in Austria; esp., one of the native Slavic race.
croatian		Of or pertaining to Croatia. -- n.
crocein		A name given to any one of several yellow or scarlet dyestuffs of artificial production and complex structure.
croceous		Of, pertaining to, or like, saffron; deep reddish yellow.
crocetin		A dyestuff, obtained from the Chinese croicin, which produces a brilliant yellow.
croche		A little bud or knob at the top of a deer's antler.
crochet		A kind of knitting done by means of a hooked needle, with worsted, silk, or cotton; crochet work.
crociary	Obsolete	One who carries the cross before an archbishop.
crocidolite		A mineral occuring in silky fibers of a lavender blue color.
crocin		(a) The coloring matter of Chinese yellow pods, the fruit of Gardenia grandiflora.
crock		The loose black particles collected from combustion, as on pots and kettles, or in a chimney; soot; smut; also, coloring matter which rubs off from cloth.
crocker	Obsolete	A potter.
crockery		Earthenware; vessels formed of baked clay, especially the coarser kinds.
crocket		(Arch.) An ornament often resembling curved and bent foliage, projecting from the sloping edge of a gable, spire, etc.
crocketed		Ornamented with crockets.
crocketing		Ornamentation with crockets.
crocodile		(Zoöl.) A large reptile of the genus Crocodilus, of several species.
crocodilia		An order of reptiles including the crocodiles, gavials, alligators, and many extinct kinds.
crocodilian		Like, or pertaining to, the crocodile; characteristic of the crocodile. -- n.
crocodility		A caption or sophistical mode of arguing.
crocoisite		Same as Crocoite.
crocoite		Lead chromate occuring in crystals of a bright hyacinth red color; -- called also red lead ore.
croconate		A salt formed by the union of croconic acid with a base.
croconic		Of, pertaining to, or resembling saffron; having the color of saffron; as, croconic acid.
crocose		A white crystalline sugar, metameric with glucose, obtained from the coloring matter of saffron.
crocus		(Bot.) A genus of iridaceous plants, with pretty blossoms rising separately from the bulb or corm.
croesus		A king of Lydia who flourished in the 6th century b. c., and was renowned for his vast wealth; hence, a common appellation for a very rich man; as, he is veritable Croesus.
croft		A small, inclosed field, adjoining a house; a small farm.
crofter		One who rents and tills a small farm or helding; as, the crofters of Scotland.
crofting		(Textile Manuf.) Exposing linen to the sun, on the grass, in the process of bleaching.
croftland	Scots	Land of superior quality, on which successive crops are raised.
crois	Obsolete	See Cross, n.
croisade	Obsolete	A holy war; a crusade.
croisado	Obsolete	A holy war; a crusade.
croise	Obsolete	A pilgrim bearing or wearing a cross.
croissante		Terminated with crescent; -- said of a cross the ends of which are so terminated.
croker	Obsolete	A cultivator of saffron; a dealer in saffron.
croma	Obsolete	A quaver.
cromlech		A monument of rough stones composed of one or more large ones supported in a horizontal position upon others.
cromorna		A certain reed stop in the organ, of a quality of tone resembling that of the oboe.
crone		An old woman; -- usually in contempt.
cronel		The iron head of a tilting spear.
cronet		The coronet of a horse.
cronian		Saturnian; -- applied to the North Polar Sea.
cronstedtite		A mineral consisting principally of silicate of iron, and crystallizing in hexagonal prisms with perfect basal cleavage; -- so named from the Swedish mineralogist Cronstedt.
crony	Colloquial	An intimate companion; a familiar frend.
croodle	English dialect	To cower or cuddle together, as from fear or cold; to lie close and snug together, as pigs in straw.
crook		A bend, turn, or curve; curvature; flexure.
crookback		A crooked back; one who has a crooked or deformed back; a hunchback.
crookbill		A New Zealand plover (Anarhynchus frontalis), remarkable for having the end of the beak abruptly bent to the right.
crooked		Characterized by a crook or curve; not straight; turning; bent; twisted; deformed. he is deformed, crooked, old, and sere.
crookedly		In a curved or crooked manner; in a perverse or untoward manner.
crookedness		The condition or quality of being crooked; hence, deformity of body or of mind; deviation from moral rectitude; perverseness.
crooken	Obsolete	To make crooked.
crookneck		Either of two varieties of squash, distinguished by their tapering, recurved necks.
croon	Scots	To make a continuous hollow moan, as cattle do when in pain.
crop		The pouchlike enlargement of the gullet of birds, serving as a receptacle for food; the craw.
crop-ear		A person or animal whose ears are cropped.
crop-eared		Having the ears cropped.
crop-tailed		Having the tail cropped.
cropful		Having a full crop or belly; satiated.
cropper		One that crops.
cropsick	Obsolete	Sick from excess in eating or drinking. -- Crop"sick`ness, n.
croquante		A brittle cake or other crisp pastry.
croquet		An open-air game in which two or more players endeavor to drive wooden balls, by means of mallets, through a series of hoops or arches set in the ground according to some pattern.
croquette		A ball of minced meat, fowl, rice, or other ingredients, highly seasoned, and fried.
crore		Ten millions; as, a crore of rupees (which is nearly $5,000,000).
crosier		The pastoral staff of a bishop (also of an archbishop, being the symbol of his office as a shepherd of the flock of God.
crosiered		Bearing a crosier.
croslet		See Crosslet — a small cross.
cross		A gibbet, cosisting of two pieces of timber placed transversely upon one another, in various forms, as a T, or +, with the horizontal piece below the upper end of the upright, or as an X.
cross-armed		With arms crossed.
cross-banded		A term used when a narrow ribbon of veneer is inserted into the surfase of any piece of furniture, wainscoting, etc., so that the grain of it is contrary to the general surface.
cross-bearer		A subdeacon who bears a cross before an archbishop or primate on solemn occasions.
cross-birth		Any preternatural labor, in whiche the boly of the child lies across the pelvis of the mother, so that the shoulder, arm, or trunk is the part first presented at the mouth of the uterus.
cross-bun		A bun or cake marked with a cross, and intended to be eaten on Good Friday.
cross-buttock		A throw in which the wrestler turns his left side to his opponent, places his left leg across both legs of his opponent, and pulls him forward over his hip; hence, an unexpected defeat or repulse.
cross-crosslet		A cross having the three upper ends crossed, so as to from three small crosses.
cross-days		The three days preceding the Feast of the Ascension.
cross-examination		The interrogating or questioning of a witness by the party against whom he has been called and examined.
cross-examine		To examine or question, as a witness who has been called and examined by the opposite party.
cross-examiner		One who cross-examines or conducts a crosse-examination.
cross-eye		See Strabismus — an affection of one or both eyes, in which the optic axes can not be directed to the same object…
cross-eyed		Affected with strabismus; squint-eyed; squinting.
cross-fertilize		To fertilize, as the stigmas of a flower or plant, with the pollen from another individual of the same species.
cross-garnet		A hinge having one strap perpendicular and the other strap horizontal giving it the form of an Egyptian or T cross.
cross-pawl		Same as Cross-spale.
cross-purpose		A counter or opposing purpose; hence, that which is inconsistent or contradictory.
cross-question		To cross-examine; to subject to close questioning.
cross-reading		The reading of the lines of a newspaper directly across the page, instead of down the columns, thus producing a ludicrous combination of ideas.
cross-spale		One of the temporary wooden braces, placed horizontally across a frame to hold it in position until the deck beams are in; a cross- pawl.
cross-spall		One of the temporary wooden braces, placed horizontally across a frame to hold it in position until the deck beams are in; a cross- pawl.
cross-springer		One of the ribs in a groined arch, springing from the corners in a diagonal direction.
cross-staff		An instrument formerly used at sea for taking the altitudes of celestial bodies.
cross-stitch		A form of stitch, where the stitches are diagonal and in pairs, the thread of one stitch crossing that of the other. -- Cross"-stitch`, v. t. & i.
cross-stone		See Harmotome, and Staurotide.
cross-tail		A bar connecting the ends of the side rods or levers of a backaction or side-lever engine.
cross-tie		A sleeper supporting and connecting the rails, and holding them in place.
cross-tining		A mode of harrowing crosswise, or transversely to the ridges.
cross-vaulting		Vaulting formed by the intersection of two or more simple vaults.
cross-week		Rogation week, when the cross was borne in processions.
crossbar		A transverse bar or piece, as a bar across a door, or as the iron bar or stock which passes through the shank of an anchor to insure its turning fluke down.
crossbarred		Secured by, or furnished with, crossbars.
crossbeak		Same as Crossbill.
crossbeam		(Naut.) A beam laid across the bitts, to which the cable is fastened when riding at anchor.
crossbill		A bill brought by a defendant, in an equity or chancery suit, against the plaintiff, respecting the matter in question in that suit.
crossbite	Obsolete	A deeption; a cheat.
crossbones		A representation of two of the leg bones or arm bones of a skeleton, laid crosswise, often surmounted with a skull, and serving as a symbol of death.
crossbow		A weapon, used in discharging arrows, formed by placing a bow crosswise on a stock.
crossbower	Obsolete	A crossbowman.
crossbowman		One who shoots with a crossbow. See Arbalest.
crossbred		Produced by mixing distinct breeds; mongrel.
crossbreed		A breed or an animal produced from parents of different breeds; a new variety, as of plants, combining the qualites of two parent varieties or stocks.
crosscut		A short cut across; a path shorter than by the high road.
crosse		The implement with which the ball is thrown and caught in the game of lacrosse.
crossette		(a) A return in one of the corners of the architrave of a door or window; -- called also ancon, ear, elbow.
crossfish		A starfish.
crossflow		To flow across, or in a contrary direction.
crossgrained		Having the grain or fibers run diagonally, or more or less transversely an irregularly, so as to interfere with splitting or planing.
crosshatch		To shade by means of crosshatching.
crosshatching		In drawing and line engraving, shading with lines that cross one another at an angle.
crosshead		A beam or bar across the head or end of a rod, etc., or a block attached to it and carrying a knuckle pin; as the solid crosspiece running between parallel slides…
crossing		The act by which anything is crossed; as, the crossing of the ocean.
crossjack		The lowest square sail, or the lower yard of the mizzenmast.
crosslegged		Having the legs crossed.
crosslet		A small cross.
crossly		Athwart; adversely; unfortunately; peevishly; fretfully; with ill humor.
crossness		The quality or state of being cross; peevishness; fretfulness; ill humor.
crossopterygian		Of or pertaining to the Crossopterygii. -- n.
crossopterygii		An order of ganoid fishes including among living species the bichir (Polypterus).
crosspatch	Colloquial	An ill-natured person.
crosspiece		A piece of any structure which is fitted or framed crosswise.
crossroad		A road that crosses another; an obscure road intersecting or avoiding the main road.
crossrow		The alphabet; -- called also Christcross-row.
crossruff		The play in whist where partners trump each a different suit, and lead to each other for that purpose; -- called also seesaw.
crosstrees		Pieces of timber at a masthead, to which are attached the upper shrouds.
crossway		See Crossroad — a road that crosses another; an obscure road intersecting or avoiding the main road.
crosswise		In the form of a cross; across; transversely.
crosswort		A name given to several inconspicuous plants having leaves in whorls of four, as species of Crucianella, Valantia, etc.
crotalaria		A genus of leguminous plants; rattlebox.
crotaline		Resembling, or pertaining to, the Crotalidae, or Rattlesnake family.
crotalo		A Turkish musical instrument.
crotalum		A kind of castanet used by the Corybantes.
crotalus		A genus of poisonous serpents, including the rattlesnakes.
crotaphite		The temple or temporal fossa.
crotaphitic		Pertaining to the temple; temporal.
crotch		The angle formed by the parting of two legs or branches; a fork; the point where a trunk divides; as, the crotch of a tree.
crotched		Having a crotch; forked.
crotchet		A forked support; a crotch.
crotcheted		Marked or measured by crotchets; having musical notation.
crotchetiness		The state or character of being crotchety, or whimsical.
crotchety		Given to crotchets; subject to whims; as, a crotchety man.
croton		A genus of euphorbiaceous plants belonging to tropical countries.
crotonic		Of or pertaining to, or derived from, a plant of the genus Croton, or from croton oil.
crotonine		A supposed alkaloid obtained from croton oil by boiling it with water and magnesia, since found to be merely a magnesia soap of the oil.
crotonylene		A colorless, volatile, pungent liquid, C4H6, produced artificially, and regarded as an unsaturated hydrocarbon of the acetylene series, and analogous to crotonic acid.
crottles	Scots	A name given to various lichens gathered for dyeing.
crouch		To bend down; to stoop low; to lie close to the ground with the logs bent, as an animal when waiting for prey, or in fear.
crouched	Obsolete	Marked with the sign of the cross.
croud		See Crowd, a violin.
crouke	Obsolete	A crock; a jar.
croup		The hinder part or buttocks of certain quadrupeds, especially of a horse; hence, the place behind the saddle.
croupade		A leap in which the horse pulls up his hind legs toward his belly.
crouper		See Crupper — a leather loop, passing under a horse's tail, and buckled to the saddle to keep it from slipping forwards.
croupier		One who presides at a gaming table and collects the stakes.
croupous		Relating to or resembling croup; especially, attended with the formation of a deposit or membrance like that found in membranous croup; as, croupous laryngitis.
croupy		Of or pertaining to croup; resembling or indicating croup; as, a croupy cough.
crouse	Scots	Brisk; lively; bold; self-complacent.
croustade		Bread baked in a mold, and scooped out, to serve minces upon.
crout		See Sourkrout — same as Sauerkraut.
crouton		Bread cut in various forms, and fried lightly in butter or oil, to garnish hashes, etc.
crow		To make the shrill sound characteristic of a cock, either in joy, gayety, or defiance.
crow-quill		A quill of the crow, or a very fine pen made from such a quill.
crow-silk		A filamentous fresh-water alga (Conferva rivularis of Linnaeus, Rhizoclonium rivulare of Kutzing).
crow-trodden	Poetic	Marked with crow's-feet, or wrinkles, about the eyes.
crowbar		A bar of iron sharpened at one end, and used as a lever.
crowberry		A heathlike plant of the genus Empetrum, and its fruit, a black, scarcely edible berry; -- also called crakeberry.
crowd		To press or drive together; to mass together.
crowder	Obsolete	One who plays on a crowd; a fiddler.
crowdy	Scots	A thick gruel of oatmeal and milk or water; food of the porridge kind.
crowflower		A kind of campion; according to Gerarde, the Lychnis Flos- cuculi.
crowfoot		(Bot.) The genus Ranunculus, of many species; some are common weeds, others are flowering plants of considerable beauty.
crowkeeper	Obsolete	A person employed to scare off crows; hence, a scarecrow.
crown		A wreath or garland, or any ornamental fillet encircling the head, especially as a reward of victory or mark of honorable distinction; hence, anything given on account of, or obtained by, faithful or successful effort; a reward.
crown-imperial		A spring-blooming plant (Fritillaria imperialis) of the Lily family, having at the top of the stalk a cluster of pendent bell- shaped flowers surmounted with a tuft of green leaves.
crown-post		Same as King-post.
crown-saw		A saw in the form of a hollow cylinder, with teeth on the end or edge, and operated by a rotative motion.
crowned		Having or wearing a crown; surmounted, invested, or adorned, with a crown, wreath, garland, etc.; honored; rewarded; completed; consummated; perfected.
crowner		One who, or that which, crowns.
crownet	Obsolete	The ultimate end and result of an undertaking; a chief end.
crownland		In Austria-Hungary, one of the provinces, or largest administrative divisions of the monarchy; as, the crownland of Lower Austria.
crownless		Without a crown.
crownlet	Poetic	A coronet.
crownpiece		(a) A piece or part which passes over the head, as in a bridle. (b) A coin See Crown, 19.
crownwork		A work consisting of two or more bastioned fronts, with their outworks, covering an enceinte, a bridgehead, etc., and connected by wings with the main work or the river bank.
crows		A tribe of Indians of the Dakota stock, living in Montana; -- also called Upsarokas.
crowstep		See Corriestep.
crowstone		The top stone of the gable end of a house.
crowth		An ancient musical instrument. See 4th Crowd.
crowtoe		The Lotus corniculatus.
croydon		A kind of carriage like a gig, orig. of wicker-work.
croylstone		Crystallized cawk, in which the crystals are small.
croys	Obsolete	See Cross, n.
croze		A cooper's tool for making the grooves for the heads of casks, etc.; also, the groove itself.
crozier		See Crosier — the pastoral staff of a bishop (also of an archbishop, being the symbol of his office as a shepherd of the flock of God.
croziered		Crosiered.
crucial		Having the form of a cross; appertaining to a cross; cruciform; intersecting; as, crucial ligaments; a crucial incision.
cruciate	Obsolete	(Bot.) Having the leaves or petals arranged in the form of a cross; cruciform.
cruciation	Obsolete	The act of torturing; torture; torment.
crucible		A vessel or melting pot, composed of some very refractory substance, as clay, graphite, platinum, and used for melting and calcining substances which require a strong degree of heat, as metals, ores, etc.
crucifer		Any plant of the order Cruciferæ.
cruciferous		(Bot.) Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a family of plants which have four petals arranged like the arms of a cross, as the mustard, radish, turnip, etc.
crucifier		One who crucifies; one who subjects himself or another to a painful trial.
crucifix		A representation in art of the figure of Christ upon the cross; esp., the sculptured figure affixed to a real cross of wood, ivory, metal, or the like, used by the Roman Catholics in their devotions.
crucifixion		The act of nailing or fastening a person to a cross, for the purpose of putting him to death; the use of the cross as a method of capital punishment.
cruciform		Cross-shaped; (Bot.) having four parts arranged in the form of a cross.
crucify		To fasten to a cross; to put to death by nailing the hands and feet to a cross or gibbet.
crucigerous		Bearing the cross; marked with the figure of a cross.
crud	Obsolete	See Curd — the coagulated or thickened part of milk, as distingushed from the whey, or watery part.
cruddle	Obsolete	To curdle. See how thy blood cruddles at this.
crude		In its natural state; not cooked or prepared by fire or heat; undressed; not altered, refined, or prepared for use by any artificial process; raw; as, crude flesh.
crudely		In a crude, immature manner.
crudeness		A crude, undigested, or unprepared state; rawness; unripeness; immatureness; unfitness for a destined use or purpose; as, the crudeness of iron ore; crudeness of theories or plans.
crudity		The condition of being crude; rawness.
crudle		See Cruddle — to curdle. See how thy blood cruddles at this.
crudy	Obsolete	Coagulated.
cruel		See Crewel — worsted yarn,, slackly twisted, used for embroidery.
cruelly		In a cruel manner.
cruelness	Obsolete	Cruelty.
cruels		Glandular scrofulous swellings in the neck.
cruelty		The attribute or quality of being cruel; a disposition to give unnecessary pain or suffering to others; inhumanity; barbarity.
cruentate	Obsolete	Smeared with blood.
cruentous	Obsolete	Bloody; cruentate.
cruet		A bottle or vessel; esp., aviai or small glass bottle for holding vinegar, oil, pepper, or the like, for the table; a caster.
cruise		See Cruse, a small bottle.
cruiser		One who, or a vessel that, cruises; -- usually an armed vessel.
cruive	Scots	A kind of weir or dam for trapping salmon; also, a hovel.
crull	Obsolete	Curly; curled.
cruller		A kind of sweet cake cut in strips and curled or twisted, and fried crisp in boiling fat.
crumb		A small fragment or piece; especially, a small piece of bread or other food, broken or cut off.
crumbcloth		A cloth to be laid under a dining table to receive falling fragments, and keep the carpet or floor clean.
crumble		To break into small pieces; to cause to fall in pieces.
crumbly		EAsily crumbled; friable; brittle.
crumenal	Obsolete	A purse.
crummable		Capable of being crumbed or broken into small pieces.
crummy		Soft, as the crumb of bread is; not crusty.
crump	English dialect	Hard or crusty; dry baked; as, a crump loaf.
crumpet		A kind of large. thin muffin or cake, light and spongy, and cooked on a griddle or spider.
crumple		To draw or press into wrinkles or folds to crush together; to rumple; as, to crumple paper.
crumpy		Brittle; crisp.
crunch		To chew with force and noise; to craunch.
crunk	Obsolete	To cry like a crane.
crunkle	Obsolete	To cry like a crane.
crunodal		Possessing, or characterized by, a crunode; -- used of curves.
crunode		A point where one branch of a curve crosses another branch. See Double point, under Double, a.
cruor		The coloring matter of the blood; the clotted portion of coagulated blood, containing the coloring matter; gore.
cruorin		The coloring matter of the blood in the living animal; hæmoglobin.
crup		Short; brittle; as, crup cake.
crupper		A leather loop, passing under a horse's tail, and buckled to the saddle to keep it from slipping forwards.
crura		See Crus — (a) That part of the hind limb between the femur, or thigh, and the ankle, or tarsus; the shank.
crural		Of or pertaining to the thigh or leg, or to any of the parts called crura; as, the crural arteries; crural arch; crural canal; crural ring.
crus		(a) That part of the hind limb between the femur, or thigh, and the ankle, or tarsus; the shank.
crusade		Any one of the military expeditions undertaken by Christian powers, in the 11th, 12th, and 13th centuries, for the recovery of the Holy Land from the Mohammedans.
crusader		One engaged in a crusade; as, the crusaders of the Middle Ages.
crusading		Of or pertaining to a crusade; as, a crusading spirit.
crusado		An old Portuguese coin, worth about seventy cents.
cruse		A bottle for holding water, oil, honey, etc. So David took … the cruse of water. 1 Sam. xxvi. 12.
cruset		A goldsmith's crucible or melting pot.
crush		To press or bruise between two hard bodies; to squeeze, so as to destroy the natural shape or integrity of the parts, or to force together into a mass; as, to crush grapes.
crusher		One who, or that which, crushes.
crushing		That crushes; overwhelming.
crust		The hard external coat or covering of anything; the hard exterior surface or outer shell; an incrustation; as, a crust of snow.
crusta		A gem engraved, or a plate embossed in low relief, for inlaying a vase or other object.
crustacea		One of the classes of the arthropods, including lobsters and crabs; -- so called from the crustlike shell with which they are covered.
crustacean		Of or pertaining to the Crustacea; crustaceous. -- n.
crustaceological		Pertaining to crustaceology.
crustaceologist		One versed in crustaceology; a crustalogist.
crustaceology		That branch of Zoölogy which treats of the Crustacea; malacostracology; carcinology.
crustaceous		Pertaining to, or of the nature of, crust or shell; having a crustlike shell.
crustaceousness		The state or quality of being crustaceous or having a crustlike shell.
crustal		Relating to a crust.
crustalogical		Pertaining to crustalogy.
crustalogist		One versed in crustalogy.
crustalogy		Crustaceology.
crustated		Covered with a crust; as, crustated basalt.
crustation		An adherent crust; an incrustation.
crusted		Incrusted; covered with, or containing, crust; as, old, crusted port wine.
crustific		Producing or forming a crust or skin.
crustily		In a crusty or surly manner; morosely.
crustiness		The state or quality of having crust or being like crust; hardness.
crusty		Having the nature of crust; pertaining to a hard covering; as, a crusty coat; a crusty surface or substance.
crut		The rough, shaggy part of oak bark.
crutch		A staff with a crosspiece at the head, to be placed under the arm or shoulder, to support the lame or infirm in walking.
crutched		Supported upon crutches.
cruth		See 4th Crowd.
crux		Anything that is very puzzling or difficult to explain.
cruzado		A coin. See Crusado.
crwth		See 4th Crowd.
cry		To make a loud call or cry; to call or exclaim vehemently or earnestly; to shout; to vociferate; to proclaim; to pray; to implore.
cryal	Obsolete	The heron Ainsworth.
cryer		The female of the hawk; a falcon-gentil.
crying		Calling for notice; compelling attention; notorious; heinous; as, a crying evil.
cryohydrate		A substance, as salt, ammonium chloride, etc., which crystallizes with water of crystallization only at low temperatures, or below the freezing point of water.
cryolite		A fluoride of sodium and aluminum, found in Greenland, in white cleavable masses; -- used as a source of soda and alumina.
cryometer		A thermometer for the measurement of low temperatures, esp. such an instrument containing alcohol or some other liquid of a lower freezing point than mercury.
cryophorus		An instrument used to illustrate the freezing of water by its own evaporation.
crypt		A vault wholly or partly under ground; especially, a vault under a church, whether used for burial purposes or for a subterranean chapel or oratory.
cryptal		Of or pertaining to crypts.
cryptic		Hidden; secret; occult.
cryptical		Hidden; secret; occult.
cryptically		Secretly; occultly.
cryptidine		One of the quinoline bases, obtained from coal tar as an oily liquid, C11H11N; also, any one of several substances metameric with, and resembling, cryptidine proper.
cryptobranchiata		(a) A division of the Amphibia; the Derotremata. (b) A group of nudibranch mollusks.
cryptobranchiate		Having concealed or rudimentary gills.
cryptocrystalline		Indistinctly crystalline; -- applied to rocks and minerals, whose state of aggregation is so fine that no distinct particles are visible, even under the microscope.
cryptogam		A plant belonging to the Cryptogamia.
cryptogamia		The series or division of flowerless plants, or those never having true stamens and pistils, but propagated by spores of various kinds.
cryptogamian		Of or pertaining to the series Cryptogamia, or to plants of that series.
cryptogamic		Of or pertaining to the series Cryptogamia, or to plants of that series.
cryptogamist		One skilled in cryptogamic botany.
cryptogamous		Of or pertaining to the series Cryptogamia, or to plants of that series.
cryptogram		A cipher writing.
cryptograph		Cipher; something written in cipher.
cryptographal		Pertaining to cryptography; cryptographical.
cryptographer		One who writes in cipher, or secret characters.
cryptographic		Relating to cryptography; written in secret characters or in cipher, or with sympathetic ink.
cryptographical		Relating to cryptography; written in secret characters or in cipher, or with sympathetic ink.
cryptographist		Same as Cryptographer.
cryptography		The act or art of writing in secret characters; also, secret characters, or cipher.
cryptology		Secret or enigmatical language.
cryptonym		A secret name; a name by which a person is known only to the initiated.
cryptopine		A colorless crystalline alkaloid obtained in small quantities from opium.
crypturi		An order of flying, dromTinamou.
crystal		(Chem. & Min.) The regular form which a substance tends to assume in solidifying, through the inherent power of cohesive attraction.
crystallin		See Gobulin.
crystalline		Formed by crystallization; like crystal in texture.
crystallite		A minute mineral form like those common in glassy volcanic rocks and some slags, not having a definite crystalline outline and not referable to any mineral species, but marking the first step in the crystallization process.
crystallizable		Capable of being crystallized; that may be formed into crystals.
crystallization		(Chem. & Min.) The act or process by which a substance in solidifying assumes the form and sructure of a crystal, or becomes crystallized.
crystallize		To cause to form crystals, or to assume the crystalline form.
crystallogenic		Pertaining to the production of crystals; crystal-producing; as, crystallogenic attraction.
crystallogenical		Pertaining to the production of crystals; crystal-producing; as, crystallogenic attraction.
crystallogeny		The science which pertains to the production of crystals.
crystallographer		One who describes crystals, or the manner of their formation; one versed in crystallography.
crystallographic		Pertaining to crystallography.
crystallographical		Pertaining to crystallography.
crystallographically		In the manner of crystallography.
crystallography		The doctrine or science of crystallization, teaching the system of forms among crystals, their structure, and their methods of formation.
crystalloid		Crystal-like; transparent like crystal.
crystallology		The science of the crystalline structure of inorganic bodies.
crystallomancy		Divination by means of a crystal or other transparent body, especially a beryl.
crystallometry		The art of measuring crystals.
crystallurgy		Crystallizaton.
