cub		A young animal, esp. the young of the bear.	
cuban		Of or pertaining to Cuba or its inhabitants. -- n.	
cubation	Obsolete	The act of lying down; a reclining.	Latin cubatio.
cubatory		Lying down; recumbent.	
cubature		The process of determining the solid or cubic contents of a body.	
cubbridge-head		A bulkhead on the forecastle and half deck of a ship.	
cubby		A snug or confined place.	
cubbyhole		A snug or confined place.	
cubdrawn		Sucked by cubs.	
cube		(Geom.) A regular solid body, with six equal square sides.	Old French cube, from Latin cubus, from Greek κύβος.
cubeb		The small, spicy berry of a species of pepper (Piper Cubeba; in med., Cubeba officinalis), native in Java and Borneo, but now cultivated in various tropical countries.	French cubèbe, from Arabic كبابه.
cubebic		Pertaining to, or derived from, cubebs; as, cubebic acid (a soft olive-green resin extracted from cubebs).	
cubhood		The state of being a cub.	
cubic		Having the form or properties of a cube; contained, or capable of being contained, in a cube.	
cubical		Having the form or properties of a cube; contained, or capable of being contained, in a cube.	
cubically		In a cubical method.	
cubicalness		The quality of being cubical.	
cubicle		A loding room; esp., a sleeping place partitioned off from a large dormitory.	Latin cubiculum.
cubicular	Obsolete	Belonging to a chamber or bedroom.	Latin cubicularis.
cubiform		Of the form of a cube.	
cubile		The lowest course of stones in a building.	
cubilose		A mucilagenous secretion of certain birds found as the characteristic ingredient of edible bird's-nests.	
cubism		A movement or phase in post-impressionism (which see, below). - - Cu"bist (#), n.	French cubisme.
cubit		A measure of length, being the distance from the elbow to the extremity of the middle finger.	Latin cubitum.
cubital		Of or pertaining to the cubit or ulna; as, the cubital nerve; the cubital artery; the cubital muscle.	
cubited		Having the measure of a cubit.	
cubless		Having no cubs.	
cubo-octahedral		Presenting a combination of a cube and an octahedron.	
cubo-octahedron		A combination of a cube and octahedron, esp. one in which the octahedral faces meet at the middle of the cubic edges.	
cuboid		Cube-shaped, or nearly so; as, the cuboid bone of the foot. -- n. (Anat.) The bone of the tarsus, which, in man and most mammals, supports the metatarsals of the fourth and fifth toes.	
cuca		See Coca — the dried leaf of a South American shrub (Erythroxylon Coca).	
cuckold		A man whose wife is unfaithful; the husband of an adulteress.	
cuckoldize		To cuckold.	
cuckoldly		Having the qualities of a cuckold; mean-spirited; sneaking.	
cuckoldom		The state of a cuckold; cuckolds, collectively.	
cuckoldry		The state of being a cuckold; the practice of making cuckolds.	
cuckoo		A bird belonging to Cuculus, Coccyzus, and several allied genera, of many species.	
cuckoobud		A species of Ranunculus (R. bulbosus); -- called also butterflower, buttercup, kingcup, goldcup.	
cuckooflower		A species of Cardamine (C. pratensis), or lady's smock.	
cuckoopint		A plant of the genus Arum (A. maculatum); the European wake- robin.	
cucquean	Obsolete	A woman whose husband is unfaithful to her.	
cucujo		The fire beetle of Mexico and the West Indies.	
cucullate		Hooded; cowled; covered, as with a hood.	
cucullated		Hooded; cowled; covered, as with a hood.	Latin cucullatus.
cucullus		(Bot.) A hood-shaped organ, resembling a cowl or monk's hood, as certain concave and arched sepals or petals.	
cuculoid		Like or belonging to the cuckoos (Cuculidæ).	
cucumber		A creeping plant, and its fruit, of several species of the genus Cucumis, esp. Cucumis sativus, the unripe fruit of which is eaten either fresh or picked.	Latin cucumis.
cucumiform		Having the form of a cucumber; having the form of a cylinder tapered and rounded at the ends, and either straight or curved.	
cucumis		A genus of plants including the cucumber, melon, and same kinds of gourds.	
cucurbit		A vessel of flask for distillation, used with, or forming part of, an alembic; a matrass; -- originally in the shape of a gourd, with a wide mouth.	French cucurbite, from Latin cucurbita.
cucurbitaceous		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a family of plants of which the cucumber, melon, and gourd are common examples.	Latin cucurbita.
cucurbite		A vessel of flask for distillation, used with, or forming part of, an alembic; a matrass; -- originally in the shape of a gourd, with a wide mouth.	
cucurbitive		Having the shape of a gourd seed; -- said of certain small worms.	
cud		That portion of food which is brought up into the mouth by ruminating animals from their first stomach, to be cheved a second time.	
cudbear		A powder of a violet red color, difficult to moisten with water, used for making violet or purple dye.	
cudden	Obsolete	A clown; a low rustic; a dolt.	
cuddle		To She cuddles low beneath the brake; Nor would she stay, nor dares she fly.	
cuddy	Scots	An ass; esp., one driven by a huckster or greengrocer.	
cudgel		A staff used in cudgel play, shorter than the quarterstaff, and wielded with one hand; hence, any heavy stick used as a weapon.	Middle English kuggel, from Old English cycgel.
cudgeler		One who beats with a cudgel.	
cudweed		A small composite plant with cottony or silky stem and leaves, primarily a species of Gnaphalium, but the name is now given to many plants of different genera, as Filago, Antennaria, etc.; cottonweed.	
cue		The tail; the end of a thing; especially, a tail-like twist of hair worn at the back of the head; a queue.	
cuerpo		The body.	
cuesta		A sloping plain, esp. one with the upper end at the crest of a cliff; a hill or ridge with one face steep and the opposite face gently sloping.	
cuff		To strike; esp., to smite with the palm or flat of the hand; to slap.	Middle English cuffe.
cuffy	Slang	A name for a negro.	
cufic		Of or pertaining to the older characters of the Arabic language.	
cuinage		The stamping of pigs of tin, by the proper officer, with the arms of the duchy of Cornwall.	
cuirass		(a) A piece of defensive armor, covering the body from the neck to the girdle.	Old French cuirace.
cuirassed		(Zoöl) Having a covering of bony plates, resembling a cuirass;- said of certain fishes.	
cuirassier		A soldier armed with a cuirass.	
cuish		Defensive armor for the thighs.	
cuisine		The kitchen or cooking department.	
cul-de-sac		A passage with only one outlet, as a street closed at one end; a blind alley; hence, a trap.	French cul-de-sac.
culasse		The lower faceted portion of a brilliant-cut diamond.	
culdee		One of a class of anchorites who lived in various parts of Scotland, Ireland, and Wales.	
culerage		See Culrage — smartweed (Polygonum Hydropiper).	
culex		A genus of dipterous insects, including the gnat and mosquito.	
culicid		Like or pertaining to the Mosquito family (Culicidæ). -- n.	
culiciform		Gnat-shaped.	
culinarily		In the manner of a kitchen; in connection with a kitchen or cooking.	
culinary		Relating to the kitchen, or to the art of cookery; used in kitchens; as, a culinary vessel; the culinary art.	
cull		To separate, select, or pick out; to choose and gather or collect; as, to cuil flowers.	Old French cuillir, from Latin colligo.
cullender		A strainer. See Colander.	
culler		One who piks or chooses; esp., an inspector who select wares suitable for market.	
cullet		Broken glass for remelting.	
cullibility		Gullibility.	
cullible		Easily deceived; gullible.	
culling		The act of one who culls.	
cullion		A mean wretch; a base fellow; a poltroon; a scullion.	Middle English coillon, from Old French couillon, from Latin coleus.
cullionly		Mean; base.	
cullis	Obsolete	A strong broth of meat, strained and made clear for invalids; also, a savory jelly.	
culls		Refuse timber, from which the best part has been culled out.	
cully		A person easily deceived, tricked, or imposed on; a mean dupe; a gull.	
cullyism		The state of being a cully.	
culm		The stalk or stem of grain and grasses (including the bamboo), jointed and usually hollow.	
culmen		Top; summit; acme.	
culmiferous		Having jointed stems or culms.	
culminal		Pertaining to a culmen.	
culminant		Being vertical, or at the highest point of altitude; hence, predominant.	
culminate		To reach its highest point of altitude; to come to the meridian; to be vertical or directly overhead.	
culmination		The attainment of the highest point of altitude reached by a heavently body; passage across the meridian; transit.	
culpa		Negligence or fault, as distinguishable from dolus (deceit, fraud), which implies intent, culpa being imputable to defect of intellect, dolus to defect of heart.	
culpability		The state of being culpable.	
culpable		Deserving censure; worthy of blame; faulty; immoral; criminal.	Middle English culpable, from Old French culpable, from Latin culpabilis.
culpatory		Expressing blame; censuring; reprehensory; inculpating.	
culpe	Obsolete	Blameworthiness.	French coulpe.
culpon	Obsolete	A shered; a fragment; a strip of wood.	
culprit		One accused of, or ar An author is in the condition of a culprit; the public are his judges.	Latin culpa.
culrage		Smartweed (Polygonum Hydropiper).	
cult		Attentive care; homage; worship.	French culte, from Latin cultus.
cultch		Empty oyster shells and other substances laid down on oyster grounds to furnish points for the attachment of the spawn of the oyster.	
culter		A colter. See Colter.	
cultirostral		Having a bill shaped like the colter of a plow, or like a knife, as the heron, stork, etc.	
cultirostres		A tribe of wading birds including the stork, heron, crane, etc.	
cultivable		Capable of being cultivated or tilled.	
cultivatable		Cultivable.	
cultivate		To bestow attention, care, and labor upon, with a view to valuable returns; to till; to fertilize; as, to cultivate soil.	Latin cultivatus.
cultivation		The art or act of cultivating; improvement for agricultural purposes or by agricultural processes; tillage; production by tillage.	
cultivator		One who cultivates; as, a cultivator of the soil; a cultivator of literature.	
cultrate		Sharp-edged and pointed; shaped like a pruning knife, as the beak of certain birds.	
cultrated		Sharp-edged and pointed; shaped like a pruning knife, as the beak of certain birds.	
cultriform		Shaped like a pruning knife; cultrate.	Latin culter.
cultrivorous		Devouring knives; swallowing, or pretending to swallow, knives; -- applied to persons who have swallowed, or have seemed to swallow, knives with impunity.	
culturable		Capable of, or fit for, being cultivated; capable or becoming cultured.	
cultural		Of or pertaining to culture.	
culture		The act or practice of cultivating, or of preparing the earth for seed and raising crops by tillage; as, the culture of the soil.	Latin cultura.
cultured		Under culture; cultivated.	
cultureless		Having no culture.	
culturist		A cultivator.	
cultus		Established or accepted religious rites or usages of worship; state of religious development.	
culverhouse		A dovecote.	
culverin		A long cannon of the 16th century, usually an 18-pounder with serpent-shaped handles.	Old French coulevrine.
culverkey		A bunch of the keys or samaras of the ash tree.	
culvert		A transverse drain or waterway of masonry under a road, railroad, canal, etc.; a small bridge.	
culvertail		Dovetail.	
culvertailed		United or fastened by a dovetailed joint.	
cumacea		An order of marine Crustacea, mostly of small size.	
cumbent		Lying down; recumbent.	
cumber	Obsolete	To rest upon as a troublesome or useless weight or load; to be burdensome or oppressive to; to hinder or embarrass in attaining an object, to obstruct or occupy uselessly; to embarrass; to trouble.	
cumbersome		Burdensome or hindering, as a weight or drag; embarrassing; vexatious; cumbrous.	
cumbrance	Obsolete	Encumbrance.	
cumbrian		Pertaining to Cumberland, England, or to a system of rocks found there.	
cumbrous		Rendering action or motion difficult or toilsome; serving to obstruct or hinder; burdensome; clogging.	
cumene		A colorless oily hydrocarbon, C6H5.C3H7, obtained by the distillation of cuminic acid; -- called also cumol.	
cumfrey		See Comfrey — a rough, hairy, perennial plant of several species, of the genus Symphytum.	
cumic		See Cuming.	
cumidine		A strong, liquid, organic base, C3H7.C6H4.NH2, homologous with aniline.	
cumin		A dwarf umbelliferous plant, somewhat resembling fennel (Cuminum Cyminum), cultivated for its seeds, which have a bitterish, warm taste, with an aromatic flavor, and are used like those of anise and caraway.	Old English cymen, from Latin cuminum, from Greek κύμινον.
cuminic		Pertaining to, or derived from, cumin, or from oil of caraway; as, cuminic acid.	
cuminil		A substance, analogous to benzil, obtained from oil of caraway.	
cuminol		A liquid, C3H7.C6H4.CHO, obtained from oil of caraway; -- called also cuminic aldehyde.	
cummerbund		A sash for the waist; a girdle.	
cummin		Same as Cumin.	
cumquat		See Kumquat — a small tree of the genus Citrus (C.	
cumshaw		A present or bonus; -- originally applied to that paid on ships which entered the port of Canton.	
cumu-cirro-stratus		Nimbus, or rain cloud. See Nimbus, and Cloud.	
cumulate		To gather or throw into a heap; to heap together; to accumulate.	Latin cumulatus.
cumulation		The act of heaping together; a heap. See Accumulation.	
cumulatist		One who accumulates; one who collects.	
cumulative		Composed of parts in a heap; forming a mass; agregated.	
cumulose		Full of heaps.	
cumulostratus		A form of cloud. See Cloud.	
cumulus		One of the four principal forms of clouds.	
cun	Obsolete	To con (a ship).	
cunabula		The earliest abode; original dwelling place; originals; as, the cunabula of the human race.	Latin cunabula.
cunctation		Delay; procrastination.	Latin cunctatio.
cunctative		Slow; tardy; dilatory; causing delay.	Latin cunctari.
cunctator		One who delays or lingers.	
cunctipotent		All-powerful; omnipotent.	
cund	Obsolete	To con (a ship).	
cundurango		The bark of a South American vine (Gonolobus Condurango) of the Milkweed family.	
cuneal		Relating to a wedge; wedge-shaped.	
cuneate		Wedge-shaped; (Bot.), wedge-shaped, with the point at the base; as, a cuneate leaf.	
cuneated		Wedge-shaped; (Bot.), wedge-shaped, with the point at the base; as, a cuneate leaf.	
cuneatic		Cuneiform.	
cuneiform		Wedge-shaped; as, a cuneiform bone; -- especially applied to the wedge-shaped or arrowheaded characters of ancient Persian and Assyrian inscriptions.	
cunette		A drain trench, in a ditch or moat; -- called also cuvette.	French cunette, from Italian cunetta.
cuniform		Wedge-shaped; as, a cuneiform bone; -- especially applied to the wedge-shaped or arrowheaded characters of ancient Persian and Assyrian inscriptions.	
cunner		(a) A small edible fish of the Atlantic coast (Ctenolabrus adspersus); -- called also chogset, burgall, blue perch, and bait stealer.	
cunning		Knowing; skillfull; dexterous. xxxviii. 23.	Middle English cunning.
cunningly		In a cunning manner; with cunning.	
cunningman	Obsolete	A fortune teller; one who pretends to reveal mysteries.	
cunningness		Quality of being cunning; craft.	
cup		A small vessel, used commonly to drink from; as, a tin cup, a silver cup, a wine cup; especially, in modern times, the pottery or porcelain vessel, commonly with a handle, used with a saucer in drinking tea, coffee, and the like.	Old English cuppe, from Latin cuppa.
cup-gall		A kind of oak-leaf gall. See Gall.	
cup-moss		A kind of lichen, of the genus Cladonia.	
cup-rose		Red poppy. See Cop-rose.	
cupbearer		One whose office it is to fill and hand the cups at an enterainment.	
cupboard	Colloquial	A small closet in a room, with shelves to receive cups, dishes, food, etc.; hence, any small closet.	Middle English cuppebord.
cupel		A shallow porus cup, used in refining precious metals, commonly made of bone ashes (phosphate of lime).	French coupelle.
cupellation		The act or process of refining gold or silver, etc., in a cupel.	
cupful		As much as a cup will hold.	
cupid		The god of love, son of Venus; usually represented as a naked, winged boy with bow and arrow.	
cupidity		Eager or inordinate desire, especially for wealth; greed of gain; avarice; covetousness.	French cupidité, from Latin cupiditas.
cupola		(Arch.) A roof having a rounded form, hemispherical or nearly so; also, a celing having the same form.	Italian cupola.
cupper		One who performs the operation of cupping.	
cupping		The operation of drawing blood to or from the surface of the person by forming a partial vacuum over the spot.	
cuppy		Hollow; cuplike; also, full of cups, or small depressions.	
cupreous		Consisting of copper or resembling copper; coppery.	Latin cupreus.
cupric		Of, pertaining to, or derived from, copper; containing copper; -- said of those compounds of copper in which this element is present in its lowest proportion.	
cupriferous		Containing copper; as, cupriferous silver.	
cuprite		The red oxide of copper; red copper; an important ore of copper, occurring massive and in isometric crystals.	
cuproid		(Crystalloq.) A solid related to a tetrahedron, and contained under twelve equal triangles.	
cuprous		Of, pertaining to, or derived from, copper; containing copper; -- said of those compounds of copper in which this element is present in its highest proportion.	
cupulate		Having or bearing cupeles; cupuliferous.	
cupule		(Bot.) A cuplet or little cup, as the acorn; the husk or bur of the filbert, chestnut, etc.	
cupuliferous		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the family of plants ot which the oak and the chestnut are examples, -- trees bearing a smooth, solid nut inclosed in some kind of cup or bur; bearing, or furnished with, a cupule.	
cur		A mongrel or inferior dog.	Middle English curre.
curability		The state of being curable; curableness.	
curable		Capable of being cured; admitting remedy. -- Cur"a*ble*ness, n. -- Cur`a*bly, adv.	
curacao		A liqueur, or cordial, flavored with orange peel, cinnamon, and mace; -- first made at the island of Curaçcao.	
curacoa		A liqueur, or cordial, flavored with orange peel, cinnamon, and mace; -- first made at the island of Curaçcao.	
curacy		The office or employment of a curate.	
curare		A black resinoid extract prepared by the South American Indians from the bark of several species of Strychnos (S. toxifera, etc.).	
curari		A black resinoid extract prepared by the South American Indians from the bark of several species of Strychnos (S. toxifera, etc.).	
curarine		A deadly alkaloid extracted from the curare poison and from the Strychnos toxifera.	
curarize		To poison with curare.	
curassow		A large gallinaceous bird of the American genera Crax, Ourax, etc., of the family Cracidæ.	
curat	Obsolete	A cuirass or breastplate.	
curate		One who has the cure souls; originally, any clergyman, but now usually limited to one who assist a rector or vicar Hook.	Latin curatus.
curateship		A curacy.	
curation	Obsolete	Cure; healing.	
curative		Relating to, or employed in, the cure of diseases; tending to cure.	
curator		One who has the care and superintendence of anything, as of a museum; a custodian; a keeper.	Latin curator.
curatorship		The office of a curator.	
curatrix		A woman who cures.	Latin curatrix.
curb		To guide and manage, or restrain, as with a curb; to bend to one's will; to subject; to subdue; to restrain; to confine; to keep in check.	Middle French courbe, from Latin curvus.
curbless		Having no curb or restraint.	
curbstone		A stone Curbstone broker.See under Broker.	
curch		See Courche — a square piece of linen used formerly by women instead of a cap; a kerchief.	
curculio		One of a large group of beetles (Rhynchophora) of many genera; -- called also weevils, snout beetles, billbeetles, and billbugs.	
curculionidous		Pertaining to the Curculionideæ, or weevil tribe.	
curcuma		A genus of plants of the order Scitamineæ, including the turmeric plant (Curcuma longa).	
curcumin		The coloring principle of turmeric, or curcuma root, extracted as an orange yellow crystalline substance, C14H14O4, with a green fluorescence.	Latin Curcuma, from Arabic كركم.
curd		The coagulated or thickened part of milk, as distingushed from the whey, or watery part.	
curdiness		The state of being curdy.	
curdle		To change into curd; to coagulate; as, rennet causes milk to curdle.	
curdless		Destitute of curd.	
curdy		Like curd; full of curd; coagulated.	
cure		Spiritual charge; care of soul; the office of a parish priest or of a curate; hence, that which is committed to the charge of a parish priest or of a curate; a curacy; as, to resign a cure; to obtain a cure.	
cureall		A remedy for all diseases, o	
cureless		Incapable of cure; incurable.	
curer		One who cures; a healer; a physician.	
curette		A scoop or ring with either a blunt or a cutting edge, for removing substances from the walls of a cavity, as from the eye, ear, or womb.	
curfew		The ringing of an evening bell, originally a signal to the inhabitants to cover fires, extinguish lights, and retire to rest, -- instituted by William the Conqueror; also, the bell itself.	
curia		(Middle Ages) The court of a sovereign or of a feudal lord; also; his residence or his household.	
curial		Of or pertaining to the papal curia; as, the curial etiquette of the Vatican. -- n.	French curial, from Latin curialis.
curialism		The wiew or doctrins of the ultramontane party in the Latin Church.	
curialist		One who belongs to the ultramontane party in the Latin Church.	
curialistic		Relating or belonging to the ultramonate party in the Latin Church.	
curiality	Obsolete	The privileges, prerogatives, or retinue of a court.	
curiet	Obsolete	A cuirass.	
curing		p. a. & vb. n. of Cure.	
curio		Any curiosity or article of virtu.	
curiologic		Pertaining to a rude kind of hieroglyphics, in which a thing is represented by its picture instead of by a symbol.	
curiosity		Disposition to inquire, investigate, or seek after knowledge; a desire to gratify the mind with new information or objects of interest; inquisitiveness.	Anglo-Norman curiouseté, from Latin curiositatem.
curioso		A virtuoso.	
curious		Exhibiting care or nicety; artfully constructed; elaborate; wrought with elegance or skill.	
curiously		In a curious manner.	
curiousness		The state of being curious; exactness of workmanship; ingenuity of contrivance.	
curl		To twist or form into ringlets; to crisp, as the hair.	
curled		Having curls; curly; sinuous; wavy; as, curled maple (maple having fibers which take a sinnuous course).	
curledness		State of being curled; curliness.	
curler		One who, or that which, curls.	
curlew		A wading bird of the genus Numenius, remarkable for its long, slender, curved bill.	
curliness		State of being curly.	
curling		The act or state of that which curls; as, the curling of smoke when it rises; the curling of a ringlet; also, the act or process of one who curls something, as hair, or the brim of hats.	
curlingly		With a curl, or curls.	
curly		Curling or tending to curl; having curls; full of ripples; crinkled.	
curlycue		Some thing curled or spiral,, as a flourish made with a pen on paper, or with skates on the ice; a trick; a frolicsome caper.	
curmudgeon		An avaricious, grasping fellow; a miser; a niggard; a churl.	
curmudgeonly		Like a curmudgeon; niggardly; churlish; as, a curmudgeonly fellow.	
curmurring	Scots	Murmuring; grumbling; -- sometimes applied to the rumbling produced by a slight attack of the gripes.	Scots curmur.
currant		A small kind of seedless raisin, imported from the Levant, chiefly from Zante and Cephalonia; -- used in cookery.	
currency		The state or quality of being current; general acceptance or reception; a passing from person to person, or from hand to hand; circulation; as, a report has had a long or general currency; the currency of bank notes.	Latin currentia.
current		Now passing, as time; as, the current month.	Middle English curraunt, from Old French curant.
currently		In a current manner; generally; commonly; as, it is currently believed.	
currentness		The quality of being current; currency; circulation; general reception.	
curricle		A small or short course.	
curriculum		A race course; a place for running.	Latin curriculum.
currie		See 2d & 3d Curry.	
curried		Dressed by currying; cleaned; prepared.	
currier		One who curries and dresses leather, after it is tanned.	
currish		Having the qualities, or exhibiting the characteristics, of a cur; snarling; quarrelsome; snappish; churlish; hence, also malicious; malignant; brutal.	
curry		To dress or prepare for use by a process of scraping, cleansing, beating, smoothing, and coloring; -- said of leather.	Old English currayen.
currycomb		A kind of card or comb having rows of metallic teeth or serrated ridges, used in curryng a horse.	
curse		To call upon divine or supernatural power to send injury upon; to imprecate evil upon; to execrate.	
cursed		Deserving a curse; execrable; hateful; detestable; abominable.	
cursedly	Low	In a cursed manner; miserably; in a manner to be detested; enormously.	
cursedness		The state of being under a curse or of being doomed to execration or to evil.	
curser		One who curses.	
curship		The state of being a cur; one who is currish.	
cursitating		Moving about slightly.	
cursitor		(Eng.Law) An officer in the Court of Chancery, whose business is to make out original writs.	
cursive		Running; flowing.	Latin cursivus.
cursor		Any part of a mathematical instrument that moves or slides backward and forward upon another part.	Latin cursor.
cursorary	Obsolete	Cursory; hasty.	
cursores		(a) An order of running birds including the ostrich, emu, and allies; the Ratitaæ.	
cursorial		(a) Adapted to running or walking, and not to prehension; as, the limbs of the horse are cursorial.	
cursorily		In a running or hasty manner; carelessly.	
cursoriness		The quality of being cursory; superficial performance; as, cursoriness of view.	
cursory		Characterized by haste; hastily or superficially performed; slight; superficial; careless.	Latin cursorius.
curst	Obsolete	imp. & p.p. of Curse.	
curstfully	Obsolete	Peevishly; vexatiously; detestably.	
curstness	Obsolete	Peevishness; malignity; frowardness; crabbedness; surliness.	
curt		Characterized by exessive brevity; short; rudely concise; as, curt limits; a curt answer.	
curtail		To cut off the end or tail, or any part, of; to shorten; to abridge; to diminish; to reduce.	
curtailer		One who curtails.	
curtailment		The act or result of curtailing or cutting off.	
curtain		A hanging screen intended to darken or conceal, and admitting of being drawn back or up, and reclosed at pleasure; esp., drapery of cloth or lace hanging round a bed or at a window; in theaters, and like places…	Old French cortine, from Latin cortina.
curtal	Obsolete	Curt; brief; laconic.	French courtault.
curtana		The pointless sword carried before English monarchs at their coronation, and emblematically considered as the sword of mercy; -- also called the sword of Edward the Confessor.	
curtate		Shortened or reduced; -- said of the distance of a planet from the sun or earth, as measured in the plane of the ecliptic, or the distance from the sun or earth to that point where a perpendicular…	Latin curtatus.
curtation		The interval by which the curtate distance of a planet is less than the true distance.	
curtein		Same as Curtana.	
curtelasse		A corruption of Cutlass.	
curtes	Obsolete	Courteous.	
curtesy		the life estate which a husband has in the lands of his deceased wife, which by the common law takes effect where he has had issue by her, born alive, and capable of inheriting the lands.	
curtilage		A yard, courtyard, or piece of ground, included within the fence surrounding a dwelling house.	Old French cortillage.
curtly		In a curt manner.	
curtness		The quality of bing curt.	
curtsy		Same as Courtesy, an act of respect.	
curule		Of or pertaining to a charoit.	Latin curulis.
cururo		A Chilian burrowing rodent of the genus Spalacopus.	
curval		Bowed; bent; curved.	
curvant		Bowed; bent; curved.	
curvate		Bent in a regular form; curved.	Latin curvatus.
curvated		Bent in a regular form; curved.	
curvation		The act of bending or crooking.	Latin curvatio.
curvative		Having the margins only a little curved; -- said of leaves.	
curvature		The act of curving, or the state of being bent or curved; a curving or bending, normal or abnormal, as of a line or surface from a rectilinear direction; a bend; a curve.	
curve		Bent without angles; crooked; curved; as, a curve line; a curve surface.	Latin curvus.
curvedness		The state of being curved.	
curvet		(Man.) A particular leap of a horse, when he raises both his fore legs at once, equally advanced, and, as his fore legs are falling, raises his hind legs, so that all his legs are in the air at once.	
curvicaudate		Having a curved or crooked tail.	
curvicostate		Having bent ribs.	
curvidentate		Having curved teeth.	
curviform		Having a curved form.	
curvilinead		An instrument for drawing curved lines.	
curvilineal		Consisting of, or bounded by, curved lines; as, a curvilinear figure.	
curvilinear		Consisting of, or bounded by, curved lines; as, a curvilinear figure.	
curvilinearity		The state of being curvilinear or of being bounded by curved lines.	
curvilinearly		In a curvilinear manner.	
curvinerved		Having the ribs or the veins of the leaves curved; -- called also curvinervate and curve-veined.	
curvirostral		Having a crooked beak, as the crossbill.	
curvirostres		A group of passerine birds, including the creepers and nuthatches.	
curviserial		Distributed in a curved line, as leaves along a stem.	
curvity		The state of being curved; a bending in a regular form; crookedness.	Latin curvitas.
curvograph		An arcograph.	
cuscus		A soft grass (Pennisetum typhoideum) found in all tropical regions, used as food for men and cattle in Central Africa.	
cushat		The ringdove or wood pigeon.	Old English cuscute.
cushewbird		The galeated curassow. See Curassow.	
cushion		A case or bag stuffed with some soft and elastic material, and used to sit or recline upon; a soft pillow or pad.	
cushionet		A little cushion.	Old French coissinet.
cushionless		Hot furnished with a cushion.	
cushiony		Like a cushion; soft; pliable.	
cushite		A descendant of Cush, the son of Ham and grandson of Noah.	
cusk		A large, edible, marine fish (Brosmius brosme), allied to the cod, common on the northern coasts of Europe and America; -- called also tusk and torsk.	
cuskin	Obsolete	A kind of drinking cup.	
cusp		(Arch.) A triangular protection from the intrados of an arch, or from an inner curve of tracery.	
cuspated		Ending in a point.	
cuspid		One of the canine teeth; -- so called from having but one point or cusp on the crown.	
cuspidal		Ending in a point.	
cuspidate		To make pointed or sharp.	
cuspidated		Having a sharp end, like the point of a spear; terminating in a hard point; as, a cuspidate leaf.	
cuspidor		Any ornamental vessel used as a spittoon; hence, to avoid the common term, a spittoon of any sort.	Portuguese cuspidor.
cuspis		A point; a sharp end.	
cussedness	Slang or colloq	Disposition to willful wrongdoing; malignity; perversity; cantankerousness; obstinacy.	
custard	Obsolete	A mixture of milk and eggs, sweetened, and baked or boiled.	
custode		See Custodian — one who has care or custody, as of some public building; a keeper or superintendent.	
custodial		Relating to custody or guardianship.	
custodian		One who has care or custody, as of some public building; a keeper or superintendent.	
custodianship		Office or duty of a custodian.	
custodier	Scots	A custodian.	
custody		A keeping or guarding; care, watch, inspection, for keeping, preservation, or security.	Latin custodia.
custom		Frequent repetition of the same act; way of acting common to many; ordinary manner; habitual practice; usage; method of doing or living.	Middle English custume, from Anglo-Norman custume, from Old French coustume, from Latin consuetudo.
customable		Subject to the payment of customs; dutiable.	
customableness	Obsolete	Quality of being customable; conformity to custom.	
customably	Obsolete	Usually.	
customarily		In a customary manner; habitually.	
customariness		Quality of being customary.	
customary		Agreeing with, or established by, custom; established by common usage; conventional; habitual.	
customer		One who regularly or repeatedly makes purchases of a trader; a purchaser; a buyer.	
customhouse		The building where customs and duties are paid, and where vessels are entered or cleared.	
custos	Obsolete	A keeper; a custodian; a superintendent.	
custrel	Obsolete	An armor-bearer to a knight. See Costrel.	Old French coustillier.
custumary	Obsolete	See Customary — agreeing with, or established by, custom; established by common usage; conventional; habitual.	
cut		To sparate the parts of with, or as with, a sharp instrument; to make an incision in; to gash; to sever; to divide.	Middle English cutten.
cut-off		That which cuts off or shortens, as a nearer passage or road.	
cut-out		(a) (Telegraphy) A species of switch for changing the current from one circuit to another, or for shortening a circuit.	
cutaneous		Of pertaining to the skin; existing on, or affecting, the skin; as, a cutaneous disease; cutaneous absorption; cutaneous respiration.	
cutaway		Having a part cut off or away; having the corners rounded or cut away.	
cutch		See Catechu. See Cultch.	
cutchery		A hindoo hall of justice.	
cute	Colloquial	Clever; sharp; shrewd; ingenious; cunning.	
cuteness	Colloquial	Acuteness; cunning.	
cutgrass		A grass with leaves having edges furnished with very minute hooked prickles, which form a cutting edge; one or more species of Leersia.	
cuticle		(Bot.) The outermost skin or pellicle of a plant, found especially in leaves and young stems.	Latin cuticula.
cuticular		Pertaining to the cuticle, or external coat of the skin; epidermal.	
cutin		The substance which, added to the material of a cell wall, makes it waterproof, as in cork.	
cutinization		The conversion of cell walls into a material which repels water, as in cork.	
cutinize		To change into cutin.	
cutis		See Dermis — the deep sensitive layer of the skin beneath the scarfskin or epidermis; -- called also true skin, derm, derma, corium, cutis, and enderon.	Latin cutis.
cutlass		A short, heavy, curving sword, used in the navy. See Curtal ax.	Middle French coutelas.
cutler		One who makes or deals in cutlery, or knives and other cutting instruments.	Old French coutelier.
cutlery		Edged or cutting instruments, collectively.	Old French coutelerie.
cutlet		A piece of meat, especially of veal or mutton, cut for broiling.	French côtelette.
cutling	Obsolete	The art of making edged tools or cutlery.	
cutose		A variety of cellulose, occuring as a fine transparent membrane covering the aerial organs of plants, and forming an essential ingredient of cork; by oxidation it passes to suberic acid.	
cutpurse		One who cuts purses for the sake of stealing them or their contents (an act common when men wore purses fastened by a string to their girdles); one who steals from the person; a pickpocket To have an open ear, a quick eye…	
cutter		One who cuts; as, a stone cutter; a die cutter; esp., one who cuts out garments.	
cutthroat		One who cuts throats; a murderer; an assassin.	
cutting		The act or process of making an incision, or of severing, felling, shaping, etc.	
cuttingly		In a cutting manner.	
cuttle		(Zoöl.) A cephalopod of the genus Sepia, having an internal shell, large eyes, and ten arms furnished with denticulated suckers, by means of which it secures its prey.	Old English cudele.
cuttlefish		(Zoöl.) A cephalopod of the genus Sepia, having an internal shell, large eyes, and ten arms furnished with denticulated suckers, by means of which it secures its prey.	
cutty	Scots	Short; as, a cutty knife; a cutty sark.	
cuttystool		A seat in old Scottish churches, where offenders were made to sit, for public rebuke by the minister.	
cutwal		The chief police officer of a large city.	
cutwater		The fore part of a ship's prow, which cuts the water.	
cutwork		An ancient term for embroidery, esp. applied to the earliest form of lace, or to that early embroidery on linen and the like, from which the manufacture of lace was developed.	
cutworm		A caterpillar which at night eats off young plants of cabbage, corn, etc., usually at the ground.	
cuvette		A pot, bucket, or basin, in which molten plate glass is carried from the melting pot to the casting table.	
