cyamelide		A white amorphous substance, regarded as a polymeric modification of isocyanic acid.
cyamellone		A complex derivative of cyanogen, regarded as an acid, and known chiefly in its salts; -- called also hydromellonic acid.
cyanate		A salt of cyanic acid.
cyanaurate		See Aurocyanide — a double cyanide of gold and some other metal or radical; -- called also cyanaurate.
cyanean		Having an azure color.
cyanic		Pertaining to, or containing, cyanogen.
cyanide		A compound formed by the union of cyanogen with an element or radical.
cyanin		The blue coloring matter of flowers; -- called also anthokyan and anthocyanin.
cyanine		One of a series of artificial blue or red dyes obtained from quinoline and lepidine and used in calico printing.
cyanite		A mineral occuring in thin-bladed crystals and crystalline aggregates, of a sky-blue color.
cyanogen		A colorless, inflammable, poisonous gas, C2N2, with a peach- blossom odor, so called from its tendency to form blue compounds; obtained by heating ammonium oxalate, mercuric cyanide, etc. It is obtained in combination…
cyanometer		An instrument for measuring degress of blueness.
cyanopathy		A disease in which the body is colored blue in its surface, arising usually from a malformation of the heart, which causes an imperfect arterialization of the blood; blue jaundice.
cyanophyll		A blue coloring matter supposed by some to be one of the component parts ofchlorophyll.
cyanosed		Rendered blue, as the surface of the body, from cyanosis or deficient a
cyanosis		A condition in which, from insufficient aCyanopathy.
cyanosite		Native sulphate of copper.
cyanotic		Relating to cyanosis; affected with cyanosis; as, a cyanotic patient; having the hue caused by cyanosis; as, a cyanitic skin.
cyanotype		A photographic picture obtained by the use of a cyanide.
cyanurate		A salt of cyanuric acid.
cyanuret	Obsolete	A cyanide.
cyanuric		Pertaining to, or derived from, cyanic and uric acids.
cyathiform		In the form of a cup, a little widened at the top.
cyatholith		A kind of coccolith, which in shape resembles a minute cup widened at the top, and varies in size from
cyathophylloid		Like, or pertaining to, the family Cyathophyllidæ.
cycad		Any plant of the natural order Cycadeceæ, as the sago palm, etc.
cycadaceous		Pertaining to, or resembling, an order of plants like the palms, but having exogenous wood.
cycas		A genus of trees, intermediate in character between the palms and the pines.
cyclamen		A genus of plants of the Primrose family, having depressed rounded corms, and pretty nodding flowers with the petals so reflexed as to point upwards, whence it is called rabbit's ears.
cyclamin		A white amorphous substance, regarded as a glucoside, extracted from the corm of Cyclamen Europæum.
cyclas		A long gown or surcoat (cut off in front), worn in the Middle Ages.
cycle		An imaginary circle or orbit in the heavens; one of the celestial spheres.
cyclic		Of or pertaining to a cycle or circle; moving in cycles; as, cyclical time.
cyclical		Of or pertaining to a cycle or circle; moving in cycles; as, cyclical time.
cyclide		A surface of the fourth degree, having certain special relations to spherical surfaces.
cycling		The act, art, or practice, of riding a cycle, esp. a bicycle or tricycle.
cyclist		A cycler.
cyclo-		A combining form meaning circular, of a circle or wheel.
cyclobranchiate		Having the gills around the margin of the body, as certain limpets.
cycloganoid		Of or pertaining to the Cycloganoidei.
cycloganoidei		An order of ganoid fishes, having cycloid scales.
cyclograph		See Arcograph — an instrument for drawing a circular arc without the use of a central point; a cyclograph.
cycloid		A curve generated by a point in the plane of a circle when the circle is rolled along a straight line, keeping always in the same plane.
cycloidal		Pertaining to, or resembling, a cycloid; as, the cycloidal space is the space contained between a cycloid and its base.
cycloidei		An order of fishes, formerly proposed by Agassiz, for those with thin, smooth scales, destitute of marginal spines, as the herring and salmon.
cycloidian		Same as 2d and 3d Cycloid.
cyclometer		A contrivance for recording the revolutions of a wheel, as of a bicycle.
cyclometry		The art of measuring circles.
cyclone		A violent storm, often of vast extent, characterized by high winds rotating about a calm center of low atmospheric pressure.
cyclonic		Pertaining to a cyclone.
cyclonoscope		An apparatus to assist in locating the center of a cyclone.
cyclop		See Note under Cyclops, 1.
cyclopaedia		The circle or compass of the arts and sciences (originally, of the seven so-called liberal arts and sciences); circle of human knowledge.
cyclopean		Pertaining to the Cyclops; characteristic of the Cyclops; huge; gigantic; vast and rough; massive; as, Cyclopean labors; Cyclopean architecture.
cyclopedia		The circle or compass of the arts and sciences (originally, of the seven so-called liberal arts and sciences); circle of human knowledge.
cyclopedic		Belonging to the circle of the sciences, or to a cyclopedia; of the nature of a cyclopedia; hence, of great range, extent, or amount; as, a man of cyclopedic knowledge.
cyclopedist		A maker of, or writer for, a cyclopedia.
cyclopic		Pertaining to the Cyclops; Cyclopean.
cyclops		(Gr. Myth.) One of a race of giants, sons of Neptune and Amphitrite, having but one eye, and that in the middle of the forehead.
cyclorama		A pictorial view which is extended circularly, so that the spectator is surrounded by the objects represented as by things in nature.
cycloscope		A machine for measuring at any moment velocity of rotation, as of a wheel of a steam engine.
cyclosis		The circulation or movement of protoplasmic granules within a living vegetable cell.
cyclostome		A division of Bryozoa, in which the cells have circular apertures.
cyclostomi		A glass of fishes having a suckerlike mouth, without jaws, as the lamprey; the Marsipobranchii.
cyclostomous		Pertaining to the Cyclostomi.
cyclostylar		Relating to a structure composed of a circular range of columns, without a core or building within.
cyclostyle		A contrivance for producing manifold copies of writing or drawing.
cyder	Archaic	See Cider — the expressed juice of apples.
cydonin		A peculiar mucilaginous substance extracted from the seeds of the quince (Cydonia vulgaris), and regarded as a variety of amylose.
cygnet		A young swan.
cygnus		A constellation of the northern hemisphere east of, or following, Lyra; the Swan.
cylinder		(Geom.) (a) A solid body which may be generated by the rotation of a parallelogram round one its sides; or a body of rollerlike form, of which the longitudinal section is oblong, and the cross section is circular.
cylindraceous		Cylindrical, or approaching a cylindrical form.
cylindric		Having the form of a cylinder, or of a section of its convex surface; partaking of the properties of the cylinder.
cylindrical		Having the form of a cylinder, or of a section of its convex surface; partaking of the properties of the cylinder.
cylindrically		In the manner or shape of a cylinder; so as to be cylindrical.
cylindricity		The quality or condition of being cylindrical.
cylindriform		Having the form of a cylinder.
cylindroid		A solid body resembling a right cylinder, but having the bases or ends elliptical.
cylindrometric		Belonging to a scale used in measuring cylinders.
cyma		(Arch.) A member or molding of the cornice, the profile of which is wavelike in form.
cymar		A sight covering; a scarf. See Simar.
cymatium		A capping or crowning molding in classic architecture.
cymbal		A musical instrument used by the ancients.
cymbalist		A performer upon cymbals.
cymbiform		Shaped like a boat; (Bot.) elongated and having the upper surface decidedly concave, as the glumes of many grasses.
cymbium		A genus of marine univalve shells; the gondola.
cymbling		A scalloped or variety of summer squash.
cyme		A flattish or convex flower cluster, of the centrifugal or determinate type, differing from a corymb chiefly in the order of the opening of the blossoms.
cymene		A colorless, liquid, combustible hydrocarbon, CH3.C6H4.C3H7, of pleasant odor, obtained from oil of cumin, oil of caraway, carvacrol, camphor, etc.; -- called also paracymene, and formerly camphogen.
cymenol		See Carvacrol — a thick oily liquid, C10H13.OH, of a strong taste and disagreeable odor, obtained from oil of caraway (Carum carui).
cymidine		A liquid organic base, C10H13.NH2, derived from cymene.
cymiferous		Producing cymes.
cymling		A scalloped or variety of summer squash.
cymogene		A highly volatile liquid, condensed by cold and pressure from the first products of the distillation of petroleum; -- used for producing low temperatures.
cymograph		(a) An instrument for making tracings of the outline or contour of profiles, moldings, etc. (b) Var. of Kymograph. --Cy`mo*graph"ic (#), a.
cymoid		Having the form of a cyme.
cymometer		An instrument for exhibiting and measuring wave motion; specif. (Elec.), an instrument for determining the frequency of electic wave oscillations, esp. in connection with wireless telegraphy.
cymophane		See Chrysoberyl — a mineral, found in crystals, of a yellow to green or brown color, and consisting of aluminia and glucina.
cymophanous		Having a wavy, floating light; opalescent; chatoyant.
cymoscope		Any device for detecting the presence of electric waves.
cymose		Having the nature of a cyme, or derived from a cyme; bearing, or pertaining to, a cyme or cymes.
cymous		Having the nature of a cyme, or derived from a cyme; bearing, or pertaining to, a cyme or cymes.
cymric		Welsh. -- n.
cymry		A collective term for the Welsh race; -- so called by themselves.
cymule		A small cyme, or one of very few flowers.
cynanche		Any disease of the tonsils, throat, or windpipe, attended with inflammation, swelling, and difficulty of breathing and swallowing.
cynanthropy		A kind of madness in which men fancy themselves changed into dogs, and imitate the voice and habits of that animal.
cynarctomachy		Bear baiting with a dog.
cynarrhodium		A fruit like that of the rose, consisting of a cup formed of the calyx tube and receptacle, and containing achenes.
cynegetics		The art of hunting with dogs.
cynic		Having the qualities of a surly dog; snarling; captious; currish.
cynical		Having the qualities of a surly dog; snarling; captious; currish.
cynically		In a cynical manner.
cynicalness		The quality of being cynical.
cynicism		The doctrine of the Cynics; the quality of being cynical; the mental state, opnions, or conduct, of a cynic; morose and contemptuous views and opinions.
cynoidea		A division of Carnivora, including the dogs, wolves, and foxes.
cynorexia		A voracious appetite, like that of a starved dog.
cynosural		Of or pertaining to a cynosure.
cynosure		The constellation of the Lesser Bear, to which, as containing the polar star, the eyes of mariners and travelers were often directed.
cyon		See Cion, and Scion.
cyperaceous		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a large family of plants of which the sedge is the type.
cyperus		A large genus of plants belonging to the Sedge family, and including the species called galingale, several bulrushes, and the Egyptian papyrus.
cypher		See Cipher — (Arith.) A character which, standing by itself, expresses nothing, but when placed at the right hand of a whole number, increases its value tenfold.
cyphonautes		The free-swimming, bivalve larva of certain Bryozoa.
cyphonism		A punishment sometimes used by the ancients, consisting in the besmearing of the criminal with honey, and exposing him to insects.
cypraea		A genus of mollusks, including the cowries. See Cowrie.
cypres		A rule for construing written instruments so as to conform as nearly to the intention of the parties as is consistent with law.
cypress		A coniferous tree of the genus Cupressus.
cyprian		A native or inhabitant of Cyprus, especially of ancient Cyprus; a Cypriot.
cyprine		Of or pertaining to the cypress.
cyprinodont		One of the Cyprinodontidae, a family of fishes including the killifishes or minnows.
cyprinoid		Like the carp (Cyprinus). -- n.
cypriot		A native or inhabitant of Cyprus.
cypripedium		A genus of orchidaceous plants including the lady's slipper.
cypris		A genus of small, bivalve, freshwater Crustacea, belonging to the Ostracoda; also, a member of this genus.
cyprus	Obsolete	A thin, transparent stuff, the same as, or corresponding to, crape.
cypruslawn		Same as Cyprus.
cypsela		A one-seeded, one-called, indehiscent fruit; an achene with the calyx tube adherent.
cypseliform		Like or belonging to the swifts (Cypselidæ.)
cyrenaic		Pertaining to Cyrenaica, an ancient country of northern Africa, and to Cyrene, its principal city; also, to a school of philosophy founded by Aristippus, a native of Cyrene. -- n.
cyrenian		One of a school of philosophers, established at Cyrene by Aristippus, a disciple of Socrates.
cyriologic		Relating to capital letters.
cyrtostyle		A circular projecting portion.
cyst		(Med.) (a) A pouch or sac without opening, usually membranous and containing morbid matter, which is accidentally developed in one of the natural cavaties or in the substance of an organ.
cysted		Inclosed in a cyst.
cystic		Having the form of, or living in, a cyst; as, the cystic entozoa.
cysticerce		The larval form of a tapeworm, having the head and neck of a tapeworm attached to a saclike body filled with fluid; -- called also bladder worm, hydatid, and measle (as, pork measle).
cysticercus		The larval form of a tapeworm, having the head and neck of a tapeworm attached to a saclike body filled with fluid; -- called also bladder worm, hydatid, and measle (as, pork measle).
cysticule		An appendage of the vestibular ear sac of fishes.
cystid		One of the Cystidea.
cystidea		An order of Crinoidea, mostly fossils of the Paleozoic rocks.
cystidean		One of the Cystidea.
cystine		A white crystalline substance, C3H7NSO2, containing sulphur, occuring as a constituent of certain rare urinary calculi, and occasionally found as a sediment in urine.
cystis		A cyst. See Cyst.
cystitis		Inflammation of the bladder.
cystocarp		A minute vesicle in a red seaweed, which contains the reproductive spores.
cystocele		Hernia in which the urinary bladder protrudes; vesical hernia.
cystoid		Same as Cystidean.
cystoidea		Same as Cystidea.
cystoidean		Same as Cystidean.
cystolith		(Bot.) A concretion of mineral matter within a leaf or other part of a plant.
cystolithic		Relating to stone in the bladder.
cystoplast		A nucleated cell having an envelope or cell wall, as a red blood corpuscle or an epithelial cell; a cell concerned in growth.
cystose		Containing, or resembling, a cyst or cysts; cystic; bladdery.
cystotome		A knife or instrument used in cystotomy.
cystotomy		The act or practice of opening cysts; esp., the operation of cutting into the bladder, as for the extraction of a calculus.
cytherean		Pertaining to the goddess Venus.
cytoblast		The nucleus of a cell; the germinal or active spot of a cellule, through or in which cell development takes place.
cytoblastema		See Protoplasm — the viscid and more or less granular material of vegetable and animal cells, possessed of vital properties by which the processes of nutrition, secretion, and growth go forward…
cytococcus		The nucleus of the cytula or parent cell.
cytode		A nonnucleated mass of protoplasm, the supposed simplest form of independent life differing from the amoeba, in which nuclei are present.
cytogenesis		Development of cells in animal and vegetable organisms. See Gemmation, Budding, Karyokinesis; also Cell development, under Cell.
cytogenetic		Of or pertaining to cytogenesis or cell development.
cytogenic		Of or pertaining to cytogenesis or cell development.
cytogenous		Producing cells; -- applied esp. to lymphatic, or adenoid, tissue.
cytogeny		Cell production or development; cytogenesis.
cytoid		Cell-like; -- applied to the corpuscles of lymph, blood, chyle, etc.
cytoplasm		The substance of the body of a cell, as distinguished from the karyoplasma, or substance of the nucleus. -- Cy`to*plas"mic (-pl, a.
cytula		The fertilized egg cell or parent cell, from the development of which the child or other organism is formed.
