dab	Colloquial	A skillful hand; a dabster; an expert.
dabb		A large, spine-tailed lizard (Uromastix spinipes), found in Egypt, Arabia, and Palestine; -- called also dhobb, and dhabb.
dabber		That with which one dabs; hence, a pad or other device used by printers, engravers, etc., as for dabbing type or engraved plates with ink.
dabble		To wet by little dips or strokes; to spatter; to sprinkle; to moisten; to wet.
dabbler		One who dabbles.
dabblingly		In a dabbling manner.
dabchick		A small water bird (Podilymbus podiceps), allied to the grebes, remarkable for its quickness in diving; -- called also dapchick, dobchick, dipchick, didapper, dobber, devil-diver, hell-diver, and pied-billed grebe.
daboia		A large and highly venomous Asiatic viper (Daboia xanthica).
dabster	Colloquial	One who is skilled; a master of his business; a proficient; an adept.
dacapo		From the beginning; a direction to return to, and end with, the first strain; -- indicated by the letters D.
dace		A small European cyprinoid fish (Squalius leuciscus or Leuciscus vulgaris); -- called also dare.
dachshund		One of a breed of small dogs with short crooked legs, and long body; -- called also badger dog.
dacian		Of or pertaining to Dacia or the Dacians. -- n.
dacoit		One of a class of robbers, in India, who act in gangs.
dacoity		The practice of gang robbery in India; robbery committed by dacoits.
dacotahs		Same as Dacotas.
dactyl		(Pros.) A poetical foot of three sylables (-- ~ ~), one long followed by two short, or one accented followed by two unaccented; as, L. tëgmînê, E. mer"ciful…
dactylar		Pertaining to dactyl; dactylic.
dactylet	Obsolete	A dactyl.
dactylic		Pertaining to, consisting chiefly or wholly of, dactyls; as, dactylic verses.
dactylioglyph		(a) An engraver of gems for rings and other ornaments. (b) The inscription of the engraver's name on a finger ring or gem.
dactylioglyphy		The art or process of gem engraving.
dactyliography		(a) The art of writing or engraving upon gems. (b) In general, the literature or history of the art.
dactyliology		(a) That branch of archæology which has to do with gem engraving. (b) That branch of archæology which has to do with finger rings.
dactyliomancy		Divination by means of finger rings.
dactylist		A writer of dactylic verse.
dactylitis		An inflammatory affection of the fingers.
dactylology		The art of communicating ideas by certain movements and positions of the fingers; -- a method of conversing practiced by the deaf and dumb.
dactylomancy		Dactylio mancy.
dactylonomy		The art of numbering or counting by the fingers.
dactylopterous		Having the inferior rays of the pectoral fins partially or entirely free, as in the gurnards.
dactylotheca		The scaly covering of the toes, as in birds.
dactylozooid		A kind of zooid of Siphonophora which has an elongated or even vermiform body, with one tentacle, but no mouth.
dad		Father; -- a word sometimes used by children.
daddle		To toddle; to walk unsteadily, like a child or an old man; hence, to do anything slowly or feebly.
daddock	English dialect	The rotten body of a tree.
daddy		Diminutive of Dad.
dade	Obsolete	To hold up by leading strings or by the hand, as a child while he toddles.
dado		(a) That part of a pedestal included between the base and the cornice (or surbase); the die.
daedal		Cunningly or ingeniously formed or working; skillful; artistic; ingenious.
daedalian		Cunningly or ingeniously formed or working; skillful; artistic; ingenious.
daedalous		Having a variously cut or incised margin; -- said of leaves.
daemon		See Demon, Demonic.
daemonic		See Demon, Demonic.
daff	Obsolete	To cast aside; to put off; to doff.
daffodil		(a) A plant of the genus Asphodelus. (b) A plant of the genus Narcissus (N.
daft		Stupid; folish; idiotic; also, delirious; insance; as, he has gone daft.
daftness		The quality of being daft.
dag	Obsolete	A large pistol formerly used.
dag-tailed		Daggle-tailed; having the tail clogged with daglocks.
dagger		A short weapon used for stabbing.
dagges	Obsolete	An ornamental cutting of the edges of garments, introduced about a. d. 1346, according to the Chronicles of St Albans.
daggle		To trail, so as to wet or befoul; to make wet and limp; to moisten.
daggle-tail		Having the lower ends of garments defiled by trailing in mire or filth; draggle-tailed.
daggle-tailed		Having the lower ends of garments defiled by trailing in mire or filth; draggle-tailed.
daglock		A dirty or clotted lock of wool on a sheep; a taglock.
dago		A nickname given to a person of Spanish (or, by extension, Portuguese or Italian) descent.
dagoba		A dome-shaped structure built over relics of Buddha or some Buddhist saint.
dagon		The national god of the Philistines, represented with the face and hands and upper part of a man, and the tail of a fish.
dagswain		Acoarse woolen fabric made of daglocks, or the refuse of wool.
daguerrean		Pertaining to Daguerre, or to his invention of the daguerreotype.
daguerreian		Pertaining to Daguerre, or to his invention of the daguerreotype.
daguerreotype		An early variety of photograph, produced on a silver plate, or copper plate covered with silver, and rendered sensitive by the action of iodine, or iodine and bromine, on which, after exposure in the camera…
daguerreotyper		One who takes daguerreotypes.
daguerreotypist		One who takes daguerreotypes.
daguerreotypy		The art or process of producing pictures by method of Daguerre.
dahabeah		A nile boat
dahlia		A genus of plants native to Mexico and Central America, of the order Compositæ; also, any plant or flower of the genus.
dahlin		A variety of starch extracted from the dahlia; -- called also inulin. See Inulin.
dahoon		An evergreen shrub or small tree (Ilex cassine) of the southern United States, bearing red drupes and having soft, white, close- grained wood; -- called also dahoon holly.
dailiness		Daily occurence.
daily		Happening, or belonging to, each successive day; diurnal; as, daily labor; a daily bulletin.
daimio		The title of the feudal nobles of Japan.daimyo The daimios, or territorial nobles, resided in Yedo and were divided into four classes.
daint	Obsolete	Something of exquisite taste; a dainty. -- a.
daintify		To render dainty, delicate, or fastidious. rev.
daintily		In a dainty manner; nicely; scrupulously; fastidiously; deliciously; prettily.
daintiness		The quality of being dainty; nicety; niceness; elegance; delicacy; deliciousness; fastidiousness; squeamishness.
daintrel	Obsolete	Adelicacy.
dainty		That which is delicious or delicate; a delicacy.
daira		Any of several valuable estates of the Egyptian khedive or his family.
dairy		The place, room, or house where milk is kept, and converted into butter or cheese.
dairying		The business of conducting a dairy.
dairymaid		A female servant whose business is the care of the dairy.
dairyman		A man who keeps or takes care of a dairy.
dairywoman		A woman who attends to a dairy.
dais		A platform slightly raised above the floor of a hall or large room, giving distinction to the table and seats placed upon it for the chief guests.
daisied		Full of daisies; adorned with daisies.
daisy		(a) A genus of low herbs (Bellis), belonging to the family Compositæ.
dak		Post; mail; also, the mail or postal arrangements; -- spelt also dawk, and dauk.
daker		A measure of certain commodities by number, usually ten or twelve, but sometimes twenty; as, a daker of hides consisted of ten skins; a daker of gloves of ten pairs.
dakir		A measure of certain commodities by number, usually ten or twelve, but sometimes twenty; as, a daker of hides consisted of ten skins; a daker of gloves of ten pairs.
dakoit		See Dacoit, Dacoity.
dakoity		See Dacoit, Dacoity.
dakotas		An extensive race or stock of Indians, including many tribes, mostly dwelling west of the Mississippi River; -- also, in part, called Sioux.
dal		Split pulse, esp. of Cajanus Indicus.
dale		A low place between hills; a vle or valley.
dalesman		One living in a dale; -- a term applied particularly to the inhabitants of the valleys in the north of England, Norway, etc. Macaulay.
dalf	Obsolete	imp. of Delve — to dig; to open (the ground) as with a spade.
dalles		A rapid, esp. one where the channel is narrowed between rock walls.
dalliance		The act of dallying, trifling, or fondling; interchange of caresses; wanton play.
dallier		One Who fondles; a trifler; as, dalliers with pleasant words.
dallop	Obsolete	A tuft or clump.
dally		To waste time in effeminate or voluptuous pleasures, or in idleness; to fool away time; to delay unnecessarily; to tarry; to trifle.
dalmania		A genus of trilobites, of many species, common in the Upper Silurian and Devonian rocks.
dalmanites		Same as Dalmania.
dalmatian		Of or pertaining to Dalmatia.
dalmatic		A robe worn on state ocasions, as by English kings at their coronation.
dalmatica		A robe worn on state ocasions, as by English kings at their coronation.
daltonian		One afflicted with color blindness.
daltonism		Inability to perceive or distinguish certain colors, esp. red; color blindness.
dam		A female parent; -- used of beasts, especially of quadrupeds; sometimes applied in contempt to a human mother.
damage		Injury or harm to person, property, or reputation; an inflicted loss of value; detriment; hurt; mischief.
damageable		Capable of being injured or impaired; liable to, or susceptible of, damage; as, a damageable cargo.
daman		A small herbivorous mammal of the genus Hyrax.
damar		See Dammar — an oleoresin used in making varnishes; dammar gum; dammara resin.
damara		A native of Damaraland, German Southwest Africa.
damascene		Of or relating to Damascus.
damascus		A city of Syria.
damask		Damask silk; silk woven with an elaborate pattern of flowers and the like.
damaskeen		To decorate, as iron, steel, etc., with a peculiar marking or "water" produced in the process of manufacture, or with designs produced by inlaying or incrusting with another metal, as silver or gold, or by etching, etc.…
damasken		To decorate, as iron, steel, etc., with a peculiar marking or "water" produced in the process of manufacture, or with designs produced by inlaying or incrusting with another metal, as silver or gold, or by etching, etc.…
damaskin		A sword of Damask steel.
damasse		Woven like damask. -- n.
damassin		A kind of modified damask or blocade.
dambonite		A white crystalline, sugary substance obtained from an African caotchouc.
dambose		A crystalline vari ety of fruit sugar obtained from dambonite.
dame		A mistress of a family, who is a lady; a womam in authority; especially, a lady.
damewort		A cruciferrous plant (Hesperis matronalis), remarkable for its fragrance, especially toward the close of the day; -- called also rocket and dame's violet.
damiana		A Mexican drug, used as an aphrodisiac.
damianist		A follower of Damian, patriarch of Alexandria in the 6th century, who held heretical opinions on the doctrine of the Holy Trinity.
dammar		An oleoresin used in making varnishes; dammar gum; dammara resin.
dammara		An oleoresin used in making varnishes; dammar gum; dammara resin.
damn		To condemn; to declare guilty; to doom; to adjudge to punishment; to sentence; to censhure.
damnability		The quality of being damnable; damnableness.
damnable		Liable to damnation; deserving, or for which one deserves, to be damned; of a damning nature.
damnableness		The state or quality of deserving damnation; execrableness.
damnably		In a manner to incur sever
damnation		The state of being damned; condemnation; openly expressed disapprobation.
damned		Sentenced to punishment in a future state; condemned; consigned to perdition.
damnific		Procuring or causing loss; mischievous; injurious.
damnification		That which causes damage or loss.
damnify		To cause loss or damage to; to injure; to imparir.
damning		That damns; damnable; as, damning evidence of guilt.
damningness		Tendency to bring damnation.
damnum		Harm; detriment, either to character or property.
damoiselle	Archaic	See Damsel — a young unmarried woman; a gerl; a maiden.
damosel	Archaic	See Damsel — a young unmarried woman; a gerl; a maiden.
damosella	Archaic	See Damsel — a young unmarried woman; a gerl; a maiden.
damourite		A kind of Muscovite, or potash mica, containing water.
damp		Moisture; humidity; fog; fogginess; vapor.
dampen		To make damp or moist; to make slightly wet.
damper		That which damps or checks; as: (a) A valve or movable plate in the flue or other part of a stove, furnace, etc., used to check or regulate the draught of air.
dampish		Moderately damp or moist. -- Damp ish*ness, n.
dampne	Obsolete	To damn.
dampness		Moderate humidity; moisture; fogginess; moistness.
dampy	Obsolete	Dejected; gloomy; sorrowful.
damsel		A young unmarried woman; a gerl; a maiden.
damson		A small oval plum of a blue color, the fruit of a variety of the Prunus domestica; -- called also damask plum.
dan	Obsolete	A title of honor equivalent to master, or sir.
danaide		A water wheel having a vertical axis, and an inner and outer tapering shell, between which are vanes or floats attached usually to both shells, but sometimes only to one.
danaite		A cobaltiferous variety of arsenopyrite.
danalite		A mineral occuring in octahedral crystals, also massive, of a reddish color.
danburite		A borosilicate of lime, first found at Danbury, Conn.
dance		To move with measured steps, or to a musical accompaniment; to go through, either alone or in company with others, with a regulated succession of movements, (commonly) to the sound of music; to trip or leap rhytmically.
dancer		One who dances or who practices dancing.
danceress	Obsolete	A female dancer.
dancette		Deeply indented; having large teeth; thus, a fess dancetté has only three teeth in the whole width of the escutcheon.
dancing		from Dance.
dancy		Same as Dancetté.
dandelion		A well-known plant of the genus Taraxacum (T. officinale, formerly called T.
dander		Dandruff or scurf on the head.
dandi		A boatman; an oarsman.
dandie		One of a breed of small terriers; -- called also Dandie Dinmont.
dandified		Made up like a dandy; having the dress or manners of a dandy; buckish.
dandify		To cause to resemble a dandy; to make dandyish.
dandiprat		A little fellow; -- in sport or contempt.
dandle		To move up and down on one's knee or in one's arms, in affectionate play, as an infant.
dandler		One who dandles or fondles.
dandriff		See Dandruff — a scurf which forms on the head, and comes off in small or particles.
dandruff		A scurf which forms on the head, and comes off in small or particles.
dandy		One who affects special finery or gives undue attention to dress; a fop; a coxcomb.
dandy-cock		A bantam fowl.
dandy-hen		A bantam fowl.
dandyise		To make, or to act, like a dandy; to dandify.
dandyish		Like a dandy.
dandyism		The manners and dress of a dandy; foppishness.
dandyize		To make, or to act, like a dandy; to dandify.
dandyling		A little or insignificant dandy; a contemptible fop.
dane		A native, or a naturalized inhabitant, of Denmark.
danegeld		An annual tax formerly laid on the English nation to buy off the ravages of Danish invaders, or to maintain forces to oppose them.
danegelt		An annual tax formerly laid on the English nation to buy off the ravages of Danish invaders, or to maintain forces to oppose them.
danewort		A fetid European species of elder (Sambucus Ebulus); dwarf elder; wallwort; elderwort; -- called also Daneweed, Dane's weed, and Dane's-blood.
dang	Obsolete	imp. of Ding — to talk with vehemence, importunity, or reiteration; to bluster.
danger		Exposure to injury, loss, pain, or other evil; peril; risk; insecurity.
dangerful	Obsolete	Full of danger; dangerous. -- Dan"ger*ful*ly, adv.
dangerless		Free from danger.
dangerous		Attended or beset with danger; full of risk; perilous; hazardous; unsafe.
dangle		To hang loosely, or with a swinging or jerking motion. he'd rather on a gibbet dangle Than miss his dear delight, to wrangle.
dangleberry		A dark blue, edible berry with a white bloom, and its shrub (Gaylussacia frondosa) closely allied to the common huckleberry.
dangler		One who dangles about or after others, especially after women; a trifler.
daniel		A Hebrew prophet distinguished for sagacity and ripeness of judgment in youth; hence, a sagacious and upright judge.
danish		Belonging to the Danes, or to their language or country. -- n.
danite		A descendant of Dan; an Israelite of the tribe of Dan. Judges xiii. 2. 2.
dank	Obsolete	Damp; moist; humid; wet.
dankish		Somewhat dank. -- Dank"ish*ness, n.
dannebrog		The ancient battle standard of Denmark, bearing figures of cross and crown.
danseuse		a professional female dancer; a woman who dances at a public exhibition as in a ballet.
dantean		Relatingto, emanating from or resembling, the poet Dante or his writings.
dantesque		Dantelike; Dantean.
danubian		Pertainingto, or bordering on, the river Danube.
dap		To drop the bait gently on the surface of the water.
dapatical	Obsolete	Sumptuous in cheer.
daphne		(Bot.) A genus of diminutive Shrubs, mostly evergreen, and with fragrant blossoms.
daphnetin		A colorless crystalline substance, C9H6O4, extracted from daphnin.
daphnia		A genus of the genus Daphnia.
daphnin		(a) A dark green bitter resin extracted from the mezereon (Daphne mezereum) and regarded as the essential principle of the plant.
daphnomancy		Divination by means of the laurel.
dapifer		One who brings meat to the table; hence, in some countries, the official title of the grand master or steward of the king's or a nobleman's household.
dapper		Little and active; spruce; trim; smart; neat in dress or appearance; lively.
dapperling		A dwarf; a dandiprat.
dapple		One of the spots on a dappled animal.
dappled		Marked with spots of different shades of color; spotted; variegated; as, a dapple horse.
darbies		Manacles; handcuffs.
darby		A plasterer's float, having two handles; -- used in smoothing ceilings, etc.
darbyite		One of the Plymouth Brethren, or of a sect among them; -- so called from John N.
dare		To have adequate or sufficient courage for any purpose; to be bold or venturesome; not to be afraid; to venture.
dare-devil		A reckless fellow.
dare-deviltry		Reckless mischief; the action of a dare-devil.
dareful		Full af daring or of defiance; adveturous.
darer		One who dares or defies.
darg	Dialect	A day's work; also, a fixed amount of work, whether more or less than that of a day.
dargue	Dialect	A day's work; also, a fixed amount of work, whether more or less than that of a day.
daric		(Antiq.) (a) A gold coin of ancient Persia, weighing usually a little more than 128 grains, and bearing on one side of the figure of an archer.
daring		Boldness; fearlessness; adventurousness; also, a daring act.
dariole		A shell or cup of pastry filled with custard, whipped cream, crushed macaroons, etc.
dark		Destitute, or partially destitute, of light; not receiving, reflecting, or radiating light; wholly or partially black, or of some deep shade of color; not light-colored; as, a dark room; a dark day; dark cloth; dark paint…
darken		To make dark or black; to deprite of light; to obscure; as, a darkened room.
darkener		One who, or that which, darkens.
darkening	English dialect	Twilight; gloaming.
darkful	Obsolete	Full of darkness.
darkish		Somewhat dark; dusky.
darkle		To grow dark; to show indistinctly.
darkling		Becoming dark or gloomy; frowing.
darkly		With imperfect light, clearness, or knowledge; obscurely; dimly; blindly; uncertainly.
darkness		The absence of light; blackness; obscurity; gloom.
darksome	Poetic	Dark; gloomy; obscure; shaded; cheerless.
darky		A negro.
darling		One dearly beloved; a favorite.
darlingtonia		A genus of California pitcher plants consisting of a single species.
darn		To mend as a rent or hole, with interlacing stitches of yarn or thread by means of a needle; to sew together with yarn or thread.
darnel		Any grass of the genus Lolium, esp. the Lolium temulentum (bearded darnel), the grains of which have been reputed poisonous.
darner		One who mends by darning.
darnex		Same as Dornick.
darnic		Same as Dornick.
daroo		The Egyptian sycamore (Ficus Sycamorus). See Sycamore.
darr		The European black tern.
darraign	Obsolete	To make ready to fight; to array.
darrain	Obsolete	To make ready to fight; to array.
darrein		Last; as, darrein continuance, the last continuance.
dart		A pointed missile weapon, intended to be thrown by the hand; a short lance; a javelin; hence, any sharp-pointed missile weapon, as an arrow.
dartars		A kind of scab or ulceration on the skin of lambs.
darter		One who darts, or who throw darts; that which darts.
dartingly		Like a dart; rapidly.
dartle		To pierce or shoot through; to dart repeatedly: -- frequentative of dart.
dartoic		Of or pertaining to the dartos.
dartoid		Like the dartos; dartoic; as, dartoid tissue.
dartos		A thin layer of peculiar contractile tissue directly beneath the skin of the scrotum.
dartrous		Relating to, or partaking of the nature of, the disease called tetter; herpetic.
darwinian		Pertaining to Darwin; as, the Darwinian theory, a theory of the manner and cause of the supposed development of living things from certain original forms or elements.
darwinianism		Darwinism.
darwinism		The theory or doctrines put forth by Darwin. See above.
dase	Obsolete	See Daze — to stupefy with excess of light; with a blow, with cold, or with fear; to confuse; to benumb.
dasewe	Obsolete	To become dim-sighted; to become dazed or dazzled.
dash		To throw with violence or haste; to cause to strike violently or hastily; -- often used with against.
dashboard		A board placed on the fore part of a carriage, sleigh, or other vechicle, to intercept water, mud, or snow, thrown up by the heels of the horses; -- in England commonly called splashboard.
dasheen		A tropical aroid (of the genus Caladium, syn.
dasher		That which dashes or agitates; as, the dasher of a churn.
dashing		Bold; spirited; showy.
dashingly	Colloquial	Conspicuously; showily.
dashism		The character of making ostentatious or blustering parade or show.
dashpot		A pneumatic or hydraulic cushion for a falling weight, as in the valve gear of a steam engine, to prevent shock.
dashy	Colloquial	Calculated to arrest attention; ostentatiously fashionable; showy.
dastard		One who meanly shrinks from danger; an arrant coward; a poltroon.
dastardize		To make cowardly; to intimidate; to dispirit; as, to dastardize my courage.
dastardliness		The quality of being dastardly; cowardice; base fear.
dastardly		Meanly timid; cowardly; base; as, a dastardly outrage.
dastardness		Dastardliness.
dastardy		Base timidity; cowardliness.
daswe	Obsolete	See Dasewe Chaucer.
dasymeter		An instrument for testing the density of gases, consisting of a thin glass globe, which is weighed in the gas or gases, and then in an atmosphere of known density.
dasypaedal		Dasypædic.
dasypaedes		Those birds whose young are covered with down when hatched.
dasypaedic		Pertaining to the Dasypædes; ptilopædic.
dasyure		A carnivorous marsupial quadruped of Australia, belonging to the genus Dasyurus.
dasyurine		Pertaining to, or like, the dasyures.
data		See Datum — something given or admitted; a fact or principle granted; that upon which an inference or an argument is based; -- used chiefly in the plural.
datable		That may be dated; having a known or ascertainable date.
dataria		Formerly, a part of the Roman chancery; now, a separate office from which are sent graces or favors, cognizable in foro externo, such as appointments to benefices.
date		The fruit of the date palm; also, the date palm itself.
dateless		Without date; having no fixed time.
dater		One who dates.
datiscin		A white crystalline glucoside extracted from the bastard hemp (Datisca cannabina).
dative		(Gram.) Noting the case of a noun which expresses the remoter object, and is generally indicated in English by to or for with the objective.
datively		As a gift.
datolite		A borosilicate of lime commonly occuring in glassy,, greenish crystals.
datum		Something given or admitted; a fact or principle granted; that upon which an inference or an argument is based; -- used chiefly in the plural.
datura		A genus of solanaceous plants, with large funnel-shaped flowers and a four-celled, capsular fruit.
daturine		Atropine; -- called also daturia and daturina.
daub		To smear with soft, adhesive matter, as pitch, slime, mud, etc.; to plaster; to bedaub; to besmear.
dauber		One who, or that which, daubs; especially, a coarse, unskillful painter.
daubery		A daubing; specious coloring; false pretenses.
daubing		The act of one who daubs; that which is daubed.
daubreelite		A sulphide of chromium observed in some meteoric irons.
daubry		A daubing; specious coloring; false pretenses.
dauby		Smeary; viscous; glutinous; adhesive.
daughter		The female offspring of the human species; a female child of any age; -- applied also to the lower animals.
daughter-in-law		The wife of one's son.
daughterliness		The state of a daughter, or the conduct becoming a daughter.
daughterly		Becoming a daughter; filial.
dauk		See Dawk, v. t., to cut or gush.
daun	Obsolete	A variant of Dan, a title of honor.
daunt		To repress or subdue the courage of; to check by fear of danger; to cow; to intimidate; to dishearten.
daunter		One who daunts.
dauntless		Incapable of being daunted; undaunted; bold; fearless; intrepid.
dauphin		The title of the eldest son of the king of France, and heir to the crown.
dauphine		The title of the wife of the dauphin.
dauphiness		The title of the wife of the dauphin.
dauw		The striped quagga, or Burchell's zebra, of South Africa (Asinus Burchellii); -- called also peechi, or peetsi.
davenport		A kind of small writing table, generally somewhat ornamental, and forming a piece of furniture for the parlor or boudoir.
davidic		Of or pertaining to David, the king and psalmist of Israel, or to his family.
davit		(a) A spar formerly used on board of ships, as a crane to hoist the flukes of the anchor to the top of the bow, without injuring the sides of the ship; -- called also the fish davit.
davyne		A variety of nephelite from Vesuvius.
davyum		A rare metallic element found in platinum ore.
daw		A European bird of the Crow family (Corvus monedula), often nesting in church towers and ruins; a jackdaw.
dawdle		To waste time in trifling employment; to trifle; to saunter.
dawdler		One who wastes time in trifling employments; an idler; a trifler.
dawish		Like a daw.
dawk		See Dak — post; mail; also, the mail or postal arrangements; -- spelt also dawk, and dauk.
dawn		To begin to grow light in the morning; to grow light; to break, or begin to appear; as, the day dawns; the morning dawns.
dawsonite		A hydrous carbonate of alumina and soda, occuring in white, bladed crustals.
day		The time of light, or interval between one night and the next; the time between sunrise and sunset, or from dawn to darkness; hence, the light; sunshine.
day-coal		The upper stratum of coal, as nearest the light or surface.
day-labor		Labor hired or performed by the day.
day-laborer		One who works by the day; -- usually applied to a farm laborer, or to a workman who does not work at any particular trade.
day-net		A net for catching small birds.
day-peep	Poetic	The dawn.
day-star		The morning star; the star which ushers in the day.
dayaks		See Dyaks — ; sing. Dyak. (Ethnol.) The aboriginal and most numerous inhabitants of Borneo.
daybook		A journal of accounts; a primary record book in which are recorded the debts and credits, or accounts of the day, in their order, and from which they are transferred to the journal.
daybreak		The time of the first appearance of light in the morning.
daydream		A vain fancy speculation; a reverie; a castle in the air; unfounded hope.
daydreamer		One given to draydreams.
dayflower		A genus consisting mostly of tropical perennial herbs (Commelina), having ephemeral flowers.
dayfly		A neuropterous insect of the genus Ephemera and related genera, of many species, and inhabiting fresh water in the larval state; the ephemeral fly; -- so called because it commonly lives but one day in the winged or adult state.
daylight		The light of day as opposed to the darkness of night; the light of the sun, as opposed to that of the moon or to artificial light.
daymaid	Obsolete	A dairymaid.
daymare		A kind of incubus which occurs during wakefulness, attended by the peculiar pressure on the chest which characterizes nightmare.
daysman		An umpire or arbiter; a mediator.
dayspring		The beginning of the day, or first appearance of light; the dawn; hence, the beginning.
daytime		The time during which there is daylight, as distinguished from the night.
daywoman	Obsolete	A dairymaid.
daze		To stupefy with excess of light; with a blow, with cold, or with fear; to confuse; to benumb.
dazzle		To overpower with light; to confuse the sight of by brilliance of light.
dazzlement		Dazzling flash, glare, or burst of light.
dazzlingly		In a dazzling manner.
