de-		A prefix from Latin de down, from, away; as in debark, decline, decease, deduct, decamp.	Latin de.
deacon		(Eccl.) An officer in Christian churches appointed to perform certain subordinate duties varying in different communions.	Old English diacon, from Latin diaconus, from Greek διάκονος.
deaconess		A female deacon; as: (a) (Primitive Ch.) One of an order of women whose duties resembled those of deacons.	
deaconhood		The state of being a deacon; office of a deacon; deaconship.	
deaconry		See Deaconship — the office or ministry of a deacon or deaconess.	
deaconship		The office or ministry of a deacon or deaconess.	
dead		Deprived of life; -- opposed to alive and living; reduced to that state of a being in which the organs of motion and life have irrevocably ceased to perform their functions; as, a dead tree; a dead man.	Middle English ded.
dead-eye		A round, flattish, wooden block, encircled by a rope, or an iron band, and pierced with three holes to receive the lanyard; -- used to extend the shrouds and stays, and for other purposes.	
dead-hearted		Having a dull, faint heart; spiritless; listless. -- Dead"*heart`ed*ness, n.	
dead-pay		Pay drawn for soldiers, or others, really dead, whose names are kept on the rolls.	
dead-reckoning		See under Dead, a.	
dead-stroke		Making a stroke without recoil; deadbeat.	
deadbeat		Making a beat without recoil; giving indications by a single beat or excursion…	
deadborn		Stillborn.	
deaden		To make as dead; to impair in vigor, force, activity, or sensation; to lessen the force or acuteness of; to blunt; as, to deaden the natural powers or feelings; to deaden a sound.	
deadener		One who, or that which, deadens or checks.	
deadhead	Colloquial	One who receives free tickets for theaters, public conveyances, etc.	
deadhearted		Having a dull, faint heart; spiritless; listless. -- Dead"*heart`ed*ness, n.	
deadhouse		A morgue; a place for the temporary reception and exposure of dead bodies.	
deadish		Somewhat dead, dull, or lifeless; deathlike.	
deadlatch		A kind of latch whose bolt may be so locked by a detent that it can not be opened from the inside by the handle, or from the outside by the latch key.	
deadlight		A strong shutter, made to fit open ports and keep out water in a storm.	
deadlihood	Obsolete	State of the dead.	
deadliness		The quality of being deadly.	
deadlock		A lock which is not self-latching, but requires a key to throw the bolt forward.	
deadly		Capable of causing death; mortal; fatal; destructive; certain or likely to cause death; as, a deadly blow or wound.	Old English deadlic.
deadness		The state of being destitute of life, vigor, spirit, activity, etc.; dullness; inertness; languor; coldness; vapidness; indifference; as, the deadness of a limb, a body, or a tree; the deadness of an eye…	
deads		The substances which inclose the ore on every side.	
deadwood		(Naut.) A mass of timbers built into the bow and stern of a vessel to give solidity.	
deadworks		The parts of a ship above the water when she is laden.	
deaf		Wanting the sense of hearing, either wholly or in part; unable to perceive sounds; hard of hearing; as, a deaf man.	Old English deaf.
deaf-mute		A person who is deaf and dumb; one who, through deprivation or defect of hearing, has either failed the acquire the power of speech, or has lost it.	
deaf-mutism		The condition of being a deaf-mute.	
deafen		To make deaf; to deprive of the power of hearing; to render incapable of perceiving sounds distinctly.	
deafening		The act or process of rendering impervious to sound, as a floor or wall; also, the material with which the spaces are filled in this process; pugging.	
deafly	English dialect	Without sense of sounds; obscurely.	
deafness		Incapacity of perceiving sounds; the state of the organs which prevents the impression which constitute hearing; want of the sense of hearing.	
deal		A part or portion; a share; hence, an indefinite quantity, degree, or extent, degree, or extent; as, a deal of time and trouble; a deal of cold.	Middle English delen, from Old English dælan.
dealbate	Obsolete	To whiten.	
dealbation	Obsolete	Act of bleaching; a whitening.	
dealer		One who deals; one who has to do, or has concern, with others; esp., a trader, a trafficker, a shopkeeper, a broker, or a merchant; as, a dealer in dry goods; a dealer in stocks; a retail dealer.	
dealfish		A long, thin fish of the arctic seas (Trachypterus arcticus).	
dealing		The act of one who deals; distribution of anything, as of cards to the players; method of business; traffic; intercourse; transaction; as, to have dealings with a person.	
dealth	Obsolete	Share dealt.	
deambulate	Obsolete	To walk abroad.	
deambulation	Obsolete	A walking abroad; a promenading.	Latin deambulatio.
deambulatory	Obsolete	Going about from place to place; wandering; of or pertaining to a deambulatory.	Latin deambulatorium.
dean		A dignitary or presiding officer in certain ecclesiastical and lay bodies; esp., an ecclesiastical dignitary, subordinate to a bishop.	Anglo-Norman deen, from Old French deien, from Latin decanus.
deanery		The office or the revenue of a dean. See the Note under Benefice, n., 3.	
deanship		The office of a dean.	
dear		Bearing a high price; high-priced; costly; expensive.	Middle English dere, from Old English deore.
dear-bought		Bought at a high price; as, dear-bought experience.	
dear-loved		Greatly beloved.	
dearborn		A four-wheeled carriage, with curtained sides.	
deare	Obsolete	variant of Dere, v. t. & n.	
dearie		Same as Deary.	
dearling	Obsolete	A darling.	
dearly		In a dear manner; with affection; heartily; earnestly; as, to love one dearly.	
dearn	Obsolete	Secret; lonely; solitary; dreadful.	
dearness		The quality or state of being dear; costliness; excess of price.	
dearth		Scarcity which renders dear; want; lack; specifically, lack of food on account of failure of crops; famine.	
dearticulate		To disjoint.	
dearworth	Obsolete	Precious.	
deary		A dear; a darling.	
deas	Scots	See Dais — a platform slightly raised above the floor of a hall or large room, giving distinction to the table and seats placed upon it for the chief guests.	
death		The cessation of all vital phenomena without capability of resuscitation, either in animals or plants.	Middle English deeth, from Old English deaþ.
deathbed		The bed in which a person dies; hence, the closing hours of life of one who dies by sickness or the like; the last sickness.	
deathbird		Tengmalm's or Richardson's owl (Nyctale Tengmalmi); -- so called from a superstition of the North American Indians that its note presages death.	
deathblow		A mortal or crushing blow; a stroke or event which kills or destroys.	
deathful		Full of death or slaughter; murderous; destructive; bloody.	
deathfulness		Appearance of death.	
deathless		Not subject to death, destruction, or extinction; immortal; undying; imperishable; as, deathless beings; deathless fame.	
deathlike	Obsolete	Resembling death.	
deathliness		The quality of being deathly; deadliness.	
deathly		Deadly; fatal; mortal; destructive.	
deathsman	Obsolete	An executioner; a headsman or hangman.	
deathward		Toward death.	
deathwatch		(Zoöl.) (a) A small beetle (Anobium tessellatum and other allied species).	
deauration	Obsolete	Act of gilding.	
deave	Scots	To stun or stupefy with noise; to deafen.	
debacchate		To rave as a bacchanal.	
debacchation		Wild raving or debauchery.	Latin debacchatio.
debacle		A breaking or bursting forth; a violent rush or flood of waters which breaks down opposing barriers, and hurls forward and disperses blocks of stone and other débris.	French débâcle.
debar		To cut off from entrance, as if by a bar or barrier; to preclude; to hinder from approach, entry, or enjoyment; to shut out or exclude; to deny or refuse; -- with from, and sometimes with of.	
debarb	Obsolete	To deprive of the beard.	
debark		To go ashore from a ship or boat; to disembark; to put ashore.	French débarquer.
debarkation		Disembarkation.	
debarment		Hindrance from approach; exclusion.	
debarrass		To disembarrass; to relieve.	French débarrasser.
debase		To reduce from a higher to a lower state or grade of worth, dignity, purity, station, etc.; to degrade; to lower; to deteriorate; to abase; as, to debase the character by crime; to debase the mind by frivolity…	
debased		Turned upside down from its proper position; inverted; reversed.	
debasement		The act of debasing or the state of being debased.	
debaser		One who, or that which, debases.	
debasingly		In a manner to debase.	
debatable		Liable to be debated; disputable; subject to controversy or contention; open to question or dispute; as, a debatable question.	
debate		To engage in combat for; to strive for.	Old French debatre.
debateful	Obsolete	Full of contention; contentious; quarrelsome.	
debatefully	Obsolete	With contention.	
debatement		Controversy; deliberation; debate.	
debater		One who debates; one given to argument; a disputant; a controvertist.	
debating		The act of discussing or arguing; discussion.	
debatingly		In the manner of a debate.	
debauch		To lead away from purity or excellence; to corrupt in character or principles; to mar; to vitiate; to pollute; to seduce; as, to debauch one's self by intemperance; to debauch a woman; to debauch an army.	
debauched		Dissolute; dissipated.	
debauchedly		In a profligate manner.	
debauchedness		The state of being debauched; intemperance.	
debauchee		One who is given to intemperance or bacchanalian excesses; a man habitually lewd; a libertine.	
debaucher		One who debauches or corrupts others; especially, a seducer to lewdness.	
debauchery		Corruption of fidelity; seduction from virtue, duty, or allegiance.	
debauchment		The act of corrupting; the act of seducing from virtue or duty.	
debauchness	Obsolete	Debauchedness.	
debeige		A kind of woolen or mixed dress goods.	
debel	Obsolete	To conquer.	
debellate	Obsolete	To subdue; to conquer in war.	
debellation	Obsolete	The act of conquering or subduing.	Latin debellatio.
debenture		A writing acknowledging a debt; a writing or certificate signed by a public officer, as evidence of a debt due to some person; the sum thus due.	
debentured		Entitled to drawback or debenture; as, debentured goods.	
debilitant		Diminishing the energy of organs; reducing excitement; as, a debilitant drug.	
debilitate		To impair the strength of; to weaken; to enfeeble; as, to debilitate the body by intemperance.	Latin debilitatus.
debilitation		The act or process of debilitating, or the condition of one who is debilitated; weakness.	
debility		The state of being weak; weakness; feebleness; languor.	Middle English debylite, from Old French debilite, from Latin debilitas.
debit		A debt; an entry on the debtor (Dr.) side of an account; -- mostly used adjectively; as, the debit side of an account.	Latin debilitum.
debitor	Obsolete	A debtor.	
debituminization		The act of depriving of bitumen.	
debituminize		To deprive of bitumen.	
deblai		The cavity from which the earth for parapets, etc. (remblai), is taken.	
debonair		Characterized by courteousness, affability, or gentleness; of good appearance and manners; graceful; complaisant.	
debonairity	Obsolete	Debonairness.	Old French debonaireté.
debonairly		Courteously; elegantly.	
debonairness		The quality of being debonair; good humor; gentleness; courtesy.	
debosh	Obsolete	To debauch. & Fl.	
deboshment	Obsolete	Debauchment.	
debouch		To march out from a wood, defile, or other confined spot, into open ground; to issue.	French déboucher.
debouche		A place for exit; an outlet; hence, a market for goods.	French déboucher.
debouchure		The outward opening of a river, of a valley, or of a strait.	
debris		(Geol.) Broken and detached fragments, taken collectively; especially, fragments detached from a rock or mountain, and piled up at the base.	French débris, from Old French debrisier.
debruised		Surmounted by an ordinary; as, a lion is debruised when a bend or other ordinary is placed over it, as in the cut.	
debt		That which is due from one person to another, whether money, goods, or services; that which one person is bound to pay to another, or to perform for his benefit; thing owed; obligation; liability.	Middle English dett, from Old French dete, from Latin debita.
debted		Indebted; obliged to.	
debtee		One to whom a debt is due; creditor; -- correlative to debtor.	
debtless		Free from debt.	
debtor		One who owes a debt; one who is indebted; -- correlative to creditor. bring your latter hazard back again, And thankfully rest debtor for the first.	
debulliate	Obsolete	To boil over.	
debullition	Obsolete	A bubbling or boiling over.	
deburse	Obsolete	To disburse.	
debuscope		A modification of the kaleidoscope; -- used to reflect images so as to form beautiful designs.	
debut		A beginning or first attempt; hence, a first appearance before the public, as of an actor or public speaker.	French début.
debutant		A person who makes his (or her) first appearance before the public.	French débutant.
debutante		A person who makes his (or her) first appearance before the public.	
deca-		A prefix, from Gr. de`ka, signifying ten; specifically (Metric System), a prefix signifying the weight or measure that is ten times the principal unit.	Greek δέκα.
decacerata		The division of Cephalopoda which includes the squids, cuttlefishes, and others having ten arms or tentacles; -- called also Decapoda.	
decachord		An ancient Greek musical instrument of ten strings, resembling the harp.	
decachordon		An ancient Greek musical instrument of ten strings, resembling the harp.	
decacuminated	Obsolete	Having the point or top cut off.	
decad		A decade.	
decadal		Pertaining to ten; consisting of tens.	
decade		A group or division of ten; esp., a period of ten years; a decennium; as, a decade of years or days; a decade of soldiers; the second decade of Livy.	
decadence		A falling away; decay; deterioration; declension.	French décadence, from Latin decadentia.
decadency		A falling away; decay; deterioration; declension.	
decadent		Decaying; deteriorating.	
decadist		A writer of a book divided into decades; as, Livy was a decadist.	
decagon		A plane figure having ten sides and ten angles; any figure having ten angles.	
decagonal		Pertaining to a decagon; having ten sides.	
decagram		A weight of the metric system; ten grams, equal to about 154.32 grains avoirdupois.	
decagramme		A weight of the metric system; ten grams, equal to about 154.32 grains avoirdupois.	
decagynia		A Linnæan order of plants characterized by having ten styles.	
decagynian		Belonging to the Decagynia; having ten styles.	
decahedral		Having ten sides.	
decahedron		A solid figure or body inclosed by ten plane surfaces.	
decalcification		The removal of calcareous matter.	
decalcify		To deprive of calcareous matter; thus, to decalcify bones is to remove the stony part, and leave only the gelatin.	
decalcomania		The art or process of transferring pictures and designs to china, glass, marble, etc., and permanently fixing them thereto.	French décalcomanie.
decalcomanie		The art or process of transferring pictures and designs to china, glass, marble, etc., and permanently fixing them thereto.	French décalcomanie.
decaliter		A measure of capacity in the metric system; a cubic volume of ten liters, equal to about 610.24 cubic inches, that is, 2.642 wine gallons.	
decalitre		A measure of capacity in the metric system; a cubic volume of ten liters, equal to about 610.24 cubic inches, that is, 2.642 wine gallons.	
decalog		Decalogue.	
decalogist		One who explains the decalogue.	
decalogue		The Ten Commandments or precepts given by God to Moses on Mount Sinai, and originally written on two tables of stone.	
decameron		A celebrated collection of tales, supposed to be related in ten days; -- written in the 14th century, by Boccaccio, an Italian.	
decameter		A measure of length in the metric system; ten meters, equal to about 393.7 inches.	
decametre		A measure of length in the metric system; ten meters, equal to about 393.7 inches.	
decamp		To break up a camp; to move away from a camping ground, usually by night or secretly.	
decampment		Departure from a camp; a marching off.	
decanal		Pertaining to a dean or deanery.	French décanal.
decandria		A Linnæan class of plants characterized by having ten stamens.	
decandrian		Belonging to the Decandria; having ten stamens.	
decandrous		Belonging to the Decandria; having ten stamens.	
decane		A liquid hydrocarbon, C10H22, of the paraffin series, including several isomeric modifications.	
decangular		Having ten angles.	
decani		Used of the side of the choir on which the dean's stall is placed; decanal; -- correlative to cantoris; as, the decanal, or decani, side.	
decant		To pour off gently, as liquor, so as not to disturb the sediment; or to pour from one vessel into another; as, to decant wine.	
decantate	Obsolete	To decant.	
decantation		The act of pouring off a clear liquor gently from its lees or sediment, or from one vessel into another.	
decanter		A vessel used to decant liquors, or for receiving decanted liquors; a kind of glass bottle used for holding wine or other liquors, from which drinking glasses are filled.	
decaphyllous		Having ten leaves.	
decapitate		To cut off the head of; to behead.	French décapiter, from Latin decapitare.
decapitation		The act of beheading; beheading.	
decapod		A crustacean with ten feet or legs, as a crab; one of the Decapoda.	
decapoda		(Zoöl.) The order of Crustacea which includes the shrimps, lobsters, crabs, etc.	
decapodal		Belonging to the decapods; having ten feet; ten-footed.	
decapodous		Belonging to the decapods; having ten feet; ten-footed.	
decarbonate		To deprive of carbonic acid.	
decarbonization		The action or process of depriving a substance of carbon.	
decarbonize		To deprive of carbon; as, to decarbonize steel; to decarbonize the blood.	
decarbonizer		He who, or that which, decarbonizes a substance.	
decarburization		The act, process, or result of decarburizing.	
decarburize		To deprive of carbon; to remove the carbon from.	
decard	Obsolete	To discard.	
decardinalize		To depose from the rank of cardinal.	
decastere		A measure of capacity, equal to ten steres, or ten cubic meters.	
decastich		A poem consisting of ten lines.	
decastyle		Having ten columns in front; -- said of a portico, temple, etc. -- n.	
decasyllabic		Having, or consisting of, ten syllables.	
decathlon		In the modern Olympic Games, a composite contest consisting of a 100-meter run, a broad jump, putting the shot, a running high-jump, a 400-meter run, throwing the discus, a 100-meter hurdle race, pole vaulting…	
decatoic		Pertaining to, or derived from, decane.	
decay		To pass gradually from a sound, prosperous, or perfect state, to one of imperfection, adversity, or dissolution; to waste away; to decline; to fail; to become weak, corrupt, or disintegrated; to rot; to perish; as, a tree decays…	Old French decair.
decayed		Fallen, as to physical or social condition; affected with decay; rotten; as, decayed vegetation or vegetables; a decayed fortune or gentleman. -- De*cay"ed*ness, n.	
decayer		A causer of decay.	
deccagynous		Belonging to the Decagynia; having ten styles.	
decease		Departure, especially departure from this life; death.	Middle French décès.
deceased		Passed away; dead; gone.	
decede	Obsolete	To withdraw.	Latin decedo.
decedent		Removing; departing.	Latin decedens.
deceit		An attempt or disposition to deceive or lead into error; any declaration, artifice, or practice, which misleads another, or causes him to believe what is false; a contrivance to entrap; deception; a wily device; fraud.	
deceitful		Full of, or characterized by, deceit; serving to mislead or insnare; trickish; fraudulent; cheating; insincere.	
deceitfully		With intent to deceive.	
deceitfulness		The disposition to deceive; as, a man's deceitfulness may be habitual.	
deceitless		Free from deceit.	
deceivable		Subject to deceit; capable of being misled.	
deceivableness		Liability to be deceived or misled; as, the deceivableness of a child.	
deceivably		In a deceivable manner.	
deceive		To lead into error; to cause to believe what is false, or disbelieve what is true; to impose upon; to mislead; to cheat; to disappoint; to delude; to insnare.	Middle English deceyven, from Old French deceivre, from Latin decipere.
deceiver		One who deceives; one who leads into error; a cheat; an impostor.	
december		The twelfth and last month of the year, containing thirty-one days.	
decembrist		One of those who conspired for constitutional government against the Emperor Nicholas on his accession to the throne at the death of Alexander I., in December, 1825; -- called also Dekabrist.	
decemdentate		Having ten points or teeth.	
decemfid		Cleft into ten parts.	
decemlocular		Having ten cells for seeds.	
decempedal		(Zoöl.) Having ten feet; decapodal.	
decemvir		One of a body of ten magistrates in ancient Rome.	Latin decem.
decemviral		Pertaining to the decemvirs in Rome.	
decemvirate		The office or term of office of the decemvirs in Rome.	
decemvirship		The office of a decemvir.	
decence	Obsolete	Decency.	
decency		The quality or state of being decent, suitable, or becoming, in words or behavior; propriety of form in social intercourse, in actions, or in discourse; proper formality; becoming ceremony; seemliness; hence…	
decene		One of the higher hydrocarbons, C10H20, of the ethylene series.	
decennary		A period of ten years.	
decennial		Consisting of ten years; happening every ten years; as, a decennial period; decennial games.	Latin decennialis.
decennium		A period of ten years.	
decennoval		Pertaining to the number nineteen; of nineteen years.	
decennovary		Pertaining to the number nineteen; of nineteen years.	
decent		Suitable in words, behavior, dress, or ceremony; becoming; fit; decorous; proper; seemly; as, decent conduct; decent language.	Middle French décent.
decentralization		The action of decentralizing, or the state of being decentralized.	
decentralize		To prevent from centralizing; to cause to withdraw from the center or place of concentration; to divide and distribute (what has been united or concentrated); -- esp. said of authority, or the administration of public affairs.	
deceptible		Capable of being deceived; deceivable.	
deception		The state of being deceived or misled.	
deceptious		Tending deceive; delusive.	Latin deceptiosus.
deceptive		Tending to deceive; having power to mislead, or impress with false opinions; as, a deceptive countenance or appearance.	
deceptively		In a manner to deceive.	
deceptiveness		The power or habit of deceiving; tendency or aptness to deceive.	
deceptivity		Deceptiveness; a deception; a sham.	
deceptory		Deceptive.	Latin deceptorius.
decern	Obsolete	To perceive, discern, or decide.	
decerniture		A decree or sentence of a court.	
decerp	Obsolete	To pluck off; to crop; to gather.	
decerpt	Obsolete	Plucked off or away.	Latin decerptus.
decerptible	Obsolete	That may be plucked off, cropped, or torn away.	
decerption		The act of plucking off; a cropping.	
decertation		Contest for mastery; contention; strife.	Latin decertatio.
decession	Obsolete	Departure; decrease; -- opposed to accesion.	Latin decessio.
decharm		To free from a charm; to disenchant.	
dechristianize		To turn from, or divest of, Christianity.	
deciare		A measure of area, the tenth part of an are; ten square meters.	
decidable		Capable of being decided; determinable.	
decide		To bring to a termination, as a question, controversy, struggle, by giving the victory to one side or party; to render judgment concerning; to determine; to settle.	
decided		Free from ambiguity; unequivocal; unmistakable; unquestionable; clear; evident; as, a decided advantage.	
decidedly		In a decided manner; indisputably; clearly; thoroughly.	
decidement	Obsolete	Means of forming a decision.	
decidence		A falling off.	
decider		One who decides.	
decidua		The inner layer of the wall of the uterus, which envelops the embryo, forms a part of the placenta, and is discharged with it.	
deciduata		A group of Mammalia in which a decidua is thrown off with, or after, the fetus, as in the human species.	
deciduate		Possessed of, or characterized by, a decidua.	
deciduity		Deciduousness.	
deciduous		Falling off, or subject to fall or be shed, at a certain season, or a certain stage or interval of growth, as leaves (except of evergreens) in autumn, or as parts of animals, such as hair, teeth, antlers, etc.; also…	Latin deciduus.
deciduousness		The quality or state of being deciduous.	
decigram		A weight in the metric system; one tenth of a gram, equal to 1.5432 grains avoirdupois.	
decigramme		A weight in the metric system; one tenth of a gram, equal to 1.5432 grains avoirdupois.	
decil		An aspect or position of two planets, when they are distant from each other a tenth part of the zodiac, or 36º.	
decile		An aspect or position of two planets, when they are distant from each other a tenth part of the zodiac, or 36º.	
deciliter		A measure of capacity or volume in the metric system; one tenth of a liter, equal to 6.1022 cubic inches, or 3.38 fluid ounces.	
decilitre		A measure of capacity or volume in the metric system; one tenth of a liter, equal to 6.1022 cubic inches, or 3.38 fluid ounces.	
decillion		According to the English notation, a million involved to the tenth power, or a unit with sixty ciphers annexed; according to the French and American notation, a thousand involved to the eleventh power…	
decillionth		Pertaining to a decillion, or to the quotient of unity divided by a decillion.	
decimal		Of or pertaining to decimals; numbered or proceeding by tens; having a tenfold increase or decrease, each unit being ten times the unit next smaller; as, decimal notation; a decimal coinage.	Latin decimalis.
decimalism		The system of a decimal currency, decimal weights, measures, etc.	
decimalize		To reduce to a decimal system; as, to decimalize the currency. -- Dec`i*mal*i*za"tion, n.	
decimally		By tens; by means of decimals.	
decimate		To take the tenth part of; to tithe.	
decimation		A selection of every tenth person by lot, as for punishment.	Latin decimatio.
decimator		One who decimates.	
decime		A French coin, the tenth part of a franc, equal to about two cents.	
decimeter		A measure of length in the metric system; one tenth of a meter, equal to 3.937 inches.	
decimetre		A measure of length in the metric system; one tenth of a meter, equal to 3.937 inches.	
decimosexto		A book consisting of sheets, each of which is folded into sixteen leaves; hence, indicating, more or less definitely, a size of book; -- usually written 16mo or 16º.	
decine		One of the higher hydrocarbons, C10H15, of the acetylene series; -- called also decenylene.	
decipher		To translate from secret characters or ciphers into intelligible terms; as, to decipher a letter written in secret characters.	
decipherable		Capable of being deciphered; as, old writings not decipherable.	
decipherer		One who deciphers.	
decipheress		A woman who deciphers.	
decipherment		The act of deciphering.	
decipiency	Obsolete	State of being deceived; hallucination.	Latin decipiens.
decipium		A supposed rare element, said to be associated with cerium, yttrium, etc., in the mineral samarskite, and more recently called samarium.	
decision		The act of deciding; act of settling or terminating, as a controversy, by giving judgment on the matter at issue; determination, as of a question or doubt; settlement; conclusion.	
decisive		Having the power or quality of deciding a question or controversy; putting an end to contest or controversy; final; conclusive.	
decisory		Able to decide or determine; having a tendency to decide.	
decistere		The tenth part of the stere or cubic meter, equal to 3.531 cubic feet.	French décistère.
decitizenize		To deprive of the rights of citizenship.	
decivilize		To reduce from civilization to a savage state.	
deck		To dress, as the person; to clothe; especially, to clothe with more than ordinary elegance; to array; to adorn; to embellish.	Middle Dutch dekken.
deckel		Same as Deckle.	
decker		One who, or that which, decks or adorns; a coverer; as, a table decker.	
deckle		A separate thin wooden frame used to form the border of a hand mold, or a curb of India rubber or other material which rests on, and forms the edge of, the mold in a paper machine and determines the width of the paper.	German Deckel.
deckle-edged		Having a deckle edge; as, deckle-edged paper; a deckle-edged book.	
declaim		To speak rhetorically; to make a formal speech or oration; to harangue; specifically, to recite a speech, poem, etc., in public as a rhetorical exercise; to practice public speaking; as, the students declaim twice a week.	Latin dēclāmō.
declaimant		A declaimer.	
declaimer		One who declaims; an haranguer.	
declamation		The act or art of declaiming; rhetorical delivery; haranguing; loud speaking in public; especially, the public recitation of speeches as an exercise in schools and colleges; as, the practice declamation by students.	French déclamation, from Latin declamatio.
declamator		A declaimer.	
declamatory		Pertaining to declamation; treated in the manner of a rhetorician; as, a declamatory theme.	
declarable		Capable of being declared.	
declarant		One who declares.	
declaration		The act of declaring, or publicly announcing; explicit asserting; undisguised token of a ground or side taken on any subject; proclamation; exposition; as, the declaration of an opinion; a declaration of war, etc.	Middle English declaracion, from French déclaration, from Latin declarationem.
declarative		Making declaration, proclamation, or publication; explanatory; assertive; declaratory.	
declaratively		By distinct assertion; not impliedly; in the form of a declaration.	
declarator		A form of action by which some right or interest is sought to be judicially declared.	
declaratorily		In a declaratory manner.	
declaratory		Making declaration, explanation, or exhibition; making clear or manifest; affirmative; expressive; as, a clause declaratory of the will of the legislature.	
declare		To make known by language; to communicate or manifest explicitly and plainly in any way; to exhibit; to publish; to proclaim; to announce.	French déclarer, from Latin declarare.
declaredly		Avowedly; explicitly.	
declaredness		The state of being declared.	
declarement	Obsolete	Declaration.	
declarer		One who makes known or proclaims; that which exhibits.	
declass		To remove from a class; to separate or degrade from one's class.	
declension		The act or the state of declining; declination; descent; slope.	Middle English declenson, from Middle French declinaison, from Latin declinatio.
declensional		Belonging to declension.	
declinable		Capable of being declined; admitting of declension or inflection; as, declinable parts of speech.	
declinal		Declining; sloping.	
declinate		Bent downward or aside; (Bot.) bending downward in a curve; declined.	Latin declinatus.
declination		The act or state of bending downward; inclination; as, declination of the head.	Middle English declinacioun, from Middle French declination, from Latin declinatio.
declinator		An instrument for taking the declination or angle which a plane makes with the horizontal plane.	
declinatory		Containing or involving a declination or refusal, as of submission to a charge or sentence.	Latin declinatorius.
declinature		The act of declining or refusing; as, the declinature of an office.	
decline		To bend, or lean downward; to take a downward direction; to bend over or hang down, as from weakness, weariness, despondency, etc.; to condescend.	Middle English declinen, from Old French decliner, from Latin declinare.
declined		Declinate.	
decliner		He who declines or rejects.	
declinometer		An instrument for measuring the declination of the magnetic needle.	
declinous		Declinate.	
declivitous		Descending gradually; moderately steep; sloping; downhill.	Latin declivus.
declivity		Deviation from a horizontal line; gradual descent of surface; inclination downward; slope; -- opposed to acclivity, or ascent; the same slope, considered as descending, being a declivity, which, considered as ascending…	
declivous		Descending gradually; moderately steep; sloping; downhill.	
decoct		To prepare by boiling; to digest in hot or boiling water; to extract the strength or flavor of by boiling; to make an infusion of.	
decoctible		Capable of being boiled or digested.	
decoction		The act or process of boiling anything in a watery fluid to extract its virtues.	Old French décoction, from Latin decoctio.
decocture		A decoction.	
decoherer		A device for restoring a coherer to its normal condition after it has been affected by an electric wave, a process usually accomplished by some method of tapping or shaking, or by rotation of the coherer.	
decollate		To sever from the neck; to behead; to decapitate.	Latin decollare.
decollated		Decapitated; worn or cast off in the process of growth, as the apex of certain univalve shells.	
decollation		The act of beheading or state of one beheaded; -- especially used of the execution of St. John the Baptist.	
decolletage		The upper border or part of a décolleté corsage.	
decollete		Leaving the neck and shoulders uncovered; cut low in the neck, or low-necked, as a dress.	French décolleté.
decolling		Beheading.	
decolor		To deprive of color; to bleach.	
decolorant		A substance which removes color, or bleaches.	
decolorate		Deprived of color.	
decoloration		The removal or absence of color.	
decolorize		To deprive of color; to whiten.	
decomplex		Repeatedly compound; made up of complex constituents.	
decomposable		Capable of being resolved into constituent elements.	
decompose		To separate the constituent parts of; to resolve into original elements; to set free from previously existing forms of chemical combination; to bring to dissolution; to rot or decay.	
decomposed		Separated or broken up; -- said of the crest of birds when the feathers are divergent.	
decomposite		Compounded more than once; compounded with things already composite.	
decomposition		The act or process of resolving the constituent parts of a compound body or substance into its elementary parts; separation into constituent part; analysis…	
decompound		To compound or mix with that is already compound; to compound a second time.	
decompoundable		Capable of being decompounded.	
deconcentrate		To withdraw from concentration; to decentralize.	
deconcentration		Act of deconcentrating.	
deconcoct		To decompose.	
deconsecrate		To deprive of sacredness; to secularize. -- De*con`se*cra"tion, n.	
decorament	Obsolete	Ornament.	Latin decoramentum.
decorate		To deck with that which is becoming, ornamental, or honorary; to adorn; to beautify; to embellish; as, to decorate the person; to decorate an edifice; to decorate a lawn with flowers; to decorate the mind with moral beauties…	Latin decoratus.
decoration		The act of adorning, embellishing, or honoring; ornamentation.	
decorative		Suited to decorate or embellish; adorning. -- Dec"o*ra*tive*ness, n.	
decorator		One who decorates, adorns, or embellishes; specifically, an artisan whose business is the decoration of houses, esp. their interior decoration.	
decore	Obsolete	To decorate; to beautify.	
decorement	Obsolete	Ornament.	
decorous		Suitable to a character, or to the time, place, and occasion; marked with decorum; becoming; proper; seemly; befitting; as, a decorous speech; decorous behavior; a decorous dress for a judge.	
decorticate		To divest of the bark, husk, or exterior coating; to husk; to peel; to hull.	
decortication		The act of stripping off the bark, rind, hull, or outer coat.	
decorticator		A machine for decorticating wood, hulling grain, etc.; also, an instrument for removing surplus bark or moss from fruit trees.	
decorum		Propriety of manner or conduct; grace arising from suitableness of speech and behavior to one's own character, or to the place and occasion; decency of conduct; seemliness; that which is seemly or suitable.	Latin decorus.
decoy		To lead into danger by artifice; to lure into a net or snare; to entrap; to insnare; to allure; to entice; as, to decoy troops into an ambush; to decoy ducks into a net.	
decoy-duck		A duck used to lure wild ducks into a decoy; hence, a person employed to lure others into danger.	
decoy-man		A man employed in decoying wild fowl.	
decoyer		One who decoys another.	
decrease		To grow less, -- opposed to increase; to be diminished gradually, in size, degree, number, duration, etc., or in strength, quality, or excellence; as, they days decrease in length from June to December.	Old French descreistre, from Latin decrescere.
decreaseless		Suffering no decrease.	
decreasing		Becoming less and less; diminishing. -- De*creas"ing*ly, adv.	
decreation		Destruction; -- opposed to creation.	
decree		An order from one having authority, deciding what is to be done by a subordinate; also, a determination by one having power, deciding what is to be done or to take place; edict, law…	
decreeable		Capable of being decreed.	
decreer		One who decrees.	
decreet		The final judgment of the Court of Session, or of an inferior court, by which the question at issue is decided.	
decrement		The state of becoming gradually less; decrease; diminution; waste; loss.	
decrepit		Broken down with age; wasted and enfeebled by the infirmities of old age; feeble; worn out.	
decrepitate		To roast or calcine so as to cause a crackling noise; as, to decrepitate salt.	
decrepitation		The act of decrepitating; a crackling noise, such as salt makes when roasting.	
decrepitness		Decrepitude.	
decrepitude		The broken state produced by decay and the infirmities of age; infirm old age.	Latin decrepitudo.
decrescendo		With decreasing volume of sound; -- a direction to performers, either written upon the staff (abbreviated Dec., or Decresc.), or indicated by the sign.	Italian decrescendo.
decrescent		Becoming less by gradual diminution; decreasing; as, a decrescent moon.	
decretal		Appertaining to a decree; containing a decree; as, a decretal epistle.	Middle French decretal, from Latin decretalis.
decrete	Obsolete	A decree.	
decretion	Obsolete	A decrease.	
decretist		One who studies, or professes the knowledge of, the decretals.	Latin decretista.
decretive		Having the force of a decree; determining.	
decretorial		Decretory; authoritative.	
decretorily		In a decretory or definitive manner; by decree.	
decretory		Established by a decree; definitive; settled.	Latin decretorius.
decrew	Obsolete	To decrease.	
decrial		A crying down; a clamorous censure; condemnation by censure.	
decrier		One who decries.	
decrown		To deprive of a crown; to discrown.	
decrustation		The removal of a crust.	
decry		To cry down; to censure as faulty, mean, or worthless; to clamor against; to blame clamorously; to discredit; to disparage.	Old French descrier.
decubation	Obsolete	Act of lying down; decumbence.	
decubitus		An attitude assumed in lying down; as, the dorsal decubitus.	
deculassement		An accidental blowing off of, or other serious damage to, the breechblock of a gun; also, a removal of the breechblock for the purpose of disabling the gun.	
deculassment		An accidental blowing off of, or other serious damage to, the breechblock of a gun; also, a removal of the breechblock for the purpose of disabling the gun.	
decuman		Large; chief; -- applied to an extraordinary billow, supposed by some to be every tenth in order.	
decumbence		The act or posture of lying down.	
decumbency		The act or posture of lying down.	
decumbent		Lying down; prostrate; recumbent.	Latin decumbere.
decumbently		In a decumbent posture.	
decumbiture		Confinement to a sick bed, or time of taking to one's bed from sickness.	
decuple		Tenfold.	French décuple, from Latin decuplus.
decurion		A head or chief over ten; especially, an officer who commanded a division of ten soldiers.	Latin decuria.
decurionate		The office of a decurion.	Latin decurionatus.
decurrence		The act of running down; a lapse.	
decurrent		Extending downward; -- said of a leaf whose base extends downward and forms a wing along the stem. -- De*cur"rent*ly, adv.	
decursion	Obsolete	A flowing; also, a hostile incursion.	Latin decursio.
decursive		Running down; decurrent.	
decursively		In a decursive manner.	
decurt	Obsolete	To cut short; to curtail.	
decurtation	Obsolete	Act of cutting short.	
decury		A set or squad of ten men under a decurion.	Latin decuria.
decussate		To cross at an acute angle; to cut or divide in the form of X; to intersect; -- said of lines in geometrical figures, rays of light, nerves, etc.	Latin decusso.
decussated		Crossed; intersected.	
decussately		In a decussate manner.	
decussation		Act of crossing at an acute angle, or state of being thus crossed; an intersection in the form of an X; as, the decussation of lines, nerves, etc.	Latin decussationem.
decussative		Intersecting at acute angles.	
decussatively		Crosswise; in the form of an X.	
decyl		A hydrocarbon radical, C10H21, never existing alone, but regarded as the characteristic constituent of a number of compounds of the paraffin series.	
decylic		Allied to, or containing, the radical decyl.	
dedalian		See Dædalian.	
dedalous		See Dædalous.	
dedans		A division, at one end of a tennis court, for spectators.	
dedecorate	Obsolete	To bring to shame; to disgrace.	
dedecoration	Obsolete	Disgrace; dishonor.	Latin dedecoratio.
dedecorous		Disgraceful; unbecoming.	Latin dedecorus.
dedentition		The shedding of teeth.	
dedicate		Dedicated; set apart; devoted; consecrated. -- Devoted; consecrated; addicted.	
dedicatee		One to whom a thing is dedicated; -- correlative to dedicator.	
dedication		The act of setting apart or consecrating to a divine Being, or to a sacred use, often with religious solemnities; solemn appropriation; as, the dedication of Solomon's temple.	
dedicator		One who dedicates; more especially, one who inscribes a book to the favor of a patron, or to one whom he desires to compliment.	
dedicatorial		Dedicatory.	
dedicatory		Constituting or serving as a dedication; complimental.	
dedimus		A writ to commission private persons to do some act in place of a judge, as to examine a witness, etc. Bouvier.	Latin dedimus.
dedition		The act of yielding; surrender.	Latin deditio.
dedolent		Feeling no compunction; apathetic.	
deduce		To derive or draw; to derive by logical process; to obtain or arrive at as the result of reasoning; to gather, as a truth or opinion, from what precedes or from premises; to infer; -- with from or out of.	Latin deducere.
deducement		Inference; deduction; thing deduced.	
deducibility		Deducibleness.	
deducible		Capable of being deduced or inferred; derivable by reasoning, as a result or consequence.	
deducibleness		The quality of being deducible; deducibility.	
deducibly		By deduction.	
deducive		That deduces; inferential.	
deduct		To take away, separate, or remove, in numbering, estimating, or calculating; to subtract; -- often with from or out of.	Latin deductus.
deductible		Capable of being deducted, taken away, or withdrawn.	
deduction		Act of deducting or taking away; subtraction; as, the deduction of the subtrahend from the minuend.	
deductive		Of or pertaining to deduction; capable of being deduced from premises; deducible.	
deductively		By deduction; by way of inference; by consequence.	
deductor		The pilot whale or blackfish.	
deduit	Obsolete	Delight; pleasure.	
deduplication		The division of that which is morphologically one organ into two or more, as the division of an organ of a plant into a pair or cluster.	
deed		That which is done or effected by a responsible agent; an act; an action; a thing done; -- a word of extensive application, including, whatever is done, good or bad, great or small.	Middle English dede, from Old English ded.
deedful		Full of deeds or exploits; active; stirring.	
deedless		Not performing, or not having performed, deeds or exploits; inactive.	
deedy		Industrious; active.	
deem	Obsolete	To pass judgment.	Middle English demen, from Old English deman.
deemster		A judge in the Isle of Man who decides controversies without process.	Middle English demester.
deep		Extending far below the surface; of great perpendicular dimension (measured from the surface downward, and distinguished from high, which is measured upward); far to the bottom; having a certain depth; as, a deep sea.	Middle English depe, from Old English deop.
deep-fet	Obsolete	Deeply fetched or drawn.	
deep-laid		Laid deeply; formed with cunning and sagacity; as, deep-laid plans.	
deep-mouthed		Having a loud and sonorous voice.	
deep-read		Profoundly book-learned.	
deep-sea		Of or pertaining to the deeper parts of the sea; as, a deep-sea line (i. e., a line to take soundings at a great depth); deep-sea lead; deep-sea soundings, explorations, etc.	
deep-waisted		Having a deep waist, as when, in a ship, the poop and forecastle are much elevated above the deck.	
deepen		To make deep or deeper; to increase the depth of; to sink lower; as, to deepen a well or a channel.	
deeply		At or to a great depth; far below the surface; as, to sink deeply.	
deepness		The state or quality of being deep, profound, mysterious, secretive, etc.; depth; profundity; -- opposed to shallowness.	
deer		(Zoöl.) A ruminant of the genus Cervus, of many species, and of related genera of the family Cervidæ.	Middle English deere.
deer-neck		A deerlike, or thin, ill-formed neck, as of a horse.	
deerberry		A shrub of the blueberry group (Vaccinium stamineum); also, its bitter, greenish white berry; -- called also squaw huckleberry.	
deergrass		An American genus (Rhexia) of perennial herbs, with opposite leaves, and showy flowers (usually bright purple), with four petals and eight stamens, -- the only genus of the order Melastomaceæ inhabiting a temperate clime.	
deerhound		One of a large and fleet breed of hounds used in hunting deer; a staghound.	
deerlet		A chevrotain. See Kanchil, and Napu.	
deerskin		The skin of a deer, or the leather which is made from it.	
deerstalker		One who practices deerstalking.	
deerstalking		The hunting of deer on foot, by stealing upon them unawares.	
deesis		An invocation of, or address to, the Supreme Being.	Greek δέησις.
deess	Obsolete	A goddess.	French déesse.
deev		See Dev — a god; a deity; a divine being; an idol; a king.	
deface		To destroy or mar the face or external appearance of; to disfigure; to injure, spoil, or mar, by effacing or obliterating important features or portions of; as, to deface a monument; to deface an edifice; to deface writing…	
defacement		The act of defacing, or the condition of being defaced; injury to the surface or exterior; obliteration.	
defacer		One who, or that which, defaces or disfigures.	
defail	Obsolete	To cause fail.	
defailance	Obsolete	Failure; miscarriage.	French défaillance.
defailure	Obsolete	Failure.	
defalcate		To cut off; to take away or deduct a part of; -- used chiefly of money, accounts, rents, income, etc. To show what may be practicably and safely defalcated from the.	
defalcation		A lopping off; a diminution; abatement; deficit. Specifically: Reduction of a claim by deducting a counterclaim; set-off.	
defalcator		A defaulter or embezzler.	
defalk	Obsolete	To lop off; to bate.	
defamation		Act of injuring another's reputation by any slanderous communication, written or oral; the wrong of maliciously injuring the good name of another; slander; detraction; calumny; aspersion.	
defamatory		Containing defamation; injurious to reputation; calumnious; slanderous; as, defamatory words; defamatory writings.	
defame		To harm or destroy the good fame or reputation of; to disgrace; especially, to speak evil of maliciously; to dishonor by slanderous reports; to calumniate; to asperse.	
defamer		One who defames; a slanderer; a detractor; a calumniator.	
defamingly		In a defamatory manner.	
defamous	Obsolete	Defamatory.	
defatigable		Capable of being wearied or tired out.	
defatigate		To weary or tire out; to fatigue.	
defatigation		Weariness; fatigue.	Latin defatigatio.
default		A failing or failure; omission of that which ought to be done; neglect to do whaas, this evil has happened through the governor's default.	
defaulter		One who makes default; one who fails to appear in court when court when called.	
defeasance		A rendering null or void.	
defeasanced		Liable to defeasance; capable of being made void or forfeited.	
defeasible		Capable of being annulled or made void; as, a defeasible title. -- De*fea"si*ble*ness, n.	
defeat		To render null and void, as a title; to frustrate, as hope; to deprive, as of an estate.	French desfait.
defeature	Obsolete	Overthrow; defeat. & Fl.	
defeatured		Changed in features; deformed.	
defecate		Freed from anything that can pollute, as dregs, lees, etc.; refined; purified.	
defecation		The act of separating from impurities, as lees or dregs; purification.	
defecator		That which cleanses or purifies; esp., an apparatus for removing the feculencies of juices and sirups.	
defect		Want or absence of something necessary for completeness or perfection; deficiency; -- opposed to superfluity.	Middle English defaicte, from Latin defectus.
defectibility		Deficiency; imperfection.	
defectible		Liable to defect; imperfect.	
defection		Act of abandoning a person or cause to which one is bound by allegiance or duty, or to which one has attached himself; desertion; failure in duty; a falling away; apostasy; backsliding.	
defectionist		One who advocates or encourages defection.	
defectious	Obsolete	Having defects; imperfect.	
defective		Wanting in something; incomplete; lacking a part; deficient; imperfect; faulty; -- applied either to natural or moral qualities; as, a defective limb; defective timber; a defective copy or account; a defective character…	
defectuosity	Obsolete	Great imperfection.	
defectuous	Obsolete	Full of defects; imperfect.	
defedation	Obsolete	The act of making foul; pollution.	
defence		See Defense — the act of defending, or the state of being defended; protection, as from violence or danger.	
defend		To ward or fend off; to drive back or away; to repel.	Middle English defenden, from Old French deffendre, from Latin defendo.
defendable		Capable of being defended; defensible.	
defendant		Making defense.	
defendee		One who is defended.	
defender		One who defends; one who maintains, supports, protects, or vindicates; a champion; an advocate; a vindicator.	
defendress		A female defender.	
defensative		That which serves to protect or defend.	Latin defensare.
defense		The act of defending, or the state of being defended; protection, as from violence or danger.	
defenseless		Destitute of defense; unprepared to resist attack; unable to oppose; unprotected. -- De*fense less*ness, n.	
defenser	Obsolete	Defender.	
defensibility		Capability of being defended.	
defensible		Capable of being defended; as, a defensible city, or a defensible cause.	
defensibleness		Capability of being defended; defensibility.	
defensive		Serving to defend or protect; proper for defense; opposed to offensive; as, defensive armor.	
defensively		On the defensive.	
defensor		(Eccl.) The patron of a church; an officer having charge of the temporal affairs of a church.	
defensory		Tending to defend; defensive; as, defensory preparations.	Latin defensorius.
defer		To put off; to postpone to a future time; to delay the execution of; to delay; to withhold.	
deference		A yielding of judgment or preference from respect to the wishes or opinion of another; submission in opinion; regard; respect; complaisance.	
deferent		Serving to carry; bearing.	Latin deferens.
deferential		Expressing deference; accustomed to defer.	
deferentially		With deference.	
deferment		The act of delaying; postponement.	
deferrer		One who defers or puts off.	
defervescence		A subsiding from a state of ebullition; loss of heat; lukewarmness.	
defervescency		A subsiding from a state of ebullition; loss of heat; lukewarmness.	
defeudalize		To deprive of the feudal character or form.	
defiance		The act of defying, putting in opposition, or provoking to combat; a challenge; a provocation; a summons to combat.	Old French defiance.
defiant		Full of defiance; bold; insolent; as, a defiant spirit or act.	French défiant.
defiatory	Obsolete	Bidding or manifesting defiance.	
defibrinate		To deprive of fibrin, as fresh blood or lymph by stirring with twigs.	
defibrination		The act or process of depriving of fibrin.	
defibrinize		To defibrinate.	
deficience		Same as Deficiency.	
deficiency		The state of being deficient; inadequacy; want; failure; imperfection; shortcoming; defect. was so miserably ignorant, that his deficiencies made him the ridicule of his contemporaries.	
deficient		Wanting, to make up completeness; wanting, as regards a requirement; not sufficient; inadequate; defective; imperfect; incomplete; lacking; as, deficient parts; deficient estate; deficient strength; deficient in judgment.	Latin deficiens.
deficit		Deficiency in amount or quality; a falling short; lack; as, a deficit in taxes, revenue, etc. Addison.	French déficit, from Latin deficit.
defier		One who dares and defies; a contemner; as, a defier of the laws.	
defiguration	Obsolete	Disfiguration; mutilation.	
defigure	Obsolete	To delineate.	
defilade		To raise, as a rampart, so as to shelter interior works commanded from some higher point.	
defilading		The art or act of determining the directions and heights of the lines of rampart with reference to the protection of the interior from exposure to an enemy's fire from any point within range…	
defile		To march off in a line, file by file; to file off.	Middle English defilen.
defilement		The protection of the interior walls of a fortification from an enfilading fire, as by covering them, or by a high parapet on the exposed side.	
defiler		One who defiles; one who corrupts or violates; that which pollutes.	
defiliation		Abstraction of a child from its parents.	
definable		Capable of being defined, limited, or explained; determinable; describable by definition; ascertainable; as, definable limits; definable distinctions or regulations; definable words. -- De*fin"a*bly, adv.	
define		To fix the bounds of; to bring to a termination; to end.	Middle English definen, from Old French definer.
definement	Obsolete	The act of defining; definition; description.	
definer		One who defines or explains.	
definite		Having certain or distinct; determinate in extent or greatness; limited; fixed; as, definite dimensions; a definite measure; a definite period or interval.	
definitely		In a definite manner; with precision; precisely; determinately.	
definiteness		The state of being definite; determinateness; precision; certainty.	
definition		The act of defining; determination of the limits; as, the telescope accurate in definition.	Middle English diffinicioun, from Middle French definition, from Latin definitio.
definitional		Relating to definition; of the nature of a definition; employed in defining.	
definitive		Determinate; positive; final; conclusive; unconditional; express.	
definitively		In a definitive manner.	
definitiveness		The quality of being definitive.	
definitude		Definiteness.	
defix	Obsolete	To fix; to fasten; to establish.	Latin defixus.
deflagrability		The state or quality of being deflagrable.	
deflagrable		Burning with a sudden and sparkling combustion, as niter; hence, slightly explosive; liable to snap and crackle when heated, as salt.	
deflagrate		To burn with a sudden and sparkling combustion, as niter; also, to snap and crackle with slight explosions when heated, as salt.	
deflagration		A burning up; conflagration.	
deflagrator		A form of the voltaic battery having large plates, used for producing rapid and powerful combustion.	
deflate		To reduce from an inflated condition.	
deflect		To cause to turn aside; to bend; as, rays of light are often deflected.	
deflectable		Capable of being deflected.	
deflected		Turned aside; deviating from a direct line or course.	
deflection		The act of turning aside, or state of being turned aside; a turning from a right line or proper course; a bending, esp. downward; deviation.	
deflectionization		The act of freeing from inflections.	
deflectionize		To free from inflections.	
deflective		Causing deflection.	
deflector		That which deflects, as a diaphragm in a furnace, or a come in a lamp (to deflect and mingle air and gases and help combustion).	
deflexed		Bent abruptly downward.	
deflexion		See Deflection — the act of turning aside, or state of being turned aside; a turning from a right line or proper course; a bending, esp. downward; deviation.	
deflexure		A bending or turning aside; deflection.	Latin deflectere.
deflorate		Past the flowering state; having shed its pollen.	
defloration		The act of deflouring; as, the defloration if a virgin.	
deflour		To take away the prime beauty and grace of; to rob of the choicest ornament.	French déflorer.
deflourer		One who deflours; a ravisher.	
deflow	Obsolete	To flow down.	
deflower		Same as Deflour.	
deflowerer		See Deflourer — one who deflours; a ravisher.	
defluous	Obsolete	Flowing down; falling off.	Latin defluus.
deflux	Obsolete	Downward flow.	Latin defluxus.
defluxion		A discharge or flowing of humors or fluid matter, as from the nose in catarrh; -- sometimes used synonymously with inflammation.	Latin defluxio.
defoedation	Obsolete	Defedation.	
defoliate		Deprived of leaves, as by their natural fall.	
defoliated		Deprived of leaves, as by their natural fall.	
defoliation		The separation of ripened leaves from a branch or stem; the falling or shedding of the leaves.	
deforce		(a) To keep from the rightful owner; to withhold wrongfully the possession of, as of lands or a freehold.	
deforcement		(a) A keeping out by force or wrong; a wrongful withholding, as of lands or tenements, to which another has a right.	
deforceor	Obsolete	Same as Deforciant.	
deforciant	Obsolete	(a) One who keeps out of possession the rightful owner of an estate. (b) One against whom a fictitious action of fine was brought.	Old French deforciant.
deforciation		Same as Deforcement, n.	
deforest		To clear of forests; to dis U.	
deform		To spoil the form of; to mar in form; to misshape; to disfigure.	Middle English deformen, from Old French deformer, from Latin deformare.
deformation		The act of deforming, or state of anything deformed.	
deformed		Unnatural or distorted in form; having a deformity; misshapen; disfigured; as, a deformed person; a deformed head. -- De*form ed*ness, n.	
deformer		One who deforms.	
deformity		The state of being deformed; want of proper form or symmetry; any unnatural form or shape; distortion; irregularity of shape or features; ugliness.	Latin deformitas.
deforser	Obsolete	A deforciant.	
defoul	Obsolete	To make foul; to defile.	Old French defouler.
defraud		To deprive of some right, interest, or property, by a deceitful device; to withhold from wrongfully; to injure by embezzlement; to cheat; to overreach; as, to defraud a servant, or a creditor, or the state…	
defraudation		The act of defrauding; a taking by fraud.	Latin defraudatio.
defrauder		One who defrauds; a cheat; an embezzler; a peculator.	
defraudment	Obsolete	Privation by fraud; defrauding.	Old French defraudement.
defray		To pay or discharge; to serve in payment of; to provide for, as a charge, debt, expenses, costs, etc. For the discharge of his expenses, and defraying his cost, he allowed him … four times as much.	Middle French desfrayer.
defrayal		The act of defraying; payment; as, the defrayal of necessary costs.	
defrayer		One who pays off expenses.	
defrayment		Payment of charges.	
deft	Archaic or poetic	Apt; fit; dexterous; clever; handy; spruce; neat.	Middle English defte.
deftly		Aptly; fitly; dexterously; neatly.	
deftness		The quality of being deft.	
defunct		Having finished the course of life; dead; deceased.	Latin defunctus.
defunctive	Obsolete	Funereal.	
defuse	Obsolete	To disorder; to make shapeless.	
defy	Obsolete	To renounce or dissolve all bonds of affiance, faith, or obligation with; to reject, refuse, or renounce.	Old French desfier.
degage		Unconstrained; easy; free.	
degarnish		To strip or deprive of entirely, as of furniture, ornaments, etc.; to disgarnish; as, to degarnish a house, etc.	French dégarnir.
degarnishment		The act of depriving, as of furniture, apparatus, or a garrison.	
degender	Obsolete	To degenerate.	
degener	Obsolete	To degenerate.	
degeneracy		The act of becoming degenerate; a growing worse.	
degenerate		Having become worse than one's kind, or one's former state; having declined in worth; having lost in goodness; deteriorated; degraded; unworthy; base; low.	Latin degeneratus.
degenerately		In a degenerate manner; unworthily.	
degenerateness		Degeneracy.	
degeneration		The act or state of growing worse, or the state of having become worse; decline; degradation; debasement; degeneracy; deterioration.	
degenerationist		A believer in the theory of degeneration, or hereditary degradation of type; as, the degenerationists hold that savagery is the result of degeneration from a superior state.	
degenerative		Undergoing or producing degeneration; tending to degenerate.	
degenerous	Obsolete	Degenerate; base.	Latin degener.
degerm		To extract the germs from, as from wheat grains.	
degerminator		A machine for breaking open the kernels of wheat or other grain and removing the germs.	
deglaze		To remove the glaze from, as pottery or porcelain, so as to give a dull finish.	
deglazing		The process of giving a dull or ground surface to glass by acid or by mechanical means.	
degloried	Obsolete	Deprived of glory; dishonored.	
deglutinate		To loosen or separate by dissolving the glue which unties; to unglue.	Latin deglutinatus.
deglutination		The act of ungluing.	
deglutition		The act or process of swallowing food; the power of swallowing.	French déglutition.
deglutitious		Pertaining to deglutition.	
deglutitory		Serving for, or aiding in, deglutition.	
degradation		The act of reducing in rank, character, or reputation, or of abasing; a lowering from one's standing or rank in office or society; diminution; as, the degradation of a peer, a knight, a general, or a bishop.	
degrade		To reduce from a higher to a lower rank or degree; to lower in rank' to deprive of office or dignity; to strip of honors; as, to degrade a nobleman, or a general officer.	
degraded		Reduced in rank, character, or reputation; debased; sunken; low; base.	
degradement		Deprivation of rank or office; degradation.	
degradingly		In a degrading manner.	
degras		A semisolid emulsion produced by the treatment of certain skins with oxidized fish oil, which extracts their soluble albuminoids.	
degravation	Obsolete	The act of making heavy.	
degrease		To remove grease or fatty matter from, as wool or silk.	
degree		One of a series of progressive steps upward or downward, in quality, rank, acquirement, and the like; a stage in progression; grade; gradation; as, degrees of vice and virtue; to advance by slow degrees; degree of comparison.	Old French degré.
degu		A small South American rodent (Octodon Cumingii), of the family Octodontidæ.	
degum		To deprive of, or free from, gum; as, to degum ramie.	
degust	Obsolete	To taste.	
degustation		Tasting; the appreciation of sapid qualities by the taste organs.	
dehisce		To gape; to open by dehiscence.	
dehiscence		(Biol.) A gaping or bursting open along a definite line of attachment or suture, without tearing, as in the opening of pods, or the bursting of capsules at maturity so as to emit seeds, etc.; also, the bursting open of follicles…	
dehiscent		Characterized by dehiscence; opening in some definite way, as the capsule of a plant.	Latin dehiscentem.
dehonestate	Obsolete	To disparage.	
dehonestation	Obsolete	A dishonoring; disgracing.	Latin dehonestatio.
dehorn		To deprive of horns; to prevent the growth or the horns of (cattle) by burning their ends soon after they start.	
dehors		Out of; without; foreign to; out of the agreement, record, will, or other instrument.	
dehort	Obsolete	To urge to abstain or refrain; to dissuade.	
dehortation		Dissuasion; advice against something.	Latin dehortatio.
dehortative		Dissuasive.	
dehortatory		Fitted or designed to dehort or dissuade.	Latin dehortatorius.
dehorter	Obsolete	A dissuader; an adviser to the contrary.	
dehumanize		To divest of human qualities, such as pity, tenderness, etc.; as, dehumanizing influences.	
dehusk	Obsolete	To remove the husk from.	
dehydrate		To deprive of water; to render free from water; as, to dehydrate alcohol.	
dehydration		The act or process of freeing from water; also, the condition of a body from which the water has been removed.	
dehydrogenate		To deprive of, or free from, hydrogen.	
dehydrogenation		The act or process or freeing from hydrogen; also, the condition resulting from the removal of hydrogen.	
deicide		The act of killing a being of a divine nature; particularly, the putting to death of Jesus Christ.	
deictic		Direct; proving directly; -- applied to reasoning, and opposed to elenchtic or refutative.	
deictically		In a manner to show or point out; directly; absolutely; definitely.	
deific		Making divine; producing a likeness to God; god-making.	
deifical		Making divine; producing a likeness to God; god-making.	
deification		The act of deifying; exaltation to divine honors; apotheosis; excessive praise.	French déification.
deified		Honored or worshiped as a deity; treated with supreme regard; godlike.	
deifier		One who deifies.	
deiform		Godlike, or of a godlike form.	
deiformity	Obsolete	Likeness to deity.	
deify		To make a god of; to exalt to the rank of a deity; to enroll among the deities; to apotheosize; as, Julius Cæsar was deified.	French déifier, from Latin deificare.
deign	Obsolete	To esteem worthy; to consider worth notice; -- opposed to disdain.	Middle English deignen, from Old French deignier, from Latin dignari.
deignous	Obsolete	Haughty; disdainful.	
deil	Scots	Devil; -- spelt also deel.	
deinoceras		See Dinoceras — a genus of large extinct Eocene mammals from Wyoming; -- called also Uintatherium.	
deinornis		See Dinornis — a genus of extinct, ostrichlike birds of gigantic size, which formerly inhabited New Zealand.	
deinosaur		See Dinosaur — one of the Dinosauria.	
deinotherium		See Dinotherium — a large extinct proboscidean mammal from the miocene beds of Europe and Asia.	
deintegrate	Obsolete	To disintegrate.	
deinteous	Obsolete	Rare; excellent; costly.	
deintevous	Obsolete	Rare; excellent; costly.	
deiparous	Obsolete	Bearing or bringing forth a god; -- said of the Virgin Mary.	
deipnosophist		One of an ancient sect of philosophers, who cultivated learned conversation at meals.	
deis		See Dais — a platform slightly raised above the floor of a hall or large room, giving distinction to the table and seats placed upon it for the chief guests.	
deism		The doctrine or creed of a deist; the belief or system of those who acknowledge the existence of one God, but deny revelation.	
deist		One who believes in the existence of a God, but denies revealed religion; a freethinker.	French deiste, from Latin deista.
deistic		Pertaining to, savoring of, or consisting in, deism; as, a deistic writer; a deistical book.	
deistical		Pertaining to, savoring of, or consisting in, deism; as, a deistic writer; a deistical book.	
deistically		After the manner of deists.	
deisticalness		State of being deistical.	
deitate	Obsolete	Deified.	
deity		The collection of attributes which make up the nature of a god; divinity; godhead; as, the deity of the Supreme Being is seen in his works.	Middle French deité, from Latin deitas.
deject	Obsolete	To cast down the spirits of; to dispirit; to discourage; to dishearten.	Latin deicere.
dejecta		Excrements; as, the dejecta of the sick.	Latin dejecta.
dejected		Cast down; afflicted; low-spirited; sad; as, a dejected look or countenance. -- De*ject ed*ness, n.	
dejecter		One who casts down, or dejects.	
dejection		The act of humbling or abasing one's self.	Latin dejectio.
dejectly	Obsolete	Dejectedly.	
dejectory		Having power, or tending, to cast down.	
dejecture		That which is voided; excrements.	
dejerate	Obsolete	To swear solemnly; to take an oath.	
dejeration	Obsolete	The act of swearing solemnly.	Latin dejeratio.
dejeune		A déjeuner.	
dejeuner		A breakfast; sometimes, also, a lunch or collation.	
deka-		A prefix signifying ten. See Deca-.	
dekabrist		A Decembrist.	
dekagram		Same as Decagram.	
dekaliter		Same as Decaliter.	
dekameter		Same as Decameter.	
dekastere		Same as Decastere.	
dekle		See Deckle — a separate thin wooden frame used to form the border of a hand mold, or a curb of India rubber or other material which rests on, and forms the edge of…	
del	Obsolete	Share; portion; part.	
delaceration	Obsolete	A tearing in pieces.	Latin delacerare.
delacrymation	Obsolete	An involuntary discharge of watery humors from the eyes; wateriness of the eyes.	
delactation	Obsolete	The act of weaning.	
delaine		A kind of fabric for women's dresses.	
delamination		Formation and separation of laminæ or layers; one of the methods by which the various blastodermic layers of the ovum are differentiated.	
delapsation		See Delapsion — a falling down, or out of place; prolapsion.	
delapse	Obsolete	To pass down by inheritance; to lapse.	
delapsion		A falling down, or out of place; prolapsion.	
delassation		Fatigue.	
delate		To carry abroad; to spread; to make public.	
delation	Obsolete	Conveyance.	Latin delatio.
delator		An accuser; an informer.	
delaware		An American grape, with compact bunches of small, amber-colored berries, sweet and of a good flavor.	
delawares		A tribe of Indians formerly inhabiting the valley of the Delaware River, but now mostly located in the Indian Territory.	
delay		A putting off or deferring; procrastination; lingering inactivity; stop; detention; hindrance.	Middle English delaien, from Anglo-Norman delaier.
delayer		One who delays; one who lingers.	
delayingly		By delays.	
delayment	Obsolete	Hindrance.	
dele	Obsolete	Erase; remove; -- a direction to cancel something which has been put in type; usually expressed by a peculiar form of d, thus:.	Latin dele.
deleble		Capable of being blotted out or erased.	Latin delebilis.
delectable		Highly pleasing; delightful.	Latin delectare.
delectate		To delight; to charm.	
delectation		Great pleasure; delight.	
delectus		A name given to an elementary book for learners of Latin or Greek.	
delegacy	Obsolete	The act of delegating, or state of being delegated; deputed power.	
delegate		Any one sent and empowered to act for another; one deputed to represent; a chosen deputy; a representative; a commissioner; a vicar.	
delegation		The act of delegating, or investing with authority to act for another; the appointment of a delegate or delegates.	
delegatory		Holding a delegated position.	
delenda		Things to be erased or blotted out.	Latin delenda.
delenifical	Obsolete	Assuaging pain.	
delete		To blot out; to erase; to expunge; to dele; to omit.	Latin deletus.
deleterious		Hurtful; noxious; destructive; pernicious; as, a deleterious plant or quality; a deleterious example. -- Del`e*te ri*ous*ness, n.	Greek δηλητήριος.
deletery	Obsolete	Destructive; poisonous.	
deletion	Obsolete	Act of deleting, blotting out, or erasing; destruction.	
deletitious		Of such a nature that anything may be erased from it; -- said of paper.	
deletive		Adapted to destroy or obliterate.	
deletory	Obsolete	That which blots out.	
delf	Obsolete	A mine; a quarry; a pit dug; a ditch.	Middle English delf, from Old English delf.
delft		Same as Delftware.	
delftware		(a) Pottery made at the city of Delft in Holland; hence: (b) Earthenware made in imitation of the above; any glazed earthenware made for table use, and the like.	
delibate	Obsolete	To taste; to take a sip of; to dabble in.	Latin delibatus.
delibation	Obsolete	Act of tasting; a slight trial.	
deliber	Obsolete	To deliberate.	
deliberate		Weighing facts and arguments with a view a choice or decision; carefully considering the probable consequences of a step; circumspect; slow in determining; -- applied to persons; as, a deliberate judge or counselor.	Latin deliberatus.
deliberately		With careful consideration, or deliberation; circumspectly; warily; not hastily or rashly; slowly; as, a purpose deliberately formed.	
deliberateness		The quality of being deliberate; calm consideration; circumspection.	
deliberation		The act of deliberating, or of weighing and examining the reasons for and against a choice or measure; careful consideration; mature reflection.	
deliberative		Pertaining to deliberation; proceeding or acting by deliberation, or by discussion and examination; deliberating; as, a deliberative body.	
deliberatively		In a deliberative manner; circumspectly; considerately.	
deliberator		One who deliberates.	
delibrate	Obsolete	To strip off the bark; to peel.	
delibration	Obsolete	The act of stripping off the bark.	
delicacy		The state or condition of being delicate; agreeableness to the senses; delightfulness; as, delicacy of flavor, of odor, and the like.	Middle English delicacie.
delicate		Addicted to pleasure; luxurious; voluptuous; alluring.	Middle English delicat, from Latin delicatus.
delicately		In a delicate manner.	
delicateness		The quality of being delicate.	
delicatessen		Relishes for the table; dainties; delicacies..	
delices	Obsolete	Delicacies; delights.	
deliciate	Obsolete	To delight one's self; to indulge in feasting; to revel.	
delicious		Affording exquisite pleasure; delightful; most sweet or grateful to the senses, especially to the taste; charming.	Middle English delicious, from Anglo-Norman delicious, from Old French delicious.
deliciously		Delightfully; as, to feed deliciously; to be deliciously entertained.	
deliciousness		The quality of being delicious; as, the deliciousness of a repast. 2.	
delict		An offense or transgression against law; (Scots Law) an offense of a lesser degree; a misdemeanor.	Latin delictum.
deligate		To bind up; to bandage.	
deligation		A binding up; a bandaging.	
delight		A high degree of gratification of mind; a high-wrought state of pleasurable feeling; lively pleasure; extreme satisfaction; joy.	
delightable	Obsolete	Capable of delighting; delightful.	Old French delitable.
delighted		Endowed with delight.	
delightedly		With delight; gladly.	
delighter		One who gives or takes delight.	
delightful		Highly pleasing; affording great pleasure and satisfaction. -- Delicious; charming.	
delighting		Giving delight; gladdening. -- De*light"ing*ly, adv.	
delightless		Void of delight.	
delightous	Obsolete	Delightful.	Old French delitos.
delightsome		Very pleasing; delightful.	
delignate		To clear or strip of wood (by cutting down trees).	
delilah		The mistress of Samson, who betrayed him (Judges xvi.); hence, a harlot; a temptress.	
delimit		To fix the limits of; to demarcate; to bound.	French délimiter, from Latin delimitare.
delimitation		The act or process of fixing limits or boundaries; limitation.	
deline	Obsolete	To delineate.	
delineable		Capable of being, or liable to be, delineated.	
delineament		Delineation; sketch.	
delineate		Delineated; portrayed.	Latin delineatus.
delineation		The act of representing, portraying, or describing, as by lines, diagrams, sketches, etc.; drawing an outline; as, the delineation of a scene or face; in drawing and engraving, representation by means of lines…	
delineator		One who, or that which, delineates; a sketcher.	
delineatory		That delineates; descriptive; drawing the outline; delineating.	
delineature	Obsolete	Delineation.	
delinition	Obsolete	A smearing.	
delinquency		Failure or omission of duty; a fault; a misdeed; an offense; a misdemeanor; a crime.	Latin delinquentia.
delinquent		Failing in duty; offending by neglect of duty.	
delinquently		So as to fail in duty.	
deliquate	Obsolete	To melt or be dissolved; to deliquesce.	
deliquation	Obsolete	A melting.	
deliquesce		To dissolve gradually and become liquid by attracting and absorbing moisture from the air, as certain salts, acids, and alkalies.	
deliquescence		The act of deliquescing or liquefying; process by which anything deliquesces; tendency to melt.	
deliquescent		Dissolving; liquefying by contact with the air; capable of attracting moisture from the atmosphere and becoming liquid; as, deliquescent salts.	Latin deliquescens.
deliquiate		To melt and become liquid by absorbing water from the air; to deliquesce.	
deliquiation		The act of deliquating.	
deliquium		(Chem.) A melting or dissolution in the air, or in a moist place; a liquid condition; as, a salt falls into a deliquium.	Latin delinquere.
deliracy	Obsolete	Delirium.	
delirament	Obsolete	A wandering of the mind; a crazy fancy.	Latin deliramentum.
delirancy	Obsolete	Delirium.	
delirant	Obsolete	Delirious.	
delirate	Obsolete	To madden; to rave.	
deliration		Aberration of mind; delirium.	Latin deliratio.
deliriant		A poison which occasions a persistent delirium, or mental aberration (as belladonna).	
delirifacient		Producing, or tending to produce, delirium. -- n.	
delirious		Having a delirium; wandering in mind; light-headed; insane; raving; wild; as, a delirious patient; delirious fancies. -- De*lir i*ous*ness, n.	
delirium		(Med.) A state in which the thoughts, expressions, and actions are wild, irregular, and incoherent; mental aberration; a roving or wandering of the mind, -- usually dependent on a fever or some other disease…	
delit	Obsolete	Delight.	
delitable	Obsolete	Delightful; delectable.	
delitescence		Concealment; seclusion; retirement.	
delitescency		Concealment; seclusion.	
delitescent		Lying hid; concealed.	
delitigate	Obsolete	To chide; to rail heartily.	
delitigation	Obsolete	Chiding; brawl.	
deliver		To set free from restraint; to set at liberty; to release; to liberate, as from control; to give up; to free; to save; to rescue from evil actual or feared; -- often with from or out of; as, to deliver one from captivity…	
deliverable		Capable of being, or about to be, delivered; necessary to be delivered.	
deliverance		The act of delivering or freeing from restraint, captivity, peril, and the like; rescue; as, the deliverance of a captive.	
deliverer		One who delivers or rescues; a preserver.	
deliveress		A female de Evelyn.	
deliverly	Obsolete	Actively; quickly; nimbly.	
deliverness	Obsolete	Nimbleness; agility.	
delivery		The act of delivering from restraint; rescue; release; liberation; as, the delivery of a captive from his dungeon.	
dell		A small, retired valley; a ravine.	Middle English delle.
dellacruscan		Of or pertaining to the Accademia della Crusca in Florence.	
deloo		The duykerbok.	
deloul		A special breed of the dromedary used for rapid traveling; the swift camel; -- called also herire, and maharik.	
delph		Delftware.	
delphian		Delphic.	
delphic		Of or relating to Delphi, or to the famous oracle of that place.	
delphin		Pertaining to the dauphin of France; as, the Delphin classics, an edition of the Latin classics, prepared in the reign of Louis XIV., for the use of the dauphin (in usum Delphini).	
delphine		Pertaining to the dauphin of France; as, the Delphin classics, an edition of the Latin classics, prepared in the reign of Louis XIV., for the use of the dauphin (in usum Delphini).	
delphinic	Obsolete	Pertaining to, or derived from, the dolphin; phocenic.	
delphinine		A poisonous alkaloid extracted from the stavesacre (Delphinium staphisagria), as a colorless amorphous powder.	
delphinoid		Pertaining to, or resembling, the dolphin.	
delphinoidea		The division of Cetacea which comprises the dolphins, porpoises, and related forms.	
delphinus		(Zoöl.) A genus of Cetacea, including the dolphin. See Dolphin, 1.	
delsarte		A system of calisthenics patterned on the theories of François Delsarte (1811 -- 71), a French teacher of dramatic and musical expression.	
delta		A tract of land shaped like the letter delta (as, the delta of the Ganges, of the Nile, or of the Mississippi.	Greek δέλτα.
deltafication		The formation of a delta or of deltas.	
deltaic		Relating to, or like, a delta.	
delthyris		A name formerly given to certain Silurian brachiopod shells of the genus Spirifer.	
deltic		Deltaic.	
deltidium		The triangular space under the beak of many brachiopod shells.	
deltohedron		A solid bounded by twelve quadrilateral faces.	
deltoid		Shaped like the Greek Deltoid leaf (Bot.), a leaf in the form of a triangle with the stem inserted at the middle of the base. -- Deltoid muscle (Anat.)…	
deludable		Capable of being deluded; liable to be imposed on gullible.	
delude		To lead from truth or into error; to mislead the mind or judgment of to beguile; to impose on; to dupe; to make a fool of.	Latin deludo.
deluder		One who deludes; a deceiver; an impostor.	
deluge		A washing away; an overflowing of the land by water; an inundation; a flood; specifically, The Deluge, the great flood in the days of Noah (Gen. vii.).	Old French deluge.
delundung		An East Indian carnivorous mammal (Prionodon gracilis), resembling the civets, but without scent pouches.	
delusion		The act of deluding; deception; a misleading of the mind.	
delusional		Of or pertaining to delusions; as, delusional monomania.	
delusive		Apt or fitted to delude; tending to mislead the mind; deceptive; beguiling; delusory; as, delusive arts; a delusive dream.	
delusory		Delusive; fallacious.	
delve		To dig; to open (the ground) as with a spade.	Middle English delven.
delver		One who digs, as with a spade.	
demagnetize		To deprive of magnetic properties. See Magnetize.	
demagog		Demagogue.	
demagogic		Relating to, or like, a demagogue; factious.	
demagogical		Relating to, or like, a demagogue; factious.	
demagogism		The practices of a demagogue.	
demagogue		A leader of the rabble; one who attempts to control the multitude by specious or deceitful arts; an unprincipled and factious mob orator or political leader.	Greek δημαγωγός.
demagogy		Demagogism.	
demain	Obsolete	Rule; management.	
demand		To ask or call for with authority; to claim or seek from, as by authority or right; to claim, as something due; to call for urgently or peremptorily; as, to demand a debt; to demand obedience.	Old French demander.
demandable		That may be demanded or claimed.	
demandant		One who demands; the plaintiff in a real action; any plaintiff.	French demandant.
demander		One who demands.	
demandress		A woman who demands.	
demantoid		A yellow-green, transparent variety of garnet found in the Urals.	
demarcate		To mark by bounds; to set the limits of; to separate; to discriminate.	
demarcation		The act of marking, or of ascertaining and setting a limit; separation; distinction.	
demarch	Obsolete	March; walk; gait.	
demarkation		Same as Demarcation.	
dematerialize		To deprive of material or physical qualities or characteristics.	
deme		(Gr. Antiq.) A territorial subdivision of Attica (also of modern Greece), corresponding to a township.	Greek δῆμος.
demean		To manage; to conduct; to treat. clergy have with violence demeaned the matter.	Middle English demenen, from Anglo-Norman demener, from Old French demener.
demeanance	Obsolete	Demeanor.	
demeanor		Behavior; deportment; carriage; bearing; mien.	Middle English demenen, from Anglo-Norman demener, from Old French demener.
demeanure	Obsolete	Behavior.	
demency		Dementia; loss of mental powers. See Insanity.	Latin dementia.
dement		To deprive of reason; to make mad.	
dementate		Deprived of reason.	
dementation		The act of depriving of reason; madness.	
demented		Insane; mad; of unsound mind. -- De*ment"ed*ness, n.	
dementia		Insanity; madness; esp. that form which consists in weakness or total loss of thought and reason; mental imbecility; idiocy.	
demephitize		To purify from mephitic. -- De*meph`i*ti*za"tion, n.	
demerge	Obsolete	To plunge down into; to sink; to immerse.	Latin demergo.
demerit		That which deserves blame; ill desert; a fault; a vice; misconduct; -- the opposite of Ant: merit.	
demerse	Obsolete	To immerse.	
demersed		Situated or growing under water, as leaves; submersed.	
demersion		The act of plunging into a fluid; a drowning.	Latin demersio.
demesmerize		To relieve from mesmeric influence. See Mesmerize.	
demesne		A lord's chief manor place, with that part of the lands belonging thereto which has not been granted out in tenancy; a house, and the land adjoining, kept for the proprietor's own use.	Anglo-Norman demeyne.
demesnial		Of or pertaining to a demesne; of the nature of a demesne.	
demi		See Demy, n.	
demi-		A prefix, signifying half.	
demi-island	Obsolete	Peninsula.	
demi-rilievo		(a) Half relief; sculpture in relief of which the figures project from the background by one half their full roundness.	
demi-tasse		A small cup for, or of, black coffee.	
demibastion		A half bastion, or that part of a bastion consisting of one face and one flank.	
demibrigade		A half brigade.	
demicadence		An imperfect or half cadence, falling on the dominant instead of on the key note.	
demicannon		A kind of ordnance, carrying a ball weighing from thirty to thirty-six pounds.	
demicircle		An instrument for measuring angles, in surveying, etc. It resembles	
demiculverin		A kind of ordnance, carrying a ball weighing from nine to thirteen pounds.	
demideify		To deify in part.	
demidevil		A half devil.	
demigod		A half god, or an inferior deity; a fabulous hero, the offspring of a deity and a mortal.	
demigoddess		A female demigod.	
demigorge		Half the gorge, or entrance into a bastion, taken from the angle of the flank to the center of the bastion.	
demigrate	Obsolete	To emigrate.	
demigration	Obsolete	Emigration.	Latin demigratio.
demigroat		A half groat.	
demijohn		A glass vessel or bottle with a large body and small neck, inclosed in wickerwork.	French dame-jeanne.
demilance		A light lance; a short spear; a half pike; also, a demilancer.	
demilancer		A soldier of light cavalry of the 16th century, who carried a demilance.	
demilune		(Fort.) A work constructed beyond the main ditch of a fortress, and in front of the curtain between two bastions, intended to defend the curtain; a ravelin.	
demiman		A half man.	
demimonde		Persons of doubtful reputation; esp., women who are kept as mistresses, though not public prostitutes; demireps.	
deminatured		Having half the nature of another.	
demiquaver		A note of half the length of the quaver; a semiquaver.	
demirelief		Half relief. See Demi-rilievo.	
demirelievo		Half relief. See Demi-rilievo.	
demirep	Colloquial	A woman of doubtful reputation or suspected character; an adventuress.	
demisability		The state of being demisable.	
demisable		Capable of being leased; as, a demisable estate.	
demise		Transmission by formal act or conveyance to an heir or successor; transference; especially, the transfer or transmission of the crown or royal authority to a successor.	Latin demissa.
demisemiquaver		A short note, equal in time to the half of a semiquaver, or the thirty-second part of a whole note.	
demiss	Obsolete	Cast down; humble; submissive.	Latin demissus.
demission		The act of demitting, or the state of being demitted; a letting down; a lowering; dejection.	Latin demissio.
demissionary		Pertaining to transfer or conveyance; as, a demissionary deed.	
demissive		Downcast; submissive; humble.	
demissly	Obsolete	In a humble manner.	
demisuit		A suit of light armor covering less than the whole body, as having no protection for the legs below the things, no vizor to the helmet, and the like.	
demit		To let fall; to depress.	Latin demitto.
demitint		(a) That part of a painting, engraving, or the like, which is neither in full darkness nor full light.	
demitone		Semitone.	
demiurge		(Gr. Antiq.) The chief magistrate in some of the Greek states.	
demiurgic		Pertaining to a demiurge; formative; creative.	
demivill		A half-vill, consisting of five freemen or frankpledges.	
demivolt		A half vault; one of the seven artificial motions of a horse, in which he raises his fore legs in a particular manner.	
demiwolf		A half wolf; a mongrel dog, between a dog and a wolf.	
demobilization		The disorganization or disarming of troops which have previously been mobilized or called into active service; the change from a war footing to a peace footing.	
demobilize		To disorganize, or disband and send home, as troops which have been mobilized.	
democracy		Government by the people; a form of government in which the supreme power is retained and directly exercised by the people.	Middle French democratie, from Latin democratia, from Greek δημοκράτια.
democrat		One who is an adherent or advocate of democracy, or government by the people.	French démocrate.
democratic		Pertaining to democracy; favoring democracy, or constructed upon the principle of government by the people.	
democratical		Democratic.	
democratically		In a democratic manner.	
democratism		The principles or spirit of a democracy.	
democratist		A democrat.	
democratize		To render democratic.	French démocratiser.
democraty	Obsolete	Democracy.	
demogorgon		, A mysterious, terrible, and evil divinity, regarded by some as the author of creation, by others as a great magician who was supposed to command the spirits of the lower world.	
demography		The study of races, as to births, marriages, mortality, health, etc. -- Dem`o*graph"ic, a.	
demoiselle		A young lady; a damsel; a lady's maid.	
demolish		To throw or pull down; to raze; to destroy the fabric of; to pull to pieces; to ruin; as, to demolish an edifice, or a wall.	
demolisher		One who, or that which, demolishes; as, a demolisher of towns.	
demolishment		Demolition.	
demolition		The act of overthrowing, pulling down, or destroying a pile or structure; destruction by violence; utter overthrow; -- opposed to construction; as, the demolition of a house, of military works, of a town, or of hopes.	
demolitionist		A demolisher.	
demon		(Gr. Antiq.) A spirit, or immaterial being, holding a middle place between men and deities in pagan mythology.	Greek δαίμων.
demoness		A female demon.	
demonetization		The act of demonetizing, or the condition of being demonetized.	
demonetize		To deprive of current value; to withdraw from use, as money.	
demoniac		Pertaining to, or characteristic of, a demon or evil spirit; devilish; as, a demoniac being; demoniacal practices.	
demoniacal		Pertaining to, or characteristic of, a demon or evil spirit; devilish; as, a demoniac being; demoniacal practices.	
demoniacally		In a demoniacal manner.	
demoniacism		The state of being demoniac, or the practices of demoniacs.	
demonial	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to a demon.	
demonian		Relating to, or having the nature of, a demon.	
demonianism		The state of being possessed by a demon or by demons.	
demoniasm		See Demonianism — the state of being possessed by a demon or by demons.	
demonic		Of or pertaining to a demon or to demons; demoniac.	Latin daemonicus, from Greek δαιμονικός.
demonism		The belief in demons or false gods.	
demonist		A believer in, or worshiper of, demons.	
demonize		To convert into a demon; to infuse the principles or fury of a demon into.	Latin daemonizo.
demonocracy		The power or government of demons.	
demonographer		A demonologist.	
demonolatry		The worship of demons.	
demonologer		One versed in demonology.	
demonologic		Of or Pertaining to demonology.	
demonological		Of or Pertaining to demonology.	
demonologist		One who writes on, or is versed in, demonology.	
demonology		A treatise on demons; a supposititious science which treats of demons and their manifestations.	
demonomagy		Magic in which the aid of demons is invoked; black or infernal magic.	
demonomania		A form of madness in which the patient conceives himself possessed of devils.	
demonomist		One in subjection to a demon, or to demons.	
demonomy		The dominion of demons.	
demonry		Demoniacal influence or possession.	
demonship		The state of a demon.	
demonstrability		The quality of being demonstrable; demonstrableness.	
demonstrable		Capable of being demonstrated; that can be proved beyond doubt or question.	
demonstrableness		The quality of being demonstrable; demonstrability.	
demonstrably		In a demonstrable manner; incontrovertibly; clearly.	
demonstrance	Obsolete	Demonstration; proof.	Old French demonstrance.
demonstrate		To point out; to show; to exhibit; to make evident.	Latin demonstro.
demonstrater		See Demonstrator — one who demonstrates; one who proves anything with certainty, or establishes it by indubitable evidence.	
demonstration		The act of demonstrating; an exhibition; proof; especially, proof beyond the possibility of doubt; indubitable evidence, to the senses or reason.	Latin demonstrationem.
demonstrative		Having the nature of demonstration; tending to demonstrate; making evident; exhibiting clearly or conclusively.	
demonstratively		In a manner fitted to demonstrate; clearly; convincingly; forcibly.	
demonstrativeness		The state or quality of being demonstrative.	
demonstrator		One who demonstrates; one who proves anything with certainty, or establishes it by indubitable evidence.	
demonstratory		Tending to demonstrate; demonstrative.	
demorage	Obsolete	Demurrage.	
demoralization		The act of corrupting or subverting morals. Especially: The act of corrupting or subverting discipline, courage, hope, etc., or the state of being corrupted or subverted in discipline, courage, etc.; as…	
demoralize		To corrupt or undermine in morals; to destroy or lessen the effect of moral principles on; to render corrupt or untrustworthy in morals, in discipline, in courage, spirit, etc.; to weaken in spirit or efficiency.	
demosthenic		Pertaining to, or in the style of, Demosthenes, the Grecian orator.	
demote		To reduce to a lower grade, as in school.	
demotic		Of or pertaining to the people; popular; common.	
demotics		The department of knowledge relative to the care and culture of the people; sociology in its broadest sense; -- in library cataloguing.	
demount		To dismount.	
demountable		Capable of being dismounted; -- said of a form of rim, for an automobile wheel, which can be removed with its tire from the wheel.	
dempne	Obsolete	To damn; to condemn.	Middle English dempnen, from Old French dempner, from Latin damno.
dempster		A deemster.	
demster		A deemster.	
demulce		To soothe; to mollify; to pacify; to soften.	
demulcent		Softening; mollifying; soothing; assuasive; as, oil is demulcent.	
demulsion		The act of soothing; that which soothes.	
demur		To delay; to pause; to suspend proceedings or judgment in view of a doubt or difficulty; to hesitate; to put off the determination or conclusion of an affair.	Anglo-Norman demorer, from Old French demorer, from Latin demoro.
demure		Of sober or serious mien; composed and decorous in bearing; of modest look; staid; grave.	Old French meur, from Latin maturus.
demurely		In a demure manner; soberly; gravely; -- now, commonly, with a mere show of gravity or modesty.	
demureness		The state of being demure; gravity; the show of gravity or modesty.	
demurity		Demureness; also, one who is demure.	
demurrable		That may be demurred to.	
demurrage		(a) The detention of a vessel by the freighter beyond the time allowed in her charter party for loading, unloading, or sailing.	
demurral		Demur; delay in acting or deciding.	
demurrer		One who demurs.	
demy		A printing and a writing paper of particular sizes. See under Paper.	
den		A small cavern or hollow place in the side of a hill, or among rocks; esp., a cave used by a wild beast for shelter or concealment; as, a lion's den; a den of robbers.	Middle English den, from Old English denn.
denarcotize		To deprive of narcotine; as, to denarcotize opium. -- De*nar`co*ti*za"tion, n.	
denarius		A Roman silver coin of the value of about fourteen cents; the "penny" of the New Testament; -- so called from being worth originally ten of the pieces called as.	
denary		Containing ten; tenfold; proceeding by tens; as, the denary, or decimal, scale.	
denationalization		The or process of denationalizing.	
denationalize		To divest or deprive of national character or rights.	
denaturalize		To render unnatural; to alienate from nature.	
denature		To deprive of its natural qualities; change the nature of.	
denay	Obsolete	To deny.	
dendrachate		Arborescent or dendritic agate.	
dendriform		Resembling in structure a tree or shrub.	
dendrite		A stone or mineral on or in which are branching figures resembling shrubs or trees, produced by a foreign mineral, usually an oxide of manganese, as in the moss agate; also, a crystallized mineral having an arborescent form…	Greek δενδρίτης.
dendritic		Pertaining to a dendrite, or to arborescent crystallization; having a form resembling a shrub or tree; arborescent.	
dendritical		Pertaining to a dendrite, or to arborescent crystallization; having a form resembling a shrub or tree; arborescent.	
dendrocoela		A division of the Turbellaria in which the digestive cavity gives off lateral branches, which are often divided into smaller branchlets.	
dendroid		Resembling a shrub or tree in form; treelike.	
dendroidal		Resembling a shrub or tree in form; treelike.	
dendrolite		A petrified or fossil shrub, plant, or part of a plant.	
dendrologist		One versed in the natural history of trees.	
dendrologous		Relating to dendrology.	
dendrology		A discourse or treatise on trees; the natural history of trees.	
dendrometer		An instrument to measure the height and diameter of trees.	
denegate	Obsolete	To deny.	Latin denegatus.
dengue		A specific epidemic disease attended with high fever, cutaneous eruption, and severe pains in the head and limbs, resembling those of rheumatism; -- called also breakbone fever.	
deniable		Capable of being, or liable to be, denied.	
denial		The act of gainsaying, refusing, or disowning; negation; -- the contrary of affirmation.	
denier		One who denies; as, a denier of a fact, or of the faith, or of Christ.	Old French denier, from Latin denarius.
denigrate		To blacken thoroughly; to make very black.	Latin denigratus.
denigration		The act of making black.	
denigrator		One who, or that which, blackens.	
denim		A coarse cotton drilling used for overalls, etc.	
denitration		A disengaging, or removal, of nitric acid.	
denitrification		The act or process of freeing from nitrogen; also, the condition resulting from the removal of nitrogen.	
denitrify		To deprive of, or free from, nitrogen.	
denization		The act of making one a denizen or adopted citizen; naturalization.	
denize	Obsolete	To make a denizen; to confer the rights of citizenship upon; to naturalize.	
denizen		One who is admitted by favor to all or a part of the rights of citizenship, where he did not possess them by birth; an adopted or naturalized citizen.	Middle English denisein, from Anglo-Norman denzein.
denizenation		Denization; denizening.	
denizenize		To constitute (one) a denizen; to denizen.	
denizenship		State of being a denizen.	
dennet		A light, open, two-wheeled carriage for one horse; a kind of gig. ( )	
denominable		Capable of being denominated or named.	
denominate		To give a name to; to characterize by an epithet; to entitle; to name; to designate.	
denomination		That by which anything is denominated or styled; an epithet; a name, designation, or title; especially, a general name indicating a class of like individuals; a category; as, the denomination of units, or of thousands…	Latin denominatus.
denominational		Pertaining to a denomination, especially to a sect or society.	
denominationalism		A denominational or class spirit or policy; devotion to the interests of a sect or denomination.	
denominationalist		One imbued with a denominational spirit.	
denominationally		In a denominational manner; by denomination or sect.	
denominative		(Logic) Connotative; as, a denominative name.	
denominatively		By denomination.	
denominator		One who, or that which, gives a name; origin or source of a name.	Latin denominator.
denotable		Capable of being denoted or marked.	
denotate	Archaic	To mark off; to denote.	Latin denotatus.
denotation		The marking off or separation of anything.	
denotative		Having power to denote; designating or marking off.	
denote		To mark out plainly; to signify by a visible sign; to serve as the sign or name of; to indicate; to point out; as, the hands of the clock denote the hour.	
denotement		Sign; indication.	
denotive		Serving to denote.	
denouement		The unraveling or discovery of a plot; the catastrophe, especially of a drama or a romance.	
denounce		To proclaim in a threatening manner; to threaten by some outward sign or expression.	Old French denuncier, from Latin denuntio.
denouncement	Archaic	Solemn, official, or menacing announcement; denunciation.	
denouncer		One who denounces, or declares, as a menace.	
dense		Having the constituent parts massed or crowded together; close; compact; thick; containing much matter in a small space; heavy; opaque; as, a dense crowd; a dense forest; a dense fog.	Latin densus.
densely		In a dense, compact manner.	
denseness		The quality of being dense; density.	
densimeter		An instrument for ascertaining the specific gravity or density of a substance.	
density		The quality of being dense, close, or thick; compactness; -- opposed to rarity.	
dent		A slight depression, or small notch or hollow, made by a blow or by pressure; an indentation.	Middle English dent, from Old English dynt.
dental		Of or pertaining to the teeth or to dentistry; as, dental surgery.	Latin dentalis.
dentalism		The quality of being formed by the aid of the teeth.	
dentalium		A genus of marine mollusks belonging to the Scaphopoda, having a tubular conical shell.	
dentary		Pertaining to, or bearing, teeth. -- n.	
dentate		(Bot.) Toothed; especially, with the teeth projecting straight out, not pointed either forward or backward; as, a dentate leaf.	
dentate-ciliate		Having the margin dentate and also ciliate or fringed with hairs.	
dentate-sinuate		Having a form intermediate between dentate and sinuate.	
dentated		(Bot.) Toothed; especially, with the teeth projecting straight out, not pointed either forward or backward; as, a dentate leaf.	
dentately		In a dentate or toothed manner; as, dentately ciliated, etc.	
dentation		Formation of teeth; toothed form.	
dented		Indented; impressed with little hollows.	
dentel		Same as Dentil.	
dentelle		An ornamental tooling like lace.	
dentelli		Modillions.	
dentex		An edible European marine fish (Sparus dentex, or Dentex vulgaris) of the family Percidæ.	
denticete		The division of Cetacea in which the teeth are developed, including the sperm whale, dolphins, etc.	
denticle		A small tooth or projecting point.	
denticulate		Furnished with denticles; notched into little toothlike projections; as, a denticulate leaf of calyx. -- Den*tic"u*late*ly, adv.	Latin denticulatus.
denticulated		Furnished with denticles; notched into little toothlike projections; as, a denticulate leaf of calyx. -- Den*tic"u*late*ly, adv.	
denticulation		The state of being set with small notches or teeth.	
dentiferous		Bearing teeth; dentigerous.	Latin dens.
dentiform		Having the form of a tooth or of teeth; tooth-shaped.	
dentifrice		A powder or other substance to be used in cleaning the teeth; tooth powder.	
dentigerous		Bearing teeth or toothlike structures.	
dentil		A small square block or projection in cornices, a number of which are ranged in an ornamental band; -- used particularly in the Ionic, Corinthian, and Composite orders.	French dentille.
dentilabial		Formed by the teeth and the lips, or representing a sound so formed. -- n.	
dentilated		Toothed.	
dentilation		Dentition.	
dentilave		A wash for cleaning the teeth.	Latin dens.
dentile		A small tooth, like that of a saw.	Latin dentillus.
dentilingual		Produced by applying the tongue to the teeth or to the gums; or representing a sound so formed. -- n.	
dentiloquist		One who speaks through the teeth, that is, with the teeth closed.	
dentiloquy		The habit or practice of speaking through the teeth, or with them closed.	Latin dens.
dentinal		Of or pertaining to dentine.	
dentine		The dense calcified substance of which teeth are largely composed.	
dentiphone		An instrument which, placed against the teeth, conveys sound to the auditory nerve; an audiphone.	Latin dens.
dentiroster		A dentirostral bird.	
dentirostral		Having a toothed bill; -- applied to a group of passerine birds, having the bill notched, and feeding chiefly on insects, as the shrikes and vireos.	
dentirostrate		Dentirostral.	
dentiscalp		An instrument for scraping the teeth.	
dentist		One whose business it is to clean, extract, or repair natural teeth, and to make and insert artificial ones; a dental surgeon.	French dentiste.
dentistic		Pertaining to dentistry or to dentists.	
dentistical		Pertaining to dentistry or to dentists.	
dentistry		The art or profession of a dentist; dental surgery.	
dentition		The development and cutting of teeth; teething.	Latin dentitio.
dentize		To breed or cut new teeth.	Latin dens.
dentoid		Shaped like a tooth; tooth-shaped.	Latin dens.
dentolingual		Dentilingual.	
denture		An artificial tooth, block, or set of teeth.	
denudate	Obsolete	To denude.	
denudation		The act of stripping off covering, or removing the surface; a making bare.	
denude		To divest of all covering; to make bare or naked; to strip; to divest; as, to denude one of clothing, or lands.	
denunciate		To denounce; to condemn publicly or solemnly.	
denunciation		The act of denouncing; public menace or accusation; the act of inveighing against, stigmatizing, or publicly arraigning; arraignment.	
denunciative		Same as Denunciatory.	Latin denuntiativus.
denunciator		One who denounces, publishes, or proclaims, especially intended or coming evil; one who threatens or accuses.	Latin denuntiator.
denunciatory		Characterized by or containing a denunciation; minatory; accusing; threatening; as, severe and denunciatory language.	
denutrition		The opposition of nutrition; the failure of nutrition causing the breaking down of tissue.	
deny		To declare not to be true; to gainsay; to contradict; -- opposed to affirm, allow, or admit.	
denyingly		In the manner of one denies a request.	
deobstruct		To remove obstructions or impediments in; to clear from anything that hinders the passage of fluids; as, to deobstruct the pores or lacteals.	
deobstruent		Removing obstructions; having power to clear or open the natural ducts of the fluids and secretions of the body; aperient. -- n.	
deodand		A personal chattel which had caused the death of a person, and for that reason was given to God, that is, forfeited to the crown, to be applied to pious uses, and distributed in alms by the high almoner.	Latin deodandum.
deodar		A kind of cedar (Cedrus Deodara), growing in India, highly valued for its size and beauty as well as for its timber, and also grown in England as an ornamental tree.	
deodate	Obsolete	A gift or offering to God.	
deodorant		A deodorizer.	
deodorization		The act of depriving of odor, especially of offensive odors resulting from impurities.	
deodorize		To deprive of odor, especially of such as results from impurities.	
deodorizer		He who, or that which, deodorizes; esp., an agent that destroys offensive odors.	
deonerate	Obsolete	To unload; to disburden.	
deontological		Pertaining to deontology.	
deontologist		One versed in deontology.	
deontology		The science relat J.	
deoperculate		Having the lid removed; -- said of the capsules of mosses.	
deoppilate	Obsolete	To free from obstructions; to clear a passage through.	
deoppilation	Obsolete	Removal of whatever stops up the passages.	
deoppilative	Obsolete	Deobstruent; aperient.	
deordination	Obsolete	Disorder; dissoluteness.	
deosculate	Obsolete	To kiss warmly. -- De*os`cu*la"tion, n.	
deoxidate		To deoxidize.	
deoxidation		The act or process of reducing from the state of an oxide.	
deoxidization		Deoxidation.	
deoxidize		To deprive of oxygen; to reduce from the state of an oxide.	
deoxidizer		That which removes oxygen; hence, a reducing agent; as, nascent hydrogen is a deoxidizer.	
deoxygenate	Obsolete	To deoxidize.	
deoxygenation		The act or operation of depriving of oxygen.	
deoxygenize		To deoxidize.	
depaint		To mark with, or as with, color; to color.	
depainter	Obsolete	One who depaints.	
depardieux	Obsolete	In God's name; certainly.	
depart		To go forth or away; to quit, leave, or separate, as from a place or a person; to withdraw; -- opposed to arrive; -- often with from before the place, person, or thing left, and for or to before the destination.	Old French departir, from Latin departire.
departable	Obsolete	Divisible.	
departer		One who departs.	
department		A part, portion, or subdivision.	French département.
departmental		Pertaining to a department or division.	
departure		Separation or removal from a place; the act or process of departing or going away.	
depascent		Feeding.	Latin depascere.
depasture		To pasture; to feed; to graze; also, to use for pasture.	
depatriate	Obsolete	To withdraw, or cause to withdraw, from one's country; to banish.	
depauperate		To make poor; to impoverish.	
depauperize		To free from paupers; to rescue from poverty.	
depeach	Obsolete	To discharge.	
depectible	Obsolete	Tough; thick; capable of extension.	
depeculation	Obsolete	A robbing or embezzlement.	Latin depeculari.
depeinct	Obsolete	To paint.	
depend		To hang down; to be sustained by being fastened or attached to something above.	Middle French dependre.
dependable		Worthy of being depended on; trustworthy.	
dependance		See Dependent, Dependence, Dependency.	
dependancy		See Dependent, Dependence, Dependency.	
dependant		See Dependent, Dependence, Dependency.	
dependence		The act or state of depending; state of being dependent; a hanging down or from; suspension from a support.	
dependency		State of being dependent; dependence; state of being subordinate; subordination; concatenation; connection; reliance; trust.	
dependent		Hanging down; as, a dependent bough or leaf.	
dependently		In a dependent manner.	
depender		One who depends; a dependent.	
dependingly		As having dependence.	
depeople	Obsolete	To depopulate.	
deperdit		That which is lost or destroyed.	
deperdition	Archaic	Loss; destruction.	
depertible	Obsolete	Divisible.	
dephase		To put out of phase, as two parts of a single alternating current.	
dephlegm	Obsolete	To rid of phlegm or water; to dephlegmate.	
dephlegmate		To deprive of superabundant water, as by evaporation or distillation; to clear of aqueous matter; to rectify; -- used of spirits and acids.	
dephlegmation	Obsolete	The operation of separating water from spirits and acids, by evaporation or repeated distillation; -- called also concentration, especially when acids are the subject of it.	
dephlegmator		An instrument or apparatus in which water is separated by evaporation or distillation; the part of a distilling apparatus in which the separation of the vapors is effected.	
dephlegmatory		Pertaining to, or producing, dephlegmation.	
dephlegmedness	Obsolete	A state of being freed from water.	
dephlogisticcate		To deprive of phlogiston, or the supposed principle of inflammability.	
dephosphorization		The act of freeing from phosphorous.	
depict		To form a colored likeness of; to represent by a picture; to paint; to portray.	
depiction		A painting or depicting; a representation.	
depicture		To make a picture of; to paint; to picture; to depict.	
depilate		To strip of hair; to husk.	
depilation		Act of pulling out or removing the hair; unhairing.	
depilatory		Having the quality or power of removing hair. -- n.	
depilous		Hairless.	
deplanate		Flattened; made level or even.	Latin deplanatus.
deplant		To take up (plants); to transplant.	
deplantation		Act of taking up plants from beds.	
deplete		(Med.) To empty or unload, as the vessels of human system, by bloodletting or by medicine.	Latin depletus.
depletion		(Med.) the act or process of diminishing the quantity of fluid in the vessels by bloodletting or otherwise; also excessive evacuation, as in severe diarrhea.	
depletive		Able or fitted to deplete. -- n.	
depletory		Serving to deplete.	
deplication	Obsolete	An unfolding, untwisting, or unplaiting.	
deploitation		Same as Exploitation.	
deplorability		Deplorableness.	
deplorable		Worthy of being deplored or lamented; lamentable; causing grief; hence, sad; calamitous; grievous; wretched; as, life's evils are deplorable.	
deplorableness		State of being deplorable.	
deplorably		In a deplorable manner.	
deplorate	Obsolete	Deplorable.	
deploration		The act of deploring or lamenting; lamentation.	
deplore		To feel or to express deep and poignant grief for; to bewail; to lament; to mourn; to sorrow over.	Latin deplorare.
deploredly		Lamentably.	
deploredness		The state of being deplored or deplorable.	
deplorement	Obsolete	Deploration.	
deplorer		One who deplores.	
deploringly		In a deploring manner.	
deploy		To open out; to unfold; to spread out (a body of troops) in such a way that they shall display a wider front and less depth; -- the reverse of ploy; as, to deploy a column of troops into line of battle.	French déployer, from Old French desploier, from Latin displicare.
deployment		The act of deploying; a spreading out of a body of men in order to extend their front. -Wilhelm.	
deplumate		Destitute or deprived of features; deplumed.	
deplumation		The stripping or falling off of plumes or feathers.	
deplume		To strip or pluck off the feather of; to deprive of of plumage.	
depolarization		The act of depriving of polarity, or the result of such action; reduction to an unpolarized condition.	
depolarize		(Opt.) To deprive of polarity; to reduce to an unpolarized condition.	
depolarizer		A substance used to prevent polarization, as upon the negative plate of a voltaic battery.	
depolish		To remove the polish or glaze from.	
depolishing		The process of removing the vitreous glaze from porcelain, leaving the dull luster of the surface of ivory porcelian.	
depone		To assert under oath; to depose.	Latin depono.
deponent		(Law) One who deposes or testifies under oath; one who gives evidence; usually, one who testifies in writing.	Latin deponens.
depopulacy		Depopulation; destruction of population.	
depopulate		To deprive of inhabitants, whether by death or by expulsion; to reduce greatly the populousness of; to dispeople; to unpeople.	
depopulation		The act of depopulating, or condition of being depopulated; destruction or explusion of inhabitants.	
depopulator		One who depopulates; a dispeopler.	
deport		To transport; to carry away; to exile; to send into banishment.	Latin deporto.
deportation		The act of deporting or exiling, or the state of being deported; banishment; transportation.	
deportment		Manner of deporting or demeaning one's self; manner of acting; conduct; carrige; especially, manner of acting with respect to the courtesies and duties of life; behavior; demeanor; bearing.	
deporture	Obsolete	Deportment.	
deposable		Capable of being deposed or deprived of office.	
deposal		The act of deposing from office; a removal from the throne.	
depose		To remove from a throne or other high station; to dethrone; to divest or deprive of office.	
deposer		One who deposes or degrades from office.	
deposit		To lay down; to place; to put; to let fall or throw down (as sediment); as, a crocodile deposits her eggs in the sand; the waters deposited a rich alluvium.	Latin depositus.
depositary		One with whom anything is lodged in the trust; one who receives a deposit; -- the correlative of depositor.	Latin depositarius.
deposition		The act of depositing or deposing; the act of laying down or thrown down; precipitation.	
depositor		One who makes a deposit, especially of money in bank; -- the correlative of depository.	
depository		A place where anything is deposited for sale or keeping; as, warehouse is a depository for goods; a clerk's office is a depository for records.	Latin depositorium.
depositum		Deposit.	
depositure	Obsolete	The act of depositing; deposition.	
depot		A place of deposit storing of goods; a warehouse; a storehouse.	French dépôt, from Old French depost.
depravation		The act of depraving, or making anything bad; the act of corrupting.	
deprave		To make bad or worse; to vitiate; to corrupt.	
depravedly		In a depraved manner.	
depravedness		Depravity.	
depravement	Obsolete	Depravity.	
depraver		One who deprave or corrupts.	
depravingly		In a depraving manner.	
depravity		The stae of being depraved or corrupted; a vitiated state of moral character; general badness of character; wickedness of mind or heart; absence of religious feeling and principle.	
deprecable		That may or should be deprecated.	
deprecate		To pray against, as an evil; to seek to avert by player; to desire the removal of; to seek deliverance from; to express deep regret for; to disapprove of strongly.	Latin deprecatus.
deprecatingly		In a deprecating manner.	
deprecation		The act of deprecating; a praying against evil; prayer that an evil may be removed or prevented; strong expression of disapprobation.	Middle French deprecation, from Latin deprecationem.
deprecative		Serving to deprecate; deprecatory. -- Dep"re*ca*tive*ly, adv.	
deprecator		One who deprecates.	
deprecatory		Serving to deprecate; tending to remove or avert evil by prayer; apologetic.	
depreciate		To lessen in price or estimated value; to lower the worth of; to represent as of little value or claim to esteem; to undervalue.	Latin depretiare.
depreciation		The act of lessening, or seeking to lessen, price, value, or reputation.	
depreciative		Tending, or intended, to depreciate; expressing depreciation; undervaluing. -- De*pre"ci*a`tive*ly, adv.	
depreciator		One who depreciates.	
depreciatory		Tending to depreciate; undervaluing; depreciative.	
depredable	Obsolete	Liable to depredation.	
depredate		To subject to plunder and pillage; to despoil; to lay waste; to prey upon.	
depredation		The act of depredating, or the state of being depredated; the act of despoiling or making inroads; as, the sea often makes depredation on the land.	
depredator		One who plunders or pillages; a spoiler; a robber.	
depredatory		Tending or designed to depredate; characterized by depredation; plundering; as, a depredatory incursion.	
depredicate		To proclaim; to celebrate.	
deprehend		To take unwares or by surprise; to seize, as a person commiting an unlawful act; to catch; to apprehend.	Latin deprehendere.
deprehensible	Obsolete	That may be caught or discovered; apprehensible.	
deprehension	Obsolete	A catching; discovery.	Latin deprehensio.
depress		To press down; to cause to sink; to let fall; to lower; as, to depress the muzzle of a gun; to depress the eyes.	Middle English depressen, from Old French depresser, from Latin depressus.
depressant		An agent or remedy which lowers the vital powers.	
depressed		Pressed or forced down; lowed; sunk; dejected; dispirited; sad; humbled.	
depressingly		In a depressing manner.	
depression		The state of being depressed; a sinking.	Latin depressio.
depressive		Able or tending to depress or cast down. -- De*press"ive*ness, n.	
depressomotor		Depressing or diminishing the capacity for movement, as depressomotor nerves, which lower or inhibit muscular activity. -- n.	
depressor		One who, or that which, presses down; an oppressor.	
depriment		Serving to depress.	
deprisure	Obsolete	Low estimation; disesteem; contempt.	
deprivable		Capable of being, or liable to be, deprived; liable to be deposed.	
deprivation		The act of depriving, dispossessing, or bereaving; the act of deposing or divesting of some dignity.	
deprive		To dispossess; to bereave; to divest; to hinder from possessing; to debar; to shut out from; -- with a remoter object, usually preceded by of.	Latin deprivare.
deprivement		Deprivation.	
depriver		One who, or that which, deprives.	
deprostrate	Obsolete	Fully prostrate; humble; low; rude.	
deprovincialize		To divest of provincial quality or characteristics.	
depth		The quality of being deep; deepness; perpendicular measurement downward from the surface,or horizontal measurement backward from the front; as, the depth of a river; the depth of a body of troops.	Middle English depthe.
depthen	Obsolete	To deepen.	
depthless		Having no depth; shallow.	
depucelate	Obsolete	To deflour; to deprive of virginity.	French dépuceler.
depudicate	Obsolete	To deflour; to dishonor.	
depulse	Obsolete	To drive away.	
depulsion		A driving or thrusting away.	Latin depulsio.
depulsory		Driving or thrusting away; averting.	Latin depulsorius.
depurant		Depurative.	
depurate		Depurated; cleansed; freed from impurities.	
depuration		The act or process of depurating or freeing from foreign or impure matter, as a liquid or wound.	
depurative		Purifying the blood or the humors; depuratory. -- n.	
depurator		One who, or that which, cleanses.	
depuratory		Depurating; tending to depurate or cleanse; depurative.	
depure	Obsolete	To depurate; to purify.	French dépurer.
depurgatory	Obsolete	Serving to purge; tending to cleanse or purify.	
depurition		See Depuration — the act or process of depurating or freeing from foreign or impure matter, as a liquid or wound.	
deputable		Fit to be deputed; suitable to act as a deputy.	
deputation		The act of deputing, or of appointing or commissioning a deputy or representative; office of a deputy or delegate; vicegerency.	
deputator		One who deputes, or makes a deputation.	
depute		To appoint as deputy or agent; to commission to act in one's place; to delegate.	French députer, from Latin deputo.
deputize		To appoint as one's deputy; to empower to act in one's stead; to depute.	
deputy		One appointed as the substitue of another, and empowered to act for him, in his name or his behalf; a substitute in office; a lieutenant; a representative; a delegate; a vicegerent; as, the deputy of a prince, of a sheriff…	French député, from Latin deputatus.
dequantitate	Obsolete	To diminish the quantity of; to disquantity.	
dequeen		To remove the queen from (a hive of bees).	
deracinate		To pluck up by the roots; to extirpate.	French déraciner.
deracination		The act of pulling up by the roots; eradication.	
deraign	Obsolete	To prove or to refute by proof; to clear (one's self).	Old French deraisnier, from Latin derationare.
deraignment	Obsolete	The renunciation of religious or monastic vows.	
derail		To cause to run off from the rails of a railroad, as a locomotive.	
derailment		The act of going off, or the state of being off, the rails of a railroad.	
derain	Obsolete	To prove or to refute by proof; to clear (one's self).	
derainment	Obsolete	The renunciation of religious or monastic vows.	
derange		To put out of place, order, or rank; to disturb the proper arrangement or order of; to throw into disorder, confusion, or embarrassment; to disorder; to disarrange; as, to derange the plans of a commander…	French déranger, from Old French desrengier.
deranged		Disordered; especially, disordered in mind; crazy; insane.	
derangement		The act of deranging or putting out of order, or the state of being deranged; disarrangement; disorder; confusion; especially, mental disorder; insanity.	
deranger		One who deranges.	
deray	Obsolete	Disorder; merriment.	Old French derroi.
derbio		A large European food fish (Lichia glauca).	
derby		A race for three-old horses, run annually at Epsom (near London), for the Derby stakes.	
derdoing	Obsolete	Doing daring or chivalrous deeds.	
dere	Obsolete	To hurt; to harm; to injure.	Middle English deren.
derecho		A straight wind without apparent cyclonic tendency, usually accompanied with rain and often destructive, common in the prairie regions of the United States.	Spanish derecho, from Latin directus.
dereine	Obsolete	Same as Darraign.	
derelict		Given up or forsaken by the natural owner or guardian; left and abandoned; as, derelict lands.	
dereliction		The act of leaving with an intention not to reclaim or resume; an utter forsaking abandonment.	
dereligionize		To make irreligious; to turn from religion.	
dereling	Obsolete	Darling.	
dereyne	Obsolete	Same as Darraign.	
derf	Obsolete	Strong; powerful; fierce. -- Derf"ly, adv.	
deride		To laugh at with contempt; to laugh to scorn; to turn to ridicule or make sport of; to mock; to scoff at.	Latin deridere.
derider		One who derides, or laughs at, another in contempt; a mocker; a scoffer.	
deridingly		By way of derision or mockery.	
derision		The act of deriding, or the state of being derided; mockery; scornful or contemptuous treatment which holds one up to ridicule.	
derisive		Expressing, serving for, or characterized by, derision. -- De*ri sive*ness, n.	
derisory		Derisive; mocking.	
derivable		That can be derived; obtainable by transmission; capable of being known by inference, as from premises or data; capable of being traced, as from a radical; as, income is derivable from various sources.	
derivably		By derivation.	
derival		Derivation.	
derivate	Obsolete	Derived; derivative.	
derivation		The act of receiving anything from a source; the act of procuring an effect from a cause, means, or condition, as profits from capital, conclusions or opinions from evidence.	
derivational		Relating to derivation.	
derivative		Obtained by derivation; derived; not radical, original, or fundamental; originating, deduced, or formed from something else; secondary; as, a derivative conveyance; a derivative word.	
derive		To trace the origin, descent, or derivation of; to recognize transmission of; as, he derives this word from the Anglo-Saxon.	Middle English deriven, from Old French deriver, from Latin derivare.
derivement	Obsolete	That which is derived; deduction; inference.	
deriver		One who derives.	
derm		The integument of animal; the skin.	Greek δέρμα.
derma		See Dermis — the deep sensitive layer of the skin beneath the scarfskin or epidermis; -- called also true skin, derm, derma, corium, cutis, and enderon.	
dermal		Pertaining to the integument or skin of animals; dermic; as, the dermal secretions.	
dermaptera		See Dermoptera, Dermopteran.	
dermapteran		See Dermoptera, Dermopteran.	
dermatic		Of or pertaining to the skin.	Greek δέρματος.
dermatine		Of or pertaining to the skin.	
dermatitis		Inflammation of the skin.	Greek δερματίτις.
dermatogen		Nascent epidermis, or external cuticle of plants in a forming condition.	
dermatography		An anatomical description of, or treatise on, the skin.	
dermatoid		Resembling	
dermatologist		One who discourses on the skin and its diseases; one versed in dermatology.	
dermatology		The science which treats of the skin, its structure, functions, and diseases.	Greek δέρμα.
dermatopathic		Of or pertaining to skin diseases, or their cure.	
dermatophyte		A vegetable parasite, infesting the skin.	
dermestes		A genus of coleopterous insects, the larvæ of which feed animal substances.	
dermestoid		Pertaining to or resembling the genus Dermestes.	
dermic		Relating to the derm or skin.	
dermis		The deep sensitive layer of the skin beneath the scarfskin or epidermis; -- called also true skin, derm, derma, corium, cutis, and enderon.	
dermobranchiata		A group of nudibranch mollusks without special gills.	
dermobranchiate		Having the skin modified to serve as a gill.	
dermohaemal		Pertaining to, or in relation with, both dermal and hæmal structures; as, the dermohæmal spines or ventral fin rays of fishes.	
dermoid		Same as Dermatoid.	
dermoneural		Pertaining to, or in relation with, both dermal and neural structures; as, the dermoneural spines or dorsal fin rays of fishes.	
dermopathic		Dermatopathic.	
dermophyte		A dermatophyte.	
dermoptera		(Zoöl.) The division of insects which includes the earwigs (Forticulidæ).	
dermopteran		An insect which has the anterior pair of wings coriaceous, and does not use them in flight, as the earwig.	
dermopteri		Same as Dermopterygii.	
dermopterygii		A group of fishlike animals including the Marsipobranchiata and Leptocardia.	
dermoskeleton		See Exoskeleton — the hardened parts of the external integument of an animal, including hair, feathers, nails, horns, scales, etc.,as well as the armor of armadillos and many reptiles…	
dermostosis		Ossification of the dermis.	
dern	Obsolete	Hidden; concealed; secret.	Middle English dernen, from Old English diernan.
derne	Scots	To hide; to skulk.	
dernful	Obsolete	Secret; hence, lonely; sad; mournful.	
dernier		Last; final.	
dernly	Obsolete	Secretly; grievously; mournfully.	
derogant		Derogatory.	
derogate		To annul in part; to repeal partly; to restrict; to limit the action of; -- said of a law.	
derogately		In a derogatory manner.	
derogation		The act of derogating, partly repealing, or lessening in value; disparagement; detraction; depreciation; -- followed by of, from, or to.	
derogative		Derogatory. -- De*rog"a*tive*ly, adv.	
derogator		A detractor.	Latin derogator.
derogatorily		In a derogatory manner; disparagingly.	
derogatoriness		Quality of being derogatory.	
derogatory		Tending to derogate, or lessen in value; expressing derogation; detracting; injurious; -- with from to, or unto.	Latin derogatorius.
derotremata		The tribe of aquatic Amphibia which includes Amphiuma, Menopoma, etc. They have permanent gill openings, but no external gills; -- called also Cryptobranchiata.	
derrick		A mast, spar, or tall frame, supported at the top by stays or guys, with suitable tackle for hoisting heavy weights, as stones in building.	
derring	Obsolete	Daring or warlike.	
derringer		A kind of short-barreled pocket pistol, of very large caliber, often carrying a half-ounce ball.	
derth	Obsolete	Dearth; scarcity.	
dertrotheca		The horny covering of the end of the bill of birds.	
dervis		A Turkish or Persian monk, especially one who professes extreme poverty and leads an austere life.	
dervise		A Turkish or Persian monk, especially one who professes extreme poverty and leads an austere life.	
dervish		A Turkish or Persian monk, especially one who professes extreme poverty and leads an austere life.	Turkish derviş, from Persian درویش.
derworth	Obsolete	Precious.	
descant		(Mus.) (a) Originally, a double song; a melody or counterpoint sung above the plain song of the tenor; a variation of an air; a variation by ornament of the main subject or plain song.	
descanter		One who descants.	
descend		To pass from a higher to a lower place; to move downwards; to come or go down in any way, as by falling, flowing, walking, etc.; to plunge; to fall; to incline downward; -- the opposite of ascend.	Middle English decenden, from Old French descendre, from Latin descendere.
descendant		Descendent.	
descendent		Descending; falling; proceeding from an ancestor or source.	
descender		One who descends.	
descendibility		The quality of being descendible; capability of being transmitted from ancestors; as, the descendibility of an estate.	
descendible		Admitting descent; capable of being descended.	
descending		Of or pertaining to descent; moving downwards.	
descendingly		In a descending manner.	
descension	Obsolete	The act of going downward; descent; falling or sinking; declension; degradation.	Old French descension.
descensional		Pertaining to descension.	
descensive		Tending to descend; tending downwards; descending.	
descensory		A vessel used in alchemy to extract oils.	
descent		The act of descending, or passing downward; change of place from higher to lower.	
describable		That can be described; capable of description.	
describe		To represent by drawing; to draw a plan of; to delineate; to trace or mark out; as, to describe a circle by the compasses; a torch waved about the head in such a way as to describe a circle.	Middle English descriven, from Old French descrivre, from Latin describo.
describent		Same as Generatrix.	Latin describens.
describer		One who describes.	
descrier		One who descries.	Old French descrier.
description		A sketch or account of anything in words; a portraiture or representation in language; an enumeration of the essential qualities of a thing or species.	Latin descriptio.
descriptive		Tending to describe; having the quality of representing; containing description; as, a descriptive figure; a descriptive phrase; a descriptive narration; a story descriptive of the age.	
descrive	Obsolete	To describe.	Old French descrivre, from Latin describo.
descry		To spy out or discover by the eye, as objects distant or obscure; to espy; to recognize; to discern; to discover.	Old French descrier.
desecate	Obsolete	To cut, as with a scythe; to mow.	
desecrate		To divest of a sacred character or office; to divert from a sacred purpose; to violate the sanctity of; to profane; to put to an unworthy use; -- the opposite of consecrate.	
desecrater		One who desecrates; a profaner.	
desecration		The act of desecrating; profanation; condition of anything desecrated.	
desecrator		One who desecrates.	
desegmentation		The loss or obliteration of division into segments; as, a desegmentation of the body.	
desert		That which is deserved; the reward or the punishment justly due; claim to recompense, usually in a good sense; right to reward; merit.	French déserter, from Latin desertare.
deserter		One who forsakes a duty, a cause or a party, a friend, or any one to whom he owes service; especially, a soldier or a seaman who abandons the service without leave; one guilty of desertion.	Latin desertor.
desertful		Meritorious.	
desertion		The act of deserting or forsaking; abandonment of a service, a cause, a party, a friend, or any post of duty; the quitting of one's duties willfully and without right; esp., an absconding from military or naval service.	
desertless		Without desert.	
desertlessly		Undeservedly.	
desertness		A deserted condition.	
desertrice		A feminine deserter.	Latin desertrix.
desertrix		A feminine deserter.	
deserve		To earn by service; to be worthy of (something due, either good or evil); to merit; to be entitled to; as, the laborer deserves his wages; a work of value deserves praise.	Old French deservir, from Latin deservire.
deservedly		According to desert (whether good or evil); justly.	
deservedness		Meritoriousness.	
deserver		One who deserves.	
deserving		Desert; merit.	
deshabille		An undress; a careless toilet.	French déshabille.
desiccant		Drying; desiccative. -- n. (Med.) A medicine or application for drying up a sore.	
desiccate		To dry up; to deprive or exhaust of moisture; to preserve by drying; as, to desiccate fish or fruit.	Latin desicco.
desiccation		The act of desiccating, or the state of being desiccated.	
desiccative		Drying; tending to dry.	
desiccator		One who, or that which, desiccates.	
desiccatory		Desiccative.	
desiderable		Desirable.	
desiderata		See Desideratum — anything desired; that of which the lack is felt; a want generally felt and acknowledge.	
desiderate		To desire; to feel the want of; to lack; to miss; to want.	
desideration		Act of desiderating; also, the thing desired.	Latin desideratio.
desiderative		Denoting desire; as, desiderative verbs.	
desideratum		Anything desired; that of which the lack is felt; a want generally felt and acknowledge.	
desidiose	Obsolete	Idle; lazy.	
desidious	Obsolete	Idle; lazy.	
desidiousness	Obsolete	The state or quality of being desidiose, or indolent.	
desight	Obsolete	An unsightly object.	
desightment		The act of making unsightly; disfigurement.	
design		To draw preliminary outline or main features of; to sketch for a pattern or model; to delineate; to trace out; to draw.	Old French designer, from Latin designare.
designable		Capable of being designated or distinctly marked out; distinguishable.	
designate		Designated; appointed; chosen.	Latin designatus.
designation		The act of designating; a pointing out or showing; indication.	
designative		Serving to designate or indicate; pointing out.	
designator		One who designates.	
designatory		Serving to designate; designative; indicating.	
designedly		By design; purposely; intentionally; -- opposed to accidentally, ignorantly, or inadvertently.	
designer		One who designs, marks out, or plans; a contriver.	
designful		Full of design; scheming. -- De*sign"ful*ness, n.	
designing		Intriguing; artful; scheming; as, a designing man.	
designless	Obsolete	Without design. -- De*sign"less*ly, adv.	
designment	Obsolete	Delineation; sketch; design; ideal; invention.	
desilver		To deprive of silver; as, to desilver lead.	
desilverization		The act or the process of freeing from silver; also, the condition resulting from the removal of silver.	
desilverize		To deprive, or free from, silver; to remove silver from.	
desinence		Termination; ending.	
desinent	Obsolete	Ending; forming an end; lowermost.	
desinential		Terminal.	
desipient		Foolish; silly; trifling.	
desirability		The state or quality of being desirable; desirableness.	
desirable		Worthy of desire or longing; fitted to excite desire or a wish to possess; pleasing; agreeable.	
desirableness		The quality of being desirable.	
desirably		In a desirable manner.	
desire		To long for; to wish for earnestly; to covet.	Middle English desiren, from Old French desirrer, from Latin desidero.
desireful		Filled with desire; eager.	
desirefulness		The state of being desireful; eagerness to obtain and possess.	
desireless		Free from desire.	
desirer		One who desires, asks, or wishes.	
desirous		Feeling desire; eagerly wishing; solicitous; eager to obtain; covetous.	Old French desirrous.
desirously		With desire; eagerly.	
desirousness		The state of being desirous.	
desist		To cease to proceed or act; to stop; to forbear; -- often with from.	
desistance		The act or state of desisting; cessation.	
desistive		Final; conclusive; ending.	
desition		An end or ending.	
desitive	Obsolete	Final; serving to complete; conclusive.	
desk		A table, frame, or case, usually with sloping top, but often with flat top, for the use writers and readers.	Latin desca.
deskwork		Work done at a desk, as by a clerk or writer.	
desman		An amphibious, insectivorous mammal found in Russia (Myogale moschata).	French desman.
desmid		A microscopic plant of the family Desmidiæ, a group of unicellular algæ in which the species have a greenish color, and the cells generally appear as if they consisted of two coalescing halves.	Greek δεσμός.
desmidian		A microscopic plant of the family Desmidiæ, a group of unicellular algæ in which the species have a greenish color, and the cells generally appear as if they consisted of two coalescing halves.	
desmine		Same as Stilbite.	
desmobacteria		See Microbacteria — in the classification of Cohn, one of the four tribes of Bacteria.	
desmodont		A member of a group of South American blood-sucking bats, of the genera Desmodus and Diphylla.	
desmognathous		Having the maxillo-palatine bones united; -- applied to a group of carinate birds (Desmognathæ), including various wading and swimming birds, as the ducks and herons, and also raptorial and other kinds.	
desmoid		Resembling, or having the characteristics of, a ligament; ligamentous.	
desmology		The science which treats of the ligaments.	
desmomyaria		The division of Tunicata which includes the Salpæ. See Salpa.	
desolate		Destitute or deprived of inhabitants; deserted; uninhabited; hence, gloomy; as, a desolate isle; a desolate wilderness; a desolate house.	
desolately		In a desolate manner.	
desolateness		The state of being desolate.	
desolater		One who, or that which, desolates or lays waste.	
desolation		The act of desolating or laying waste; destruction of inhabitants; depopulation.	
desolator		Same as Desolater.	
desolatory		Causing desolation.	
desophisticate		To clear from sophism or error.	
desoxalic		Made or derived from oxalic acid; as, desoxalic acid.	
despair		To be hopeless; to have no hope; to give up all hope or expectation; -- often with of.	
despairer		One who despairs.	
despairful	Obsolete	Hopeless.	
despairing		Feeling or expressing despair; hopeless. -- De*spair ing*ness, n.	
desparple	Obsolete	To scatter; to disparkle.	
despatch		Same as Dispatch.	
despecificate		To discriminate; to separate according to specific signification or qualities; to specificate; to desynonymize.	
despecification		Discrimination.	
despect		Contempt.	Latin despectus.
despection		A looking down; a despising.	
despeed	Obsolete	To send hastily.	
despend	Obsolete	To spend; to squander. See Dispend.	
desperado		A reckless, furious man; a person urged by furious passions, and regardless of consequence; a wild ruffian.	Spanish desesperado.
desperate		Beyond hope; causing despair; extremely perilous; irretrievable; past cure, or, at least, extremely dangerous; as, a desperate disease; desperate fortune.	Latin desperatus.
desperately		In a desperate manner; without regard to danger or safety; recklessly; extremely; as, the troops fought desperately.	
desperateness		Desperation; virulence.	
desperation		The act of despairing or becoming desperate; a giving up of hope.	
despicability		Despicableness.	
despicable		Fit or deserving to be despised; contemptible; mean; vile; worthless; as, a despicable man; despicable company; a despicable gift.	
despicableness		The quality of being despicable; meanness; vileness; worthlessness.	
despicably		In a despicable or mean manner; contemptibly; as, despicably stingy.	
despiciency	Obsolete	A looking down; despection.	Latin despicientia.
despisable		Despicable; contemptible.	
despisal		A despising; contempt.	
despise		To look down upon with disfavor or contempt; to contemn; to scorn; to disdain; to have a low opinion or contemptuous dislike of.	Middle English despisen.
despisedness		The state of being despised.	
despisement		A despising.	
despiser		One who despises; a contemner; a scorner.	
despisingly		Contemptuously.	
despite		Malice; malignity; spite; malicious anger; contemptuous hate.	Old French despit, from Latin despectum.
despiteful		Full of despite; expressing malice or contemptuous hate; malicious. -- De*spite ful*ness, n.	
despiteous	Obsolete	Feeling or showing despite; malicious; angry to excess; cruel; contemptuous.	Anglo-Norman despitous.
despiteously	Obsolete	Despitefully.	
despitous	Obsolete	Despiteous; very angry; cruel.	
despoil	Obsolete	To deprive for spoil; to plunder; to rob; to pillage; to strip; to divest; -- usually followed by of.	French despoiller, from Latin despolio.
despoiler		One who despoils.	
despoilment		Despoliation.	
despoliation		A stripping or plundering; spoliation.	
despond	Obsolete	To give up, the will, courage, or spirit; to be thoroughly disheartened; to lose all courage; to become dispirited or depressed; to take an unhopeful view.	
despondence		Despondency.	
despondency		The state of desponding; loss of hope and cessation of effort; discouragement; depression or dejection of the mind.	
despondent		Marked by despondence; given to despondence; low-spirited; as, a despondent manner; a despondent prisoner. -- De*spond"ent*ly, adv.	Latin despondere.
desponder		One who desponds.	
despondingly		In a desponding manner.	
desponsage	Obsolete	Betrothal.	
desponsate	Obsolete	To betroth.	
desponsation	Obsolete	A betrothing; betrothal.	
desponsory		A written pledge of marriage.	
desport		See Disport — play; sport; pastime; diversion; playfulness.	
despot		A master; a lord; especially, an absolute or irresponsible ruler or sovereign.	Latin despota, from Greek δεσπότης.
despotat		The station or government of a despot; also, the domain of a despot.	
despotic		Having the character of, or pertaining to, a despot; absolute in power; possessing and abusing unlimited power; evincing despotism; tyrannical; arbitrary. -- Des*pot ic*al*ness, n.	
despotical		Having the character of, or pertaining to, a despot; absolute in power; possessing and abusing unlimited power; evincing despotism; tyrannical; arbitrary. -- Des*pot ic*al*ness, n.	
despotism		The power, spirit, or principles of a despot; absolute control over others; tyrannical sway; tyranny.	
despotist		A supporter of despotism.	
despotize		To act the despot.	
despread		See Dispread — to spread abroad, or different ways; to spread apart; to open; as, the sun dispreads his beams.	
despumate		To throw off impurities in spume; to work off in foam or scum; to foam.	
despumation		The act of throwing up froth or scum; separation of the scum or impurities from liquids; scumming; clarification.	
despume	Obsolete	To free from spume or scum.	
desquamate		To peel off in the form of scales; to scale off, as the skin in certain diseases.	
desquamation		The separation or shedding of the cuticle or epidermis in the form of flakes or scales; exfoliation, as of bones.	
desquamative		Of, pertaining to, or attended with, desquamation.	
desquamatory		Of, pertaining to, or attended with, desquamation.	
dessert		A service of pastry, fruits, or sweetmeats, at the close of a feast or entertainment; pastry, fruits, etc., forming the last course at dinner. quoth the peasant, Dessert spoon, a spoon used in eating dessert…	French dessert.
destemper		A kind of painting. See Distemper.	
destin	Obsolete	Destiny.	
destinable		Determined by destiny; fated.	
destinably		In a destinable manner.	
destinal	Obsolete	Determined by destiny; fated.	
destinate	Obsolete	Destined.	
destination		Purpose for which anything is destined; predetermined end, object, or use; ultimate design.	Latin destinationem.
destine		To determine the future condition or application of; to set apart by design for a future use or purpose; to fix, as by destiny or by an authoritative decree; to doom; to ordain or preordain; to appoint…	
destinist		A believer in destiny; a fatalist.	
destiny		That to which any person or thing is destined; predetermined state; condition foreordained by the Divine or by human will; fate; lot; doom.	Old French destinee.
destituent	Obsolete	Deficient; wanting; as, a destituent condition.	Latin destituens.
destitute		Forsaken; not having in possession (something necessary, or desirable); deficient; lacking; devoid; -- often followed by of.	
destitutely		In destitution.	
destituteness		Destitution.	
destitution		The state of being deprived of anything; the state or condition of being destitute, needy, or without resources; deficiency; lack; extreme poverty; utter want; as, the inundation caused general destitution.	French destitution, from Latin destitutionem.
destrer	Obsolete	A war horse.	
destrie	Obsolete	To destroy.	
destroy		To unbuild; to pull or tear down; to separate virulently into its constituent parts; to break up the structure and organic existence of; to demolish.	Middle English destroyen, from Old French destruire, from Latin destruere.
destroyable		Destructible.	
destroyer		One who destroys, ruins, kills, or desolates.	
destruct	Obsolete	To destroy.	
destructibility		The quality of being capable of destruction; destructibleness.	
destructible		Liable to destruction; capable of being destroyed.	
destructibleness		The quality of being destructible.	
destruction		The act of destroying; a tearing down; a bringing to naught; subversion; demolition; ruin; slaying; devastation.	
destructionist		One who delights in destroying that which is valuable; one whose principles and influence tend to destroy existing institutions; a destructive.	
destructive		Causing destruction; tending to bring about ruin, death, or devastation; ruinous; fatal; productive of serious evil; mischievous; pernicious; -- often with of or to; as, intemperance is destructive of health…	Latin destructivus.
destructively		In a destructive manner.	
destructiveness		(Phren.) The faculty supposed to impel to the commission of acts of destruction; propensity to destroy.	
destructor		A destroyer.	
destruie	Obsolete	To destroy.	
desudation		A sweating; a profuse or morbid sweating, often succeeded by an eruption of small pimples.	Latin desudatio.
desuete		Disused; out of use.	Latin desuetus.
desuetude		The cessation of use; disuse; discontinuance of practice, custom, or fashion.	
desulphurate		To deprive of sulphur.	
desulphuration		The act or process of depriving of sulphur.	
desulphurize		To desulphurate; to deprive of sulphur. -- De*sul`phur*i*za"tion, n.	
desultorily		In a desultory manner; without method; loosely; immethodically.	
desultoriness		The quality of being desultory or without order or method; unconnectedness.	
desultorious		Desultory.	
desultory		Jumping, or passing, from one thing or subject to another, without order or rational connection; without logical sequence; disconnected; immethodical; aimless; as, desultory minds.	Latin desultorius.
desume	Obsolete	To select; to borrow.	
desynonymization		The act of desynonymizing.	
desynonymize		To deprive of synonymous character; to discriminate in use; -- applied to words which have been employed as synonyms.	
detach		To part; to separate or disunite; to disengage; -- the opposite of attach; as, to detach the coats of a bulbous root from each other; to detach a man from a leader or from a party.	
detachable		That can be detached.	
detached		Separate; unconnected, or imperfectly connected; as, detached parcels.	
detachment		The act of detaching or separating, or the state of being detached.	French détachement.
detail		A minute portion; one of the small parts; a particular; an item; - - used chiefly in the plural; as, the details of a scheme or transaction.	French détail.
detailer		One who details.	
detain		To keep back or from; to withhold.	
detainder		A writ. See Detinue.	
detainer		One who detains.	
detainment		Detention.	
detect		To uncover; to discover; to find out; to bring to light; as, to detect a crime or a criminal; to detect a mistake in an account.	Latin detectus.
detectable		Capable of being detected or found out; as, parties not detectable.	
detecter		One who, or that which, detects or brings to light; one who finds out what another attempts to conceal; a detector.	
detectible		Capable of being detected or found out; as, parties not detectable.	
detection		The act of detecting; the laying open what was concealed or hidden; discovery; as, the detection of a thief; the detection of fraud, forgery, or a plot.	
detective		Fitted for, or skilled in, detecting; employed in detecting crime or criminals; as, a detective officer.	
detector		One who, or that which, detects; a detecter.	
detenebrate	Obsolete	To remove darkness from.	
detent		That which locks or unlocks a movement; a catch, pawl, or dog; especially, in clockwork, the catch which locks and unlocks the wheelwork in striking.	French détente.
detention		The act of detaining or keeping back; a withholding.	
deter		To prevent by fear; hence, to hinder or prevent from action by fear of consequences, or difficulty, risk, etc. Addison.	Latin deterreo.
deterge		To cleanse; to purge away, as foul or offending matter from the body, or from an ulcer.	Latin detergere.
detergency		A cleansing quality or power.	
detergent		Cleansing; purging. -- n.	
deteriorate		To make worse; to make inferior in quality or value; to impair; as, to deteriorate the mind.	
deterioration		The process of growing worse, or the state of having grown worse.	
deteriority		Worse state or quality; inferiority.	
determent		The act of deterring; also, that which deters.	
determinability		The quality of being determinable; determinableness.	
determinable		Capable of being determined, definitely ascertained, decided upon, or brought to a conclusion.	
determinableness		Capability of being determined; determinability.	
determinacy		Determinateness.	
determinant		Serving to determine or limit; determinative.	
determinate		Having defined limits; not uncertain or arbitrary; fixed; established; definite.	Latin determinatus.
determinately		In a determinate manner; definitely; ascertainably.	
determinateness		State of being determinate.	
determination		The act of determining, or the state of being determined.	
determinative		Having power to determine; limiting; shaping; directing; conclusive.	
determinator		One who determines.	
determine		To fix the boundaries of; to mark off and separate. hath determined the times before appointed.	Middle English determinen, from Old French determiner.
determined		Decided; resolute.	
determinedly		In a determined manner; with determination.	
determiner		One who, or that which, determines or decides.	
determinism		The doctrine that the will is not free, but is inevitably and invincibly determined by motives.	
determinist		One who believes in determinism.	
deterration		The uncovering of anything buried or covered with earth; a taking out of the earth or ground.	
deterrence		That which deters; a deterrent; a hindrance.	
deterrent		Serving to deter.	
detersion		The act of deterging or cleansing, as a sore.	
detersive		Cleansing; detergent. -- n.	
detersively		In a way to cleanse.	
detersiveness		The quality of cleansing.	
detest		To hate intensely; to abhor; to abominate; to loathe; as, we detest what is contemptible or evil.	Middle French detester, from Latin detestari.
detestability		Capacity of being odious.	
detestable		Worthy of being detested; abominable; extremely hateful; very odious; deserving abhorrence; as, detestable vices.	
detestableness		The quality or state of being detestable.	
detestably		In a detestable manner.	
detestate	Obsolete	To detest.	
detestation		The act of detesting; extreme hatred or dislike; abhorrence; loathing.	
detester		One who detes	
dethrone		To remove or drive from a throne; to depose; to divest of supreme authority and dignity.	
dethronement		Deposal from a throne; deposition from regal power.	
dethroner		One who dethrones.	
dethronization	Obsolete	Dethronement.	
dethronize	Obsolete	To dethrone or unthrone.	
detinue		A person or thing detained; (Law) a form of action for the recovery of a personal chattel wrongfully detained.	
detonate		To explode with a sudden report; as, niter detonates with sulphur.	Latin detonare.
detonating		from Detonate.	
detonation		An explosion or sudden report made by the instantaneous decomposition or combustion of unstable substances' as, the detonation of gun cotton.	French détonation.
detonator		One who, or that which, detonates.	
detonization		The act of detonizing; detonation.	
detonize		To explode, or cause to explode; to burn with an explosion; to detonate.	
detorsion		Same as Detortion.	
detort		To turn form the original or plain meaning; to pervert; to wrest.	
detortion		The act of detorting, or the state of being detorted; a twisting or warping.	
detour		A turning; a circuitous route; a deviation from a direct course; as, the detours of the Mississippi.	French détour, from Old French destour.
detract		To take away; to withdraw.	
detracter		One who detracts; a detractor.	
detractingly		In a detracting manner.	
detraction		The act of taking away from the reputation or good name of another; a lessening or cheapening in the estimation of others; the act of depreciating another, from envy or malice; calumny.	
detractious		Containing detraction; detractory.	
detractive		Tending to detractor draw.	
detractiveness		The quality of being detractive.	
detractor		One who detracts; a derogator; a defamer.	
detractory		Defamatory by denial of desert; derogatory; calumnious.	Latin dectractorius.
detractress		A female detractor.	
detrain		To alight, or to cause to alight, from a railway train.	
detrect	Obsolete	To refuse; to decline.	
detriment		That which injures or causes damage; mischief; harm; diminution; loss; damage; -- used very generically; as, detriments to property, religion, morals, etc. I can repair That detriment, if such it be.	Old French detriement, from Latin detrimentum.
detrimental		Causing detriment; injurious; hurtful.	
detrimentalness		The quality of being detrimental; injuriousness.	
detrital		Pertaining to, or composed of, detritus.	
detrite		Worn out.	
detrition		A wearing off or away.	
detritus		(Geol.) A mass of substances worn off from solid bodies by attrition, and reduced to small portions; as, diluvial detritus.	Latin detritus.
detrude		To thrust down or out; to push down with force.	
detruncate		To shorten by cutting; to cut off; to lop off.	Latin detruncatus.
detruncation		The act of lopping or cutting off, as the head from the body.	
detrusion		The act of thrusting or driving down or outward; outward thrust. -- De*tru"sive, a.	Latin detrusio.
detteles	Obsolete	Free from debt.	
detumescence		Diminution of swelling; subsidence of anything swollen.	
detur		A present of books given to a meritorious undergraduate student as a prize.	
deturb	Obsolete	To throw down.	Latin deturbare.
deturbate	Obsolete	To evict; to remove.	
deturbation	Obsolete	The act of deturbating.	
deturn	Obsolete	To turn away.	
deturpate	Obsolete	To defile; to disfigure.	
deturpation	Obsolete	A making foul.	
deuce		(Gaming) Two; a card or a die with two spots; as, the deuce of hearts.	French deux, from Old French deus, from Latin duos.
deuced	Low	Devilish; excessive; extreme. -- Deu"ced*ly, adv.	
deuse		See Deuce, Deuced.	
deused		See Deuce, Deuced.	
deut-		A prefix which formerly properly indicated the second in a regular series of compound in the series, and not to its composition, but which is now generally employed in the same sense as bi- or di-, although little used.	
deuterocanonical		Pertaining to a second canon, or ecclesiastical writing of inferior authority; -- said of the Apocrypha, certain Epistles, etc.	
deuterogamist		One who marries the second time.	
deuterogamy		A second marriage, after the death of the first husband of wife; -- in distinction from bigamy, as defined in the old canon law.	
deuterogenic		Of secondary origin; -- said of certain rocks whose material has been derived from older rocks.	
deuteronomist		The writer of Deuteronomy.	
deuteronomy		The fifth book of the Pentateuch, containing the second giving of the law by Moses.	
deuteropathia		A sympathetic affection of any part of the body, as headache from an overloaded stomach.	
deuteropathic		Pertaining to deuteropathy; of the nature of deuteropathy.	
deuteropathy		A sympathetic affection of any part of the body, as headache from an overloaded stomach.	Greek δευτεροπάθεια.
deuteroscopy		That which is seen at a second view; a meaning beyond the literal sense; the second intention; a hidden signification.	
deuterozooid		One of the secondary, and usually sexual, zooids produced by budding or fission from the primary zooids, in animals having alternate generations.	
deuthydroguret		Same as Deutohydroguret.	
deuto-		A prefix which formerly properly indicated the second in a regular series of compound in the series, and not to its composition, but which is now generally employed in the same sense as bi- or di-, although little used.	
deutohydroguret	Obsolete	A compound containing in the molecule two atoms of hydrogen united with some other element or radical.	
deutoplasm		The lifeless food matter in the cytoplasm of an ovum or a cell, as distinguished from the active or true protoplasm; yolk substance; yolk.	
deutoplastic		Pertaining to, or composed of, deutoplasm.	
deutosulphuret	Obsolete	A disulphide.	
deutoxide		A compound containing in the molecule two atoms of oxygen united with some other element or radical; -- usually called dioxide, or less frequently, binoxide.	
deutzia		A genus of shrubs with pretty white flowers, much cultivated.	
dev		A god; a deity; a divine being; an idol; a king.	
deva		A god; a deity; a divine being; an idol; a king.	Sanskrit देव.
devanagari		The character in which Sanskrit is written.	
devaporation		The change of vapor into water, as in the formation of rain.	
devast	Obsolete	To devastate.	
devastate		To lay waste; to ravage; to desolate.	
devastation		The act of devastating, or the state of being devastated; a laying waste.	
devastator		One who, or that which, devastates.	
devastavit		Waste or misapplication of the assets of a deceased person by an executor or an administrator.	
devata		A deity; a divine being; a good spirit; an idol.	
develin	English dialect	The European swift.	
develop		To free from that which infolds or envelops; to unfold; to lay open by degrees or in detail; to make visible or known; to disclose; to produce or give forth; as, to develop theories; a motor that develops 100 horse power.	French développer, from Middle French desveloper, from Old French desveloper, from French veloper.
developable		Capable of being developed.	
developer		One who, or that which, develops.	
development		The act of developing or disclosing that which is unknown; a gradual unfolding process by which anything is developed, as a plan or method, or an image upon a photographic plate…	
developmental		Pertaining to, or characteristic of, the process of development; as, the developmental power of a germ.	
devenustate	Obsolete	To deprive of beauty or grace.	Latin devenustatus.
devergence	Obsolete	See Divergence — a receding from each other in moving from a common center; the state of being divergent; as, an angle is made by the divergence of straight lines.	
devergency	Obsolete	See Divergence — a receding from each other in moving from a common center; the state of being divergent; as, an angle is made by the divergence of straight lines.	
devest		To take away, as an authority, title, etc., to deprive; to alienate, as an estate.	
devex	Obsolete	Bending down; sloping.	
devexity		A bending downward; a sloping; incurvation downward; declivity.	Latin devexitas.
devi		; fem. of Deva.	
deviant	Obsolete	Deviating.	
deviate		To go out of the way; to turn aside from a course or a method; to stray or go astray; to err; to digress; to diverge; to vary.	
deviation		The act of deviating; a wandering from the way; variation from the common way, from an established rule, etc.; departure, as from the right course or the path of duty.	
deviator		One who, or that which, deviates.	
deviatory		Tending to deviate; devious; as, deviatory motion.	
device		That which is devised, or formed by design; a contrivance; an invention; a project; a scheme; often, a scheme to deceive; a stratagem; an artifice.	Old French devis, from Latin divisus.
deviceful		Full of devices; inventive.	
devicefully		In a deviceful manner.	
devil		The Evil One; Satan, represented as the tempter and spiritual of mankind. being forty days tempted of the devil.	Old English deofol, from Greek διάβολος.
devil-diver		A small water bird. See Dabchick.	
deviless		A she-devil.	
devilet		A little devil.	
devilfish		(a) A huge ray (Manta birostris or Cephaloptera vampyrus) of the Gulf of Mexico and Southern Atlantic coasts.	
deviling	Obsolete	A young devil.	
devilish		Resembling, characteristic of, or pertaining to, the devil; diabolical; wicked in the extreme.	
devilism		The state of the devil or of devils; doctrine of the devil or of devils.	
devilize		To make a devil of.	
devilkin		A little devil; a devilet.	
devilment		Deviltry.	
devilry		Conduct suitable to the devil; extreme wickedness; deviltry.	
devilship		The character or person of a devil or the devil.	
deviltry		Diabolical conduct; malignant mischief; devilry.	
devilwood		A kind of tree (Osmanthus Americanus), allied to the European olive.	
devious		Out of a straight line; winding; varying from directness; as, a devious path or way.	
devirginate		Deprived of virginity.	
devirgination		A deflouring.	
devisable		Capable of being devised, invented, or contrived.	
devisal		A devising.	
devise		To form in the mind by new combinations of ideas, new applications of principles, or new arrangement of parts; to formulate by thought; to contrive; to excogitate; to invent; to plan; to scheme; as, to devise an engine…	Middle English devisen.
devisee		One to whom a devise is made, or real estate given by will.	
deviser		One who devises.	
devisor		One who devises, or gives real estate by will; a testator; -- correlative to devisee.	
devitable	Obsolete	Avoidable.	
devitalize		To deprive of life or vitality. -- De*vi`tal*i*za"tion, n.	
devitation	Obsolete	An avoiding or escaping; also, a warning.	Latin devitatio.
devitrification		The act or process of devitrifying, or the state of being devitrified.	
devitrify		To deprive of glasslike character; to take away vitreous luster and transparency from.	
devocalize		To make toneless; to deprive of vowel quality. -- De*vo`cal*i*za"tion, n.	
devocation		A calling off or away.	
devoid		To empty out; to remove.	
devoir		Duty; service owed; hence, due act of civility or respect; -- now usually in the plural; as, they paid their devoirs to the ladies.	Old French deveir, from Latin debere.
devolute	Obsolete	To devolve.	
devolution		The act of rolling down.	
devolve		To roll onward or downward; to pass on.	Latin devolvo.
devolvement		The act or process of devolving;; devolution.	
devon		One of a breed of hardy cattle originating in the country of Devon, England.	
devonian		Of or pertaining to Devon or Devonshire in England; as, the Devonian rocks, period, or system.	
devoration	Obsolete	The act of devouring.	Latin devoratio.
devotary	Obsolete	A votary.	
devote		To appropriate by vow; to set apart or dedicate by a solemn act; to consecrate; also, to consign over; to doom; to evil; to devote one to destruction; the city was devoted to the flames.	
devoted		Consecrated to a purpose; strongly attached; zealous; devout; as, a devoted admirer. -- De*vot ed*ness, n.	
devotee		One who is wholly devoted; esp., one given wholly to religion; one who is superstitiously given to religious duties and ceremonies; a bigot.	French devotee.
devotement		The state of being devoted, or set apart by a vow.	
devoter		One who devotes; a worshiper.	
devotion		The act of devoting; consecration.	Latin devotio.
devotional		Pertaining to, suited to, or used in, devotion; as, a devotional posture; devotional exercises; a devotional frame of mind.	
devotionalist		One given to devotion, esp. to excessive formal devotion.	
devotionality		The practice of a devotionalist.	
devotionally		In a devotional manner; toward devotion.	
devotionist		One given to devotion, esp. to excessive formal devotion.	
devoto		A devotee.	
devotor	Obsolete	A worshiper; one given to devotion.	
devour		To eat up with greediness; to consume ravenously; to feast upon like a wild beast or a glutton; to prey upon.	Anglo-Norman devourer.
devourable		That may be devoured.	
devourer		One who, or that which, devours.	
devouringly		In a devouring manner.	
devout		Devoted to religion or to religious feelings and duties; absorbed in religious exercises; given to devotion; pious; reverent; religious.	
devoutful		Full of devotion. 2.	
devoutless		Destitute of devotion. -- De*vout less*ness, n.	
devoutly		In a devout and reverent manner; with devout emotions; piously.	
devoutness		Quality or state of being devout.	
devove	Obsolete	To devote.	
devow	Obsolete	To give up; to devote.	French dévouer, from Latin devoro.
devulgarize		To free from what is vulgar, common, or narrow.	
dew		Moisture from the atmosphere condensed by cool bodies upon their surfaces, particularly at night.	
dew-point		The temperature at which dew begins to form.	
dewberry		(a) The fruit of certain species of bramble (Rubus); in England, the fruit of R. cæsius, which has a glaucous bloom; in America, that of R. canadensis and R. hispidus, species of low blackberries.	
dewclaw		In any animal, esp. of the Herbivora, a rudimentary claw or small hoof not reaching the ground.	
dewdrop		A drop of dew.	
dewfall		The falling of dew; the time when dew begins to fall.	
dewiness		State of being dewy.	
dewlap		The pendulous skin under the neck of an ox, which laps or licks the dew in grazing.	
dewlapped		Furnished with a dewlap.	
dewless		Having no dew.	
dewret		To ret or rot by the process called dewretting.	
dewretting		Dewrotting; the process of decomposing the gummy matter of flax and hemp and setting the fibrous part, by exposure on a sward to dew, rain, and sunshine.	
dewrot		To rot, as flax or hemp, by exposure to rain, dew, and sun. See Dewretting.	
dewworm		See Earthworm — (Zoöl.) Any worm of the genus Lumbricus and allied genera, found in damp soil.	
dewy		Pertaining to dew; resembling, consisting of, or moist with, dew.	
dexter		Pertaining to, or situated on, the right hand; right, as opposed to sinister, or left.	Latin dexter.
dexterical	Obsolete	Dexterous.	
dexterity		Readiness and grace in physical activity; skill and ease in using the hands; expertness in manual acts; as, dexterity with the chisel.	Latin dexteritas.
dexterous		Ready and expert in the use of the body and limbs; skillful and active with the hands; handy; ready; as, a dexterous hand; a dexterous workman.	Latin dexter.
dexterously		In a dexterous manner; skillfully.	
dexterousness		The quality of being dexterous; dexterity.	
dextrad		Toward the right side; dextrally.	
dextral		Right, as opposed to sinistral, or left.	
dextrality		The state of being on the right-hand side; also, the quality of being right-handed; right-handedness.	
dextrer	Obsolete	A war horse.	Old French destrier.
dextrin		A translucent, gummy, amorphous substance, nearly tasteless and odorless, used as a substitute for gum, for sizing, etc., and obtained from starch by the action of heat, acids, or diastase.	
dextro-		A prefix, from L. dexter, meaning, pertaining to, or toward, the right; (Chem. & Opt.) having the property of turning the plane of polarized light to the right; as, dextrotartaric acid.	
dextrogerous		See Dextrogyrate — same as Dextrorotatory.	
dextroglucose		Same as Dextrose.	
dextrogyrate		Same as Dextrorotatory.	
dextronic		Pertaining to, or derived from, dextrose; as, dextronic acid.	
dextrorotary		See Dextrotatory.	
dextrorotatory		Turning, or causing to turn, toward the right hand; esp., turning the plane of polarization of luminous rays toward the right hand; as, dextrorotatory crystals, sugars, etc. Cf.	
dextrorsal		Turning from the left to the right, in the ascending line, as in the spiral inclination of the stem of the common morning-glóry.	
dextrorse		Turning from the left to the right, in the ascending line, as in the spiral inclination of the stem of the common morning-glóry.	
dextrose		A sirupy, or white crystalline, variety of sugar, C6H12O6 (so called from turning the plane of polarization to the right), occurring in many ripe fruits.	
dextrous		Same as Dexterous, Dexterously, etc.	
dextrously		Same as Dexterous, Dexterously, etc.	
dextrousness		Same as Dexterous, Dexterously, etc.	
dey	Obsolete	A servant who has charge of the dairy; a dairymaid.	Old English dæge.
deynte	Obsolete	See Dainty — that which is delicious or delicate; a delicacy.	
deyntee	Obsolete	See Dainty — that which is delicious or delicate; a delicacy.	
dezincification		The act or process of freeing from zinc; also, the condition resulting from the removal of zinc.	
dezincify		To deprive of, or free from, zinc.	
