di-		A prefix, signifying twofold, double, twice; (Chem.) denoting two atoms, radicals, groups, or equivalents, as the case may be.	Greek δία.
dia-		A prefix denoting through; also, between, apart, asunder, across.	
diabase		A basic, dark-colored, holocrystalline, igneous rock, consisting essentially of a triclinic feldspar and pyroxene with magnetic iron; -- often limited to rocks pretertiary in age.	
diabaterial		Passing over the borders.	
diabetes		A disease which is attended with a persistent, excessive discharge of urine.	
diabetic		Pertaining to diabetes; as, diabetic or diabetical treatment.	
diabetical		Pertaining to diabetes; as, diabetic or diabetical treatment.	
diablerie		Devilry; sorcery or incantation; a diabolical deed; mischief.	
diabley		Devilry; sorcery or incantation; a diabolical deed; mischief.	
diabolic		Pertaining to the devil; resembling, or appropriate, or appropriate to, the devil; devilish; infernal; impious; atrocious; nefarious; outrageously wicked; as, a diabolic or diabolical temper or act. -- Di`a*bol ic*al*ness, n.	
diabolical		Pertaining to the devil; resembling, or appropriate, or appropriate to, the devil; devilish; infernal; impious; atrocious; nefarious; outrageously wicked; as, a diabolic or diabolical temper or act. -- Di`a*bol ic*al*ness, n.	
diabolify		To ascribed diabolical qualities to; to change into, or to represent as, a devil.	
diabolism		Character, action, or principles appropriate to the devil.	
diabolize		To render diabolical.	
diabolo		An old game or sport (revived under this name) consisting in whirling on a string, fastened to two sticks, a small somewhat spool- shaped object (called the diabolo) so as to balance it on a string…	Greek διάβολος.
diacatholicon		A universal remedy; -- name formerly to a purgative electuary.	
diacaustic		Pertaining to, or possessing the properties of, a species of caustic curves formed by refraction.	
diachylon		A plaster originally composed of the juices of several plants (whence its name), but now made of an oxide of lead and oil, and consisting essentially of glycerin mixed with lead salts of the fat acids.	
diachylum		A plaster originally composed of the juices of several plants (whence its name), but now made of an oxide of lead and oil, and consisting essentially of glycerin mixed with lead salts of the fat acids.	Greek διάχυλος.
diacid		Divalent; -- said of a base or radical as capable of saturating two acid monad radicals or a dibasic acid.	
diacodium		A sirup made of poppies.	
diaconal		Of or pertaining to a deacon.	
diaconate		The office of a deacon; deaconship; also, a body or board of deacons.	
diacoustic		Pertaining to the science or doctrine of refracted sounds.	
diacoustics		That branch of natural philosophy which treats of the properties of sound as affected by passing through different mediums; -- called also diaphonics.	
diacritic		That separates or distinguishes; -- applied to points or marks used to distinguish letters of similar form, or different sounds of the same letter, as, a, â, ä, o, ô…	Greek διακριτικός.
diacritical		That separates or distinguishes; -- applied to points or marks used to distinguish letters of similar form, or different sounds of the same letter, as, a, â, ä, o, ô…	
diactinic		Capable of transmitting the chemical or actinic rays of light; as, diactinic media.	
diadelphia		A Linnæan class of plants whose stamens are united into two bodies or bundles by their filaments.	
diadelphian		Of or pertaining to the class Diadelphia; having the stamens united into two bodies by their filaments (said of a plant or flower); grouped into two bundles or sets by coalescence of the filaments (said of stamens).	
diadelphous		Of or pertaining to the class Diadelphia; having the stamens united into two bodies by their filaments (said of a plant or flower); grouped into two bundles or sets by coalescence of the filaments (said of stamens).	
diadem		Originally, an ornamental head band or fillet, worn by Eastern monarchs as a badge of royalty; hence (later), also, a crown, in general.	Greek διάδημα.
diadrom	Obsolete	A complete course or vibration; time of vibration, as of a pendulum.	
diaeresis		(Gram.) The separation or resolution of one syllable into two; -- the opposite of synæresis.	Greek διαίρεσις.
diaeretic	Obsolete	Caustic.	
diageotropic		Relating to, or exhibiting, diageotropism.	
diageotropism		The tendency of organs (as roots) of plants to assume a position oblique or transverse to a direction towards the center of the earth.	
diaglyph		An intaglio.	
diaglyphic		Represented or formed by depressions in the general surface; as, diaglyphic sculpture or engraving; -- opposed to anaglyphic.	
diaglyphtic		Represented or formed by depressions in the general surface; as, diaglyphic sculpture or engraving; -- opposed to anaglyphic.	
diagnose		To ascertain by diagnosis; to diagnosticate. See Diagnosticate.	
diagnosis		(Med.) The art or act of recognizing the presence of disease from its signs or symptoms, and deciding as to its character; also, the decision arrived at.	Latin diagnosis, from Greek διάγνωσις.
diagnostic		Pertaining to, or furnishing, a diagnosis; indicating the nature of a disease.	
diagnosticate		To make a diagnosis of; to recognize by its symptoms, as a disease.	
diagnostics		That part of medicine which has to do with ascertaining the nature of diseases by means of their symptoms or signs.	
diagometer		A sort of electroscope, invented by Rousseau, in which the dry pile is employed to measure the amount of electricity transmitted by different bodies, or to determine their conducting power.	
diagonal		Joining two not adjacent angles of a quadrilateral or multilateral figure; running across from corner to corner; crossing at an angle with one of the sides.	Latin diagonalis, from Greek διαγώνιος.
diagonally		In a diagonal direction.	
diagonial	Obsolete	Diagonal; diametrical; hence; diametrically opposed.	
diagram		(Geom.) A figure or drawing made to illustrate a statement, or facilitate a demonstration; a plan.	French diagramme, from Greek διάγραμμα.
diagrammatic		Pertaining to, or of the nature of, a diagram; showing by diagram. -- Di`a*gram*mat"ic*ly, adv.	
diagraph		A drawing instrument, combining a protractor and scale.	
diagraphic		Descriptive.	
diagraphical		Descriptive.	
diagraphics		The art or science of descriptive drawing; especially, the art or science of drawing by mechanical appliances and mathematical rule.	
diaheliotropic		Relating or, or manifesting, diaheliotropism.	
diaheliotropism		A tendency of leaves or other organs of plants to have their dorsal surface faced towards the rays of light.	
dial		An instrument, formerly much used for showing the time of day from the shadow of a style or gnomon on a graduated arc or surface; esp., a sundial; but there are lunar and astral dials.	
dialect		Means or mode of expressing thoughts; language; tongue; form of speech.	Greek διάλεκτος.
dialectal		Relating to a dialect; dialectical; as, a dialectical variant.	
dialectic		Pertaining to dialectics; logical; argumental.	Greek διαλεκτική.
dialectical		Pertaining to dialectics; logical; argumental.	
dialectically		In a dialectical manner.	
dialectician		One versed in dialectics; a logician; a reasoner.	
dialectics		That branch of logic which teaches the rules and modes of reasoning; the application of logical principles to discursive reasoning; the science or art of discriminating truth from error; logical discussion.	Greek διαλεκτική.
dialectology		That branch of philology which is devoted to the consideration of dialects.	
dialector		One skilled in dialectics.	
dialing		The art of constructing dials; the science which treats of measuring time by dials.	
dialist		A maker of dials; one skilled in dialing.	
diallage		A figure by which arguments are placed in various points of view, and then turned to one point.	
diallel	Obsolete	Meeting and intersecting, as lines; not parallel; -- opposed to parallel.	
diallyl		A volatile, pungent, liquid hydrocarbon, C6H10, consisting of two allyl radicals, and belonging to the acetylene series.	
dialogical		Relating to a dialogue; dialogistical.	
dialogically		In the manner or nature of a dialogue.	
dialogism		An imaginary speech or discussion between two or more; dialogue.	
dialogist		A speaker in a dialogue.	
dialogistic		Pertaining to a dialogue; having the form or nature of a dialogue. -- Di*al`o*gis"tic*al*ly, adv.	
dialogistical		Pertaining to a dialogue; having the form or nature of a dialogue. -- Di*al`o*gis"tic*al*ly, adv.	
dialogite		Native carbonate of manganese; rhodochrosite.	
dialogize		To discourse in dialogue.	
dialogue		A conversation between two or more persons; particularly, a formal conservation in theatrical performances or in scholastic exercises.	Greek διάλογος.
dialypetalous		Having separate petals; polypetalous.	
dialysis		(Med.) (a) Debility. (b) A solution of continuity; division; separation of parts.	
dialytic		Having the quality of unloosing or separating.	
dialyzate		The material subjected to dialysis.	
dialyzation		The act or process of dialysis.	
dialyze		To separate, prepare, or obtain, by dialysis or osmose; to pass through an animal membrane; to subject to dialysis.	
dialyzed		Prepared by diffusion through an animal membrane; as, dialyzed iron.	
dialyzer		The instrument or medium used to effect chemical dialysis.	
diamagnet		A body having diamagnetic polarity.	
diamagnetic		Pertaining to, or exhibiting the phenomena of, diamagnetism; taking, or being of a nature to take, a position at right angles to the lines of magnetic force.	
diamagnetically		In the manner of, or according to, diamagnetism.	
diamagnetism		The science which treats of diamagnetic phenomena, and of the properties of diamagnetic bodies.	
diamantiferous		Yielding diamonds.	
diamantine	Obsolete	Adamantine.	
diameter		(Geom.) (a) Any right line passing through the center of a figure or body, as a circle, conic section, sphere, cube, etc., and terminated by the opposite boundaries…	
diametral	Obsolete	Pertaining to a diameter; diametrical.	
diametrally		Diametrically.	
diametric		As remote as possible, as if at the opposite end of a diameter; directly adverse.	
diametrical		As remote as possible, as if at the opposite end of a diameter; directly adverse.	
diametrically		In a diametrical manner; directly; as, diametrically opposite.	
diamide		Any compound containing two amido groups united with one or more acid or negative radicals, -- as distinguished from a diamine.	
diamido-		A prefix or combining form of Diamine.	
diamine		A compound containing two amido groups united with one or more basic or positive radicals, -- as contrasted with a diamide.	
diamond		A precious stone or gem excelling in brilliancy and beautiful play of prismatic colors, and remarkable for extreme hardness.	Old French diamant, from Latin diamas.
diamond-back		The salt-marsh terrapin of the Atlantic coast (Malacoclemmys palustris).	
diamond-shaped		Shaped like a diamond or rhombus.	
diamonded		Having figures like a diamond or lozenge.	
diamondize		To set with diamonds; to adorn; to enrich.	
diamylene		A liquid hydrocarbon, C10H20, of the ethylene series, regarded as a polymeric form of amylene.	
dian	Poetic	, Diana.	
diana		The daughter of Jupiter and Latona; a virgin goddess who presided over hunting, chastity, and marriage; -- identified with the Greek goddess Artemis.	
diandria		A Linnæan class of plants having two stamens.	
diandrian		Diandrous.	
diandrous		Of or pertaining to the class Diandria; having two stamens.	
dianium	Obsolete	Same as Columbium.	
dianoetic		Pertaining to the discursive faculty, its acts or products.	Greek διανοητικός.
dianoialogy		The science of the dianoetic faculties, and their operations.	
dianthus		A genus of plants containing some of the most popular of cultivated flowers, including the pink, carnation, and Sweet William.	
diapase	Obsolete	Same as Diapason.	
diapasm	Obsolete	Powdered aromatic herbs, sometimes made into little balls and strung together.	Latin diapasma.
diapason		(Gr. Mus.) The octave, or interval which includes all the tones of the diatonic scale.	Latin diapason, from Greek διαπασων.
diapedesis		The passage of the corpuscular elements of the blood from the blood vessels into the surrounding tissues, without rupture of the walls of the blood vessels.	
diapente		(Med.) A composition of five ingredients.	
diaper		Any textile fabric (esp. linen or cotton toweling) woven in diaper pattern.	
diapering		Same as Diaper, n., 2.	
diaphane		A woven silk stuff with transparent and colored figures; diaper work.	
diaphaned		Transparent or translucent.	
diaphaneity		The quality of being diaphanous; transparency; pellucidness.	Latin diaphaneitas.
diaphanic		Having power to transmit light; transparent; diaphanous.	
diaphanie		The art of imitating	
diaphanometer		An instrument for measuring the transparency of the air.	
diaphanoscope		A dark box constructed for viewing transparent pictures, with or without a lens.	
diaphanotype		A colored photograph produced by superimposing a translucent colored positive over a strong uncolored one.	
diaphanous		Allowing light to pass through, as porcelain; translucent or transparent; pellucid; clear.	
diaphanously		Translucently.	
diaphemetric		Relating to the measurement of the tactile sensibility of parts; as, diaphemetric compasses.	
diaphonic		Diacoustic.	
diaphonical		Diacoustic.	
diaphonics		The doctrine of refracted sound; diacoustics.	
diaphoresis		Perspiration, or an increase of perspiration.	
diaphoretic		Having the power to increase perspiration.	Latin diaphoreticus, from Greek διαφορητικός.
diaphoretical		Having the power to increase perspiration.	
diaphote		An instrument designed for transmitting pictures by telegraph.	
diaphragm		A dividing membrane or thin partition, commonly with an opening through it.	Greek διάφραγμα.
diaphragmatic		Pertaining to a diaphragm; as, diaphragmatic respiration; the diaphragmatic arteries and nerves.	
diaphysis		(Bot.) An abnormal prolongation of the axis of inflorescence.	
diapnoic		Slightly increasing an insensible perspiration; mildly diaphoretic. -- n.	
diapophysical		Pertaining to a diapophysis.	
diapophysis		The dorsal transverse, or tubercular, process of a vertebra. See Vertebra.	
diarchy		A form of government in which the supreme power is vested in two persons.	
diarial		Pertaining to a diary; daily.	
diarian		Pertaining to a diary; daily.	
diarist		One who keeps a diary.	
diarrhea		A morbidly frequent and profuse discharge of loose or fluid evacuations from the intestines, without tenesmus; a purging or looseness of the bowels; a flux.	Greek διάρροια.
diarrheal		Of or pertaining to diarrhea; like diarrhea.	
diarrhetic		Producing diarrhea, or a purging.	
diarrhoea		A morbidly frequent and profuse discharge of loose or fluid evacuations from the intestines, without tenesmus; a purging or looseness of the bowels; a flux.	
diarrhoeal		Of or pertaining to diarrhea; like diarrhea.	
diarrhoetic		Producing diarrhea, or a purging.	
diarthrodial		Relating to diarthrosis, or movable articulations.	
diarthrosis		A form of articulation which admits of considerable motion; a complete joint; abarticulation.	
diary	Obsolete	A register of daily events or transactions; a daily record; a journal; a blank book dated for the record of daily memoranda; as, a diary of the weather; a physician's diary. lasting for one day; as, a diary fever.	
diaspora		(a) To those Jews who, after the Exile, were scattered through the Old World, and afterwards to Jewish Christians living among heathen.	Greek διασπορά.
diaspore		A hydrate of alumina, often occurring in white lamellar masses with brilliant pearly luster; -- so named on account of its decrepitating when heated before the blowpipe.	Greek διασπείρειυ.
diastase		A soluble, nitrogenous ferment, capable of converting starch and dextrin into sugar.	Greek διάστασις.
diastasic		Pertaining to, or consisting of, diastase; as, diastasic ferment.	
diastasis		A forcible of bones without fracture.	
diastatic		Relating to diastase; having the properties of diastase; effecting the conversion of starch into sugar.	
diastem		(a) Intervening space; interval. (b) (Anc.	
diastema		A vacant space, or gap, esp. between teeth in a jaw.	
diaster		A double star; -- applied to the nucleus of a cell, when, during cell division, the loops of the nuclear network separate into two groups, preparatory to the formation of two daughter nuclei.	
diastole		(Physiol.) The rhythmical expansion or dilatation of the heart and arteries; -- correlative to systole, or contraction.	Greek διαστολή.
diastolic		Of or pertaining to diastole.	
diastyle		See under Intercolumniation.	
diatessaron		(Theol.) A continuous narrative arranged from the first four books of the New Testament.	
diathermal		Freely permeable by radiant heat.	
diathermancy		The property of transmitting radiant heat; the quality of being diathermous.	
diathermaneity		The property of transmitting radiant heat; the quality of being diathermous.	
diathermanism		The doctrine or the phenomena of the transmission of radiant heat.	
diathermanous		Having the property of transmitting radiant heat; diathermal; - - opposed to athermanous.	
diathermic		Affording a free passage to heat; as, diathermic substances.	
diathermometer		An instrument for examining the thermal resistance or heat- conducting power of liquids.	
diathermous		Same as Diathermal.	
diathesis		Bodily condition or constitution, esp. a morbid habit which predisposes to a particular disease, or class of diseases.	
diathetic		Pertaining to, or dependent on, a diathesis or special constitution of the body; as, diathetic disease.	
diatom		(Bot.) One of the Diatomaceæ, a family of minute unicellular Algæ having a siliceous covering of great delicacy, each individual multiplying by spontaneous division.	
diatomic		(a) Containing two atoms. (b) Having two replaceable atoms or radicals.	
diatomous		Having a single, distinct, diagonal cleavage; -- said of crystals.	
diatonic		Pertaining to the scale of eight tones, the eighth of which is the octave of the first.	
diatonically		In a diatonic manner.	
diatribe		A prolonged or exhaustive discussion; especially, an acrimonious or invective harangue; a strain of abusive or railing language; a philippic.	
diatribist		One who makes a diatribe or diatribes.	
diatryma		An extinct eocene bird from New Mexico, larger than the ostrich.	Greek διατρήμα.
diazeuctic	Obsolete	Disjoining two fourths; as, the diazeutic tone, which, like that from F to G in modern music, lay between two fourths, and, being joined to either, made a fifth.	Greek διαζευκτικός.
diazeutic	Obsolete	Disjoining two fourths; as, the diazeutic tone, which, like that from F to G in modern music, lay between two fourths, and, being joined to either, made a fifth.	
diazo-		A combining form (also used adjectively), meaning pertaining to, or derived from, a series of compounds containing a radical of two nitrogen atoms, united usually to an aromatic radical; as, diazo- benzene, C6H5.N2.OH.	
diazotize		To subject to such reactions or processes that diazo compounds, or their derivatives, shall be produced by chemical exchange or substitution.	
dib		One of the small bones in the knee joints of sheep uniting the bones above and below the joints.	
dibasic		Having two acid hydrogen atoms capable of replacement by basic atoms or radicals, in forming salts; bibasic; -- said of acids, as oxalic or sulphuric acids.	
dibasicity		The property or condition of being dibasic.	
dibber		A dibble.	
dibble		A pointed implement used to make holes in the ground in which no set out plants or to plant seeds.	
dibbler		One who, or that which, dibbles, or makes holes in the ground for seed.	
dibranchiata		An order of cephalopods which includes those with two gills, an apparatus for emitting an inky fluid, and either eight or ten cephalic arms bearing suckers or hooks, as the octopi and squids.	
dibranchiate		Having two gills. -- n.	
dibs		A sweet preparation or treacle of grape juice, much used in the East.	
dibstone		A pebble used in a child's game called dibstones.	
dibutyl		A liquid hydrocarbon, C8H18, of the marsh-gas series, being one of several octanes, and consisting of two butyl radicals.	
dicacious	Obsolete	Talkative; pert; saucy.	
dicacity	Obsolete	Pertness; sauciness.	
dicalcic		Having two atoms or equivalents of calcium to the molecule.	
dicarbonic		Containing two carbon residues, or two carboxyl or radicals; as, oxalic acid is a dicarbonic acid.	
dicast		A functionary in ancient Athens answering nearly to the modern juryman.	
dicastery		A court of justice; judgment hall.	
dice		Small cubes used in gaming or in determining by chance; also, the game played with dice.	
dicebox		A box from which dice are thrown in gaming.	
dicentra		A genus of herbaceous plants, with racemes of two-spurred or heart-shaped flowers, including the Dutchman's breeches, and the more showy Bleeding heart (D. spectabilis).	
dicephalous		Having two heads on one body; double-headed.	
dicer		A player at dice; a dice player; a gamester.	
dich	Obsolete	To ditch.	
dichastic		Capable of subdividing spontaneously.	
dichlamydeous		Having two coverings, a calyx and in corolla.	
dichloride		Same as Bichloride.	
dichogamous		Manifesting dichogamy.	
dichogamy		The condition of certain species of plants, in which the stamens and pistil do not mature simultaneously, so that these plants can never fertilize themselves.	
dichotomist		One who dichotomizes.	
dichotomize		To cut into two parts; to part into two divisions; to divide into pairs; to bisect.	
dichotomous		Regularly dividing by pairs from bottom to top; as, a dichotomous stem. -- Di*chot"o*mous*ly, adv.	
dichotomy		Division or distribution of genera into two species; division into two subordinate parts.	
dichroic		Having the property of dichroism; as, a dichroic crystal.	Greek δίχρως.
dichroiscope		Same as Dichroscope.	
dichroism		The property of presenting different colors by transmitted light, when viewed in two different directions, the colors being unlike in the direction of unlike or unequal axes.	
dichroite		Iolite; -- so called from its presenting two different colors when viewed in two different directions.	
dichroitic		Dichroic.	
dichromate		A salt of chromic acid containing two equivalents of the acid radical to one of the base; -- called also bichromate.	
dichromatic		Having or exhibiting two colors.	
dichromatism		The state of being dichromatic.	
dichromic		Furnishing or giving two colors; -- said of defective vision, in which all the compound colors are resolvable into two elements instead of three.	
dichroous		Dichroic.	
dichroscope		An instrument for examining the dichroism of crystals.	
dichroscopic		Pertaining to the dichroscope, or to observations with it.	
dicing		Gambling with dice.	
dickcissel		The American black-throated bunting (Spiza Americana).	
dickens		The devil.	
dicker		A chaffering, barter, or exchange, of small wares; as, to make a dicker.	
dickey		A seat behind a carriage, for a servant.	
dicky		A seat behind a carriage, for a servant.	
diclinic		Having two of the intersections between the three axes oblique. See Crystallization.	
diclinous		Having the stamens and pistils in separate flowers.	
dicoccous		Composed pf two coherent, one-seeded carpels; as, a dicoccous capsule.	
dicotyledon		A plant whose seeds divide into two seed lobes, or cotyledons, in germinating.	
dicotyledonous		Having two cotyledons or seed lobes; as, a dicotyledonous plant.	
dicrotal		Dicrotic.	
dicrotic		(a) Of or pertaining to dicrotism; as, a dicrotic pulse. (b) Of or pertaining to the second expansion of the artery in the dicrotic pulse; as, the dicrotic wave.	
dicrotism		A condition in which there are two beats or waves of the arterial pulse to each beat of the heart.	
dicrotous		Dicrotic.	
dicta		See Dictum — an authoritative statement; a dogmatic saying; an apothegm.	
dictagraph		Var. of Dictograph.	
dictamen		A dictation or dictate.	
dictamnus		A suffrutescent, D.	
dictaphone		A form of phonographic recorder and reproducer adapted for use in dictation, as in business.	
dictate		To tell or utter so that another may write down; to inspire; to compose; as, to dictate a letter to an amanuensis.	Latin dictatus.
dictation		The act of dictating; the act or practice of prescribing; also that which is dictated.	
dictator		One who dictates; one who prescribes rules and maxims authoritatively for the direction of others.	Latin dictator.
dictatorial		Pertaining or suited to a dictator; absolute.	
dictatorian	Obsolete	Dictatorial.	
dictatorship		The office, or the term of office, of a dictator; hence, absolute power.	
dictatory		Dogmatical; overbearing; dictatorial.	Latin dictatorius.
dictatress		A woman who dictates or commands.	
dictatrix		A dictatress.	
dictature		Office of a dictator; dictatorship.	
diction		Choice of words for the expression of ideas; the construction, disposition, and application of words in discourse, with regard to clearness, accuracy, variety, etc.; mode of expression; language; as…	
dictionalrian		A lexicographer.	
dictionary		A book containing the words of a language, arranged alphabetically, with explanations of their meanings; a lexicon; a vocabulary; a wordbook.	Latin dictionarium.
dictograph		A telephonic instrument for office or other similar use, having a sound-magnifying device enabling the ordinary mouthpiece to be dispensed with.	
dictum		An authoritative statement; a dogmatic saying; an apothegm.	Latin dictum.
dictyogen		A plant with netveined leaves, and monocotyledonous embryos, belonging to the class Dictyogenæ, proposed by Lindley for the orders Dioscoreaceæ, Smilaceæ, Trilliaceæ, etc.	
dicyanide		A compound of a binary type containing two cyanogen groups or radicals; -- called also bicyanide.	
dicyemata		An order of worms parasitic in cephalopods.	
dicyemid		Like or belonging to the Dicyemata. -- n.	
dicynodont		One of a group of extinct reptiles having the jaws armed with a horny beak, as in turtles, and in the genus Dicynodon, supporting also a pair of powerful tusks.	
did		of Do — a syllable attached to the first tone of the major diatonic scale for the purpose of solmization, or solfeggio.	Middle English didde.
didactic	Obsolete	Fitted or intended to teach; conveying instruction; preceptive; instructive; teaching some moral lesson; as, didactic essays.	Greek διδακτικός.
didactical		Fitted or intended to teach; conveying instruction; preceptive; instructive; teaching some moral lesson; as, didactic essays.	
didactically		In a didactic manner.	
didacticism		The didactic method or system.	
didacticity		Aptitude for teaching.	
didactics		The art or science of teaching.	
didactyl		An animal having only two digits.	
didactylous		Having only two digits; two-toed.	
didal	Obsolete	A kind of triangular spade.	
didapper		See Dabchick — a small water bird (Podilymbus podiceps), allied to the grebes, remarkable for its quickness in diving; -- called also dapchick, dobchick, dipchick, didapper, dobber, devil-diver…	
didascalar		Didascalic.	
didascalic		Didactic; preceptive.	
diddle	Obsolete	To totter, as a child in walking.	
diddler	Colloquial	A cheat.	
didelphia		The subclass of Mammalia which includes the marsupials. See Marsupialia.	
didelphian		Of or relating to the Didelphia. -- n.	
didelphic		Having the uterus double; of or pertaining to the Didelphia.	
didelphid		Same as Didelphic.	
didelphous		Didelphic.	
didelphyc		Same as Didelphic.	
didelphys		Formerly, any marsupial; but the term is now restricted to an American genus which includes the opossums, of which there are many species.	
didine		Like or pertaining to the genus Didus, or the dodo.	
dido		A shrewd trick; an antic; a caper.	
didonia		The curve which on a given surface and with a given perimeter contains the greatest area.	
didrachm		A two-drachma piece; an ancient Greek silver coin, worth nearly forty cents.	
didrachma		A two-drachma piece; an ancient Greek silver coin, worth nearly forty cents.	
didst		, the 2d pers. sing. imp. of Do.	
diducement		Diduction; separation into distinct parts.	
diduction		The act of drawing apart; separation.	Latin diductio.
didym		See Didymium — a rare metallic substance usually associated with the metal cerium; -- hence its name.	
didymium		A rare metallic substance usually associated with the metal cerium; -- hence its name.	
didymous		Growing in pairs or twins.	
didynamia		A Linnæan class of plants having four stamens disposed in pairs of unequal length.	
didynamian		Didynamous.	
didynamous		Of or pertaining to the Didynamia; containing four stamens disposed in pairs of unequal length.	
die		To pass from an animate to a lifeless state; to cease to live; to suffer a total and irreparable loss of action of the vital functions; to become dead; to expire; to perish; -- said of animals and vegetables; often with of, by…	Middle English dien.
diecian		See Dioecian, and Dioecious.	
diecious		See Dioecian, and Dioecious.	
diedral		The same as Dihedral.	
diegesis		A narrative or history; a recital or relation.	Greek διήγησις.
dielectric		Any substance or medium that transmits the electric force by a process different from conduction, as in the phenomena of induction; a nonconductor. separating a body electrified by induction, from the electrifying body.	
dielytra		See Dicentra — a genus of herbaceous plants, with racemes of two-spurred or heart-shaped flowers, including the Dutchman's breeches, and the more showy Bleeding heart (D. spectabilis).	
diencephalon		The interbrain or thalamencephalon; -- sometimes abbreviated to dien. See Thalamencephalon.	
dieresis		(Gram.) The separation or resolution of one syllable into two; -- the opposite of synæresis.	Greek διαίρεσις.
diesinker		An engraver of dies for stamping coins, medals, etc.	
diesinking		The process of engraving dies.	
diesis		(Mus.) A small interval, less than any in actual practice, but used in the mathematical calculation of intervals.	
diestock		A stock to hold the dies used for cutting screws.	
diet		Course of living or nourishment; what is eaten and drunk habitually; food; victuals; fare.	Old French diete, from Latin dieta, from Greek δίαιτα.
dietarian		One who lives in accordance with prescribed rules for diet; a dieter.	
dietary		Pertaining to diet, or to the rules of diet.	
dieter		One who diets; one who prescribes, or who partakes of, food, according to hygienic rules.	
dietetic		Of or performance to diet, or to the rules for regulating the kind and quantity of food to be eaten.	
dietetical		Of or performance to diet, or to the rules for regulating the kind and quantity of food to be eaten.	
dietetically		In a dietetical manner.	
dietetics		That part of the medical or hygienic art which relates to diet or food; rules for diet.	
dietetist		A physician who applies the rules of dietetics to the cure of diseases.	
diethylamine		A colorless, volatile, alkaline liquid, NH(C2H5)2, having a strong fishy odor resembling that of herring or sardines.	
dietic		Dietetic.	
dietical		Dietetic.	
dietine		A subordinate or local assembly; a diet of inferior rank.	
dietist		One skilled in dietetics.	
dietitian		One skilled in dietetics.	
diffame	Obsolete	Evil name; bad reputation; defamation.	
diffarreation		A form of divorce, among the ancient Romans, in which a cake was used.	
differ		To be or stand apart; to disagree; to be unlike; to be distinguished; -- with from.	Middle English differen, from Latin differo.
difference		The act of differing; the state or measure of being different or unlike; distinction; dissimilarity; unlikeness; variation; as, a difference of quality in paper; a difference in degrees of heat, or of light…	
different		Distinct; separate; not the same; other.	
differentia		The formal or distinguishing part of the essence of a species; the characteristic attribute of a species; specific difference.	Latin differentia.
differential		Relating to or indicating a difference; creating a difference; discriminating; special; as, differential characteristics; differential duties; a differential rate.	
differentially		In the way of differentiation.	
differentiate		To distinguish or mark by a specific difference; to effect a difference in, as regards classification; to develop differential characteristics in; to specialize; to desynonymize.	
differentiation		(Logic) The act of distinguishing or describing a thing, by giving its different, or specific difference; exact definition or determination.	
differentiator		One who, or that which, differentiates.	
differently		In a different manner; variously.	
differingly		In a differing or different manner.	
difficile	Obsolete	Difficult; hard to manage; stubborn. -- Dif"fi*cile*ness, n.	
difficilitate	Obsolete	To make difficult.	
difficult		Hard to do or to make; beset with difficulty; attended with labor, trouble, or pains; not easy; arduous.	
difficultate	Obsolete	To render difficult; to difficilitate.	
difficultly		With difficulty.	
difficultness		Difficulty.	
difficulty		The state of being difficult, or hard to do; hardness; arduousness; -- opposed to easiness or facility; as, the difficulty of a task or enterprise; a work of difficulty.	Middle English difficultee, from Old French difficulté, from Latin difficultas.
diffide	Obsolete	To be distrustful.	
diffidence		Distrust of one's self or one's own powers; lack of self-reliance; modesty; modest reserve; bashfulness.	
diffidency	Obsolete	See Diffidence — distrust of one's self or one's own powers; lack of self-reliance; modesty; modest reserve; bashfulness.	
diffident		Wanting confidence in one's self; distrustful of one's own powers; not self-reliant; timid; modest; bashful; characterized by modest reserve.	
diffidently		In a diffident manner.	
diffind	Obsolete	To split.	
diffine	Obsolete	To define.	
diffinitive	Obsolete	Definitive; determinate; final.	
diffission		Act of cleaving or splitting.	
difflation	Obsolete	A blowing apart or away.	Latin difflatio.
diffluence		A flowing off on all sides; fluidity.	
diffluency		A flowing off on all sides; fluidity.	
diffluent		Flowing apart or off; dissolving; not fixed.	Latin diffluens.
difform		Irregular in form; -- opposed to uniform; anomalous; hence, unlike; dissimilar; as, to difform corolla, the parts of which do not correspond in size or proportion; difform leaves.	
difformity	Obsolete	Irregularity of form; diversity of form; want of uniformity.	
diffract		To break or separate into parts; to deflect, or decompose by deflection, a	
diffraction		The deflection and decomposition of light in passing by the edges of opaque bodies or through narrow slits, causing the appearance of parallel bands or fringes of prismatic colors…	
diffractive		That produces diffraction.	
diffranchise		See Disfranchise, Disfranchisement.	
diffranchisement		See Disfranchise, Disfranchisement.	
diffusate		Material which, in the process of catalysis, has diffused or passed through the separating membrane.	
diffuse		To pour out and cause to spread, as a fluid; to cause to flow on all sides; to send out, or extend, in all directions; to spread; to circulate; to disseminate; to scatter; as to diffuse information.	Latin diffusus.
diffused		Spread abroad; dispersed; loose; flowing; diffuse.	
diffusely		In a diffuse manner.	
diffuseness		The quality of being diffuse; especially, in writing, the use of a great or excessive number of word to express the meaning; copiousness; verbosity; prolixity.	
diffuser		One who, or that which, diffuses.	
diffusibility		The quality of being diffusible; capability of being poured or spread out.	
diffusible		Capable of flowing or spreading in all directions; that may be diffused.	
diffusibleness		Diffusibility.	
diffusion		The act of diffusing, or the state of being diffused; a spreading; extension; dissemination; circulation; dispersion.	Latin diffusionem.
diffusive		Having the quality of diffusing; capable of spreading every way by flowing; spreading widely; widely reaching; copious; diffuse.	
diffusively		In a diffusive manner.	
diffusiveness		The quality or state of being diffusive or diffuse; extensiveness; expansion; dispersion.	
diffusivity		Tendency to become diffused; tendency, as of heat, to become equalized by spreading through a conducting medium.	
dig		To turn up, or delve in, (earth) with a spade or a hoe; to open, loosen, or break up (the soil) with a spade, or other sharp instrument; to pierce, open, or loosen, as if with a spade.	Middle English diggen.
digamist		One who marries a second time; a deuterogamist.	
digamma		A letter (	
digammate		Having the digamma or its representative letter or sound; as, the Latin word vis is a digammated form of the Greek.	
digammated		Having the digamma or its representative letter or sound; as, the Latin word vis is a digammated form of the Greek.	
digamous		Pertaining to a second marriage, that is, one after the death of the first wife or the first husband.	
digamy		Act, or state, of being twice married; deuterogamy.	Latin digamia, from Modern Greek (1453- διγαμία.
digastric		(a) Having two bellies; biventral; -- applied to muscles which are fleshy at each end and have a tendon in the middle, and esp. to the muscle which pulls down the lower jaw.	
digenea		A division of Trematoda in which alternate generations occur, the immediate young not resembling their parents.	
digenesis		The faculty of multiplying in two ways; -- by ova fecundated by spermatic fluid, and asexually, as by buds.	
digenous		Sexually reproductive.	
digerent	Obsolete	Digesting.	
digest		To distribute or arrange methodically; to work over and classify; to reduce to portions for ready use or application; as, to digest the laws, etc. Joining them together and digesting them into order.	Middle English digesten, from Latin digestus.
digestedly		In a digested or well-arranged manner; methodically.	
digester		One who digests.	
digestibility		The quality of being digestible.	
digestible		Capable of being digested.	
digestibleness		The quality of being digestible; digestibility.	
digestion		The act or process of digesting; reduction to order; classification; thoughtful consideration.	
digestive		Pertaining to digestion; having the power to cause or promote digestion; as, the digestive ferments.	
digestor		See Digester — one who digests.	
digesture	Obsolete	Digestion.	
diggable		Capable of being dug.	
digger		One who, or that which, digs.	
diggers		A degraded tribe of California Indians; -- so called from their practice of digging roots for food.	
digging		The act or the place of excavating.	
dight	Archaic	To prepare; to put in order; hence, to dress, or put on; to array; to adorn.	Old English dihtan, from Latin dictare.
dighter	Obsolete	One who dights.	
digit		(Zoöl.) One of the terminal divisions of a limb appendage; a finger or toe.	Latin digitus.
digital		Of or performance to the fingers, or to digits; done with the fingers; as, digital compression; digital examination.	Latin digitalis.
digitalin		(a) (Med.) Any one of several extracts of foxglove (Digitalis), as the the etc., which differ among themselves in composition and properties.	
digitalis		(Bot.) A genus of plants including the foxglove.	
digitate		To point out as with the finger.	Latin digitatus.
digitated		Having several leaflets arranged, like the fingers of the hand, at the extremity of a stem or petiole.	
digitation		A division into fingers or fingerlike processes; also, a fingerlike process.	
digitiform		Formed like a finger or fingers; finger-shaped; as, a digitiform root.	
digitigrade		Walking on the toes; -- distinguished from plantigrade.	French digitigrade.
digitipartite		Parted like the fingers.	
digitize		To finger; as, to digitize a pen.	
digitorium		A small dumb keyboard used by pianists for exercising the fingers; -- called also dumb piano.	
digitule		A little finger or toe, or something resembling one.	Latin digitulus.
digladiate	Obsolete	To fight like gladiators; to contend fiercely; to dispute violently.	
digladiation	Obsolete	Act of digladiating.	
diglottism		Bilingualism.	
diglyph		A projecting face like the triglyph, but having only two channels or grooves sunk in it.	
dignation	Obsolete	The act of thinking worthy; honor.	
digne	Obsolete	Worthy; honorable; deserving.	
dignification		The act of dignifying; exaltation.	
dignified		Marked with dignity; stately; as, a dignified judge.	
dignify		To invest with dignity or honor; to make illustrious; to give distinction to; to exalt in rank; to honor.	
dignitary		One who possesses exalted rank or holds a position of dignity or honor; especially, one who holds an ecclesiastical rank above that of a parochial priest or clergyman.	
dignity		The state of being worthy or honorable; elevation of mind or character; true worth; excellence.	Middle English dignitee, from Old French dignite, from Latin dignitas.
dignotion	Obsolete	Distinguishing mark; diagnostic.	
digonous		Having two angles.	
digram		A digraph.	
digraph		Two signs or characters combined to express a single articulated sound; as ea in head, or th in bath.	
digraphic		Of or pertaining to a digraph.	
digress		To step or turn aside; to deviate; to swerve; especially, to turn aside from the main subject of attention, or course of argument, in writing or speaking.	Latin digressum.
digression		The act of digressing or deviating, esp. from the main subject of a discourse; hence, a part of a discourse deviating from its main design or subject.	
digressional		Pertaining to, or having the character of, a digression; departing from the main purpose or subject.	
digressive		Departing from the main subject; partaking of the nature of digression.	
digressively		By way of digression.	
digue	Obsolete	A bank; a dike.	
digynia		A Linnæan order of plants having two styles.	
digynian		Of or pertaining to the Digynia; having two styles.	
digynous		Of or pertaining to the Digynia; having two styles.	
dihedral		Having two plane faces; as, the dihedral summit of a crystal.	
dihedron		A figure with two sides or surfaces.	
dihexagonal		(a) Consisting of two hexagonal parts united; thus, a dihexagonal pyramid is composed of two hexagonal pyramids placed base to base.	
diiamb		A diiambus.	
diiambus		A double iambus; a foot consisting of two iambuses (	
diiodide		A compound of a binary type containing two atoms of iodine; -- called also biniodide.	
diisatogen		A red crystalline nitrogenous substance or artificial production, which by reduction passes directly to indigo.	
dijudicant		One who dijudicates.	Latin dijudicans.
dijudicate		To make a judicial decision; to decide; to determine.	
dijudication		The act of dijudicating; judgment.	Latin dijudicatio.
dika		A kind of food, made from the almondlike seeds of the Irvingia Barteri, much used by natives of the west coast of Africa; -- called also dika bread.	
dike		A ditch; a channel for water made by digging.	
diker	Scots	One who builds stone walls; usually, one who builds them without lime.	
dilacerate		To rend asunder; to tear to pieces.	
dilaceration		The act of rending asunder.	
dilaniate		To rend in pieces; to tear.	
dilaniation		A rending or tearing in pieces; dilaceration.	
dilapidate		To bring into a condition of decay or partial ruin, by misuse or through neglect; to destroy the fairness and good condition of; -- said of a building.	Latin dilapidatus.
dilapidated		Decayed; fallen into partial ruin; injured by bad usage or neglect.	
dilapidation		The act of dilapidating, or the state of being dilapidated, reduced to decay, partially ruined, or squandered.	
dilapidator		One who causes dilapidation.	
dilatability		The quality of being dilatable, or admitting expansion; -- opposed to contractibility.	
dilatable		Capable of expansion; that may be dilated; -- opposed to contractible; as, the lungs are dilatable by the force of air; air is dilatable by heat.	
dilatation		The act of dilating; expansion; an enlarging on al	
dilatator		A muscle which dilates any part; a dilator.	Latin dilatator.
dilate		To expand; to distend; to enlarge or extend in all directions; to swell; -- opposed to contract; as, the air dilates the lungs; air is dilated by increase of heat.	
dilated		Expanded; enlarged.	
dilatedly		In a dilated manner.	
dilater		One who, or that which, dilates, expands, o r enlarges.	
dilative		Causing dilation; tending to dilate, on enlarge; expansive.	
dilatometer		An instrument for measuring the dilatation or expansion of a substance, especially of a fluid.	
dilator		One who, or that which, widens or expands.	
dilatorily		With delay; tardily.	
dilatoriness		The quality of being dilatory; lateness; slowness; tardiness; sluggishness.	
dilatory		Inclined to defer or put off what ought to be done at once; given the procrastination; delaying; procrastinating; loitering; as, a dilatory servant.	
dildo	Obsolete	A burden in popular songs.	
dilection	Obsolete	Love; choice.	
dilemma		(Logic) An argument which presents an antagonist with two or more alternatives, but is equally conclusive against him, whichever alternative he chooses.	
dilettant		Of or pertaining to dilettanteism; amateur; as, dilettant speculation.	
dilettante		An admirer or lover of the fine arts; popularly, an amateur; especially, one who follows an art or a branch of knowledge, desultorily, or for amusement only.	Italian dilettante.
dilettanteish		Somewhat like a dilettante.	
dilettanteism		The state or quality of being a dilettante; the desultory pursuit of art, science, or literature.	
dilettantish		Dilettanteish.	
dilettantism		Same as Dilettanteism.	
diligence		The quality of being diligent; carefulness; careful attention; -- the opposite of negligence.	
diligency	Obsolete	Diligence; care; persevering endeavor.	Latin diligentia.
diligent		Prosecuted with careful attention and effort; careful; painstaking; not careless or negligent.	Middle English diligent, from Old French diligent, from Latin diligens.
diligently		In a diligent manner; not carelessly; not negligently; with industry or assiduity.	
dill	Obsolete	An herb (Peucedanum graveolens), the seeds of which are moderately warming, pungent, and aromatic, and were formerly used as a soothing medicine for children; -- called also dill-seed.	
dilling	Obsolete	A darling; a favorite.	
dilluing		A process of sorting ore by washing in a hand sieve.	
dilly		A kind of stagecoach.	
dilly-dally		To loiter or trifle; to waste time.	
dilogical	Obsolete	Ambiguous; of double meaning.	
dilogy		An ambiguous speech; a figure in which a word is used an equivocal sense.	Latin dilogia, from Greek διλογία.
dilucid	Obsolete	Clear; lucid.	Latin dilucidus.
dilucidate	Obsolete	To elucidate.	
dilucidation	Obsolete	The act of making clear.	Latin dilucidatio.
diluent		Diluting; making thinner or weaker by admixture, esp. of water.	Latin diluens.
dilute		To make thinner or more liquid by admixture with something; to thin and dissolve by mixing.	Latin dilutus.
diluted		Reduced in strength; thin; weak. -- Di*lut"ed*ly, adv.	
diluteness		The quality or state of being dilute.	
diluter		One who, or that which, dilutes or makes thin, more liquid, or weaker.	
dilution		The act of diluting, or the state of being diluted.	
diluvial		Of or pertaining to a flood or deluge, esp. to the great deluge in the days of Noah; diluvian.	Latin diluvium.
diluvialist		One who explains geological phenomena by the Noachian deluge.	
diluvian		Of or pertaining to a deluge, esp. to the Noachian deluge; diluvial; as, of diluvian origin.	
diluviate	Obsolete	To run as a flood.	Latin diluviare.
diluvium		A deposit of superficial loam, sand, gravel, stones, etc., caused by former action of flowing waters, or the melting of glacial ice.	Latin diluvium.
dim		Not bright or distinct; wanting luminousness or clearness; obscure in luster or sound; dusky; darkish; obscure; indistinct; overcast; tarnished.	Old English dimm.
dim-sighted		Having dim sight; lacking perception. -- Dim"-sight`ed*ness, n.	
dimble	Obsolete	A bower; a dingle.	
dime		A silver coin of the United States, of the value of ten cents; the tenth of a dollar.	French dîme, from Old French dixme, from Latin decimus.
dimension		Measure in a single line, as length, breadth, height, thickness, or circumference; extension; measurement; -- usually, in the plural, measure in length and breadth, or in length, breadth, and thickness; extent; size; as…	Latin dimensio.
dimensional		Pertaining to dimension.	
dimensioned		Having dimensions.	
dimensionless		Without dimensions; having no appreciable or noteworthy extent.	
dimensity		Dimension.	
dimensive		Without dimensions; marking dimensions or the limits.	
dimera		(a) A division of Coleoptera, having two joints to the tarsi. (b) A division of the Hemiptera, including the aphids.	
dimeran		One of the Dimera.	
dimerous		Composed of, or having, two parts of each kind.	Greek διμερής.
dimeter		Having two poetical measures or meters. -- n.	
dimethyl		Ethane; -- sometimes so called because regarded as consisting of two methyl radicals.	
dimetric		Same as Tetragonal.	
dimication	Obsolete	A fight; contest.	Latin dimicatio.
dimidiate		Divided into two equal parts; reduced to half in shape or form.	
dimidiation		The act of dimidiating or halving; the state of being dimidiate.	
diminish		To make smaller in any manner; to reduce in bulk or amount; to lessen; -- opposed to augment or increase.	Old French diminuer.
diminishable		Capable of being diminished or lessened.	
diminisher		One who, or that which, diminishes anything.	
diminishingly		In a manner to diminish.	
diminishment		Diminution.	
diminuendo		In a gradually diminishing manner; with abatement of tone; decrescendo; -- expressed on the staff by Dim., or Dimin., or the sign.	
diminuent		Lessening.	
diminutal		Indicating or causing diminution.	
diminute	Obsolete	Small; diminished; diminutive.	
diminutely	Obsolete	Diminutively.	
diminution		The act of diminishing, or of making or becoming less; state of being diminished; reduction in size, quantity, or degree; -- opposed to augmentation or increase.	
diminutival		Indicating diminution; diminutive..	
diminutive		Below the average size; very small; little.	Old French diminutif, from Latin diminutivum.
diminutively		In a diminutive manner.	
diminutiveness		The quality of being diminutive; smallness; littleness; minuteness.	
dimish		See Dimmish — somewhat dim; as, dimmish eyes.	
dimission	Obsolete	Leave to depart; a dismissing.	Latin dimissio.
dimissory		Sending away; dismissing to another jurisdiction; granting leave to depart.	
dimit	Obsolete	To dismiss, let go, or release.	
dimity		A cotton fabric employed for hangings and furniture coverings, and formerly used for women's under-garments.	Latin dimitum.
dimly		In a dim or obscure manner; not brightly or clearly; with imperfect sight.	
dimmish		Somewhat dim; as, dimmish eyes.	
dimmy		Somewhat dim; as, dimmish eyes.	
dimness		Dullness, or want of clearness, of vision or of intellectual perception.	
dimorph		Either one of the two forms of a dimorphous substance; as, calcite and aragonite are dimorphs.	
dimorphic		Having the property of dimorphism; dimorphous.	
dimorphism		(Biol.) Difference of form between members of the same species, as when a plant has two kinds of flowers, both hermaphrodite (as in the partridge berry)…	
dimorphous		(Biol.) Characterized by dimorphism; occurring under two distinct forms, not dependent on sex; dimorphic.	
dimple		A slight natural depression or indentation on the surface of some part of the body, esp. on the cheek or chin.	Middle English dympull.
dimplement		The state of being dimpled, or marked with gentle depressions.	
dimply		Full of dimples, or small depressions; dimpled; as, the dimply pool.	
dimya		An order of lamellibranchiate mollusks having an anterior and posterior adductor muscle, as the common clam.	
dimyaria		An order of lamellibranchiate mollusks having an anterior and posterior adductor muscle, as the common clam.	
dimyarian		Like or pertaining to the Dimya. -- n.	
dimyary		Same as Dimyarian.	
din		Loud, confused, harsh noise; a loud, continuous, rattling or clanging sound; clamor; roar.	Old English dynnan.
dinaphthyl		A colorless, crystalline hydrocarbon, C20H14, obtained from naphthylene, and consisting of a doubled naphthylene radical.	
dinar		A petty money of accounts of Persia.	
dinarchy		See Diarchy — a form of government in which the supreme power is vested in two persons.	
dine		To eat the principal regular meal of the day; to take dinner.	Old French disner.
diner		One who dines.	
diner-out		One who often takes his dinner away from home, or in company.	
dinetical	Obsolete	Revolving on an axis.	
ding	Low	To talk with vehemence, importunity, or reiteration; to bluster.	Middle English dingen.
dingdong		The sound of, or as of, repeated strokes on a metallic body, as a bell; a repeated and monotonous sound.	
dingey		A kind of boat used in the East Indies.	
dinghy		A kind of boat used in the East Indies.	
dingily		In a dingy manner.	
dinginess		Quality of being dingy; a dusky hue.	
dingle		A narrow dale; a small dell; a small, secluded, and embowered valley.	
dingle-dangle		In a dangling manner.	
dingo		A wild dog found in Australia, but supposed to have introduced at a very early period.	
dingthrift	Obsolete	A spendthrift.	
dingy		A kind of boat used in the East Indies.	
dinichthys		A genus of large extinct Devonian ganoid fishes.	
dining		from Dine, a.	
dink	Scots	Trim; neat.	
dinmont	Scots	A wether sheep between one and two years old.	
dinner		The principal meal of the day, eaten by most people about midday, but by many (especially in cities) at a later hour.	Old French disner.
dinnerless		Having no dinner.	
dinnerly		Of or pertaining to dinner.	
dinoceras		A genus of large extinct Eocene mammals from Wyoming; -- called also Uintatherium.	
dinornis		A genus of extinct, ostrichlike birds of gigantic size, which formerly inhabited New Zealand.	
dinosaur		One of the Dinosauria.	
dinosauria		An order of extinct mesozoic reptiles, mostly of large size (whence the name).	
dinosaurian		One of the Dinosauria.	
dinothere		A large extinct proboscidean mammal from the miocene beds of Europe and Asia.	
dinotherium		A large extinct proboscidean mammal from the miocene beds of Europe and Asia.	
dinoxide		Same as Dioxide.	
dinsome	Scots	Full of din.	
dint		The mark left by a blow; an indentation or impression made by violence; a dent.	Old English dynt.
dinumeration	Obsolete	Enumeration.	
diocesan		Of or pertaining to a diocese; as, diocesan missions.	Middle French diocesain.
diocese		The circuit or extent of a bishop's jurisdiction; the district in which a bishop exercises his ecclesiastical authority.	Latin dioecesis, from Greek διοίκησις.
diocesener	Obsolete	One who belongs to a diocese.	
diodon		(Zoöl.) A genus of spinose, plectognath fishes, having the teeth of each jaw united into a single beaklike plate.	
diodont		Like or pertaining to the genus Diodon. -- n.	
dioecia		(Bot.) A Linnæan class of plants having the stamens and pistils on different plants.	
dioecian		Having the sexes in applied to plants in which the female flowers occur on one individual and the male flowers on another of the same species…	
dioecious		Having the sexes in applied to plants in which the female flowers occur on one individual and the male flowers on another of the same species…	
dioeciously		In a dioecious manner.	
dioeciousness		The state or quality of being dioecious.	
dioecism		The condition of being dioecious.	
diogenes		A Greek Cynic philosopher (412-323 B.	
dioicous		See Dioecious — having the sexes in applied to plants in which the female flowers occur on one individual and the male flowers on another of the same species…	
diomedea		A genus of large sea birds, including the albatross. See Albatross.	
dionaea		An insectivorous plant. See Venus's flytrap.	
dionysia		Any of the festivals held in honor of the Olympian god Dionysus.	
dionysiac		Of or pertaining to Dionysus or to the Dionysia; Bacchic; as, a Dionysiac festival; the Dionysiac theater at Athens.	
dionysian		Relating to Dionysius, a monk of the 6th century; as, the Dionysian, or Christian, era.	
diophantine		Originated or taught by Diophantus, the Greek writer on algebra.	
diopside		A crystallized variety of pyroxene, of a clear, grayish green color; mussite.	
dioptase		A hydrous silicate of copper, occurring in emerald-green crystals.	
diopter		An optical instrument, invented by Hipparchus, for taking altitudes, leveling, etc.	French dioptre, from Latin dioptra.
dioptra		An optical instrument, invented by Hipparchus, for taking altitudes, leveling, etc.	
dioptre		A unit employed by oculists in numbering glasses according to the metric system; a refractive power equal to that of a glass whose principal focal distance is one meter.	
dioptric		Of or pertaining to the dioptre, or to the metric system of numbering glasses. -- n.	
dioptrical		Of or pertaining to dioptrics; assisting vision by means of the refraction of light; refractive; as, the dioptric system; a dioptric glass or telescope.	
dioptrics		The science of the refraction of light; that part of geometrical optics which treats of the laws of the refraction of light in passing from one medium into another, or through different mediums, as air, water, or glass…	
dioptry		A dioptre.	
diorama		A mode of scenic representation, invented by Daguerre and Bouton, in which a painting is seen from a distance through a large opening.	
dioramic		Pertaining to a diorama.	
diorism	Obsolete	Definition; logical direction.	
dioristic		Distinguishing; distinctive; defining. -- Di`o*ris"tic*al*ly, adv.	
diorite		An igneous, crystalline in structure, consisting essentially of a triclinic feldspar and hornblende.	
dioritic		Containing diorite.	
diorthotic		Relating to the correcting or straightening out of something; corrective.	
dioscorea		A genus of plants. See Yam.	
diota		A vase or drinking cup having two handles or ears.	
dioxide	Obsolete	(a) An oxide containing two atoms of oxygen in each molecule; binoxide.	
dioxindol		A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance obtained by the reduction of isatin.	
dip		To plunge or immerse; especially, to put for a moment into a liquid; to insert into a fluid and withdraw again.	Old English dyppan.
dipaschal		Including two passovers.	
dipchick		See Dabchick — a small water bird (Podilymbus podiceps), allied to the grebes, remarkable for its quickness in diving; -- called also dapchick, dobchick, dipchick, didapper, dobber, devil-diver…	
dipetalous		Having two petals; two-petaled.	
diphenyl		A white crystalline substance, C6H5.C6H5, obtained by leading benzene through a heated iron tube.	
diphtheria		A very dangerous contagious disease in which the air passages, and especially the throat, become coated with a false membrane, produced by the solidification of an inflammatory exudation.	
diphtherial		Relating to diphtheria; diphtheritic.	
diphtheric		Relating to diphtheria; diphtheritic.	
diphtheritic		Pertaining to, or connected with, diphtheria.	
diphthong		(a) A coalition or union of two vowel sounds pronounced in one syllable; as, ou in out, oi in noise; -- called a proper diphthong.	French diphtongue, from Greek δίφθογγος.
diphthongal		Relating or belonging to a diphthong; having the nature of a diphthong. -- Diph*thon"gal*ly, adv.	
diphthongalize		To make into a diphthong; to pronounce as a diphthong.	
diphthongation		See Diphthongization — the act of changing into a diphthong.	
diphthongic		Of the nature of diphthong; diphthongal.	
diphthongization		The act of changing into a diphthong.	
diphthongize		To change into a diphthong, as by affixing another vowel to a simple vowel.	
diphycercal		Having the tail fin divided into two equal parts by the notochord, or end of the vertebral column; protocercal.	
diphygenic		Having two modes of embryonic development.	
diphyllous		Having two leaves, as a calyx, etc.	
diphyodont		Having two successive sets of teeth (deciduous and permanent), one succeeding the other; as, a diphyodont mammal; diphyodont dentition; -- opposed to monophyodont. -- n.	
diphyozooid		One of the free-swimming sexual zooids of Siphonophora.	
diplanar		Of or pertaining to two planes.	
dipleidoscope		An instrument for determining the time of apparent noon.	
diplex		Pertaining to the sending of two messages in the same direction at the same time.	
diploblastic		Characterizing the ovum when it has two primary germinal layers.	
diplocardiac		Having the heart completely divided or double, one side systemic, the other pulmonary.	
diplococcus		A form of micrococcus in which cocci are united in a binary manner. See Micrococcus.	
diploe		The soft, spongy, or cancellated substance between the plates of the skull.	
diploetic		Diploic.	
diplogenic		Partaking of the nature of two bodies; producing two substances.	
diplograph		An instrument used for double writing, as one for producing embossed writing for the blind and ordinary writing at the same time. -- Dip`lo*graph ra*phy (#), n.	
diploic		Of or pertaining to the diploë.	
diploid		A solid bounded by twenty-four similar quadrilateral faces.	
diploma		A letter or writing, usually under seal, conferring some privilege, honor, or power; a document bearing record of a degree conferred by a literary society or educational institution.	Latin diploma, from Greek δίπλωμα.
diplomacy		The art and practice of conducting negotiations between nations (particularly in securing treaties), including the methods and forms usually employed.	French diplomatie.
diplomat		A diplomatist.	French diplomate.
diplomate		A diplomatist.	
diplomatial		Diplomatic.	
diplomatic		Pertaining to diplomacy; relating to the foreign ministers at a court, who are called the diplomatic body.	
diplomatical		Pertaining to diplomacy; relating to the foreign ministers at a court, who are called the diplomatic body.	
diplomatically		According to the rules of diplomacy; in the manner of a diplomatist; artfully.	
diplomatics		The science of diplomas, or the art of deciphering ancient writings, and determining their age, authenticity, etc.; paleography.	
diplomatism		Diplomacy.	
diplomatist		A person employed in, or skilled in, diplomacy; a diplomat.	
diplopia		The act or state of seeing double.	
diplopod		One of the Diplopoda.	
diplopoda		An order of myriapods having two pairs of legs on each segment; the Chilognatha.	
diplopy		The act or state of seeing double.	
diplostemonous		Having twice as many stamens as petals, as the geranium.	
diplostemony		The condition of being diplostemonous.	
dipneumona		A group of spiders having only two lunglike organs.	
dipnoi		A group of ganoid fishes, including the living genera Ceratodus and Lepidosiren, which present the closest approximation to the Amphibia.	
dipody		Two metrical feet taken together, or included in one measure.	
dipolar		Having two poles, as a magnetic bar.	
dipper		One who, or that which, dips; especially, a vessel used to dip water or other liquid; a ladle.	
dipping		The act of inclining downward.	
diprismatic		Doubly prismatic.	
dipropargyl		A pungent, mobile, volatile liquid, C6H6, produced artificially from certain allyl derivatives.	
dipropyl		One of the hexane paraffins, found in petroleum, consisting of two propyl radicals.	
diprotodon		An extinct Quaternary marsupial from Australia, about as large as the hippopotamus; -- so named because of its two large front teeth.	
dipsas		A serpent whose bite was fabled to produce intense thirst.	
dipsetic		Tending to produce thirst.	
dipsey		Deep-sea; as, a dipsey line; a dipsy lead.	
dipsie		Deep-sea; as, a dipsey line; a dipsy lead.	
dipsomania		A morbid an uncontrollable craving (often periodic) for drink, esp. for alcoholic liquors; also improperly used to denote acute and chronic alcoholism.	
dipsomaniac		One who has an irrepressible desire for alcoholic drinks.	
dipsomaniacal		Of or pertaining to dipsomania.	
dipsosis		Excessive thirst produced by disease.	
dipsy		Deep-sea; as, a dipsey line; a dipsy lead.	
diptera		An extensive order of insects having only two functional wings and two balancers, as the house fly, mosquito, etc. They have a suctorial proboscis…	
dipteral		(Zoöl.) Having two wings only; belonging to the order Diptera.	
dipteran		An insect of the order Diptera.	
dipterocarpus		A genus of trees found in the East Indies, some species of which produce a fragrant resin, other species wood oil.	
dipterous		(Zoöl.) Having two wings, as certain insects; belonging to the order Diptera.	
dipterygian		Having two dorsal fins; -- said of certain fishes.	
diptote		A noun which has only two cases.	
diptych		Anything consisting of two leaves. Especially: (a) (Roman Antiq.) A writing tablet consisting of two leaves of rigid material connected by hinges and shutting together so as to protect the writing within.	Latin diptycha.
dipyre		A mineral of the scapolite group; -- so called from the double effect of fire upon it, in fusing it, and rendering it phosphorescent.	
dipyrenous		Containing two stones or nutlets.	
dipyridine		A polymeric form of pyridine, C10H10N2, obtained as a colorless oil by the action of sodium on pyridine.	
dipyridyl		A crystalline nitrogenous base, C10H8N2, obtained by the reduction of pyridine.	
diradiation		The emission and diffusion of rays of light.	
dire		Ill-boding; portentous; as, dire omens.	Latin dirus.
direct		Straight; not crooked, oblique, or circuitous; leading by the short or shortest way to a point or end; as, a direct line; direct means.	Latin directus.
direct-acting		Acting directly, as one part upon another, without the intervention of other working parts.	
direct-coupled		Coupled without intermediate connections, as an engine and a dynamo.	
directer		One who directs; a director.	
direction		The act of directing, of aiming, regulating, guiding, or ordering; guidance; management; superintendence; administration; as, the direction o.	Latin directio.
directive		Having power to direct; tending to direct, guide, or govern; showing the way.	
directly		In a direct manner; in a straight line or course.	
directness		The quality of being direct; straightness; straightforwardness; immediateness.	
director		One who, or that which, directs; one who regulates, guides, or orders; a manager or superintendent.	
directorate		The office of director; also, a body of directors taken jointly.	
directorial		Having the quality of a director, or authoritative guide; directive.	
directorship		The condition or office of a director; directorate.	
directory		Containing directions; enjoining; instructing; directorial.	Middle English directorie, from Latin directorium.
directress		A woman who directs.	
directrix		(Geom.) (a) A line along which a point in another line moves, or which in any way governs the motion of the point and determines the position of the curve generated by it…	
direful		Dire; dreadful; terrible; calamitous; woeful; as, a direful fiend; a direful day. -- Dire ful*ness, n.	
direly		In a dire manner.	
dirempt	Obsolete	Divided; separated.	
diremption	Obsolete	A tearing apart; violent separation.	
direness		Terribleness; horror; woefulness.	
direption		The act of plundering, despoiling, or snatching away.	Latin direptio.
direptitious		Characterized by direption.	
direptitiously		With plundering violence; by violent injustice.	
dirge		A piece of music of a mournful character, to accompany funeral rites; a funeral hymn.	
dirgeful		Funereal; moaning.	
dirige		A service for the dead, in the Roman Catholic Church, being the first antiphon of Matins for the dead, of which Dirige is the first word; a dirge.	
dirigent		Directing.	
dirigible		Capable of being directed; steerable; as, a dirigible balloon.	
diriment		Absolute.	
dirk	Obsolete	A kind of dagger or poniard; -- formerly much used by the Scottish Highlander.	
dirkness	Obsolete	Darkness.	
dirl	English dialect	To thrill; to vibrate; to penetrate.	
dirt		Any foul of filthy substance, as excrement, mud, dust, etc.; whatever, adhering to anything, renders it foul or unclean; earth; as, a wagonload of dirt.	Middle English drit.
dirtily		In a dirty manner; foully; nastily; filthily; meanly; sordidly.	
dirtiness		The state of being dirty; filthiness; foulness; nastiness; baseness; sordidness.	
dirty		Defiled with dirt; foul; nasty; filthy; not clean or pure; serving to defile; as, dirty hands; dirty water; a dirty white.	
diruption		Disruption.	Latin diruptio.
dis		The god Pluto.	Old Norse dís.
dis-		A prefix from the Latin, whence F. dés, or sometimes dé-, dis-.	
disability		State of being disabled; deprivation or want of ability; absence of competent physical, intellectual, or moral power, means, fitness, and the like.	
disable		To render unable or incapable; to destroy the force, vigor, or power of action of; to deprive of competent physical or intellectual power; to incapacitate; to disqualify; to make incompetent or unfit for service; to impair.	
disablement		Deprivation of ability; incapacity.	
disabuse		To set free from mistakes; to undeceive; to disengage from fallacy or deception; to set right.	
disaccommodate		To put to inconvenience; to incommode.	
disaccommodation		A state of being unaccommodated or unsuited.	
disaccord	Obsolete	To refuse to assent.	Middle English disacorden, from Anglo-Norman desacorder.
disaccordant		Not accordant.	
disaccustom		To destroy the force of habit in; to wean from a custom.	
disacidify		To free from acid.	
disacknowledge	Obsolete	To refuse to acknowledge; to deny; to disown.	
disacquaint	Obsolete	To render unacquainted; to make unfamiliar.	
disacquaintance	Obsolete	Neglect of disuse of familiarity, or familiar acquaintance.	
disacryl		A white amorphous substance obtained as a polymeric modification of acrolein.	
disadorn		To deprive of ornaments.	
disadvance	Obsolete	To draw back, or cause to draw back.	Old French desavancer.
disadvantage		Deprivation of advantage; unfavorable or prejudicial quality, condition, circumstance, or the like; that which hinders success, or causes loss or injury.	Middle English disavauntage, from Old French desavantage.
disadvantageable	Obsolete	Injurious; disadvantageous.	
disadvantageous		Attended with disadvantage; unfavorable to success or prosperity; inconvenient; prejudicial; -- opposed to advantageous; as, the situation of an army is disadvantageous for attack or defense.	
disadventure	Obsolete	Misfortune; mishap.	Old French desaventure.
disadventurous	Obsolete	Unprosperous; unfortunate.	
disadvise		To advise against; to dissuade from.	
disaffect		To alienate or diminish the affection of; to make unfriendly or less friendly; to fill with discontent and unfriendliness.	
disaffected		Alienated in feeling; not wholly loyal.	
disaffection		State of being disaffected; alienation or want of affection or good will, esp. toward those in authority; unfriendliness; dislike.	
disaffectionate		Not disposed to affection; unfriendly; disaffected.	
disaffirm		To assert the contrary of; to contradict; to deny; -- said of that which has been asserted.	
disaffirmance		The act of disaffirming; denial; negation.	
disaffirmation		The act of disaffirming; negation; refutation.	
disafforest		To reduce from the privileges of a forest to the state of common ground; to exempt from forest laws.	
disaggregate		To destroy the aggregation of; to separate into component parts, as an aggregate mass.	
disaggregation		The separation of an aggregate body into its component parts.	
disagree		To fail to accord; not to agree; to lack harmony; to differ; to be unlike; to be at variance.	
disagreeable		Not agreeable, conformable, or congruous; Preach you truly the doctrine which you have received, and each nothing that is disagreeable thereunto.	
disagreeableness		The state or quality of being; disagreeable; unpleasantness.	
disagreeably		In a disagreeable manner; unsuitably; offensively.	
disagreeance	Obsolete	Disagreement.	
disagreement		The state of disagreeing; a being at variance; dissimilitude; diversity.	
disagreer		One who disagrees.	
disalliege	Obsolete	To alienate from allegiance.	
disallow		To refuse to allow; to deny the force or validity of; to disown and reject; as, the judge disallowed the executor's charge.	
disallowable		Not allowable; not to be suffered.	
disallowance		The act of disallowing; refusal to admit or permit; rejection.	
disally		To part, as an alliance; to sunder.	
disanchor	Obsolete	To raise the anchor of, as a ship; to weigh anchor.	
disangelical		Not angelical.	
disanimate		To deprive of life.	
disanimation		The state of being disanimated or discouraged; depression of spirits.	
disannex		To disunite; to undo or repeal the annexation of.	
disannul		To annul completely; to render void or of no effect.	
disannuller		One who disannuls.	
disannulment		Complete annulment.	
disanoint	Obsolete	To invalidate the consecration of; as, to disanoint a king.	
disapparel		To disrobe; to strip of apparel; to make naked.	
disappear		To cease to appear or to be perceived; to pass from view, gradually or suddenly; to vanish; to be no longer seen; as, darkness disappears at the approach of light; a ship disappears as she sails from port.	
disappearance		The act of disappearing; cessation of appearance; removal from sight; vanishing.	
disappearing		p. pr. & vb. n. of Disappear.	
disappendency		A detachment or separation from a former connection.	
disappendent		Freed from a former connection or dependence; disconnected.	
disappoint		To defeat of expectation or hope; to hinder from the attainment of that which was excepted, hoped, or desired; to balk; as, a man is disappointed of his hopes or expectations, or his hopes, desires, intentions, expectations…	
disappointed		Defeated of expectation or hope; balked; as, a disappointed person or hope.	
disappointment		The act of disappointing, or the state of being disappointed; defeat or failure of expectation or hope; miscarriage of design or plan; frustration.	
disappreciate		To undervalue; not to esteem. -- Dis`ap*pre`ci*a"tion, n.	
disapprobation		The act of disapproving; mental condemnation of what is judged wrong, unsuitable, or inexpedient; feeling of censure.	
disapprobatory		Containing disapprobation; serving to disapprove.	
disappropriate		Severed from the appropriation or possession of a spiritual corporation.	
disappropriation		The act of disappropriating.	
disapproval		Disapprobation; dislike; censure; adverse judgment.	
disapprove		To pass unfavorable judgment upon; to condemn by an act of the judgment; to regard as wrong, unsuitable, or inexpedient; to censure; as, to disapprove the conduct of others.	
disapprover		One who disapproves.	
disapprovingly		In a disapproving manner.	
disard	Obsolete	See Dizzard — a blockhead. -- Diz"zard*ly, adv.	
disarm		To deprive of arms; to take away the weapons of; to deprive of the means of attack or defense; to render defenseless.	Middle English desarmen, from Anglo-Norman desarmer.
disarmament		The act of disarming.	
disarmature		The act of divesting of armature.	
disarmed		(Her.) Deprived of claws, and teeth or beaks.	
disarmer		One who disarms.	
disarrange		To unsettle or disturb the order or due arrangement of; to throw out of order.	
disarrangement		The act of disarranging, or the state of being disarranged; confusion; disorder.	
disarray		To throw into disorder; to break the array of.	Middle English disareyen, from Middle French desarroyer, from Old French desareer.
disarrayment		Disorder.	
disarticulate		To sunder; to separate, as joints. -- Dis`ar*tic`u*la"tion, n.	
disarticulator		One who disarticulates and prepares skeletons.	
disassent	Obsolete	To dissent.	
disassenter	Obsolete	One who disassents; a dissenter.	
disassiduity		Want of as siduity or care.	
disassimilate		To subject to disassimilation.	
disassimilation		The decomposition of complex substances, within the organism, into simpler ones suitable only for excretion, with evolution of energy, -- a normal nutritional process the reverse of assimilation; downward metabolism.	
disassimilative		Having power to disassimilate; of the nature of disassimilation.	
disassociate		To disconnect from things associated; to disunite; to dissociate.	
disaster		An adverse or unfortunate event, esp. a sudden and extraordinary misfortune; a calamity; a serious mishap.	Middle French desastre, from Italian disastro.
disasterly	Obsolete	Disastrously.	
disastrous		Attended with suffering or disaster; very unfortunate; calamitous; ill-fated; as, a disastrous day; a disastrous termination of an undertaking.	French désastreux.
disattire		To unrobe; to undress.	
disaugment		To diminish.	
disauthorize		To deprive of credit or authority; to discredit.	
disavaunce	Obsolete	To retard; to repel; to do damage to.	
disaventure	Obsolete	Misfortune.	
disaventurous	Obsolete	Misadventurous; unfortunate.	
disavouch		To disavow.	
disavow		To refuse strongly and solemnly to own or acknowledge; to deny responsibility for, approbation of, an the like; to disclaim; to disown; as, he was charged with embezzlement, but he disavows the crime.	
disavowal		The act of disavowing, disclaiming, or disowning; rejection and denial.	
disavowance	Obsolete	Disavowal.	
disavower		One who disavows.	
disavowment		Disavowal.	
disband		To loose the bands of; to set free; to disunite; to scatter; to disperse; to break up the organization of; especially, to dismiss from military service; as, to disband an army.	
disbandment		The act of disbanding.	
disbar		To expel from the bar, or the legal profession; to deprive (an attorney, barrister, or counselor) of his status and privileges as such.	
disbark		To disembark.	
disbarment		Act of disbarring.	
disbase	Obsolete	To debase or degrade.	
disbecome	Obsolete	To misbecome.	
disbelief		The act of disbelieving;; a state of the mind in which one is fully persuaded that an opinion, assertion, or doctrine is not true; refusal of assent, credit, or credence; denial of belief.	
disbelieve		Not to believe; to refuse belief or credence to; to hold not to be true or actual.	
disbeliever		One who disbelieves, or refuses belief; an unbeliever. Specifically, one who does not believe the Christian religion.	
disbench		To drive from a bench or seat.	
disbend	Obsolete	To unbend.	
disbind	Obsolete	To unbind; to loosen.	
disblame	Obsolete	To clear from blame.	
disbodied		Disembodied.	
disboscation		Converting forest land into cleared or arable land; removal of a forest.	
disbowel		To disembowel.	
disbranch		To divest of a branch or branches; to tear off.	
disbud		To deprive of buds or shoots, as for training, or economizing the vital strength of a tree.	
disburden		To rid of a burden; to free from a load borne or from something oppressive; to unload; to disencumber; to relieve.	
disburgeon		To strip of burgeons or buds; to disbud.	
disburse		To pay out; to expend; -- usually from a public fund or treasury.	Old French desbourser.
disbursement		The act of disbursing or paying out.	
disburser		One who disburses money.	
disburthen	Archaic	To disburden; to relieve of a load.	
disc		A flat round plate; (Biol.) a circular structure either in plants or animals; as, a blood disc, a germinal disc, etc. Same as Disk.	
discage		To uncage.	
discal		Pertaining to, or resembling, a disk; as, discal cells.	
discalceate	Obsolete	To pull off shoes or sandals from.	
discalceated		Deprived off shoes or sandals; unshod; discalced.	
discalceation	Obsolete	The act of pulling off the shoes or sandals.	Latin discalceatus.
discalced		Unshod; barefooted; -- in distinction from calced.	
discamp	Obsolete	To drive from a camp.	
discandy	Obsolete	To melt; to dissolve; to thaw.	
discant		See Descant, n.	
discapacitate		To deprive of capacity; to incapacitate.	
discard		(Card Playing) To throw out of one's hand, as superfluous cards; to lay aside (a card or cards).	
discardure		Rejection; dismissal.	
discarnate	Obsolete	Stripped of flesh.	
discase		To strip; to undress.	
discede	Obsolete	To yield or give up; to depart.	
discept		To debate; to discuss.	Latin disceptare.
disceptation	Archaic	Controversy; disputation; discussion.	Latin disceptatio.
disceptator		One who arbitrates or decides.	
discern		To see and identify by noting a difference or differences; to note the distinctive character of; to discriminate; to distinguish.	Middle English discernen, from Old French discerner, from Latin discernere.
discernance	Obsolete	Discernment.	
discerner		One who, or that which, discerns, distinguishes, perceives, or judges; as, a discerner of truth, of right and wrong.	
discernible		Capable of being discerned by the eye or the understanding; as, a star is discernible by the eye; the identity of difference of ideas is discernible by the understanding.	
discernibleness		The quality of being discernible.	
discernibly		In a manner to be discerned; perceptibly; visibly.	
discerning		Acute; shrewd; sagacious; sharp-sighted.	
discerningly		In a discerning manner; with judgment; judiciously; acutely.	
discernment		The power or faculty of the mind by which it distinguishes one thing from another; power of viewing differences in objects, and their relations and tendencies; penetrative and discriminate mental vision; acuteness; sagacity…	
discerp		To tear in pieces; to rend.	
discerpibility		Capability or liableness to be discerped.	
discerpible		Capable of being discerped.	
discerptibility		Capability or liableness to be discerped.	
discerptible		Capable of being discerped.	
discerption		The act of pulling to pieces, or of separating the parts.	
discerptive		Tending to separate or disunite parts.	
discession	Obsolete	Departure.	Latin discessio.
discharge		To relieve of a charge, load, or burden; to empty of a load or cargo; to unburden; to unload; as, to discharge a vessel.	Anglo-Norman descharger, from Old French deschargier, from Latin discarricō.
discharger		One who, or that which, discharges. Specifically, in electricity, an instrument for discharging a Leyden jar, or electrical battery, by making a connection between the two surfaces; a discharging rod.	
dischevele	Obsolete	Disheveled.	
dischurch		To deprive of status as a church, or of membership in a church.	
discide	Obsolete	To divide; to cleave in two.	Latin discidere.
disciferous		Bearing disks.	
discifloral		Bearing the stamens on a discoid outgrowth of the receptacle; - - said of a subclass of plants.	
disciflorous		Bearing the stamens on a discoid outgrowth of the receptacle; - - said of a subclass of plants.	
disciform		Discoid.	
discina		A genus of Branchiopoda, having a disklike shell, attached by one valve, which is perforated by the peduncle.	
discinct		Ungirded; loosely dressed.	Latin discinctus.
discind	Obsolete	To part; to divide.	
disciple		One who receives instruction from another; a scholar; a learner; especially, a follower who has learned to believe in the truth of the doctrine of his teacher; an adherent in doctrine; as, the disciples of Plato…	Old English discipul, from Latin discipulus.
discipleship		The state of being a disciple or follower in doctrines and precepts.	
discipless	Obsolete	A female disciple.	
disciplinable		Capable of being disciplined or improved by instruction and training.	
disciplinableness		The quality of being improvable by discipline.	
disciplinal		Relating to discipline.	
disciplinant		A flagellant. See Flagellant.	
disciplinarian		One who disciplines; one who excels in training, especially with training, especially with regard to order and obedience; one who enforces rigid discipline; a stickler for the observance of rules and methods of training; as…	
disciplinary		Pertaining to discipline; intended for discipline; corrective; belonging to a course of training.	Latin disciplinarius.
discipline		The treatment suited to a disciple or learner; education; development of the faculties by instruction and exercise; training, whether physical, mental, or moral.	
discipliner		One who disciplines.	
disclaim		To renounce all claim to deny; ownership of, or responsibility for; to disown; to disavow; to reject.	Anglo-Norman disclaimer, from Old French desclamer.
disclaimer		One who disclaims, disowns, or renounces.	
disclamation		A disavowing or disowning.	
disclame	Obsolete	To disclaim; to expel.	
disclaunder	Obsolete	To injure one's good name; to slander.	
discloak	Obsolete	To take off a cloak from; to uncloak.	
disclose		To unclose; to open; -- applied esp. to eggs in the sense of to hatch.	Middle English disclosen.
disclosed		Represented with wings expanded; -- applied to doves and other birds not of prey.	
discloser		One who discloses.	
disclosure		The act of disclosing, uncovering, or revealing; bringing to light; exposure.	
discloud	Archaic	To clear from clouds.	
disclout		To divest of a clout.	
disclusion	Obsolete	A shutting off; exclusion.	Latin disclusio.
discoast	Obsolete	To depart; to quit the coast (that is, the side or border) of anything; to be separated.	
discoblastic		Applied to a form of egg cleavage seen in osseous fishes, which occurs only in a small disk that separates from the rest of the egg.	
discobolus		(a) A thrower of the discus. (b) A statue of an athlete holding the discus, or about to throw it	Greek δισκοβόλος.
discodactyl		One of the tree frogs.	
discodactylia		A division of amphibians having suctorial disks on the toes, as the tree frogs.	
discodactylous		Having sucking disks on the toes, as the tree frogs.	
discoherent		Incoherent.	
discoid		Having the form of a disk, as those univalve shells which have the whorls in one plane, so as to form a disk, as the pearly nautilus.	
discoidal		Disk-shaped; discoid.	
discolith		One of a species of coccoliths, having an oval discoidal body, with a thick strongly refracting rim, and a thinner central portion.	
discolor		To alter the natural hue or color of; to change to a different color; to stain; to tinge; as, a drop of wine will discolor water; silver is discolored by sea water.	
discolorate		To discolor.	
discoloration		The act of discoloring, or the state of being discolored; alteration of hue or appearance.	
discolored		Variegated; of divers colors.	
discomfit	Obsolete	To break up and frustrate the plans of; to balk Well, go with me and be not so discomfited.	Old French desconfit.
discomfiture		The act of discomfiting, or the state of being discomfited; rout; overthrow; defeat; frustration; confusion and dejection.	
discomfort		To destroy or disturb the comfort of; to deprive oas, a smoky chimney discomforts a family.	
discomfortable	Obsolete	Causing discomfort; occasioning uneasiness; making sad.	
discommend		To mention with disapprobation; to blame; to disapprove.	
discommendable		Deserving, disapprobation or blame. -- Dis`com*mend"a*ble*ness, n.	
discommendation		Blame; censure; reproach.	
discommender		One who discommends; a dispraiser.	
discommission		To deprive of a commission or trust.	
discommodate	Obsolete	To discommode.	Latin discommodatus.
discommode		To put inconvenience; to incommode; to trouble.	
discommodious		Inconvenient; troublesome; incommodious.	
discommodity		Disadvantage; inconvenience.	
discommon		To deprive of the right of common.	
discommunity		A lack of common possessions, properties, or relationship.	
discompany		To free from company; to dissociate.	
discomplexion	Obsolete	To change the complexion or hue of.	
discompliance		Failure or refusal to comply; noncompliance.	
discompose		To disarrange; to interfere with; to disturb; to disorder; to unsettle; to break up.	
discomposed		Disordered; disturbed; disquieted. -- Dis`com*pos ed*ness, n.	
discomposition	Obsolete	Inconsistency; discordance.	
discomposure		The state of being discomposed; disturbance; disorder; agitation; perturbation.	
discompt		To discount. See Discount.	
disconcert		To break up the harmonious progress of; to throw into disorder or confusion; as, the emperor disconcerted the plans of his enemy.	French disconcerter.
disconcertion		The act of disconcerting, or state of being disconcerted; discomposure; perturbation.	
disconducive		Not conductive; impeding; disadvantageous.	
disconformable		Not conformable.	
disconformity		Want of conformity or correspondence; inconsistency; disagreement.	
discongruity		Incongruity; disagreement; unsuitableness.	
disconnect		To dissolve the union or connection of; to disunite; to sever; to separate; to disperse.	
disconnection		The act of disconnecting, or state of being disconnected; separation; want of union.	
disconsecrate		To deprive of consecration or sacredness.	
disconsent	Obsolete	To differ; to disagree; to dissent.	
disconsolacy	Obsolete	The state of being disconsolate.	
disconsolate		Destitute of consolation; deeply dejected and dispirited; hopelessly sad; comfortless; filled with grief; as, a bereaved and disconsolate parent.	Latin disconsolatus.
disconsolated	Obsolete	Disconsolate.	
disconsolation		Dejection; grief.	
discontent		Not content; discontented; dissatisfied.	
discontentation	Obsolete	Discontent.	
discontented		Dissatisfied; uneasy in mind; malcontent.	
discontentful		Full of discontent.	
discontenting		Causing discontent; dissatisfying.	
discontentive		Relating or tending to discontent.	
discontentment		The state of being discontented; uneasiness; inquietude.	
discontinuable		Admitting of being discontinued.	
discontinuance		The act of discontinuing, or the state of being discontinued; want of continued connection or continuity; breaking off; cessation; interruption; as, a discontinuance of conversation or intercourse…	
discontinuation		Breach or interruption of continuity; separation of parts in a connected series; discontinuance.	
discontinue		To interrupt the continuance of; to intermit, as a practice or habit; to put an end to; to cause to cease; to cease using, to stop; to leave off.	
discontinuee		One whose possession of an estate is broken off, or discontinued; one whose estate is subject to discontinuance.	
discontinuer		One who discontinues, or breaks off or away from; an absentee.	
discontinuity		Want of continuity or cohesion; disunion of parts.	
discontinuor		One who deprives another of the possession of an estate by discontinuance.	
discontinuous		Not continuous; interrupted; broken off.	
disconvenience	Obsolete	Unsuitableness; incongruity.	
disconvenient	Obsolete	Not convenient or congruous; unsuitable; ill-adapted.	
discophora		A division of acalephs or jellyfishes, including most of the large disklike species. -- Dis*coph"o*rous, a.	
discord		Want of concord or agreement; absence of unity or harmony in sentiment or action; variance leading to contention and strife; disagreement; -- applied to persons or to things, and to thoughts, feelings, or purposes.	
discordable		That may produce discord; disagreeing; discordant.	
discordance		State or quality of being discordant; disagreement; inconsistency.	
discordancy		State or quality of being discordant; disagreement; inconsistency.	
discordant		Disagreeing; incongruous; being at variance; clashing; opposing; not harmonious.	
discordful	Obsolete	Full of discord; contentious.	
discordous	Obsolete	Full of discord.	
discorporate	Obsolete	Deprived of the privileges or form of a body corporate.	
discorrespondent		Incongruous.	
discost	Obsolete	Same as Discoast.	
discounsel	Obsolete	To dissuade.	Old French desconseillier.
discount		To deduct from an account, debt, charge, and the like; to make an abatement of; as, merchants sometimes discount five or six per cent for prompt payment of bills.	
discountable		Capable of being, or suitable to be, discounted; as, certain forms are necessary to render notes discountable at a bank.	
discountenance		To ruffle or discompose the countenance of; to put of countenance; to put to shame; to abash.	
discountenancer		One who discountenances; one who disfavors.	
discounter		One who discounts; a discount broker.	
discourage		To extinguish the courage of; to dishearten; to depress the spirits of; to deprive of confidence; to deject; -- the opposite of encourage; as, he was discouraged in his undertaking; he need not be discouraged from a like attempt.	Middle French descourager, from Old French descouragier.
discourageable		Capable of being discouraged; easily disheartened.	
discouragement		The act of discouraging, or the state of being discouraged; depression or weakening of confidence; dejection.	
discourager		One who discourages.	
discouraging		Causing or indicating discouragement. -- Dis*cour"a*ging*ly, adv.	
discoure	Obsolete	To discover.	
discourse		Conversation; talk.	
discourser		One who discourse; a narrator; a speaker; an haranguer.	
discoursive		Reasoning; characterized by reasoning; passing from premises to consequences; discursive.	
discourteous		Uncivil; rude; wanting in courtesy or good manners; uncourteous. -- Dis*cour te*ous*ness, n.	
discourtesy		Rudeness of behavior or language; ill manners; manifestation of disrespect; incivility.	
discourtship	Obsolete	Want of courtesy.	
discous		Disklike; discoid.	
discovenant		To dissolve covenant with.	
discover		To disclose; to lay open to view; to make visible; to reveal; to make known; to show (what has been secret, unseen, or unknown).	Old French descovrir, from Latin discooperio.
discoverability		The quality of being discoverable.	
discoverable		Capable of being discovered, found out, or perceived; as, many minute animals are discoverable only by the help of the microscope; truths discoverable by human industry.	
discoverer		One who discovers; one who first comes to the knowledge of something; one who discovers an unknown country, or a new principle, truth, or fact.	
discoverment	Obsolete	Discovery.	
discovert	Obsolete	Not covert; not within the bonds of matrimony; unmarried; -- applied either to a woman who has never married or to a widow.	Old French descovert.
discoverture		(Law) A state of being released from coverture; freedom of a woman from the coverture of a husband.	
discovery		The action of discovering; exposure to view; laying open; showing; as, the discovery of a plot.	
discradle		To take from a cradle.	
discredit		The act of discrediting or disbelieving, or the state of being discredited or disbelieved; as, later accounts have brought the story into discredit.	
discreditable		Not creditable; injurious to reputation; disgraceful; disreputable. -- Dis*cred"it*a*bly, adv.	
discreditor		One who discredits.	
discreet		Possessed of discernment, especially in avoiding error or evil, and in the adaptation of means to ends; prudent; sagacious; judicious; not rash or heedless; cautious.	Old French discret, from Latin discretus.
discrepance		The state or quality of being discrepant; disagreement; variance; discordance; dissimilarity; contrariety.	
discrepancy		The state or quality of being discrepant; disagreement; variance; discordance; dissimilarity; contrariety.	Latin discrepantia.
discrepant		Discordant; at variance; disagreeing; contrary; different.	Latin discrepantem.
discrete		Separate; distinct; disjunct.	Old French discret, from Latin discretus.
discretely		Separately; disjunctively.	
discretion		The quality of being discreet; wise conduct and management; cautious discernment, especially as to matters of propriety and self- control; prudence; circumspection; wariness.	
discretional		Left to discretion; unrestrained except by discretion or judgment; as, an ambassador with discretionary powers.	
discretionally		At discretion; according to one's discretion or judgment.	
discretionarily		At discretion; according to one's discretion or judgment.	
discretionary		Left to discretion; unrestrained except by discretion or judgment; as, an ambassador with discretionary powers.	
discretive		Marking distinction or separation; disjunctive.	Latin discretivus.
discretively		In a discretive manner.	
discriminable	Obsolete	Capable of being discriminated.	
discriminal		In palmistry, applied to the line which marks the separation between the hand and the arm.	
discriminant		The eliminant of the n partial differentials of any homogenous function of n variables.	
discriminate		Having the difference marked; distinguished by certain tokens.	Latin discriminatus.
discriminately		In a discriminating manner; distinctly.	
discriminateness		The state of being discriminated; distinctness.	
discriminating		Marking a difference; distinguishing. -- Dis*crim"i*na`ting*ly, adv.	
discrimination		The act of discriminating, distinguishing, or noting and marking differences.	
discriminative		Marking a difference; distinguishing; distinctive; characteristic.	
discriminatively		With discrimination or distinction.	
discriminator		One who discriminates.	
discriminatory		Discriminative.	
discriminous	Obsolete	Hazardous; dangerous.	Latin discriminosus.
discrive	Obsolete	To describe.	
discrown		To deprive of a crown.	
discruciate	Obsolete	To torture; to excruciate.	
discubitory	Obsolete	Leaning; fitted for a reclining posture.	Latin discumbere.
disculpate		To free from blame or the imputation of a fault; to exculpate.	Latin disculpatus.
disculpation		Exculpation.	
disculpatory		Tending to exculpate; exculpatory.	
discumbency		The act of reclining at table according to the manner of the ancients at their meals.	Latin discumbens.
discumber	Archaic	To free from that which cumbers or impedes; to disencumber.	
discure	Obsolete	To discover; to reveal; to discoure.	
discurrent	Obsolete	Not current or free to circulate; not in use.	
discursion		The act of discoursing or reasoning; range, as from thought to thought.	
discursist	Obsolete	A discourser.	
discursive		Passing from one thing to another; ranging over a wide field; roving; digressive; desultory.	
discursory		Argumentative; discursive; reasoning.	
discursus		Argumentation; ratiocination; discursive reasoning.	
discus		(a) A quoit; a circular plate of some heavy material intended to be pitched or hurled as a trial of strength and skill.	
discuss		To break up; to disperse; to scatter; to dissipate; to drive away; -- said especially of tumors.	
discusser		One who discusses; one who sifts or examines.	
discussion		The act or process of discussing by breaking up, or dispersing, as a tumor, or the like.	French discussion, from Latin discussionem.
discussional		Pertaining to discussion.	
discussive		(Med.) Able or tending to discuss or disperse tumors or coagulated matter.	
discutient		Serving to disperse morbid matter; discussive; as, a discutient application. -- n.	
disdain		A feeling of contempt and aversion; the regarding anything as unworthy of or beneath one; scorn.	Old French desdeignier.
disdained	Obsolete	Disdainful.	
disdainful		Full of disdain; expressing disdain; scornful; contemptuous; haughty.	
disdainishly	Obsolete	Disdainfully.	
disdainous	Obsolete	Disdainful.	Old French desdeignos.
disdainously	Obsolete	Disdainfully.	
disdeify		To divest or deprive of deity or of a deific rank or condition.	
disdeign	Obsolete	To disdain.	
disdiaclast		One of the dark particles forming the doubly refracting disks of muscle fibers.	
disdiapason		An interval of two octaves, or a fifteenth; -- called also bisdiapason.	
disease		An alteration in the state of the body or of some of its organs, interrupting or disturbing the performance of the vital functions, and causing or threatening pain and weakness; malady; affection; illness; sickness; disorder…	Middle English disese, from Anglo-Norman desese, from Old French desaise.
diseased		Afflicted with disease.	
diseasedness		The state of being diseased; a morbid state; sickness.	
diseaseful		Abounding with disease; producing diseases; as, a diseaseful climate.	
diseasefulness		The quality of being diseaseful; trouble; trial.	
diseasement	Obsolete	Uneasiness; inconvenience.	
disedge		To deprive of an edge; to blunt; to dull.	
disedify		To fail of edifying; to injure.	
diselder	Obsolete	To deprive of an elder or elders, or of the office of an elder.	
diselenide		A selenide containing two atoms of selenium in each molecule.	
disembark		To remove from on board a vessel; to put on shore; to land; to debark; as, the general disembarked the troops.	
disembarkation		The act of disembarking.	
disembarkment		Disembarkation.	
disembarrass		To free from embarrassment, or perplexity; to clear; to extricate.	
disembarrassment		Freedom or relief from impediment or perplexity.	
disembay		To clear from a bay.	
disembellish		To deprive of embellishment; to disadorn.	
disembitter		To free from	
disembodied		Divested of a body; ceased to be corporal; incorporeal.	
disembodiment		The act of disembodying, or the state of being disembodied.	
disembody		To divest of the or corporeal existence.	
disembogue		To pour out or discharge at the mouth, as a stream; to vent; to discharge into an ocean, a lake, etc. Rolling down, the steep Timavdisembogues his waves.	Spanish desembocar.
disemboguement		The act of disemboguing; discharge.	
disembossom		To separate from the bosom.	
disembowel		To take or let out the bowels or interior parts of; to eviscerate.	
disembowelment		The act of disemboweling, or state of being disemboweled; evisceration.	
disembowered	Poetic	Deprived of, or removed from, a bower.	
disembrangle	Obsolete	To free from wrangling or litigation.	
disembroil		To disentangle; to free from perplexity; to extricate from confusion.	
disemploy	Obsolete	To throw out of employment.	
disemployment		The state of being disemployed, or deprived of employment.	
disempower		To deprive of power; to divest of strength.	
disenable		To disable; to disqualify.	
disenamor		To free from the captivity of love.	
disenchained	Archaic	Freed from restraint; unrestrained.	
disenchant		To free from enchantment; to deliver from the power of charms or spells; to free from fascination or delusion.	Middle French desenchanter.
disenchanter		One who, or that which, disenchants.	
disenchantment		The act of disenchanting, or state of being disenchanted.	
disencharm		To free from the influence of a charm or spell; to disenchant.	
disenclose		See Disinclose — to free from being inclosed.	
disencouragement	Obsolete	Discouragement.	
disencrese	Obsolete	To decrease.	
disencumber		To free from encumbrance, or from anything which clogs, impedes, or obstructs; to disburden.	
disencumbrance		Freedom or deliverance from encumbrance, or anything burdensome or troublesome.	
disendow		To deprive of an endowment, as a church.	
disendowment		The act of depriving of an endowment or endowments. disendowment of the Irish Church.	
disenfranchise		To disfranchise; to deprive of the rights of a citizen. -- Dis`en*fran"chise*ment, n.	
disengage		To release from that with which anything is engaged, engrossed, involved, or entangled; to extricate; to detach; to set free; to liberate; to clear; as, to disengage one from a party, from broils and controversies, from an oath…	
disengaged		Not engaged; free from engagement; at leisure; free from occupation or care; vacant. -- Dis`en*ga"ged*ness, n.	
disengagement		The act of disengaging or setting free, or the state of being disengaged.	
disengaging		Loosing; setting free; detaching.	
disennoble		To deprive of that which ennobles; to degrade.	Latin dis.
disenroll		To erase from a roll or list.	
disensanity	Obsolete	Insanity; folly.	
disenshrouded		Freed from a shroudlike covering; unveiled.	
disenslave		To free from bondage or slavery; to disenthrall.	
disentail		To free from entailment.	
disentangle		To free from entanglement; to release from a condition of being intricately and confusedly involved or interlaced; to reduce to orderly arrangement; to straighten out; as, to disentangle a skein of yarn.	
disentanglement		The act of disentangling or clearing from difficulties.	
disenter		See Disinter — to take out of the grave or tomb; to unbury; to exhume; to dig up.	
disenthrall		To release from thralldom or slavery; to give freedom to; to disinthrall.	
disenthrallment		Liberation from bondage; emancipation; disinthrallment.	
disenthrone		To dethrone; to depose from sovereign authority.	
disentitle		To deprive of title or claim.	
disentomb		To take out from a tomb; a disinter.	
disentrail	Obsolete	To disembowel; to let out or draw forth, as the entrails.	
disentrance		To awaken from a trance or an enchantment.	
disentwine		To free from being entwined or twisted.	
disepalous		Having two sepals; two-sepaled.	
disert	Obsolete	Eloquent.	
disertitude	Obsolete	Eloquence.	
diserty	Obsolete	Expressly; clearly; eloquently.	
disespouse	Poetic	To release from espousal or plighted faith.	
disestablish		To unsettle; to break up (anything established); to deprive, as a church, of its connection with the state.	
disestablishment		The act or process of unsettling or breaking up that which has been established; specifically, the withdrawal of the support of the state from an established church; as…	
disesteem		Want of esteem; low estimation, inclining to dislike; disfavor; disrepute.	
disesteemer		One who disesteems.	
disestimation		Disesteem.	
disexercise	Obsolete	To deprive of exercise; to leave untrained.	
disfame		Disrepute.	
disfancy	Obsolete	To dislike.	
disfashion	Obsolete	To disfigure.	
disfavor		Want of favor of favorable regard; disesteem; disregard.	
disfavorable	Obsolete	Unfavorable.	
disfavorably	Obsolete	Unpropitiously.	
disfavorer		One who disfavors.	
disfeature		To deprive of features; to mar the features of.	
disfellowship		To exclude from fellowship; to refuse intercourse with, as an associate.	
disfiguration		The act of disfiguring, or the state of being disfigured; defacement; deformity; disfigurement.	
disfigure	Obsolete	To mar the figure of; to render less complete, perfect, or beautiful in appearance; to deface; to deform.	
disfigurement		Act of disfiguring, or state of being disfigured; deformity.	
disfigurer		One who disfigures.	
disflesh	Obsolete	To reduce the flesh or obesity of.	
disforest		To disafforest.	
disforestation		The act of clearing land of forests.	
disformity		Discordance or diversity of form; unlikeness in form.	
disfranchise		To deprive of a franchise or chartered right; to dispossess of the rights of a citizen, or of a particular privilege, as of voting, holding office, etc. Sir William Fitzwilliam was disfranchised.	
disfranchisement		The act of disfranchising, or the state disfranchised; deprivation of privileges of citizenship or of chartered immunities.	
disfriar	Obsolete	To depose or withdraw from the condition of a friar.	
disfrock		To unfrock.	
disfurnish		To deprive of that with which anything is furnished (furniture, equipments, etc.); to strip; to render destitute; to divest.	
disfurnishment		The act of disfurnishing, or the state of being disfurnished.	
disfurniture	Obsolete	The act of disfurnishing, or the state of being disfurnished.	
disgage	Obsolete	To free from a gage or pledge; to disengage.	
disgallant	Obsolete	To deprive of gallantry.	
disgarland	Poetic	To strip of a garland.	
disgarnish		To divest of garniture; to disfurnish; to dismantle.	
disgarrison		To deprive of a garrison.	
disgavel		To deprive of that principal quality of gavelkind tenure by which lands descend equally among all the sons of the tenant; -- said of lands.	
disgest	Obsolete	To digest.	
disgestion	Obsolete	Digestion.	
disglorify		To deprive of glory; to treat with indignity.	
disglory	Obsolete	Dishonor.	
disgorge		To eject or discharge by the throat and mouth; to vomit; to pour forth or throw out with violence, as if from the mouth; to discharge violently or in great quantities from a confined place.	Middle French desgorger.
disgorgement		The act of disgorging; a vomiting; that which is disgorged.	
disgospel	Obsolete	To be inconsistent with, or act contrary to, the precepts of the gospel; to pervert the gospel.	
disgrace		The condition of being out of favor; loss of favor, regard, or respect.	Middle French disgracier.
disgraceful		Bringing disgrace; causing shame; shameful; dishonorable; unbecoming; as, profaneness is disgraceful to a man. -- Dis*grace ful*ness, n.	
disgracer		One who disgraces.	
disgracious		Wanting grace; unpleasing; disagreeable.	
disgracive	Obsolete	Disgracing.	
disgradation		Degradation; a stripping of titles and honors.	
disgrade	Obsolete	To degrade.	
disgraduate	Obsolete	To degrade; to reduce in rank.	
disgregate	Obsolete	To disperse; to scatter; -- opposite of congregate.	
disgregation		The process of separation, or the condition of being separate, as of the molecules of a body.	
disgruntle	Colloquial	To dissatisfy; to disaffect; to anger.	
disguise		To change the guise or appearance of; especially, to conceal by an unusual dress, or one intended to mislead or deceive.	Middle English disgisen.
disguisedly		In disguise.	
disguisedness		The state of being disguised.	
disguisement		Disguise.	
disguiser		One who, or that which, disguises.	
disguising	Obsolete	A masque or masquerade.	
disgust		To provoke disgust or strong distaste in; to cause (any one) loathing, as of the stomach; to excite aversion in; to offend the moral taste of; -- often with at, with, or by.	Old French desgouster.
disgustful		Provoking disgust; offensive to the taste; exciting aversion; disgusting.	
disgustfulness		The state of being disgustful.	
disgusting		That causes disgust; sickening; offensive; revolting. -- Dis*gust"ing*ly, adv.	
dish		A vessel, as a platter, a plate, a bowl, used for serving up food at the table.	Old English disc, from Latin discus, from Greek δίσκος.
dishabilitate		To disqualify.	
dishabille		An undress; a loose, negligent dress; deshabille.	
dishabit	Obsolete	To dislodge.	
dishabited		Rendered uninhabited.	
dishabituate		To render unaccustomed.	
dishable	Obsolete	To disable.	
dishallow		To make unholy; to profane.	
disharmonious	Obsolete	Unharmonious; discordant.	
disharmony		Want of harmony; discord; incongruity.	
dishaunt		To leave; to quit; to cease to haunt.	
dishcloth		A cloth used for washing dishes.	
dishclout	Obsolescent	A dishcloth.	
disheart	Obsolete	To dishearten.	
dishearten		To discourage; to deprive of courage and hope; to depress the spirits of; to deject.	
disheartenment		Discouragement; dejection; depression of spirits.	
disheir	Obsolete	To disinherit.	
dishelm	Poetic	To deprive of the helmet.	
disherison		The act of disheriting, or debarring from inheritance; disinhersion.	
disherit	Obsolete	To disinherit; to cut off, or detain, from the possession or enjoyment of an inheritance.	Old French desheriter.
disheritance	Obsolete	The act of disinheriting or state of being disinherited; disinheritance.	
disheritor		One who puts another out of his inheritance.	
dishevel		To suffer (the hair) to hang loosely or disorderly; to spread or throw (the hair) in disorder; -- used chiefly in the passive participle.	
dishevele	Obsolete	Disheveled.	
disheveled		Having in loose disorder; disarranged; as, disheveled hair.	
dishful		As much as a dish holds when full.	
dishing		Dish-shaped; concave.	
dishonest		Wanting in honesty; void of integrity; faithless; disposed to cheat or defraud; not trustworthy; as, a dishonest man.	Old French deshoneste, from Latin dehonestus.
dishonestly		In a dishonest manner.	
dishonesty		Violation of trust or of justice; fraud; any deviation from probity; a dishonest act.	
dishonor		Lack of honor; disgrace; ignominy; shame; reproach.	
dishonorable		Wanting in honor; not honorable; bringing or deserving dishonor; staining the character, and lessening the reputation; shameful; disgraceful; base.	
dishonorary		Bringing dishonor on; tending to disgrace; lessening reputation.	
dishonorer		One who dishonors or disgraces; one who treats another indignity.	
dishorn		To deprive of horns; as, to dishorn cattle.	
dishorse		To dismount.	
dishouse		To deprive of house or home.	
dishumor	Obsolete	Ill humor.	
dishwasher		One who, or that which, washes dishes.	
dishwater		Water in which dishes have been washed. & Fl.	
disillusion		The act or process of freeing from an illusion, or the state of being freed therefrom.	
disillusionize		To disenchant; to free from illusion.	
disillusionment		The act of freeing from an illusion, or the state of being freed therefrom.	
disimbitter		To free from bitterness.	
disimpark		To free from the barriers or restrictions of a park.	
disimpassioned		Free from warmth of passion or feeling.	
disimprove		To make worse; -- the opposite of improve.	
disimprovement		Reduction from a better to a worse state; as, disimprovement of the earth.	
disincarcerate		To liberate from prison.	
disinclination		The state of being disinclined; want of propensity, desire, or affection; slight aversion or dislike; indisposition.	
disincline		To incline away the affections of; to excite a slight aversion in; to indispose; to make unwilling; to alienate.	
disinclose		To free from being inclosed.	
disincorporate		To deprive of corporate powers, rights, or privileges; to divest of the condition of a corporate body.	
disincorporation		Deprivation of the rights and privileges of a corporation.	
disinfect		To free from infectious or contagious matter; to destroy putrefaction; to purify; to make innocuous.	Middle French desinfecter.
disinfectant		That which disinfects; an agent for removing the causes of infection, as chlorine.	
disinfection		The act of disinfecting; purification from infecting matter.	
disinfector		One who, or that which, disinfects; an apparatus for applying disinfectants.	
disinflame		To divest of flame or ardor.	
disingenuity	Obsolete	Disingenuousness.	
disingenuous		Not noble; unbecoming true honor or dignity; mean; unworthy; as, disingenuous conduct or schemes.	
disinhabited	Obsolete	Uninhabited.	
disinherison		Same as Disherison.	
disinherit		To cut off from an inheritance or from hereditary succession; to prevent, as an heir, from coming into possession of any property or right, which, by law or custom, would devolve on him in the course of descent.	
disinheritance		The act of disinheriting, or the condition of being; disinherited; disherison.	
disinhume		To disinter.	
disinsure	Obsolete	To render insecure; to put in danger.	
disintegrable		Capable of being disintegrated, or reduced to fragments or powder.	
disintegrate		To separate into integrant parts; to reduce to fragments or to powder; to break up, or cause to fall to pieces, as a rock, by blows of a hammer, frost, rain, and other mechanical or atmospheric influences.	
disintegration		(a) The process by which anything is disintegrated; the condition of anything which is disintegrated.	
disintegrator		A machine for grinding or pulverizing by percussion.	
disinter		To take out of the grave or tomb; to unbury; to exhume; to dig up.	
disinteress	Obsolete	To deprive or rid of interest in, or regard for; to disengage.	
disinteressment	Obsolete	Disinterestedness; impartiality; fairness.	
disinterest	Obsolete	What is contrary to interest or advantage; disadvantage.	
disinterested		Not influenced by regard to personal interest or advantage; free from selfish motive; having no relation of interest or feeling; not biased or prejudiced; as, a disinterested decision or judge.	
disinterestedly		In a disinterested manner; without bias or prejudice.	
disinterestedness		The state or quality of being disinterested; impartiality.	
disinteresting	Obsolete	Uninteresting.	
disinterment		The act of disinterring, or taking out of the earth; exhumation.	
disinthrall		To free from thralldom; to disenthrall.	
disinthrallment		A releasing from thralldom or slavery; disenthrallment.	
disintricate		To disentangle.	
disinure		To render unaccustomed or unfamiliar.	
disinvestiture	Obsolete	The act of depriving of investiture.	
disinvigorate		To enervate; to weaken.	
disinvolve		To uncover; to unfold or unroll; to disentangle.	
disjection		Destruction; dispersion.	Latin disjicere.
disjoin		To part; to disunite; to separate; to sunder.	Middle English disjoynen, from Old French desjoindre, from Latin disiungere.
disjoint		To separate the joints of; to separate, as parts united by joints; to put out of joint; to force out of its socket; to dislocate; as, to disjoint limbs; to disjoint bones; to disjoint a fowl in carving.	
disjointed		Separated at the joints; disconnected; incoherent. -- Dis*joint ed*ness, n.	
disjointly		In a disjointed state.	
disjudication	Obsolete	Judgment; discrimination. See Dijudication.	
disjunct		Disjoined; separated.	
disjunction		The act of disjoining; disunion; separation; a parting; as, the disjunction of soul and body.	
disjunctive		Tending to disjoin; separating; disjoining.	
disjunctively		In a disjunctive manner; separately.	
disjuncture		The act of disjoining, or state of being disjoined; separation.	
disk		A flat, circular plate; as, a disk of metal or paper.	Greek δίσκος.
diskindness		Unkindness; disservice.	
diskless		Having no disk; appearing as a point and not expanded into a disk, as the image of a faint star in a telescope.	
dislade	Obsolete	To unlade.	
disleal	Obsolete	Disloyal; perfidious.	
disleave		To deprive of leaves.	
dislike		To regard with dislike or aversion; to disapprove; to disrelish.	
dislikeful	Obsolete	Full of dislike; disaffected; malign; disagreeable.	
dislikelihood		The want of likelihood; improbability.	
disliken	Obsolete	To make unlike; to disguise.	
dislikeness		Unlikeness.	
disliker		One who dislikes or disrelishes.	
dislimb	Obsolete	To tear limb from limb; to dismember.	
dislimn	Obsolete	To efface, as a picture.	
dislink		To unlink; to disunite; to separate.	
dislive	Obsolete	To deprive of life.	
dislocate		To displace; to put out of its proper place. Especially, of a bone: To remove from its normal connections with a neighboring bone; to put out of joint; to move from its socket; to disjoint; as, to dislocate your bones.	
dislocation		The act of displacing, or the state of being displaced.	
dislodge		To drive from a lodge or place of rest; to remove from a place of quiet or repose; as, shells resting in the sea at a considerate depth are not dislodged by storms.	Old French desloger.
dislodgment		The act or process of dislodging, or the state of being dislodged.	
disloign	Obsolete	To put at a distance; to remove.	
disloyal		Not loyal; not true to a sovereign or lawful superior, or to the government under which one lives; false where allegiance is due; faithless; as, a subject disloyal to the king; a husband disloyal to his wife.	
disloyally		In a disloyal manner.	
disloyalty		Want of loyalty; lack of fidelity; violation of allegiance.	Old French desloiauté.
dismail		To divest of coat of mail.	Old French desmailler.
dismal		Gloomy to the eye or ear; sorrowful and depressing to the feelings; foreboding; cheerless; dull; dreary; as, a dismal outlook; dismal stories; a dismal place.	
dismally		In a dismal manner; gloomily; sorrowfully; uncomfortably.	
dismalness		The quality of being dismal; gloominess.	
disman	Obsolete	To unman.	
dismantle		To strip of furniture and equipments, guns, etc.; to unrig; to strip of walls or outworks; to break down; as, to dismantle a fort, a town, or a ship.	Middle French desmanteler.
dismarch	Obsolete	To march away.	
dismarry	Obsolete	To free from the bonds of marriage; to divorce.	
dismarshal		To disarrange; to derange; to put in disorder.	
dismask		To divest of a mask.	
dismast		To deprive of a mast of masts; to break and carry away the masts from; as, a storm dismasted the ship.	
dismastment		The act of dismasting; the state of being dismasted.	
dismaw		To eject from the maw; to disgorge.	
dismay		To disable with alarm or apprehensions; to depress the spirits or courage of; to deprive or firmness and energy through fear; to daunt; to appall; to terrify.	Middle English dismayen.
dismayedness		A state of being dismayed; dejection of courage; dispiritedness.	
dismayful		Terrifying.	
disme		A tenth; a tenth part; a tithe.	
dismember		To tear limb from limb; to dilacerate; to disjoin member from member; to tear or cut in pieces; to break up.	Old French desmembrer.
dismemberment		The act of dismembering, or the state of being dismembered; cutting in piece; m The Castilians would doubtless have resented the dismemberment of the unwieldy body of which they formed the head.	
dismettled		Destitute of mettle, that is, or fire or spirit.	
dismiss		To send away; to give leave of departure; to cause or permit to go; to put away.	
dismissal		Dismission; discharge.	
dismission		The act dismissing or sending away; permission to leave; leave to depart; dismissal; as, the dismission of the grand jury.	
dismissive		Giving dismission.	
dismortgage	Obsolete	To redeem from mortgage.	
dismount	Poetic	To come down; to descend.	
disnaturalize		To make alien; to deprive of the privileges of birth.	
disnatured	Obsolete	Deprived or destitute of natural feelings; unnatural.	
disobedience		Neglect or refusal to obey; violation of a command or prohibition.	
disobediency		Disobedience.	
disobedient		Neglecting or refusing to obey; omitting to do what is commanded, or doing what is prohibited; refractory; not observant of duty or rules prescribed by authority; -- applied to persons and acts.	
disobediently		In a disobedient manner.	
disobeisance	Obsolete	Disobedience.	French désobéissance.
disobeisant	Obsolete	Disobedient.	French désobéissant.
disobey		Not to obey; to neglect or refuse to obey (a superior or his commands, the laws, etc.); to transgress the commands of (one in authority); to violate, as an order; as, refractory children disobey their parents…	
disobeyer		One who disobeys.	
disobligation		Release from obligation.	
disobligatory		Releasing from obligation.	
disoblige		To do an act which contravenes the will or desires of; to offend by an act of unkindness or incivility; to displease; to refrain from obliging; to be unaccommodating to.	
disobligement	Obsolete	Release from obligation.	
disobliger		One who disobliges.	
disobliging		Not obliging; not disposed to do a favor; unaccommodating; as, a disobliging person or act.	
disoccident	Obsolete	To turn away from the west; to throw out of reckoning as to longitude.	
disoccupation		The state of being unemployed; want of occupation.	
disopinion	Obsolete	Want or difference of belief; disbelief.	
disoppilate	Obsolete	To open.	
disorb		To throw out of the proper orbit; to unsphere.	
disord	Obsolete	Disorder.	
disordeined	Obsolete	Inordinate; irregular; vicious.	
disorder		Want of order or regular disposition; lack of arrangement; confusion; disarray; as, the troops were thrown into disorder; the papers are in disorder.	
disordered		Thrown into disorder; deranged; as, a disordered house, judgment.	
disorderliness		The state of being disorderly.	
disorderly		Not in order; marked by disorder; disarranged; immethodical; as, the books and papers are in a disorderly state.	
disordinance	Obsolete	Disarrangement; disturbance.	
disordinate	Obsolete	Inordinate; disorderly.	
disordinately	Obsolete	Inordinately.	
disordination	Obsolete	The state of being in disorder; derangement; confusion.	
disorganization		The act of disorganizing; destruction of system.	French désorganiser.
disorganize		To destroy the organic structure or regular system of (a government, a society, a party, etc.); to break up (what is organized); to throw into utter disorder; to disarrange.	French désorganiser.
disorganizer		One who disorganizes or causes disorder and confusion.	
disorient		To turn away from the cast; to confuse as to which way is east; to cause to lose one's bearings.	
disorientate		To turn away from the east, or (figuratively) from the right or the truth.	
disown		To refuse to own or acknowledge as belonging to one's self; to disavow or deny, as connected with one's self personally; as, a parent can hardly disown his child; an author will sometimes disown his writings.	
disownment		Act of disowning.	
disoxidate		To deoxidate; to deoxidize.	
disoxidation		Deoxidation.	
disoxygenate		To deprive of oxygen; to deoxidize.	
disoxygenation		Deoxidation.	
dispace	Obsolete	To roam.	
dispair		To separate (a pair).	
dispand	Obsolete	To spread out; to expand.	
dispansion	Obsolete	Act of dispanding, or state of being dispanded.	
disparadised		Removed from paradise.	
disparage	Obsolete	To match unequally; to degrade or dishonor by an unequal marriage.	
disparagement		Matching any one in marriage under his or her degree; injurious union with something of inferior excellence; a lowering in rank or estimation.	
disparager		One who disparages or dishonors; one who vilifies or disgraces.	
disparagingly		In a manner to disparage or dishonor; slightingly.	
disparate		Unequal; dissimilar; separate.	Latin disparatus.
disparates		Things so unequal or unlike that they can not be compared with each other.	
disparition	Obsolete	Act of disappearing; disappearance.	
disparity		Inequality; difference in age, rank, condition, or excellence; dissimilitude; -- followed by between, in, of, as to, etc.; as, disparity in, or of, years; a disparity as to color.	Middle French disparité.
dispark		To throw (a park or inclosure); to treat (a private park) as a common.	
disparkle	Obsolete	To scatter abroad.	Old French desparpeillier.
dispart		(Gun.) The difference between the thickness of the metal at the mouth and at the breech of a piece of ordnance.	
dispassion		Freedom from passion; an undisturbed state; apathy.	
dispassionate		Free from passion; not warped, prejudiced, swerved, or carried away by passion or feeling; judicial; calm; composed.	
dispassioned		Free from passion; dispassionate.	
dispatch		To dispose of speedily, as business; to execute quickly; to make a speedy end of; to finish; to perform.	
dispatcher		One who dispatches.	
dispatchful		Bent on haste; intent on speedy execution of business or any task; indicating haste; quick; as, dispatchful looks.	
dispatchment	Obsolete	The act of dispatching.	
dispathy		Lack of sympathy; want of passion; apathy.	
dispauper		To deprive of the claim of a pauper to public support; to deprive of the privilege of suing in forma pauperis.	
dispauperize		To free a state of pauperism, or from paupers.	
dispeed	Obsolete	To send off with speed; to dispatch.	
dispel		To drive away by scattering, or so to cause to vanish; to clear away; to banish; to dissipate; as, to dispel a cloud, vapors, cares, doubts, illusions. gently raised their fainting courage, and dispelled their fears.	
dispence	Obsolete	See Dispense — to deal out in portions; to distribute; to give; as, the steward dispenses provisions according directions; Nature dispenses her bounties; to dispense medicines.	
dispend	Obsolete	To spend; to lay out; to expend.	Old French despendre, from Latin dispendere.
dispender	Obsolete	One who dispends or expends; a steward.	
dispensable		Capable of being dispensed or administered.	
dispensableness		Quality of being dispensable.	
dispensary		A place where medicines are prepared and dispensed; esp., a place where the poor can obtain medical advice and medicines gratuitously or at a nominal price.	
dispensation		The act of dispensing or dealing out; distribution; often used of the distribution of good and evil by God to man, or more generically, of the acts and modes of his administration.	
dispensative		Granting dispensation.	Latin dispensativus.
dispensatively		By dispensation.	
dispensator		A distributer; a dispenser.	
dispensatorily		In the way of dispensation; dispensatively.	
dispensatory		Granting, or authorized to grant, dispensations.	
dispense		To deal out in portions; to distribute; to give; as, the steward dispenses provisions according directions; Nature dispenses her bounties; to dispense medicines.	Old French despenser, from Latin dispensare.
dispenser		One who, or that which, dispenses; a distributer; as, a dispenser of favors.	
dispeople		To deprive of inhabitants; to depopulate.	
dispeopler		One who, or that which, dispeoples; a depopulator.	
disperge	Obsolete	To sprinkle.	Latin dispergere.
dispermous		Containing only two seeds; two-seeded.	
disperple	Obsolete	To scatter; to sprinkle.	
dispersal		The act or result of dispersing or scattering; dispersion.	
disperse		To scatter abroad; to drive to different parts; to distribute; to diffuse; to spread; as, the Jews are dispersed among all nations.	French disperser, from Latin dispersus.
dispersed		Scattered. -- Dis*pers ed*ness, n.	
disperseness	Obsolete	Dispersedness.	
disperser		One that disperses.	
dispersion		The act or process of scattering or dispersing, or the state of being scattered or separated; as, the Jews in their dispersion retained their rites and ceremonies…	
dispersive		Tending to disperse.	
dispersonate		To deprive of personality or individuality.	
dispirit		To deprive of cheerful spirits; to depress the spirits of; to dishearten; to discourage.	
dispirited		Depressed in spirits; disheartened; daunted. -- Dis*pir it*ed, n.	
dispiritment		Depression of spirits; discouragement.	
dispiteous	Obsolete	Full of despite; cruel; spiteful; pitiless.	
displace		To change the place of; to remove from the usual or proper place; to put out of place; to place in another situation; as, the books in the library are all displaced.	
displaceable		Capable of being displaced.	
displacement		The act of displacing, or the state of being displaced; a putting out of place.	French déplacement.
displacency	Obsolete	Want of complacency or gratification; envious displeasure; dislike.	Latin displacentia.
displacer		One that displaces.	
displant		To remove (what is planted or fixed); to unsettle and take away; to displace; to root out; as, to displant inhabitants.	
displantation		The act of displanting; removal; displacement.	
displat	Obsolete	To untwist; to uncurl; to unplat.	
display		To unfold; to spread wide; to expand; to stretch out; to spread.	
displayed		Unfolded; expanded; exhibited conspicuously or ostentatiously.	
displayer		One who, or that which, displays.	
disple	Obsolete	To discipline; to correct.	
displeasance	Obsolete	Displeasure; discontent; annoyance.	Old French desplaisance.
displeasant	Obsolete	Unpleasing; offensive; unpleasant.	Old French desplaisant.
displease		To make not pleased; to excite a feeling of disapprobation or dislike in; to be disagreeable to; to offend; to vex; -- often followed by with or at.	Middle English displesen, from Anglo-Norman despleisir.
displeasedly		With displeasure.	
displeasedness		Displeasure.	
displeaser		One who displeases.	
displeasing		Causing displeasure or dissatisfaction; offensive; disagreeable. -- Dis*pleas ing*ness, n.	
displeasure		The feeling of one who is displeased; irritation or uneasiness of the mind, occasioned by anything that counteracts desire or command, or which opposes justice or a sense of propriety; disapprobation; dislike; dissatisfaction…	
displenish	Scots	To deprive or strip, as a house of furniture, or a barn of stock.	
displicence	Obsolete	Dislike; dissatisfaction; discontent.	
displicency	Obsolete	Dislike; dissatisfaction; discontent.	
displode		To discharge; to explode.	
displosion		Explosion.	
displosive		Explosive.	
displume		To strip of, or as of, a plume, or plumes; to deprive of decoration; to dishonor; to degrade.	
dispoline		One of several isomeric organic bases of the quinoline series of alkaloids.	
dispond		See Despond — to give up, the will, courage, or spirit; to be thoroughly disheartened; to lose all courage; to become dispirited or depressed; to take an unhopeful view.	
dispondee		A double spondee; a foot consisting of four long syllables.	Latin dispondeus.
dispone		(Scots Law) To make over, or convey, legally.	
disponee		The person to whom any property is legally conveyed.	
disponer		One who legally transfers property from himself to another.	
disponge	Poetic & rare	To sprinkle, as with water from a sponge.	
dispope		To refuse to consider as pope; to depose from the popedom.	
disporous		Having two spores.	
disport		Play; sport; pastime; diversion; playfulness.	Old French desporter.
disportment	Obsolete	Act of disporting; diversion; play.	
disposable		Subject to disposal; free to be used or employed as occasion may require; not assigned to any service or use.	
disposal		The act of disposing, or disposing of, anything; arrangement; orderly distribution; a putting in order; as, the disposal of the troops in two lines.	
dispose		To distribute and put in place; to arrange; to set in order; as, to dispose the ships in the form of a crescent.	Old French disposer.
disposed		Inclined; minded.	
disposedness		The state of being disposed or inclined; inclination; propensity.	
disposement	Obsolete	Disposal.	
disposer		One who, or that which, disposes; a regulator; a director; a bestower.	
disposingly		In a manner to dispose.	
disposited	Obsolete	Disposed.	
disposition		The act of disposing, arranging, ordering, regulating, or transferring; application; disposal; as, the disposition of a man's property by will.	
dispositional		Pertaining to disposition.	
dispositioned		Having (such) a disposition; -- used in compounds; as, well- dispositioned.	
dispositive	Obsolete	Disposing; tending to regulate; decretive.	
dispositively	Obsolete	In a dispositive manner; by natural or moral disposition.	
dispositor	Obsolete	(Astrol.) The planet which is lord of the sign where another planet is.	
dispossess		To put out of possession; to deprive of the actual occupancy of, particularly of land or real estate; to disseize; to eject; -- usually followed by of before the thing taken away; as, to dispossess a king of his crown.	
dispossession		The act of putting out of possession; the state of being dispossessed.	
dispossessor		One who dispossesses.	
dispost		To eject from a post; to displace.	
disposure		The act of disposing; power to dispose of; disposal; direction.	
dispraisable		Blamable.	
dispraise		To withdraw praise from; to notice with disapprobation or some degree of censure; to disparage; to blame.	Old French despreisier.
dispraiser		One who blames or dispraises.	
dispraisingly		By way of dispraise.	
dispread		To spread abroad, or different ways; to spread apart; to open; as, the sun dispreads his beams.	
dispreader		One who spreads abroad.	
disprejudice	Obsolete	To free from prejudice.	
disprepare	Obsolete	To render unprepared.	
disprince		To make unlike a prince.	
disprison		To let loose from prison, to set all liberty.	
disprivilege		To deprive of a privilege or privileges.	
disprize		To do preciate.	
disprofess		To renounce the profession or pursuit of.	
disprofit	Obsolete	Loss; damage.	
disprofitable	Obsolete	Unprofitable.	
disproof		A proving to be false or erroneous; confutation; refutation; as, to offer evidence in disproof of a statement.	
disproperty		To cause to be no longer property; to dispossess of.	
disproportion		Want of proportion in form or quantity; lack of symmetry; as, the arm may be in disproportion to the body; the disproportion of the length of a building to its height.	
disproportionable		Disproportional; unsuitable in form, size, quantity, or adaptation; disproportionate; inadequate. -- Dis`pro*por tion*a*bly, adv.	
disproportional		Not having due proportion to something else; not having proportion or symmetry of parts; unsuitable in form, quantity or value; inadequate; unequal; as, a disproportional limb constitutes deformity in the body…	
disproportionality		The state of being disproportional.	
disproportionally		In a disproportional manner; unsuitably in form, quantity, or value; unequally.	
disproportionate		Not proportioned; unsymmetrical; unsuitable to something else in bulk, form, value, or extent; out of proportion; inadequate; as, in a perfect body none of the limbs are disproportionate…	
dispropriate		To cancel the appropriation of; to disappropriate.	
disprovable		Capable of being disproved or refuted.	
disproval		Act of disproving; disproof.	
disprove		To prove to be false or erroneous; to confute; to refute.	
disprover		One who disproves or confutes.	
disprovide	Obsolete	Not to provide; to fail to provide.	
dispunct	Obsolete	Wanting in punctilious respect; discourteous.	
dispunge	Obsolete	To expunge; to erase. See Disponge.	
dispunishable		Without penal restraint; not punishable.	
dispurpose		To dissuade; to frustrate; as, to dispurpose plots.	
dispurse	Obsolete	To disburse.	
dispurvey	Obsolete	To disfurnish; to strip.	
dispurveyance	Obsolete	Want of provisions; Spenser.	
disputable		Capable of being disputed; liable to be called in question, controverted, or contested; or doubtful certainty or propriety; controvertible; as, disputable opinions, propositions, points, or questions.	
disputableness		State of being disputable.	
disputacity	Obsolete	Proneness to dispute.	
disputant		Disputing; engaged in controversy.	
disputation		The act of disputing; a reasoning or argumentation in opposition to something, or on opposite sides; controversy in words; verbal contest respecting the truth of some fact, opinion, proposition, or argument.	Latin disputatio.
disputatious		Inclined to dispute; apt to civil or controvert; characterized by dispute; as, a disputatious person or temper.	
disputative		Disposed to dispute; inclined to cavil or to reason in opposition; as, a disputative temper.	Latin disputativus.
dispute		To contend in argument; to argue against something maintained, upheld, or claimed, by another; to discuss; to reason; to debate; to altercate; to wrangle.	Middle English disputen, from Old French desputer, from Latin disputare.
disputeless		Admitting no dispute; incontrovertible.	
disputer		One who disputes, or who is given to disputes; a controvertist.	
disputison	Obsolete	Dispute; discussion.	
disqualification		The act of disqualifying, or state of being disqualified; want of qualification; incompetency; disability; as, the disqualification of men for holding certain offices.	
disqualify		To deprive of the qualities or properties necessary for any purpose; to render unfit; to incapacitate; -- with for or from before the purpose, state, or act.	
disquantity	Obsolete	To diminish the quantity of; to lessen.	
disquiet		Deprived of quiet; impatient; restless; uneasy.	
disquietal	Obsolete	The act of disquieting; a state of disquiet. roars and strives 'gainst its disquietal.	
disquieter		One who, or that which, disquiets, or makes uneasy; a disturber.	
disquietful		Producing inquietude or uneasiness.	
disquietive		Tending to disquiet.	
disquietly		In a disquiet manner; uneasily; as, he rested disquietly that night.	
disquietment		State of being disquieted; uneasiness; harassment.	
disquietness		Disturbance of quiet in body or mind; restlessness; uneasiness.	
disquietous		Causing uneasiness.	
disquiettude		Want of peace or tranquility; uneasiness; disturbance; agitation; anxiety.	
disquisition		A formal or systematic inquiry into, or discussion of, any subject; a full examination or investigation of a matter, with the arguments and facts bearing upon it; elaborate essay; dissertation.	
disquisitional		Pertaining to disquisition; of the nature of disquisition.	
disquisitionary		Pertaining to disquisition; disquisitional.	
disquisitive		Relating to disquisition; fond discussion or investigation; examining; inquisitive.	
disquisitorial		Disquisitory.	
disquisitory		Of or pertaining to disquisition; disquisitive.	
disrange	Obsolete	To disarrange.	
disrank		To throw out of rank or into confusion.	
disrate		To reduce to a lower rating or rank; to degrade.	
disray	Obsolete	of Disarray — to throw into disorder; to break the array of.	
disrealize	Obsolete	To divest of reality; to make uncertain.	
disregard		Not to regard; to pay no heed to; to omit to take notice of; to neglect to observe; to slight as unworthy of regard or notice; as, to disregard the admonitions of conscience.	
disregarder		One who disregards.	
disregardful		Neglect; negligent; heedless; regardless.	
disregardfully		Negligently; heedlessly.	
disrelish		Want of relish; dislike (of the palate or of the mind); distaste; a slight degree of disgust; as, a disrelish for some kinds of food.	
disremember	Obsolete	To fail to remember; to forget.	
disrepair		A state of being in bad condition, and wanting repair.	
disreputability		The state of being disreputable.	
disreputable		Not reputable; of bad repute; not in esteem; dishonorable; disgracing the reputation; tending to bring into disesteem; as, it is disreputable to associate familiarly with the mean, the lewd, and the profane.	
disreputably		In a disreputable manner.	
disreputation		Loss or want of reputation or good name; dishonor; disrepute; disesteem.	
disrepute		Loss or want of reputation; ill character; disesteem; discredit.	
disrespect		Want of respect or reverence; disesteem; incivility; discourtesy.	
disrespectability		Want of respectability.	
disrespectable		Not respectable; disreputable.	
disrespecter		One who disrespects.	
disrespectful		Wanting in respect; manifesting disesteem or lack of respect; uncivil; as, disrespectful behavior. -- Dis`re*spect ful*ness, n.	
disrespective	Obsolete	Showing want of respect; disrespectful.	
disreverence	Obsolete	To treat irreverently or with disrespect.	
disrobe		To divest of a robe; to undress; figuratively, to strip of covering; to divest of that which clothes or decorates; as, autumn disrobes the fields of verdure.	Middle French desrober.
disrober		One who, or that which, disrobes.	
disroof		To unroof.	
disroot		To tear up the roots of, or by the roots; hence, to tear from a foundation; to uproot.	
disrout		To put to rout.	
disrudder		To deprive of the rudder, as a ship.	
disrulily	Obsolete	In a disorderly manner.	
disruly	Obsolete	Unruly; disorderly.	
disrupt		Rent off; torn asunder; severed; disrupted.	Latin disruptus.
disruption		The act or rending asunder, or the state of being rent asunder or broken in pieces; breach; rent; dilaceration; rupture; as, the disruption of rocks in an earthquake; disruption of a state.	Latin disruptionem.
disruptive		Causing, or tending to cause, disruption; caused by disruption; breaking through; bursting; as, the disruptive discharge of an electrical battery.	
disrupture		Disruption.	
dissatisfaction		The state of being dissatisfied, unsatisfied, or discontented; uneasiness proceeding from the want of gratification, or from disappointed wishes and expectations.	
dissatisfactory		Causing dissatisfaction; unable to give content; unsatisfactory; displeasing.	
dissatisfy		To render unsatisfied or discontented; to excite uneasiness in by frustrating wishes or expectations; to displease by the want of something requisite; as, to be dissatisfied with one's fortune.	
disseat		To unseat.	
dissect		(Anat.) To divide into separate parts; to cut in pieces; to separate and expose the parts of, as an animal or a plant, for examination and to show their structure and relations; to anatomize.	Latin dissecare.
dissected		Cut into several parts; divided into sections; as, a dissected map.	
dissectible		Capable of being dissected, or separated by dissection.	
dissecting		Dividing or separating the parts of an animal or vegetable body; as, a dissecting aneurism, one which makes its way between or within the coats of an artery.	
dissection		The act of dissecting an animal or plant; as, dissection of the human body was held sacrilege till the time of Francis I.	
dissector		One who dissects; an anatomist.	
disseize		To deprive of seizin or possession; to dispossess or oust wrongfully (one in freehold possession of land); -- followed by of; as, to disseize a tenant of his freehold.	
disseizee		A person disseized, or put out of possession of an estate unlawfully; -- correlative to disseizor.	
disseizin		The act of disseizing; an unlawful dispossessing and ouster of a person actually seized of the freehold.	Old French dessaisine.
disseizor		One who wrongfully disseizes, or puts another out of possession of a freehold.	
disseizoress		A woman disseizes.	
disseizure		Disseizin.	
dissemblance	Obsolete	Want of resemblance; dissimilitude.	
dissemble		To hide under a false semblance or seeming; to feign (something) not to be what it really is; to put an untrue appearance upon; to disguise; to mask.	Latin dissimulare.
dissembler		One who dissembles; one who conceals his opinions or dispositions under a false appearance; a hypocrite.	
dissembling		That dissembles; hypocritical; false. -- Dis*sem"bling*ly, adv.	
disseminate		To sow broadcast or as seed; to scatter for growth and propagation, like seed; to spread abroad; to diffuse; as, principles, ideas, opinions, and errors are disseminated when they are spread abroad for propagation.	
disseminated		Occurring in small portions scattered through some other substance.	
dissemination		The act of disseminating, or the state of being disseminated; diffusion for propagation and permanence; a scattering or spreading abroad, as of ideas, beliefs, etc. The universal dissemination of those writings.	Latin disseminatus.
disseminative		Tending to disseminate, or to become disseminated.	
disseminator		One who, or that which, disseminates, spreads, or propagates; as, disseminators of disease.	
dissension		Disagreement in opinion, usually of a violent character, producing warm debates or angry words; contention in words; partisan and contentious divisions; breach of friendship and union; strife; discord; quarrel.	
dissensious		Disposed to discord; contentious; dissentious.	
dissent		To differ in opinion; to be of unlike or contrary sentiment; to disagree; -- followed by from.	
dissentaneous		Disagreeing; contrary; differing; -- opposed to consentaneous.	Latin dissentaneus.
dissentany	Obsolete	Dissentaneous; inconsistent.	
dissentation	Obsolete	Dissension.	
dissenter		One who dissents; one who differs in opinion, or declares his disagreement.	
dissenterism		The spirit or principles of dissenters.	
dissentiate		To throw into a state of dissent.	
dissentient		Disagreeing; declaring dissent; dissenting. -- n.	
dissentious		Marked by dissensions; apt to breed discord; quarrelsome; contentious; factious. -- Dis*sen"tious*ly, adv.	
dissentive	Obsolete	Disagreeing; inconsistent.	
dissepiment		A separating tissue; a partition; a septum.	
dissert		To discourse or dispute; to discuss.	Latin dissertus.
dissertate		To deal in dissertation; to write dissertations; to discourse.	
dissertation		A formal or elaborate argumentative discourse, oral or written; a disquisition; an essay; a discussion; as, Dissertations on the Prophecies.	Latin dissertationem.
dissertational		Relating to dissertations; resembling a dissertation.	
dissertationist		A writer of dissertations.	
dissertator		One who writers a dissertation; one who discourses.	
dissertly	Obsolete	See Disertly.	
disserve		To fail to serve; to do injury or mischief to; to damage; to hurt; to harm.	
disservice		Injury; mischief.	
disserviceable		Calculated to do disservice or harm; not serviceable; injurious; harmful; unserviceable.	
dissettle	Obsolete	To unsettle.	
dissettlement		The act of unsettling, or the state of being unsettled.	
dissever		To part in two; to sever thoroughly; to sunder; to disunite; to separate; to disperse.	Anglo-Norman desevrer, from Latin dissepero.
disseverance		The act of disserving; separation.	
disseveration	Obsolete	The act of disserving; disseverance.	
disseverment		Disseverance.	
disshadow	Obsolete	To free from shadow or shade.	
dissheathe	Obsolete	To become unsheathed.	
disship	Obsolete	To dismiss from service on board ship.	
disshiver	Obsolete	To shiver or break in pieces.	
dissidence		Disagreement; dissent; separation from the established religion.	
dissident		No agreeing; dissenting; discordant; different.	Latin dissidens.
dissidently		In a dissident manner.	
dissilience		The act of leaping or starting asunder.	
dissiliency		The act of leaping or starting asunder.	
dissilient		Starting asunder; bursting and opening with an elastic force; dehiscing explosively; as, a dissilient pericarp.	
dissilition		The act of bursting or springing apart.	
dissimilar		Not similar; unlike; heterogeneous; as, the tempers of men are as dissimilar as their features.	
dissimilarity		Want of resemblance; unlikeness; dissimilitude; variety; as, the dissimilarity of human faces and forms.	
dissimilarly		In a dissimilar manner; in a varied style.	
dissimilate		To render dissimilar.	
dissimilation		The act of making dissimilar.	
dissimile		Comparison or illustration by contraries.	
dissimilitude		Want of resemblance; unlikeness; dissimilarity.	
dissimulate	Obsolete	Feigning; simulating; pretending.	
dissimulation		The act of dissembling; a hiding under a false appearance; concealment by feigning; false pretension; hypocrisy.	Latin dissimulatio.
dissimulator		One who dissimulates; a dissembler.	
dissimule	Obsolete	To dissemble.	French dissimuler.
dissimuler	Obsolete	A dissembler.	
dissimulour	Obsolete	A dissembler.	Old French dissimuleur.
dissipable		Capable of being scattered or dissipated.	Latin dissipabilis.
dissipate		To scatter completely; to disperse and cause to disappear; -- used esp. of the dispersion of things that can never again be collected or restored.	Latin dissipatus.
dissipated		Squandered; scattered.	
dissipation		The act of dissipating or dispersing; a state of dispersion or separation; dispersion; waste.	
dissipative		Tending to dissipate.	
dissipativity		The rate at which palpable energy is dissipated away into other forms of energy.	
dissite	Obsolete	Lying apart.	
disslander	Obsolete	To slander.	
disslanderous	Obsolete	Slanderous.	
dissociability		Want of sociability; unsociableness.	
dissociable		Not They came in two and two, though matched in the most dissociable manner.	
dissocial		Unfriendly to society; contracted; selfish; as, dissocial feelings.	
dissocialize		To render unsocial.	
dissociate		To separate from fellowship or union; to disunite; to disjoin; as, to dissociate the particles of a concrete substance.	
dissociation		The act of dissociating or disuniting; a state of separation; disunion.	
dissociative		Tending or leading to dissociation.	
dissolubility		The quality of being dissoluble; capacity of being dissoluble; capacity of being dissolved by heat or moisture, and converted into a fluid.	
dissoluble		Capable of being dissolved; having its parts separable by heat or moisture; convertible into a fluid.	Latin dissolubilis.
dissolubleness		The quality of being dissoluble; dissolubility.	
dissolute		Loosed from restraint; esp., loose in morals and conduct; recklessly abandoned to sensual pleasures; profligate; wanton; lewd; debauched. -- Uncurbed; unbridled; disorderly; unrestrained; reckless; wild; wanton; vicious; lax…	
dissolutely		In a dissolute manner.	
dissoluteness		State or quality of being dissolute; looseness of morals and manners; addictedness to sinful pleasures; debauchery; dissipation.	
dissolution		The act of dissolving, sundering, or separating into component parts; separation.	Latin dissolutio.
dissolvability		Capacity of being dissolved; solubility.	
dissolvable		Capable of being dissolved, or separated into component parts; capable of being liquefied; soluble. -- Dis*solv"a*ble*ness, n.	
dissolvative	Obsolete	Having the power to dissolve anything; solvent.	
dissolve		To separate into competent parts; to disorganize; to break up; hence, to bring to an end by separating the parts, sundering a relation, etc.; to terminate; to destroy; to deprive of force; as, to dissolve a partnership…	
dissolvent		Having power to dissolve power to dissolve a solid body; as, the dissolvent juices of the stomach.	
dissolver		One who, or that which, has power to dissolve or dissipate.	
dissolving		Melting; breaking up; vanishing. -- Dis*solv"ing*ly, adv.	
dissonance		A mingling of discordant sounds; an inharmonious combination of sounds; discord.	
dissonancy		Discord; dissonance.	
dissonant		Sounding harshly; discordant; unharmonious.	
disspirit		See Dispirit — to deprive of cheerful spirits; to depress the spirits of; to dishearten; to discourage.	
dissuade	Obsolescent	To advise or exhort against; to try to persuade (one from a course).	Latin dissuadeo.
dissuader		One who dissuades; a dehorter.	
dissuasion		The act of dissuading; exhortation against a thing; dehortation.	Middle English dissuasioun, from Middle French dissuasion.
dissuasive		Tending to dissuade or divert from a measure or purpose; dehortatory; as, dissuasive advice. -- n.	
dissuasory		A dissuasive.	
dissunder		To separate; to sunder; to destroy.	
dissweeten		To deprive of sweetness.	
dissyllabic		Consisting of two syllabas, a dissyllabic foot in poetry.	
dissyllabify		To form into two syllables.	
dissyllabize		To form into two syllables; to dyssyllabify.	
dissyllable		A word of two syllables; as, pa-per.	
dissymmetrical		Not having symmetry; asymmetrical; unsymmetrical.	
dissymmetry		Absence or defect of symmetry; asymmetry.	
dissympathy		Lack of sympathy; want of interest; indifference.	
distad		Toward a distal part; on the distal side of; distally.	
distaff		The staff for holding a bunch of flax, tow, or wool, from which the thread is drawn in spinning by hand.	Middle English distaf, from Old English distæf.
distain		To tinge with a different color from the natural or proper one; to stain; to discolor; to sully; to tarnish; to defile; -- used chiefly in poetry. hath … distained her honorable blood.	
distal		(a) Remote from the point of attachment or origin; as, the distal end of a bone or muscle; -- opposed to proximal.	
distally		Toward a distal part.	
distance		The space between two objects; the length of a line, especially the shortest line joining two points or things that are separate; measure of separation in place.	
distancy	Obsolete	Distance.	
distant		Separated; having an intervening space; at a distance; away.	
distantial	Obsolete	Distant.	
distantly		At a distance; remotely; with reserve.	
distaste		Aversion of the taste; dislike, as of food or drink; disrelish.	
distasteful		Unpleasant or disgusting to the taste; nauseous; loathsome.	
distasteive	Obsolete	Tending to excite distaste. -- n.	
distasture	Obsolete	Something which excites distaste or disgust.	
distemper		To derange the functions of, whether bodily, mental, or spiritual; to disorder; to disease.	
distemperance	Obsolete	Distemperature.	
distemperate	Obsolete	Diseased; disordered.	Latin distemperatus.
distemperature		Disorder; confusion.	
distemperment	Obsolete	Distempered state; distemperature.	
distend		To extend in some one direction; to lengthen out; to stretch.	
distensibility		The quality or capacity of being distensible.	
distensible		Capable of being distended or dilated.	
distension		Same as Distention.	
distensive		Distending, or capable of being distended.	
distent	Poetic	Distended.	
distention		The act of distending; the act of stretching in breadth or in all directions; the state of being Distended; as, the distention of the lungs.	
dister	Obsolete	To banish or drive from a country.	
disterminate	Obsolete	Separated by bounds.	
distermination	Obsolete	Separation by bounds.	Latin disterminatio.
disthene		Cyanite or kyanite; -- so called in allusion to its unequal hardness in two different directions.	
disthrone	Obsolete	To dethrone.	
disthronize	Obsolete	To dethrone.	
distich		A couple of verses or poetic lines making complete sense; an epigram of two verses.	Latin distichon, from Greek δίστιχον.
distichous		Disposed in two vertical rows; two-ranked.	
distichously		In a distichous manner.	
distil		See Distill — to flow gently, or in a small stream.	
distill		To flow gently, or in a small stream.	
distillable		Capable of being distilled; especially, capable of being distilled without chemical change or decomposition; as, alcohol is distillable; olive oil is not distillable.	
distillate		The product of distillation; as, the distillate from molasses.	
distillation		The act of falling in drops, or the act of pouring out in drops.	
distillatory		Belonging to, or used in, distilling; as, distillatory vessels. -- n.	
distiller		One who distills; esp., one who extracts alcoholic liquors by distillation.	
distillery		The building and works where distilling, esp. of alcoholic liquors, is carried on.	
distillment	Obsolete	Distillation; the substance obtained by distillation.	
distinct		Separate in place; not conjunct; not united by growth or otherwise; -- with from.	
distinction		The act of distinguishing or denoting the differences between objects, or the qualities by which one is known from others; exercise of discernment; discrimination.	
distinctive		Marking or expressing distinction or difference; distinguishing; characteristic; peculiar.	
distinctively		With distinction; plainly.	
distinctiveness		State of being distinctive.	
distinctly		With distinctness; not confusedly; without the blending of one part or thing another; clearly; plainly; as, to see distinctly.	
distinctness		The quality or state of being distinct; a separation or difference that prevents confusion of parts or things.	
distincture		Distinctness.	
distinguish		Not set apart from others by visible marks; to make distinctive or discernible by exhibiting differences; to mark off by some characteristic.	Middle English distingwen, from Old French distinguer, from Latin distinguere.
distinguishable		Capable of being distinguished; separable; divisible; discernible; capable of recognition; as, a tree at a distance is distinguishable from a shrub.	
distinguishableness		The quality of being distinguishable.	
distinguishably		So as to be distinguished.	
distinguished		Marked; special.	
distinguishedly		In a distinguished manner.	
distinguisher		One who, or that which, distinguishes or separates one thing from another by marks of diversity.	
distinguishing		Constituting difference, or distinction from everything else; distinctive; peculiar; characteristic.	
distinguishingly		With distinction; with some mark of preference.	
distinguishment		Observation of difference; distinction.	
distitle		To deprive of title or right.	
distoma		A genus of parasitic, trematode worms, having two suckers for attaching themselves to the part they infest.	
distort		To twist of natural or regular shape; to twist aside physically; as, to distort the limbs, or the body.	Latin distortum.
distorter		One who, or that which, distorts.	
distortion		The act of distorting, or twisting out of natural or regular shape; a twisting or writhing motion; as, the distortions of the face or body.	
distortive		Causing distortion.	
distract		To draw apart or away; to divide; to disjoin.	Latin distrahere.
distracted		Mentally disordered; unsettled; mad.	
distractedly		Disjointedly; madly.	
distractedness		A state of being distracted; distraction.	
distracter		One who, or that which, distracts away.	
distractful		Distracting.	
distractible		Capable of being drawn aside or distracted.	
distractile		Tending or serving to draw apart.	
distracting		Tending or serving to distract.	
distraction		The act of distracting; a drawing apart; separation.	
distractious	Obsolete	Distractive.	
distractive		Causing perplexity; distracting.	
distrain		(Law) (a) To seize, as a pledge or indemnification; to take possession of as security for nonpayment of rent, the reparation of an injury done, etc.; to take by distress; as, to distrain goods for rent, or of an amercement.	Old French destraindre, from Latin destringo.
distrainable		Capable of being, or liable to be, distrained.	
distrainer		Same as Distrainor.	
distrainor		One who distrains; the party distraining goods or chattels.	
distraint		The act or proceeding of seizing personal property by distress.	
distrait		Absent-minded; lost in thought; abstracted.	French distrait.
distraught		Distracted; perplexed.	
distraughted	Obsolete	Distracted.	
distream	Poetic	To flow.	
distress		Extreme pain or suffering; anguish of body or mind; as, to suffer distress from the gout, or from the loss of friends.	
distressedness		A state of being distressed or greatly pained.	
distressful		Full of distress; causing, indicating, or attended with, distress; as, a distressful situation. -- Dis*tress"ful*ly, adv.	
distressing		Causing distress; painful; unpleasant.	
distributable		Capable of being distributed.	
distributary		Tending to distribute or be distributed; that distributes; distributive.	
distribute		To divide among several or many; to deal out; to apportion; to allot.	Latin distributus.
distributer		One who, or that which, distributes or deals out anything; a dispenser.	
distributing		That distributes; dealing out.	
distribution		The act of distributing or dispensing; the act of dividing or apportioning among several or many; apportionment; as, the distribution of an estate among heirs or children.	Latin distributio.
distributional		Of or pertaining to distribution.	
distributionist		A distributer.	
distributive		Tending to distribute; serving to divide and assign in portions; dealing to each his proper share.	
distributively		By distribution; singly; not collectively; in a distributive manner.	
distributiveness		Quality of being distributive.	
distributor		(a) A machine for distributing type. (b) An appliance, as a roller, in a printing press, for distributing ink.	
district		(Feudal Law) The territory within which the lord has the power of coercing and punishing.	French district, from Latin districtus.
distriction		Sudden display; flash; glitter.	
districtly	Obsolete	Strictly.	
distringas		A writ commanding the sheriff to distrain a person by his goods or chattels, to compel a compliance with something required of him.	
distrouble	Obsolete	To trouble.	
distrust		To feel absence of trust in; not to confide in or rely upon; to deem of questionable sufficiency or reality; to doubt; to be suspicious of; to mistrust.	
distruster		One who distrusts.	
distrustful		Not confident; diffident; wanting confidence or thrust; modest; as, distrustful of ourselves, of one's powers.	
distrusting		That distrusts; suspicious; lacking confidence in. -- Dis*trust"ing*ly, adv.	
distrustless		Free from distrust.	
distune	Obsolete	To put out of tune.	
disturb		To throw into disorder or confusion; to derange; to interrupt the settled state of; to excite from a state of rest.	Latin disturbare.
disturbance		An interruption of a state of peace or quiet; derangement of the regular course of things; disquiet; disorder; as, a disturbance of religious exercises; a disturbance of the galvanic current.	
disturbation	Obsolete	Act of disturbing; disturbance.	Latin disturbatio.
disturber		One who, or that which, disturbs of disquiets; a violator of peace; a troubler.	
disturn	Obsolete	To turn aside.	Old French destourner.
distyle		Having two columns in front; -- said of a temple, portico, or the like.	
disulphate		(a) A salt of disulphuric or pyrosulphuric acid; a pyrosulphate. (b) An acid salt of sulphuric acid, having only one equivalent of base to two of the acid.	
disulphide		A binary compound of sulphur containing two atoms of sulphur in each molecule; -- formerly called disulphuret.	
disulphuret		See Disulphide — a binary compound of sulphur containing two atoms of sulphur in each molecule; -- formerly called disulphuret.	
disulphuric		Applied to an acid having in each molecule two atoms of sulphur in the higher state of oxidation.	
disuniform	Obsolete	Not uniform.	
disunion		The termination of union; separation; disjunction; as, the disunion of the body and the soul.	
disunionist		An advocate of disunion, specifically, of disunion of the United States.	
disunite		To destroy the union of; to divide; to part; to sever; to disjoin; to sunder; to separate; as, to disunite particles of matter.	
disuniter		One who, or that which, disjoins or causes disunion.	
disunity		A state of separation or disunion; want of unity.	Esperanto unueco.
disusage		Gradual cessation of use or custom; neglect of use; disuse.	
disuse		To cease to use; to discontinue the practice of.	
disutilize		To deprive of utility; to render useless.	
disvaluation		Disesteem; depreciation; disrepute.	
disvalue		To undervalue; to depreciate.	
disvantageous	Obsolete	Disadvantageous.	
disvelop	Obsolete	To develop.	
disventure	Obsolete	A disadventure.	
disvouch	Obsolete	To discredit; to contradict.	
diswarn	Obsolete	To dissuade from by previous warning.	
diswitted	Obsolete	Deprived of wits or understanding; distracted.	
diswont		To deprive of wonted usage; to disaccustom.	
disworkmanship	Obsolete	Bad workmanship.	
disworship	Obsolete	To refuse to worship; to treat as unworthy.	
disworth	Obsolete	To deprive of worth; to degrade.	
disyoke	Poetic	To unyoke; to free from a yoke; to disjoin.	
dit	Obsolete	A word; a decree.	
ditation	Obsolete	The act of making rich; enrichment.	
ditch		A trench made in the earth by digging, particularly a trench for draining wet land, for guarding or fencing inclosures, or for preventing an approach to a town or fortress.	Middle English dich.
ditcher		One who digs ditches.	
dite	Obsolete	To prepare for action or use; to make ready; to dight.	
diterebene		See Colophene — a colorless, oily liquid, formerly obtained by distillation of colophony.	
dithecal		Having two thecæ, cells, or compartments.	
dithecous		Having two thecæ, cells, or compartments.	
ditheism		The doctrine of those who maintain the existence of two gods or of two original principles (as in Manicheism), one good and one evil; dualism.	
ditheist		One who holds the doctrine of ditheism; a dualist.	
ditheistic		Pertaining to ditheism; dualistic.	
ditheistical		Pertaining to ditheism; dualistic.	
dithionic		Containing two equivalents of sulphur; as, dithionic acid.	
dithyramb		A kind of lyric poetry in honor of Bacchus, usually sung by a band of revelers to a flute accompaniment; hence, in general, a poem written in a wild irregular strain.	
dithyrambic		Pertaining to, or resembling, a dithyramb; wild and boisterous. -- n.	
dithyrambus		See Dithyramb — a kind of lyric poetry in honor of Bacchus, usually sung by a band of revelers to a flute accompaniment; hence, in general, a poem written in a wild irregular strain.	
dition	Obsolete	Dominion; rule.	Latin ditio.
ditionary	Obsolete	Under rule; subject; tributary.	
ditokous		(a) Having two kinds of young, as certain annelids. (b) Producing only two eggs for a clutch, as certain birds do.	
ditolyl		A white, crystalline, aromatic hydrocarbon, C14H14, consisting of two radicals or residues of toluene.	
ditone		The Greek major third, which comprehend two major tones (the modern major third contains one major and one minor whole tone).	
ditrichotomous		Divided into twos or threes.	
ditrochean		Containing two trochees.	
ditrochee		A double trochee; a foot made up of two trochees.	Latin ditrochaeus.
ditroite		An igneous rock composed of orthoclase, elæolite, and sodalite.	
ditt		See Dit, n.,	
dittander		A kind of peppergrass (Lepidium latifolium).	
dittany		(a) A plant of the Mint family (Origanum Dictamnus), a native of Crete.	Old French ditan, from Latin dictamnum, from Greek δίκταμνον.
dittied		Set, sung, or composed as a ditty; -- usually in composition.	
ditto		The aforesaid thing; the same (as before).	
dittology		A double reading, or twofold interpretation, as of a Scripture text.	
ditty		A saying or utterance; especially, one that is short and frequently repeated; a theme.	
ditty-bag		A sailor's small bag to hold thread, needles, tape, etc.; -- also called sailor's housewife.	
ditty-box		A small box to hold a sailor's thread, needless, comb, etc.	
diureide		One of a series of complex nitrogenous substances regarded as containing two molecules of urea or their radicals, as uric acid or allantoin.	
diuresis		Free excretion of urine.	
diuretic		Tending to increase the secretion and discharge of urine. -- n.	
diuretical	Obsolete	Diuretic.	
diureticalness		The quality of being diuretical; diuretic property.	
diurna		A division of Lepidoptera, including the butterflies; -- so called because they fly only in the daytime.	
diurnal		Relating to the daytime; belonging to the period of daylight, distinguished from the night; -- opposed to Ant: nocturnal; as, diurnal heat; diurnal hours.	Latin diurnalis.
diurnalist	Obsolete	A journalist.	
diurnally		Daily; every day.	
diurnalness		The quality of being diurnal.	
diurnation		(Zoöl.) The condition of sleeping or becoming dormant by day, as is the case of the bats.	
diuturnal		Of long continuance; lasting.	
diuturnity		Long duration; lastingness.	Latin diuturnitatem.
diva		A prima donna.	
divagation		A wandering about or going astray; digression.	
divalent		Having two units of combining power; bivalent.	
divan		A book; esp., a collection of poems written by one author; as, the divan of Hafiz.	
divaricate		To part into two branches; to become bifid; to fork.	
divaricately		With divarication.	
divarication		A separation into two parts or branches; a forking; a divergence.	
divaricator		One of the muscles which open the shell of brachiopods; a cardinal muscle.	
divast	Obsolete	Devastated; laid waste.	
dive		To plunge into water head foremost; to thrust the body under, or deeply into, water or other fluid.	Middle English diven.
divedapper		A water fowl; the didapper. See Dabchick.	
divel	Obsolete	To rend apart.	
divellent		Drawing asunder.	
divellicate	Obsolete	To pull in pieces.	Latin divello.
diver		One who, or that which, dives.	
diverb	Obsolete	A saying in which two members of the sentence are contrasted; an antithetical proverb.	
diverberate		To strike or sound through.	
diverberation		A sounding through.	
diverge		To extend from a common point in different directions; to tend from one point and recede from each other; to tend to spread apart; to turn aside or deviate (as from a given direction); -- opposed to converge; as…	Latin divergo.
divergement		Divergence.	
divergence		A receding from each other in moving from a common center; the state of being divergent; as, an angle is made by the divergence of straight lines.	
divergency		A receding from each other in moving from a common center; the state of being divergent; as, an angle is made by the divergence of straight lines.	
divergent		Receding farther and farther from each other, as lines radiating from one point; deviating gradually from a given direction; -- opposed to convergent.	
diverging		Tending in different directions from a common center; spreading apart; divergent.	
divergingly		In a diverging manner.	
divers		Several; sundry; various; more than one, but not a great number; as, divers philosophers.	
diverse		Different; unlike; dissimilar; distinct; separate.	Latin diversus.
diversely		In different ways; differently; variously.	
diverseness		The quality of being diverse.	
diversifiability		The quality or capacity of being diversifiable.	
diversifiable		Capable of being diversified or varied.	
diversification		The act of making various, or of changing form or quality.	Latin diversificatio.
diversified		Distinguished by various forms, or by a variety of aspects or objects; variegated; as, diversified scenery or landscape.	
diversifier		One who, or that which, diversifies.	
diversiform		Of a different form; of varied forms.	
diversify		To make diverse or various in form or quality; to give variety to; to variegate; to distinguish by numerous differences or aspects.	
diversiloquent		Speaking in different ways.	
diversion		The act of turning aside from any course, occupation, or object; as, the diversion of a stream from its channel; diversion of the mind from business.	French diversion, from Latin diversio.
diversity		A state of difference; dissimilitude; unlikeness.	
diversivolent	Obsolete	Desiring different things.	
diversory	Obsolete	Serving or tending to divert; also, distinguishing.	Latin diversorium.
divert		To turn aside; to turn off from any course or intended application; to deflect; as, to divert a river from its channel; to divert commerce from its usual course.	Middle English diverten, from Old French divertir.
diverter		One who, or that which, diverts, turns off, or pleases.	
divertible		Capable of being diverted.	
diverticle	Obsolete	A turning; a byway; a bypath.	Latin diverticulum.
diverticular		Pertaining to a diverticulum.	
diverticulum		A blind tube branching out of a longer one.	Latin diverticulum.
divertimento		) A light and pleasing composition.	
diverting		Amusing; entertaining. -- Di*vert ing*ness, n.	
divertise	Obsolete	To divert; to entertain.	French divertir.
divertisement		Diversion; amusement; recreation.	
divertissement		A short ballet, or other entertainment, between the acts of a play.	
divertive		Tending to divert; diverting; amusing; interesting.	
dives		The name popularly given to the rich man in our Lord's parable of the (Luke xvi. 19-31).	
divest		To unclothe; to strip, as of clothes, arms, or equipage; -- opposed to invest.	
divestible		Capable of being divested.	
divestiture		The act of stripping, or depriving; the state of being divested; the deprivation, or surrender, of possession of property, rights, etc.	
divestment		The act of divesting.	
divesture	Obsolete	Divestiture.	
divet		See Divot — a thin, oblong turf used for covering cottages, and also for fuel.	
divi-divi		A small tree of tropical America (Cæsalpinia coriaria), whose legumes contain a large proportion of tannic and gallic acid, and are used by tanners and dyers.	
dividable		Capable of being divided; divisible.	
dividant	Obsolete	Different; distinct.	
divide		To part asunder (a whole); to sever into two or more parts or pieces; to sunder; to separate into parts.	Latin divido.
divided		Parted; disunited; distributed.	
dividedly		Separately; in a divided manner.	
dividend		A sum of money to be divided and distributed; the share of a sum divided that falls to each individual; a distribute sum, share, or percentage; -- applied to the profits as appropriated among shareholders…	Middle French dividende, from Latin dividendum.
divident	Obsolete	Dividend; share.	
divider		One who, or that which, divides; that which separates anything into parts.	
dividing		That divides; separating; marking divisions; graduating.	
dividingly		By division.	
dividual		Divided, shared, or participated in, in common with others.	Latin dividuus.
dividually		By dividing.	
dividuous		Divided; dividual.	
divination		The act of divining; a foreseeing or foretelling of future events; the pretended art discovering secret or future by preternatural means.	
divinator		One who practices or pretends to divination; a diviner.	
divinatory		Professing, or relating to, divination.	
divine		Of or belonging to God; as, divine perfections; the divine will.	Middle French deviner, from Latin divino.
divinely		In a divine or godlike manner; holily; admirably or excellently in a supreme degree.	
divinement	Obsolete	Divination.	
divineness		The quality of being divine; superhuman or supreme excellence.	
diviner		One who professes divination; one who pretends to predict events, or to reveal occult things, by supernatural means.	
divineress		A woman who divines.	
diving		That dives or is used or diving.	
divinify	Obsolete	To render divine; to deify.	
divining		That divines; for divining.	
diviningly		In a divining manner.	
divinistre	Obsolete	A diviner.	
divinity		The state of being divine; the nature or essence of God; deity; godhead.	Latin divinitas.
divinization		A making divine.	
divinize		To invest with a divine character; to deify.	
divisibility		The quality of being divisible; the property of bodies by which their parts are capable of separation.	
divisible		Capable of being divided or separated.	Latin divisibilis.
division		The act or process of diving anything into parts, or the state of being so divided; separation.	Latin divisio.
divisional		That divides; pas, a divisional line; a divisional general; a divisional surgeon of police.	
divisionally		So as to be divisional.	
divisionary		Divisional.	
divisionor	Obsolete	One who divides or makes division.	
divisive		Indicating division or distribution.	
divisor		The number by which the dividend is divided.	
divorce		(Law) (a) A legal dissolution of the marriage contract by a court or other body having competent authority.	Old French divorce, from Latin divortium.
divorceable		Capable of being divorced.	
divorcee		A person divorced.	
divorceless		Incapable of being divorced or separated; free from divorce.	
divorcement		Dissolution of the marriage tie; divorce; separation.	
divorcer		The person or cause that produces or effects a divorce.	
divorcible		Divorceable.	
divorcive		Having power to divorce; tending to divorce.	
divot	Scots	A thin, oblong turf used for covering cottages, and also for fuel.	
divulgate	Obsolete	Published.	
divulgater		A divulger.	
divulgation		The act of divulging or publishing.	Latin divulgatio.
divulge		To make public; to several or communicate to the public; to tell (a secret) so that it may become generally known; to disclose; -- said of that which had been confided as a secret, or had been before unknown; as…	Latin divulgare.
divulsive		Tending to pull asunder, tear, or rend; distracting.	
dixie		A colloquial name for the Southern portion of the United States, esp. during the Civil War.	
dizen		To dress gaudily; to overdress; to bedizen; to deck out.	
dizz	Obsolete	To make dizzy; to astonish; to puzzle.	
dizzard	Obsolete	A blockhead. -- Diz"zard*ly, adv.	
dizzily		In a dizzy manner or state.	
dizziness		Giddiness; a whirling sensation in the head; vertigo.	
dizzy		Having in the head a sensation of whirling, with a tendency to fall; vertiginous; giddy; hence, confused; indistinct.	Old English dysig.
