do		A syllable attached to the first tone of the major diatonic scale for the purpose of solmization, or solfeggio.	Middle English don, from Old English don.
do-all		General manager; factotum.	
do-little	Colloquial	One who performs little though professing much.	
do-naught		A lazy, good-for-nothing fellow.	
do-nothing		Doing nothing; inactive; idle; lazy; as, a do-nothing policy.	
do-nothingism		Inactivity; habitual sloth; idleness.	
do-nothingness		Inactivity; habitual sloth; idleness.	
doab		A tongue or tract of land included between two rivers; as, the doab between the Ganges and the Jumna.	
doable		Capable of being done.	
doat		See Dote — to be weak-minded, silly, or idiotic; to have the intellect impaired, especially by age, so that the mind wanders or wavers; to drivel.	
dobber	Dialect	A float to a fishing line.	
dobbin		An old jaded horse.	
dobby		An apparatus resembling a Jacquard for weaving small figures (usually about 12 - 16 threads, seldom more than 36 - 40 threads).	
dobchick		See Dabchick — a small water bird (Podilymbus podiceps), allied to the grebes, remarkable for its quickness in diving; -- called also dapchick, dobchick, dipchick, didapper, dobber, devil-diver…	
dobson		The aquatic larva of a large neuropterous insect (Corydalus cornutus), used as bait in angling.	
dobule		The European dace.	
docent	Obsolete	Serving to instruct; teaching.	Latin docentem.
docetae		Ancient heretics who held that Christ's body was merely a phantom or appearance.	
docetic		Pertaining to, held by, or like, the Docetæ.	Latin Docetae.
docetism		The doctrine of the Docetæ.	Latin Docetae.
dochmiac		Pertaining to, or containing, the dochmius.	
dochmius		A foot of five syllables (usually	
docibility		Aptness for being taught; teachableness; docility.	
docible		Easily taught or managed; teachable.	Latin docibilis.
docibleness		Aptness for being taught; teachableness; docility.	
docile		Disposed to be taught; tractable; easily managed; as, a docile child.	Latin docilis.
docility		Willingness to be taught; tractableness.	
docimacy		The art or practice of applying tests to ascertain the nature, quality, etc., of objects, as of metals or ores, of medicines, or of facts pertaining to physiology.	
docimastic		Proving by experiments or tests.	
docimology		A treatise on the art of testing, as in assaying metals, etc.	
docity	English dialect	Teachableness.	
dock		A genus of plants (Rumex), some species of which are well-known weeds which have a long taproot and are difficult of extermination.	Middle English dokke, from Old English docce.
dock-cress		Nipplewort.	
dockage		A charge for the use of a dock.	
docket		A small piece of paper or parchment, containing the heads of a writing; a summary or digest.	
dockyard		A yard or storage place for all sorts of naval stores and timber for shipbuilding.	
docoglossa		An order of gastropods, including the true limpets, and having the teeth on the odontophore or lingual ribbon.	
docquet		See Docket — a small piece of paper or parchment, containing the heads of a writing; a summary or digest.	
doctor		An academical title, originally meaning a men so well versed in his department as to be qualified to teach it.	Middle English doctor.
doctoral		Of or relating to a doctor, or to the degree of doctor.	
doctorally		In the manner of a doctor.	
doctorate		The degree, title, or rank, of a doctor.	
doctoress		A female doctor.	
doctorly	Obsolete	Like a doctor or learned man.	
doctorship		Doctorate.	
doctress		A female doctor.	
doctrinable	Obsolete	Of the nature of, or constituting, doctrine.	
doctrinaire		One who would apply to political or other practical concerns the abstract doctrines or the theories of his own philosophical system; a propounder of a new set of opinions; a dogmatic theorist.	
doctrinal		Pertaining to, or containing, doctrine or something taught and to be believed; as, a doctrinal observation.	French doctrinal.
doctrinally		In a doctrinal manner or for; by way of teaching or positive direction.	
doctrinarian		A doctrinaire.	
doctrinarianism		The principles or practices of the Doctrinaires.	
doctrine		Teaching; instruction.	
document		An original or official paper relied upon as the basis, proof, or support of anything else; -- in its most extended sense, including any writing, book, or other instrument conveying information in the case…	Middle French document.
documental		Of or pertaining to written evidence; documentary; as, documental testimony.	
documentary		Pertaining to written evidence; contained or certified in writing.	
dod		To cut off, as wool from sheep's tails; to lop or clip off.	Scots daud.
dodd		To cut off, as wool from sheep's tails; to lop or clip off.	
doddart	Dialect	A game much like hockey, played in an open field; also, the, bent stick for playing the game.	
dodded		Without horns; as, dodded cattle; without beards; as, dodded corn.	
dodder		A plant of the genus Cuscuta.	Middle English daderen.
doddered		Shattered; infirm.	
dodecagon		A figure or polygon bounded by twelve sides and containing twelve angles.	
dodecagynia		A Linnæan order of plants having twelve styles.	
dodecagynian		Of or pertaining to the Dodecagynia; having twelve styles.	
dodecagynous		Of or pertaining to the Dodecagynia; having twelve styles.	
dodecahedral		Pertaining to, or like, a dodecahedion; consisting of twelve equal sides.	
dodecahedron		A solid having twelve faces.	Greek δωδεκάεδρον.
dodecandria		A Linnæan class of plants including all that have any number of stamens between twelve and nineteen.	
dodecandrian		Of or pertaining to the Dodecandria; having twelve stamens, or from twelve to nineteen.	
dodecandrous		Of or pertaining to the Dodecandria; having twelve stamens, or from twelve to nineteen.	
dodecane		Any one of a group of thick oily hydrocarbons, C12H26, of the paraffin series.	
dodecastyle		Having twelve columns in front. -- n.	
dodecasyllabic		Having twelve syllables.	
dodecasyllable		A word consisting of twelve syllables.	
dodecatemory		A tern applied to the twelve houses, or parts, of the zodiac of the primum mobile, to distinguish them from the twelve signs; also, any one of the twelve signs of the zodiac.	Greek δωδεκατημόριον.
dodge		To start suddenly aside, as to avoid a blow or a missile; to shift place by a sudden start.	
dodger		One who dodges or evades; one who plays fast and loose, or uses tricky devices.	
dodgery	Obsolete	trickery; artifice.	
dodipate		A stupid person; a fool; a blockhead.	
dodipoll		A stupid person; a fool; a blockhead.	
dodkin		A doit; a small coin.	
dodman	English dialect	(Zoöl.) Any shellfish which casts its shell, as a lobster.	
dodo		A large, extinct bird (Didus ineptus), formerly inhabiting the Island of Mauritius.	Portuguese doudo.
doe	Obsolete	A female deer or antelope; specifically, the female of the fallow deer, of which the male is called a buck.	Middle English do, from Old English da.
doeglic		Pertaining to, or obtained from, the doegling; as, doeglic acid (Chem.), an oily substance resembling oleic acid.	
doegling		The beaked whale (Balænoptera rostrata), from which doegling oil is obtained.	
doer		One who does; one performs or executes; one who is wont and ready to act; an actor; an agent.	
does		The 3d pers. sing. pres. of Do.	
doeskin		The skin of the doe.	
doff		To put off, as dress; to divest one's self of; hence, figuratively, to put or thrust away; to rid one's self of.	Middle English doffe.
doffer		A revolving cylinder, or a vibrating bar with teeth, in a carding machine, which doffs, or strips off, the cotton from the cards.	
dog		(Zoöl.) A quadruped of the genus Canis, esp. the domestic dog (C. familiaris).	Middle English dogge, from Old English docga.
dog-brier		The dog-rose.	
dog-eared		Having the corners of the leaves turned down and soiled by careless or long-continued usage; -- said of a book.	
dog-faced		Having a face resembling that of a dog.	
dog-fox		(a) A male fox. See the Note under Dog, n., 6.	
dog-headed		Having a head shaped like that of a dog; -- said of certain baboons.	
dog-hearted		Inhuman; cruel.	
dog-legged		Noting a flight of stairs, consisting of two or more straight portions connected by a platform (landing) or platforms, and running in opposite directions without an intervening wellhole.	
dog-rose		A common European wild rose, with single pink or white flowers.	
dog-weary		Extremely weary.	
dogal		Of or pertaining to a doge.	
dogate		The office or dignity of a doge.	
dogbane		A small genus of perennial herbaceous plants, with poisonous milky juice, bearing slender pods pods in pairs.	
dogberry		The berry of the dogwood; -- called also dogcherry.	
dogbolt		The bolt of the cap-square over the trunnion of a cannon.	
dogcart		A light one-horse carriage, commonly two-wheeled, patterned after a cart.	
dogday		One of the dog days.	
dogdraw		The act of drawing after, or pursuing, deer with a dog.	
doge		The chief magistrate in the republics of Venice and Genoa.	
dogeless		Without a doge.	
dogfish		A small shark, of many species, of the genera Mustelus, Scyllium, Spinax, etc.	
dogged		Sullenly obstinate; obstinately determined or persistent; as, dogged resolution; dogged work.	
doggedly		In a dogged manner; sullenly; with obstinate resolution.	
doggedness		Sullenness; moroseness.	
dogger		A two-masted fishing vessel, used by the Dutch.	
doggerel		Low in style, and irregular in measure; as, doggerel rhymes.	
doggerman		A sailor belonging to a dogger.	
dogget	Obsolete	Docket. See Docket.	
doggish		Like a dog; having the bad qualities of a dog; churlish; growling; brutal. -- Dog gish*ness, n.	
doggrel		Same as Doggerel.	
doghole		A place fit only for dogs; a vile, mean habitation or apartment.	
dogma		That which is held as an opinion; a tenet; a doctrine.	Latin dogma, from Greek δόγμα.
dogmatic		One of an ancient sect of physicians who went by general principles; -- opposed to the Empiric.	French dogmatique, from Latin dogmaticus, from Greek δογματικός.
dogmatical		Pertaining to a dogma, or to an established and authorized doctrine or tenet.	
dogmatically		In a dogmatic manner; positively; magisterially.	
dogmaticalness		The quality of being dogmatical; positiveness.	
dogmatician		A dogmatist.	
dogmatics		The science which treats of Christian doctrinal theology.	
dogmatism		The manner or character of a dogmatist; arrogance or positiveness in stating opinion.	
dogmatist		One who dogmatizes; one who speaks dogmatically; a bold and arrogant advancer of principles.	
dogmatize		To assert positively; to teach magisterially or with bold and undue confidence; to advance with arrogance.	
dogmatizer		One who dogmatizes; a bold asserter; a magisterial teacher.	
dogship		The character, or individuality, of a dog.	
dogshore		One of several shores used to hold a ship firmly and prevent her moving while the blocks are knocked away before launching.	
dogsick	Colloquial	Sick as a dog sometimes is very sick.	
dogskin		The skin of a dog, or leather made of the skin.	
dogsleep		Pretended sleep.	
dogtie		A cramp.	
dogtooth		See Canine tooth, under Canine.	
dogtrick		A gentle trot, like that of a dog.	
dogvane		A small vane of bunting, feathers, or any other light material, carried at the masthead to indicate the direction of the wind.	
dogwatch		A half watch; a watch of two hours, of which there are two, the first dogwatch from 4 to 6 o'clock, p.m., and the second dogwatch from 6 to 8 o'clock, P.	
dogwood		The Cornus, a genus of large shrubs or small trees, the wood of which is exceedingly hard, and serviceable for many purposes.	
dohtren	Obsolete	Daughters.	
doily		A small napkin, used at table with the fruit, etc.; -- commonly colored and fringed.	
doing		Anything done; a deed; an action good or bad; hence, in the plural, conduct; behavior.	
doit		A small Dutch coin, worth about half a farthing; also, a similar small coin once used in Scotland; hence, any small piece of money.	Middle Low German doyt.
doitkin		A very small coin; a doit.	
dokimastic		Docimastic.	
doko		See Lepidosiren — an eel-shaped ganoid fish of the order Dipnoi, having both gills and lungs.	
dolabra		A rude ancient ax or hatchet, seen in museums.	
dolabriform		Shaped like the head of an ax or hatchet, as some leaves, and also certain organs of some shellfish.	Latin dolabra.
dolce		Softly; sweetly; with soft, smooth, and delicate execution.	
dolcemente		Softly; sweetly; with soft, smooth, and delicate execution.	
dolcino		A small bassoon, formerly much used.	
doldrums		A part of the ocean near the equator, abounding in calms, squalls, and light, baffling winds, which sometimes prevent all progress for weeks; -- so called by sailors.	
dole		Distribution; dealing; apportionment.	Middle English dol, from Old English dal.
doleful		Full of dole or grief; expressing or exciting sorrow; sorrowful; sad; dismal.	
dolent	Obsolete	Sorrowful.	Old French dolent, from Latin dolentem.
dolente		Plaintively. See Doloroso.	
dolerite		A dark-colored, basic, igneous rock, composed essentially of pyroxene and a triclinic feldspar with magnetic iron.	
doleritic		Of the nature of dolerite; as, much lava is doleritic lava.	
dolesome		Doleful; dismal; gloomy; sorrowful. -- Dole some*ness, n.	
dolf	Obsolete	of Delve — to dig; to open (the ground) as with a spade.	
dolichocephalic		Having the cranium, or skull, long to its breadth; long-headed; -- opposed to brachycephalic. -- Dol`i*cho*ceph"al, a. & n.	
dolichocephalism		The quality or condition of being dolichocephalic.	
dolichocephalous		Having the cranium, or skull, long to its breadth; long-headed; -- opposed to brachycephalic. -- Dol`i*cho*ceph"al, a. & n.	
dolichocephaly		The quality or condition of being dolichocephalic.	
dolioform		Barrel-shaped, or like a cask in form.	
doliolum		A genus of freeswimming oceanic tunicates, allied to Salpa, and having alternate generations.	
dolium		A genus of large univalve mollusks, including the partridge shell and tun shells.	Latin dolium.
doll		A child's puppet; a toy baby for a little girl.	
dollar		(a) A silver coin of the United States containing 371.25 grains of silver and 41.25 grains of alloy, that is, having a total weight of 412.5 grains.	Dutch daler, from German Taler.
dollardee		A species of sunfish (Lepomis pallidus), common in the United States; -- called also blue sunfish, and copper-nosed bream.	
dollman		See Dolman — a long robe or outer garment, with long sleeves, worn by the Turks.	
dolly		(Mining) A contrivance, turning on a vertical axis by a handle or winch, and giving a circular motion to the ore to be washed; a stirrer.	
dolman		A long robe or outer garment, with long sleeves, worn by the Turks.	
dolmen		A cromlech. See Cromlech.	
dolomite		A mineral consisting of the carbonate of lime and magnesia in varying proportions.	French dolomite.
dolomitic		Pertaining to dolomite.	
dolomize		To convert into dolomite. -- Dol`o*mi*za"tion, n.	
dolor	Poetic	Pain; grief; distress; anguish.	Anglo-Norman dolour.
doloriferous		Producing pain.	
dolorific		Causing pain or grief.	
dolorifical		Causing pain or grief.	
doloroso		Plaintive; pathetic; -- used adverbially as a musical direction.	
dolorous		Full of grief; sad; sorrowful; doleful; dismal; as, a dolorous object; dolorous discourses.	Old French dolerous, from Latin dolorosus.
dolphin		(Zool.) (a) A cetacean of the genus Delphinus and allied genera (esp. D. delphis); the true dolphin.	Middle English dolfin, from French daulphin.
dolphinet		A female dolphin.	
dolt	Obsolete	A heavy, stupid fellow; a blockhead; a numskull; an ignoramus; a dunce; a dullard.	
doltish		Doltlike; dull in intellect; stupid; blockish; as, a doltish clown. -- Dolt ish*ness, n.	
dolus		Evil intent, embracing both malice and fraud. See Culpa.	
dolven	Obsolete	of Delve — to dig; to open (the ground) as with a spade.	
dom		A title anciently given to the pope, and later to other church dignitaries and some monastic orders.	
domable		Capable of being tamed; tamable.	Latin domabilis.
domableness		Tamableness.	
domage	Obsolete	Damage; hurt.	
domain		Dominion; empire; authority.	Middle English demeine.
domal		Pertaining to a house.	
domanial		Of or relating to a domain or to domains.	
dome		A building; a house; an edifice; -- used chiefly in poetry.	Latin doma.
domebook		A book said to have been compiled under the direction of King Alfred.	
domed		Furnished with a dome; shaped like a dome.	
domesday	Obsolete	A day of judgment. See Doomsday.	
domesman	Obsolete	A judge; an umpire.	
domestic		Of or pertaining to one's house or home, or one's household or family; relating to home life; as, domestic concerns, life, duties, cares, happiness, worship, servants.	Latin domesticus.
domestical	Obsolete	Domestic.	
domestically		In a domestic manner; privately; with reference to domestic affairs.	
domesticant	Obsolete	Forming part of the same family.	
domesticate		To make domestic; to habituate to home life; as, to domesticate one's self.	
domestication		The act of domesticating, or accustoming to home; the action of taming wild animals.	
domesticator		One who domesticates.	
domesticity		The state of being domestic; domestic character; household life.	
domett		A kind of baize of which the ward is cotton and the weft woolen.	
domeykite		A massive mineral of tin-white or steel-gray color, an arsenide of copper.	
domical		Relating to, or shaped like, a dome.	
domicile		An abode or mansion; a place of permanent residence, either of an individual or a family.	Middle French domicile.
domiciliar		A member of a household; a domestic.	
domiciliary		Of or pertaining to a domicile, or the residence of a person or family.	
domiciliate		To establish in a permanent residence; to domicile.	
domiciliation		The act of domiciliating; permanent residence; inhabitancy.	
domiculture		The art of house-keeping, cookery, etc. R.	
domify	Obsolete	(Astrol.) To divide, as the heavens, into twelve houses. See House, in astrological sense.	Middle French domifier.
domina		Lady; a lady; -- a title formerly given to noble ladies who held a barony in their own right.	Latin domina.
dominance		Predominance; ascendency; authority.	
dominancy		Predominance; ascendency; authority.	
dominant		Ruling; governing; prevailing; controlling; predominant; as, the dominant party, church, spirit, power.	Middle French dominant.
dominate		To predominate over; to rule; to govern.	Latin dominatus.
domination		The act of dominating; exercise of power in ruling; dominion; supremacy; authority; often, arbitrary or insolent sway.	Middle English domynacion, from Old French dominaciun, from Latin dominatio.
dominative		Governing; ruling; imperious.	
dominator		A ruler or ruling power.	
domine		A name given to a pastor of the Reformed Church.	
domineer		To rule with insolence or arbitrary sway; to play the master; to be overbearing; to tyrannize; to bluster; to swell with conscious superiority or haughtiness; -- often with over; as, to domineer over dependents.	Dutch domineren, from Middle French dominer.
domineering		Ruling arrogantly; overbearing.	
dominical	Obsolete	Relating to, or given by, our Lord; as, the dominical (or Lord's) prayer.	Latin dominicalis.
dominican		Of or pertaining to St. Dominic (Dominic de Guzman), or to the religions communities named from him.	
dominicide		One who kills his master.	
dominie	Scots	A schoolmaster; a pedagogue.	
dominion		Sovereign or supreme authority; the power of governing and controlling; independent right of possession, use, and control; sovereignty; supremacy.	Middle English dominion, from Middle French dominion, from Latin dominio.
domino		A kind of hood worn by the canons of a cathedral church; a sort of amice.	French domino, from Latin domino.
dominus		Master; sir; -- a title of respect formerly applied to a knight or a clergyman, and sometimes to the lord of a manor.	
domitable		That can be tamed.	
domite		A grayish variety of trachyte; -- so called from the Puy-de- Dôme in Auvergne, France, where it is found.	
don		Sir; Mr; Signior; -- a title in Spain, formerly given to noblemen and gentlemen only, but now common to all classes.	Latin dominus.
dona		Lady; mistress; madam; -- a title of respect used in Spain, prefixed to the Christian name of a lady.	
donable		Capable of being donated or given.	Latin donabilis.
donary		A thing given to a sacred use.	Latin donarium.
donat	Obsolete	A grammar.	
donatary		See Donatory — a donee of the crown; one the whom, upon certain condition, escheated property is made over.	
donate		To give; to bestow; to present; as, to donate fifty thousand dollars to a college.	
donation		That which is given as a present; that which is transferred to another gratuitously; a gift.	Middle French donation, from Latin donationem.
donatism		The tenets of the Donatists.	
donatist		A follower of Donatus, the leader of a body of North African schismatics and purists, who greatly disturbed the church in the 4th century.	
donatistic		Pertaining to Donatism.	
donative		(Eccl. Law) A benefice conferred on a person by the founder or patron, without either presentation or institution by the ordinary, or induction by his orders.	
donator		One who makes a gift; a donor; a giver.	
donatory		A donee of the crown; one the whom, upon certain condition, escheated property is made over.	
donax		A canelike grass of southern Europe (Arundo Donax), used for fishing rods, etc.	
doncella		A handsome fish of Florida and the West Indies (Platyglossus radiatus).	
done		p. p. from Do, and formerly the infinitive.	
donee		(Law) Anciently, one to whom lands were given; in later use, one to whom lands and tenements are given in tail; in modern use, one on whom a power is conferred for execution; -- sometimes called the appointor.	
donet		Same as Donat.	
dongola		A government of Upper Egypt.	
doni		A clumsy craft, having one mast with a long sail, used for trading purposes on the coasts of Coromandel and Ceylon.	
doniferous		Bearing gifts.	
donjon		The chief tower, also called the keep; a massive tower in ancient castles, forming the strongest part of the fortifications.	Old French donjon.
donkey		An ass; or (less frequently) a mule.	
donna		A lady; madam; mistress; -- the title given a lady in Italy.	Italian donna.
donnat	English dialect	See Do-naught — a lazy, good-for-nothing fellow.	
donnee		Lit., given; hence, in a literary work, as a drama or tale, that which is assumed as to characters, situation, etc., as a basis for the plot or story.	
donnism		Self-importance; loftiness of carriage.	
donor		One who gives or bestows; one who confers anything gratuitously; a benefactor.	Middle English donoure.
donship		The quality or rank of a don, gentleman, or knight.	
donya		Lady; mistress; madam; -- a title of respect used in Spain, prefixed to the Christian name of a lady.	
donzel	Obsolete	A young squire, or knight's attendant; a page.	
doodle		A trifler; a simple fellow.	
doodlesack	English dialect	The Scotch bagpipe.	
doole	Obsolete	Sorrow; dole.	
dooly		A kind of litter suspended from men's shoulders, for carrying persons or things; a palanquin.	
doom		Judgment; judicial sentence; penal decree; condemnation.	Old English dom.
doomage	Dialect	A penalty or fine for neglect.	
doomful		Full of condemnation or destructive power.	
doomsday		A day of sentence or condemnation; day of death.	
doomsman	Obsolete	A judge; an umpire.	
doomster	Scots	Same as Dempster.	
doop		A little copper cup in which a diamond is held while being cut.	
door		An opening in the wall of a house or of an apartment, by which to go in and out; an entrance way.	Middle English dore.
doorcase		The surrounding frame into which a door shuts.	
doorcheek		The jamb or sidepiece of a door.	
doorga		A Hindoo divinity, the consort of Siva, represented with ten arms.	
dooring		The frame of a door.	
doorkeeper		One who guards the entrance of a house or apartment; a porter; a janitor.	
doorless		Without a door.	
doornail		The nail or knob on which in ancient doors the knocker struck; -- hence the old saying,	
doorplane		A plane on a door, giving the name, and sometimes the employment, of the occupant.	
doorpost		The jamb or sidepiece of a doorway.	
doorsill		The sill or threshold of a door.	
doorstead	Obsolete	Entrance or place of a door.	
doorstep		The stone or plank forming a step before an outer door.	
doorstone		The stone forming a threshold.	
doorstop		The block or strip of wood or similar material which stops, at the right place, the shutting of a door.	
doorway		The passage of a door; entrance way into a house or a room.	
dooryard		A yard in front of a house or around the door of a house.	
dop	Obsolete	A little copper cup in which a diamond is held while being cut.	
dope		Any thick liquid or pasty preparation, as of opium for medicinal purposes, of grease for a lubricant, etc.	
dope-book		A chart of previous performances, etc., of race horses.	
dopey	Slang	Affected by "dope"; esp., sluggish or dull as though under the influence of a narcotic.	
doppelganger		A spiritual or ghostly double or counterpart; esp., an apparitional double of a living person; a cowalker.	
dopper		An Anabaptist or Baptist.	
dopplerite		A brownish black native hydrocarbon occurring in elastic or jellylike masses.	
doquet		A warrant. See Docket.	
dor	Archaic	A large European scaraboid beetle (Geotrupes stercorarius), which makes a droning noise while flying.	Middle English dorre.
dorado		(Astron.) A southern constellation, within which is the south pole of the ecliptic; -- called also sometimes Xiphias, or the Swordfish.	Spanish dorado.
dorbeetle		See 1st Dor.	
doree		A European marine fish (Zeus faber), of a yellow color. See Illust. of John Doree.	
doretree	Obsolete	A doorpost.	
dorhawk		The European goatsucker; -- so called because it eats the dor beetle. See Goatsucker.	
dorian		Of or pertaining to the ancient Greeks of Doris; Doric; as, a Dorian fashion.	
doric		Pertaining to Doris, in ancient Greece, or to the Dorians; as, the Doric dialect.	
doricism		A Doric phrase or idiom.	
doris		A genus of nudibranchiate mollusks having a wreath of branchiæ on the back.	
dorism		A Doric phrase or idiom.	
dormancy		The state of being dormant; quiescence; abeyance.	
dormant		Sleeping; as, a dormant animal; hence, not in action or exercise; quiescent; at rest; in abeyance; not disclosed, asserted, or insisted on; as, dormant passions; dormant claims or titles.	
dormer		A window pierced in a roof, and so set as to be vertical while the roof slopes away from it.	
dormitive		Causing sleep; as, the dormitive properties of opium.	French dormitif.
dormitory		A sleeping room, or a building containing a series of sleeping rooms; a sleeping apartment capable of containing many beds; esp., one connected with a college or boarding school.	Latin dormitorium.
dormouse		A small European rodent of the genus Myoxus, of several species.	Middle English dormous.
dormy		Up, or ahead, as many holes as remain to be played; -- said of a player or side.	
dorn		A British ray; the thornback.	
dornick		A coarse sort of damask, originally made at Tournay (in Flemish, Doornick), Belgium, and used for hangings, carpets, etc. Also, a stout figured linen manufactured in Scotland.	
dornock		A coarse sort of damask, originally made at Tournay (in Flemish, Doornick), Belgium, and used for hangings, carpets, etc. Also, a stout figured linen manufactured in Scotland.	
dorp		A hamlet.	Dutch dorp.
dorr		The dorbeetle; also, a drone or an idler. See 1st Dor.	
dorrfly		See 1st Dor.	
dorrhawk		See Dorhawk — the european goatsucker; -- so called because it eats the dor beetle. See Goatsucker.	
dorsad		Toward the dorsum or back; on the dorsal side; dorsally.	
dorsal		(Anat.) Pertaining to, or situated near, the back, or dorsum, of an animal or of one of its parts; notal; tergal; neural; as, the dorsal fin of a fish; the dorsal artery of the tongue; -- opposed to ventral.	Latin dorsalis.
dorsale		Same as Dorsal, n.	
dorsally		On, or toward, the dorsum, or back; on the dorsal side of; dorsad.	
dorse	Obsolete	Same as dorsal, n.	
dorsel		A pannier.	
dorser		See Dosser — a hanging tapestry; a dorsal.	
dorsibranchiata		A division of chætopod annelids in which the branchiæ are along the back, on each side, or on the parapodia.	
dorsibranchiate		Having branchiæ along the back; belonging to the Dorsibranchiata. -- n.	
dorsiferous		Bearing, or producing, on the back; -- applied to ferns which produce seeds on the back of the leaf, and to certain Batrachia, the ova of which become attached to the skin of the back of the parent, where they develop…	
dorsimeson		(Anat.) See Meson.	
dorsiparous		Same as Dorsiferous.	
dorsiventral		(Biol.) Having distinct upper and lower surfaces, as most common leaves.	
dorsoventral		From the dorsal to the ventral side of an animal; as, the dorsoventral axis.	
dorsum		(Anat.) The back or dorsal region of an animal; the upper side of an appendage or part; as, the dorsum of the tongue.	
dortour	Obsolete	A dormitory.	Old French dortour, from Latin dormitorium.
dorture	Obsolete	A dormitory.	
dory		(Zoöl.) A European fish. See Doree, and John Doree.	Old French doree.
doryphora		A genus of plant-eating beetles, including the potato beetle. See Potato beetle.	
doryphoros		A spear bearer; a statue of a man holding a spear or in the attitude of a spear bearer.	
dos--dos		Back to back; as, to sit dos-à-dos in a dogcart; to dance dos- à-dos, or so that two dancers move forward and pass back to back.	
dosage		(Med.) The administration of medicine in doses; specif., a scheme or system of grading doses of medicine according to age, etc.	
dose		The quantity of medicine given, or prescribed to be taken, at one time.	French dose, from Latin dosis, from Greek δόσις.
dosel		Same as Dorsal, n.	
dosimetry		Measurement of doses; specif., a system of therapeutics which uses but few remedies, mostly alkaloids, and gives them in doses fixed by certain rules. --Do`si*met e*trist (#), n.	
dosology		Posology.	
doss	Slang	A place to sleep in; a bed; hence, sleep.	
dossel		Same as Dorsal, n.	
dosser		A hanging tapestry; a dorsal.	
dossier		A bundle containing the papers in reference to some matter.	
dossil		(Surg.) A small ovoid or cylindrical roil or pledget of lint, for keeping a sore, wound, etc., open; a tent.	
dost		of Do — a syllable attached to the first tone of the major diatonic scale for the purpose of solmization, or solfeggio.	
dot		A marriage portion; dowry.	Old English dott.
dotage		Feebleness or imbecility of understanding or mind, particularly in old age; the childishness of old age; senility; as, a venerable man, now in his dotage.	
dotal		Pertaining to dower, or a woman's marriage portion; constituting dower, or comprised in it.	Latin dotalis.
dotant	Obsolete	A dotard.	
dotard		One whose mind is impaired by age; one in second childhood.	
dotardly		Foolish; weak.	
dotary	Obsolete	A dotard's weakness; dotage.	
dotation		The act of endowing, or bestowing a marriage portion on a woman.	
dote		To be weak-minded, silly, or idiotic; to have the intellect impaired, especially by age, so that the mind wanders or wavers; to drivel.	
doted	Dialect	Half-rotten; as, doted wood.	
dotehead		A dotard.	
doter		One who dotes; a man whose understanding is enfeebled by age; a dotard.	
dotery		The acts or speech of a dotard; drivel.	
doth		of Do — a syllable attached to the first tone of the major diatonic scale for the purpose of solmization, or solfeggio.	
doting		That dotes; silly; excessively fond. -- Dot ing*ness, n.	
dotish		Foolish; weak; imbecile.	
dottard		An old, decayed tree.	
dotted		Marked with, or made of, dots or small spots; diversified with small, detached objects.	
dotterel		(Zoöl.) A European bird of the Plover family (Eudromias, or Charadrius, morinellus).	
dottrel		See Dotterel — (Zoöl.) A European bird of the Plover family (Eudromias, or Charadrius, morinellus).	
dotty		Unsteady in gait; hence, feeble; half-witted.	
doty	Dialect	Half-rotten; as, doty timber.	
douane		A customhouse.	
douanier		An officer of the French customs.	
douar		A village composed of Arab tents arranged in streets.	French douar, from Arabic دوار.
double		Twofold; multiplied by two; increased by its equivalent; made twice as large or as much, etc. Let a double portion of thy spirit be upon me. 2 Kings ii. 9.	
double-acting		Acting or operating in two directions or with both motions; producing a twofold result; as, a double-acting engine or pump.	
double-bank		To row by rowers sitting side by side in twos on a bank or thwart.	
double-banked		Applied to a kind of rowing in which the rowers sit side by side in twos, a pair of oars being worked from each bank or thwart.	
double-barreled		Having two barrels; -- applied to a gun.	
double-barrelled		Having two barrels; -- applied to a gun.	
double-breasted		Folding or lapping over on the breast, with a row of buttons and buttonholes on each side; as, a double-breasted coat.	
double-charge		To load with a double charge, as of gunpowder.	
double-decker		(Naut.) A man-of-war having two gun decks.	
double-dye		To dye again or twice over.	
double-dyed		Dyed twice; thoroughly or intensely colored; hence; firmly fixed in opinions or habits; as, a double-dyed villain.	
double-ender		(a) (Naut.) A vessel capable of moving in either direction, having bow and rudder at each end.	
double-entendre		A word or expression admitting of a double interpretation, one of which is often obscure or indelicate.	
double-eyed		Having a deceitful look.	
double-faced		Having two faces designed for use; as, a double-faced hammer.	
double-handed		Having two hands.	
double-headed		Having two heads; bicipital.	
double-hung		Having both sashes hung with weights and cords; -- said of a window.	
double-lock		To lock with two bolts; to fasten with double security.	
double-milled		Twice milled or fulled, to render more compact or fine; -- said of cloth; as, double-milled kerseymere.	
double-quick		Of, or performed in, the fastest time or step in marching, next to the run; as, a double-quick step or march.	
double-ripper	Dialect	A kind of coasting sled, made of two sleds fastened together with a board, one before the other.	
double-shade		To double the natural darkness of (a place).	
double-surfaced		Having two surfaces; -- said specif. of aëroplane wings or aërocurves which are covered on both sides with fabric, etc., thus completely inclosing their frames.	
double-tongue		Deceit; duplicity.	
double-tongued		Making contrary declarations on the same subject; deceitful.	
double-tonguing		A peculiar action of the tongue by flute players in articulating staccato notes; also, the rapid repetition of notes in cornet playing.	
doubleganger		An apparition or double of a living person; a doppelgänger.	
doublehearted		Having a false heart; deceitful; treacherous.	
doubleminded		Having different minds at different times; unsettled; undetermined.	
doubleness		The state of being double or doubled.	
doubler		One who, or that which, doubles.	
doublet		Two of the same kind; a pair; a couple.	
doublethreaded		Consisting of two threads twisted together; using two threads.	
doubletree		The bar, or crosspiece, of a carriage, to which the singletrees are attached.	
doublets		See Doublet, 6 and 7.	
doubling		The act of one that doubles; a making double; reduplication; also, that which is doubled.	
doubloon		A Spanish gold coin, no longer issued, varying in value at different times from over fifteen dollars to about five.	
doublure		(Bookbinding) The lining of a book cover, esp. one of unusual sort, as of tooled leather, painted vellum, rich brocade, or the like.	French doublure.
doubly		In twice the quantity; to twice the degree; as, doubly wise or good; to be doubly sensible of an obligation.	
doubt		To waver in opinion or judgment; to be in uncertainty as to belief respecting anything; to hesitate in belief; to be undecided as to the truth of the negative or the affirmative proposition; to b e undetermined.	Middle English douten, from Anglo-Norman douter, from Old French douter, from Latin dubitare.
doubtable		Capable of being doubted; questionable.	
doubtance	Obsolete	State of being in doubt; uncertainty; doubt.	Old French doutance.
doubter		One who doubts; one whose opinion is unsettled; one who scruples.	
doubtful		Not settled in opinion; undetermined; wavering; hesitating in belief; also used, metaphorically, of the body when its action is affected by such a state of mind; as, we are doubtful of a fact, or of the propriety of a measure.	
doubtfully		In a doubtful manner.	
doubtfulness		State of being doubtful.	
doubting		That is uncertain; that distrusts or hesitates; having doubts. -- Doubt"ing*ly, adv.	
doubtless	Obsolete	Free from fear or suspicion.	
doubtlessly		Unquestionably.	
doubtous	Obsolete	Doubtful.	Old French dotos.
douc		A monkey (Semnopithecus nemæus), remarkable for its varied and brilliant colors.	
douce	Scots	Sober; prudent; sedate; modest.	Old French dolz.
doucepere	Obsolete	One of the twelve peers of France, companions of Charlemagne in war.	
doucet	Obsolete	A custard.	
douceur		Gentleness and sweetness of manner; agreeableness.	
douche		A jet or current of water or vapor directed upon some part of the body to benefit it medicinally; a douche bath.	French douche, from Italian doccia.
doucine		Same as Cyma, under Cyma.	
doucker	English dialect	A grebe or diver; -- applied also to the golden-eye, pochard, scoter, and other ducks.	
dough		Paste of bread; a soft mass of moistened flour or meal, kneaded or unkneaded, but not yet baked; as, to knead dough.	Old English dah.
dough-baked	Colloquial	Imperfectly baked; hence, not brought to perfection; unfinished; also, of weak or dull understanding.	
dough-faced		Easily molded; pliable.	
dough-kneaded		Like dough; soft.	
doughbird		The Eskimo curlew (Numenius borealis). See Curlew.	
doughface		A contemptuous nickname for a timid, yielding politician, or one who is easily molded.	
doughfaceism		The character of a doughface; truckling pliability.	
doughiness		The quality or state of being doughy.	
doughnut		A small cake (usually sweetened) fried in a kettle of boiling lard.	
doughtily		In a doughty manner.	
doughtiness		The quality of being doughty; valor; bravery.	
doughtren	Obsolete	Daughters.	
doughty		Able; strong; valiant; redoubtable; as, a doughty hero.	Middle English doughty, from Old English dohtig.
doughy		Like dough; soft and heavy; pasty; crude; flabby and pale; as, a doughy complexion.	
doulocracy		A government by slaves.	
doupe	English dialect	The carrion crow.	
dour	Scots	Hard; inflexible; obstinate; sour in aspect; hardy; bold.	Latin durus.
doura		A kind of millet. See Durra.	
douroucouli		See Durukuli — a small, nocturnal, South American monkey (Nyctipthecus trivirgatus).	
douse		To plunge suddenly into water; to duck; to immerse; to dowse.	Middle English duschen.
dousing-chock		One of several pieces fayed across the apron and lapped in the knightheads, or inside planking above the upper deck.	
dout	Obsolete	To put out.	Middle English doute, from Old French doute.
douter	Obsolete	An extinguisher for candles.	
dove		(Zoöl.) A pigeon of the genus Columba and various related genera.	Middle English dove.
dove-eyed		Having eyes like a dove; meekeyed; as, dove-eyed Peace.	
dovecot		A small house or box, raised to a considerable height above the ground, and having compartments, in which domestic pigeons breed; a dove house.	
dovecote		A small house or box, raised to a considerable height above the ground, and having compartments, in which domestic pigeons breed; a dove house.	
dovekie		A guillemot (Uria grylle), of the arctic regions.	
dovelet		A young or small dove.	
dovelike		Mild as a dove; gentle; pure and lovable.	
doveship	Obsolete	The possession of dovelike qualities, harmlessness and innocence.	
dovetail		A flaring tenon, or tongue (shaped like a bird's tail spread), and a mortise, or socket, into which it fits tightly, making an interlocking joint between two pieces which resists pulling a part in all directions except one.	
dovish		Like a dove; harmless; innocent.	
dow	Obsolete	A kind of vessel. See Dhow.	Old English dugan.
dowable		Capable of being endowed; entitled to dower.	
dowager		(Eng. Law) A widow endowed, or having a jointure; a widow who either enjoys a dower from her deceased husband, or has property of her own brought by her to her husband on marriage, and settled on her after his decease.	
dowagerism		The rank or condition of a dowager; formality, as that of a dowager.	
dowcet		One of the testicles of a hart or stag.	
dowdy		Showing a vulgar taste in dress; awkward and slovenly in dress; vulgar-looking. -- Dow di*ness, n.	
dowdyish		Like a dowdy.	
dowel		A pin, or block, of wood or metal, fitting into holes in the abutting portions of two pieces, and being partly in one piece and partly in the other, to keep them in their proper relative position.	
dower		That with which one is gifted or endowed; endowment; gift.	
dowered		Furnished with, or as with, dower or a marriage portion.	
dowerless		Destitute of dower; having no marriage portion.	
dowery		See Dower — that with which one is gifted or endowed; endowment; gift.	
dowitcher		The red-breasted or gray snipe (Macrorhamphus griseus); -- called also brownback, and grayback.	
dowl		Same as Dowle.	
dowlas		A coarse linen cloth made in the north of England and in Scotland, now nearly replaced by calico.	
dowle		Feathery or wool-like down; filament of a feather.	
down		Fine, soft, hairy outgrowth from the skin or surface of animals or plants, not matted and fleecy like wool; esp.: (a) (Zoöl.) The soft under feathers of birds.	Old English dune.
down-share		A breastplow used in paring off turf on downs.	
down-wind		With the wind.	
downbear		To bear down; to depress.	Middle English dounberen.
downcast		Cast downward; directed to the ground, from bashfulness, modesty, dejection, or guilt.	
downcome		Sudden fall; downfall; overthrow.	
downcomer		(a) (Iron Manuf.) A pipe for leading the hot gases from the top of a blast furnace downward to the regenerators, boilers, etc. (b) (Steam Engin.) In some water-tube boilers…	
downfall		A sudden fall; a body of things falling.	
downfallen		Fallen; ruined.	
downfalling		Falling down.	
downgyved	Poetic & rare	Hanging down like gyves or fetters.	
downhaul		A rope to haul down, or to assist in hauling down, a sail; as, a staysail downhaul; a trysail downhaul.	
downhearted		Dejected; low-spirited.	
downhill		Towards the bottom of a hill; as, water runs downhill.	
downiness		The quality or state of being downy.	
downlooked		Having a downcast countenance; dejected; gloomy; sullen.	
downlying	Scots	The time of retiring to rest; time of repose.	
downpour		A pouring or streaming downwards; esp., a heavy or continuous shower.	
downright		Straight down; perpendicularly.	
downsitting		The act of sitting down; repose; a resting.	
downstairs		Down the stairs; to a lower floor. -- a.	
downsteepy	Obsolete	Very steep.	
downstream		Down the stream; as, floating downstream.	
downstroke		A stroke made with a downward motion of the pen or pencil.	
downthrow		The sudden drop or depression of the strata of rocks on one side of a fault.	
downtrod		Trodden down; trampled down; abused by superior power.	
downtrodden		Trodden down; trampled down; abused by superior power.	
downward		From a higher place to a lower; in a descending course; as, to tend, move, roll, look, or take root, downward or downwards.	
downwards		From a higher place to a lower; in a descending course; as, to tend, move, roll, look, or take root, downward or downwards.	
downweed		Cudweed, a species of Gnaphalium.	
downweigh		To weigh or press down.	
downy		Covered with down, or with pubescence or soft hairs.	
dowral		Of or relating to a dower.	
dowress		A woman entitled to dower.	
dowry		The money, goods, or estate, which a woman brings to her husband in marriage; a bride's portion on her marriage.	
dowse		To plunge, or duck into water; to immerse; to douse.	
dowser	Colloquial	A divining rod used in searching for water, ore, etc., a dowsing rod.	
dowset	Obsolete	A custard.	
dowst	Obsolete	A dowse.	
doxological		Pertaining to doxology; giving praise to God.	
doxologize		To give glory to God, as in a doxology; to praise God with doxologies.	
doxology		In Christian worship: A hymn expressing praise and honor to God; a form of praise to God designed to be sung or chanted by the choir or the congregation.	Latin doxologia, from Greek δοξολογία.
doxy		A loose wench; a disreputable sweetheart.	
doyen		Lit., a dean; the senior member of a body or group; as, the doyen of French physicians.	French doyen, from Old French deien, from Latin decanus.
doyly		See Doily — a small napkin, used at table with the fruit, etc.; -- commonly colored and fringed.	
doze		To slumber; to sleep lightly; to be in a dull or stupefied condition, as if half asleep; to be drowsy.	
dozen		A collection of twelve objects; a tale or set of twelve; with or without of before the substantive which follows.	French douzaine, from Latin duodecim.
dozenth		Twelfth.	
dozer		One who dozes or drowses.	
doziness		The state of being dozy; drowsiness; inclination to sleep.	
dozy		Drowsy; inclined to doze; sleepy; sluggish; as, a dozy head.	
dozzled	Obsolete	Stupid; heavy.	
