drab		A low, sluttish woman.
drabber		One who associates with drabs; a wencher.
drabbet		A coarse linen fabric, or duck.
drabbish		Somewhat drab in color.
drabble		To draggle; to wet and befoul by draggling; as, to drabble a gown or cloak.
drabble-tail		A draggle-tail; a slattern.
drabbler		A piece of canvas fastened by lacing to the bonnet of a sail, to give it a greater depth, or more drop.
dracaena		A genus of liliaceous plants with woody stems and funnel-shaped flowers.
dracanth		A kind of gum; -- called also gum tragacanth, or tragacanth. See Tragacanth.
drachm		A drachma.
drachma		A silver coin among the ancient Greeks, having a different value in different States and at different periods.
drachme		See Drachma — a silver coin among the ancient Greeks, having a different value in different States and at different periods.
dracin		See Draconin — a red resin forming the essential basis of dragon's blood; -- called also dracin.
draco		(Astron.) The Dragon, a northern constellation within which is the north pole of the ecliptic.
draconian		Pertaining to Draco, a famous lawgiver of Athens, 621 b. c.
draconic		Relating to Draco, the Athenian lawgiver; or to the constellation Draco; or to dragon's blood.
draconin		A red resin forming the essential basis of dragon's blood; -- called also dracin.
dracontic	Obsolete	Belonging to that space of time in which the moon performs one revolution, from ascending node to ascending node.
dracontine		Belonging to a dragon.
dracunculus		(a) A fish; the dragonet. (b) The Guinea worm (Filaria medinensis).
drad	Obsolete	Dreaded.
dradde	Obsolete	of Dread — to fear in a great degree; to regard, or look forward to, with terrific apprehension.
dradge		Inferior ore, separated from the better by cobbing.
draff		Refuse; lees; dregs; the wash given to swine or cows; hogwash; waste matter.
draffish		Worthless; draffy.
draffy		Dreggy; waste; worthless.
draft		Pertaining to, or used for, drawing or pulling (as vehicles, loads, etc.).
draftsman		See Draughtsman — one who draws pleadings or other writings.
drag		To draw slowly or heavily onward; to pull along the ground by main force; to haul; to trail; -- applied to drawing heavy or resisting bodies or those inapt for drawing, with labor, along the ground or other surface; as…
dragantine		A mucilage obtained from, or containing, gun tragacanth.
dragbar		Same as Drawbar (b).
dragbolt		A coupling pin. See under Coupling.
dragees		Sugar-coated medicines.
draggle		To wet and soil by dragging on the ground, mud, or wet grass; to drabble; to trail.
draggle-tail		A slattern who suffers her gown to trail in the mire; a drabble-tail.
draggle-tailed		Untidy; sluttish; slatternly.
draglink		(a) A link connecting the cranks of two shafts. (b) A drawbar.
dragman		A fisherman who uses a dragnet.
dragnet		A net to be drawn along the bottom of a body of water, as in fishing.
dragoman		An interpreter; -- so called in the Levant and other parts of the East.
dragon		(Myth.) A fabulous animal, generally represented as a monstrous winged serpent or lizard, with a crested head and enormous claws, and regarded as very powerful and ferocious.
dragonet		A little dragon.
dragonish		resembling a dragon.
dragonlike		Like a dragon.
dragonnade		The severe persecution of French Protestants under Louis XIV., by an armed force, usually of dragoons; hence, a rapid and devastating incursion; dragoonade.
dragoon		((Mil.) Formerly, a soldier who was taught and armed to serve either on horseback or on foot; now, a mounted soldier; a cavalry man.
dragoonade		See Dragonnade — the severe persecution of French Protestants under Louis XIV., by an armed force, usually of dragoons; hence, a rapid and devastating incursion; dragoonade.
dragooner	Obsolete	A dragoon.
drail	Obsolete	To trail; to draggle.
drain		To draw off by degrees; to cause to flow gradually out or off; hence, to cause the exhaustion of.
drainable		Capable of being drained.
drainage		A draining; a gradual flowing off of any liquid; also, that which flows out of a drain.
draine		The missel thrush.
drainer		One who, or that which, drains.
draining		The art of carrying off surplus water, as from land.
drainpipe		A pipe used for carrying off surplus water.
draintile		A hollow tile used in making drains; -- called also draining tile.
draintrap		See 4th Trap, 5.
drake		The male of the duck kind.
drakestone		A flat stone so thrown along the surface of water as to skip from point to point before it sinks; also, the sport of so throwing stones; -- sometimes called ducks and drakes.
dram		A weight; in Apothecaries' weight, one eighth part of an ounce, or sixty grains; in Avoirdupois weight, one sixteenth part of an ounce, or 27.34375 grains.
drama		A composition, in prose or poetry, accommodated to action, and intended to exhibit a picture of human life, or to depict a series of grave or humorous actions of more than ordinary interest, tending toward some striking result.
dramatic		Of or pertaining to the drama; appropriate to, or having the qualities of, a drama; theatrical; vivid.
dramatical		Of or pertaining to the drama; appropriate to, or having the qualities of, a drama; theatrical; vivid.
dramatically		In a dramatic manner; theatrically; vividly.
dramatist		The author of a dramatic composition; a writer of plays.
dramatizable		Capable of being dramatized.
dramatization		Act of dramatizing.
dramatize		To compose in the form of the drama; to represent in a drama; to adapt to dramatic representation; as, to dramatize a novel, or an historical episode.
dramaturgic		Relating to dramaturgy.
dramaturgist		One versed in dramaturgy.
dramaturgy		The art of dramatic composition and representation.
dramming		The practice of drinking drams.
dramseller		One who sells distilled liquors by the dram or glass.
dramshop		A shop or barroom where spirits are sold by the dram.
drank	English dialect	of Drink — to swallow anything liquid, for quenching thirst or other purpose; to imbibe; to receive or partake of, as if in satisfaction of thirst; as, to drink from a spring.
drape		To cover or adorn with drapery or folds of cloth, or as with drapery; as, to drape a bust, a building, etc. The whole people were draped professionally.
draper		One who sells cloths; a dealer in cloths; as, a draper and tailor.
draperied		Covered or supplied with drapery.
drapery		The occupation of a draper; cloth-making, or dealing in cloth.
drastic		Acting rapidly and violently; efficacious; powerful; -- opposed to bland; as, drastic purgatives. -- n.
drasty	Obsolete	Filthy; worthless.
draugh	Obsolete	See Draft — pertaining to, or used for, drawing or pulling (as vehicles, loads, etc.).
draught		That which is drawn; as: (a) That which is taken by sweeping with a net.
draughtboard		A checkered board on which draughts are played. See Checkerboard.
draughthouse	Obsolete	A house for the reception of waste matter; a privy. 2 Kings x. 27.
draughts		A mild vesicatory. See Draught, n., 3 (c).
draughtsman		One who draws pleadings or other writings.
draughtsmanship		The office, art, or work of a draughtsman.
draughty		Pertaining to a draught, or current of air; as, a draughtly, comfortless room.
drave	Obsolete	, old imp. of Drive.
dravida		A race Hindostan, believed to be the original people who occupied the land before the Hindoo or Aryan invasion.
dravidian		Of or pertaining to the Dravida.
draw		To cause to move continuously by force applied in advance of the thing moved; to pull along; to haul; to drag; to cause to follow.
draw-cut		A single cut with a knife.
drawable		Capable of being drawn.
drawback		A lose of advantage, or deduction from profit, value, success, etc.; a discouragement or hindrance; objectionable feature.
drawbar		(a) An openmouthed bar at the end of a car, which receives a coupling link and pin by which the car is drawn.
drawbench		A machine in which strips of metal are drawn through a drawplate; especially, one in which wire is thus made; -- also called drawing bench.
drawbolt		A coupling pin. See under Coupling.
drawbore		A hole bored through a tenon nearer to the shoulder than the holes through the cheeks are to the edge or abutment against which the shoulder is to rest, so that a pin or bolt, when driven into it, will draw these parts together.
drawboy		A boy who operates the harness cords of a hand loom; also, a part of power loom that performs the same office.
drawbridge		A bridge of which either the whole or a part is made to be raised up, let down, or drawn or turned aside, to admit or hinder communication at pleasure, as before the gate of a town or castle, or over a navigable river or canal.
drawcansir		A blustering, bullying fellow; a pot-valiant braggart; a bully.
drawee		The person on whom an order or bill of exchange is drawn; -- the correlative of drawer.
drawer		One who, or that which, draws; as: (a) One who draws liquor for guests; a waiter in a taproom.
drawfiling		The process of smooth filing by working the file sidewise instead of lengthwise.
drawgear		A harness for draught horses.
drawgloves		An old game, played by holding up the fingers.
drawhead		The flanged outer end of a drawbar; also, a name applied to the drawgear.
drawing		The act or the art of representing any object by means of lines and shades; especially, such a representation when in one color, or in tints used not to represent the colors of natural objects, but for effect only…
drawing-room		A room appropriated for the reception of company; a room to which company withdraws from the dining room.
drawknife		A joiner's tool having a blade with a handle at each end, used to shave off surfaces, by drawing it toward one; a shave; -- called also drawshave, and drawing shave.
drawl		To utter in a slow, lengthened tone.
drawlatch	Obsolete	A housebreaker or thief.
drawling		The act of speaking with a drawl; a drawl. -- Drawl"ing*ly, adv.
drawlink		Same as Drawbar (b).
drawloom		A kind of loom used in weaving figured patterns; -- called also drawboy.
drawn		See Draw, v. t. & i.
drawnet		A net for catching the larger sorts of birds; also, a dragnet.
drawplate		A hardened steel plate having a hole, or a gradation of conical holes, through which wires are drawn to be reduced and elongated.
drawrod		A rod which unites the drawgear at opposite ends of the car, and bears the pull required to draw the train.
drawshave		See Drawing knife.
drawspring		The spring to which a drawbar is attached.
dray		A strong low cart or carriage used for heavy burdens.
drayage		The charge, or sum paid, for the use of a dray.
drayman		A man who attends a dray.
drazel	Obsolete	A slut; a vagabond wench.
dread		To fear in a great degree; to regard, or look forward to, with terrific apprehension.
dread-bolted	Poetic	Armed with dreaded bolts.
dreadable		Worthy of being dreaded.
dreader		One who fears, or lives in fear.
dreadful		Inspiring dread; impressing great fear; fearful; terrible; as, a dreadful storm.
dreadfully		In a dreadful manner; terribly.
dreadfulness		The quality of being dreadful.
dreadingly		With dread.
dreadless		Free from dread; fearless; intrepid; dauntless; as, dreadless heart.
dreadlessness		Freedom from dread.
dreadly	Obsolete	Dreadful. -- adv.
dreadnaught		A fearless person.
dreadnought		A British battleship, completed in 1906 -- 1907, having an armament consisting of ten 12-inch guns, and of twenty-four 12-pound quick-fire guns for protection against torpedo boats.
dream		The thoughts, or series of thoughts, or imaginary transactions, which occupy the mind during sleep; a sleeping vision.
dreamer		One who dreams.
dreamful		Full of dreams. -- Dream"ful*ly, adv.
dreamily		As if in a dream; softly; slowly; languidly.
dreaminess		The state of being dreamy.
dreamingly		In a dreamy manner.
dreamland		An unreal, delightful country such as in sometimes pictured in dreams; region of fancies; fairyland. builds a bridge from dreamland for his lay.
dreamless		Free from, or without, dreams.
dreamy		Abounding in dreams or given to dreaming; appropriate to, or like, dreams; visionary.
drear	Obsolete	Dismal; gloomy with solitude.
drearihead	Obsolete	Affliction; dreariness.
drearihood	Obsolete	Affliction; dreariness.
drearily		Gloomily; dismally.
dreariment	Obsolete	Dreariness.
dreariness		Dismalness; gloomy solitude.
drearisome		Very dreary.
dreary		Exciting cheerless sensations, feelings, or associations; comfortless; dismal; gloomy.
drecche	Obsolete	To vex; to torment; to trouble.
dredge		Any instrument used to gather or take by dragging; as: (a) A dragnet for taking up oysters, etc., from their beds.
dredger		One who fishes with a dredge.
dree	Scots	To endure; to suffer.
dreg		Corrupt or defiling matter contained in a liquid, or precipitated from it; refuse; feculence; lees; grounds; sediment; hence, the vilest and most worthless part of anything; as, the dregs of society.
dregginess		Fullness of dregs or lees; foulness; feculence.
dreggish		Foul with lees; feculent.
dreggy		Containing dregs or lees; muddy; foul; feculent.
dreibund		A triple alliance; specif., the alliance of Germany, Austria, and Italy, formed in 1882.
drein	Obsolete	To drain.
dreint	Obsolete	p. p. of Drench to drown.
dreinte	Obsolete	p. p. of Drench to drown.
dreissena		A genus of bivalve shells of which one species (D. polymorpha) is often so abundant as to be very troublesome in the fresh waters of Europe.
drench		To cause to drink; especially, to dose by force; to put a potion down the throat of, as of a horse; hence. to purge violently by physic.
drenche	Obsolete	To drown.
drencher		One who, or that which, west or steeps.
drengage	Obsolete	The tenure by which a drench held land.
drent	Obsolete	Drenched; drowned.
dress		(Mil.) To arrange in exact continuity of line, as soldiers; commonly to adjust to a straight line and at proper distance; to align; as, to dress the ranks.
dresser		One who dresses; one who put in order or makes ready for use; one who on clothes or ornaments.
dressiness		The state of being dressy.
dressing		Dress; raiment; especially, ornamental habiliment or attire.
dressmaker		A maker of gowns, or similar garments; a mantuamaker.
dressmaking		The art, process, or occupation, of making dresses.
dressy		Showy in dress; attentive to dress.
drest		of Dress — (Mil.) To arrange in exact continuity of line, as soldiers; commonly to adjust to a straight line and at proper distance; to align; as, to dress the ranks.
dretch	Obsolete	See Drecche — to vex; to torment; to trouble.
dreul	Obsolete	To drool.
drevil		A fool; a drudge. See Drivel.
drew		of Draw — to cause to move continuously by force applied in advance of the thing moved; to pull along; to haul; to drag; to cause to follow.
drey	Obsolete	A squirrel's nest. See Dray.
dreynt	Obsolete	p. p., of Drench to drown.
dreynte	Obsolete	p. p., of Drench to drown.
drib	Obsolete	To do by little and little; as: (a) To cut off by a little at a time; to crop.
dribber	Obsolete	One who dribs; one who shoots weakly or badly.
dribble		To fall in drops or small drops, or in a quick succession of drops; as, water dribbles from the eaves.
dribbler		One who dribbles.
dribblet		A small piece or part; a small sum; a small quantity of money in making up a sum; as, the money was paid in dribblets.
driblet		A small piece or part; a small sum; a small quantity of money in making up a sum; as, the money was paid in dribblets.
drie	Obsolete	To endure.
dried		of Day — the time of light, or interval between one night and the next; the time between sunrise and sunset, or from dawn to darkness; hence, the light; sunshine.
drier		One who, or that which, dries; that which may expel or absorb moisture; a desiccative; as, the sun and a northwesterly wind are great driers of the earth.
driest		of Dry, a.
drift		A driving; a violent movement.
driftage		Deviation from a ship's course due to leeway.
driftbolt		A bolt for driving out other bolts.
driftless		Having no drift or direction; without aim; purposeless.
driftpiece		An upright or curved piece of timber connecting the plank sheer with the gunwale; also, a scroll terminating a rail.
driftpin		A smooth drift. See Drift, n., 9.
driftway		A common way, road, or path, for driving cattle.
driftweed		Seaweed drifted to the shore by the wind.
driftwind		A driving wind; a wind that drives snow, sand, etc., into heaps.
driftwood		Wood drifted or floated by water.
drifty		Full of drifts; tending to form drifts, as snow, and the like.
drill		To pierce or bore with a drill, or a with a drill; to perforate; as, to drill a hole into a rock; to drill a piece of metal.
driller		One who, or that which, drills.
drilling		The act of piercing with a drill.
drillmaster		One who teaches drill, especially in the way of gymnastics.
drillstock		A contrivance for holding and turning a drill.
drily		See Dryly — in a dry manner; not succulently; without interest; without sympathy; coldly.
drimys		A genus of magnoliaceous trees.
drink		To swallow anything liquid, for quenching thirst or other purpose; to imbibe; to receive or partake of, as if in satisfaction of thirst; as, to drink from a spring.
drinkable		Capable of being drunk; suitable for drink; potable.
drinkableness		State of being drinkable.
drinker		One who drinks; as, the effects of tea on the drinker; also, one who drinks spirituous liquors to excess; a drunkard.
drinking		The act of one who drinks; the act of imbibing.
drinkless		Destitute of drink.
drip		To fall in drops; as, water drips from the eaves.
dripping		A falling in drops, or the sound so made.
dripple	Obsolete	Weak or rare.
dripstone		A drip, when made of stone. See Drip, 2.
drith	Obsolete	Drought.
drive		To impel or urge onward by force in a direction away from one, or along before one; to push forward; to compel to move on; to communicate motion to; as, to drive cattle; to drive a nail; smoke drives persons from a room.
drivebolt		A drift; a tool for setting bolts home.
drivel		To slaver; to let spittle drop or flow from the mouth, like a child, idiot, or dotard.
driveler		A slaverer; a slabberer; an idiot; a fool.
driven		of Drive — to impel or urge onward by force in a direction away from one, or along before one; to push forward; to compel to move on; to communicate motion to; as, to drive cattle; to drive a nail…
drivepipe		A pipe for forcing into the earth.
driver		One who, or that which, drives; the person or thing that urges or compels anything else to move onward.
driveway		A passage or way along or through which a carriage may be driven.
driving		Having great force of impulse; as, a driving wind or storm.
drizzle		To rain slightly in very small drops; to fall, as water from the clouds, slowly and in fine particles; as, it drizzles; drizzling drops or rain.
drizzly		Characterized by small rain, or snow; moist and disagreeable.
drock	English dialect	A water course.
drofland		An ancient yearly payment made by some tenants to the king, or to their landlords, for the privilege of driving their cattle through a manor to fairs or markets.
drogher		A small craft used in the West India Islands to take off sugars, rum, etc., to the merchantmen; also, a vessel for transporting lumber, cotton, etc., coastwise; as, a lumber drogher.
drogman		See Dragoman — an interpreter; -- so called in the Levant and other parts of the East.
drogoman		See Dragoman — an interpreter; -- so called in the Levant and other parts of the East.
drogue		See Drag, n., 6, and Drag sail, under Drag, n.
droh	Obsolete	of Draw — to cause to move continuously by force applied in advance of the thing moved; to pull along; to haul; to drag; to cause to follow.
droil	Obsolete	To work sluggishly or slowly; to plod.
droit		A right; law in its aspect of the foundation of rights; also, in old law, the writ of right.
droitural	Obsolete	relating to the mere right of property, as distinguished from the right of possession; as, droitural actions.
droitzschka		See Drosky — a low, four-wheeled, open carriage, used in Russia, consisting of a kind of long, narrow bench, on which the passengers ride as on a saddle, with their feet reaching nearly to the ground.
droll		Queer, and fitted to provoke laughter; ludicrous from oddity; amusing and strange.
droller	Obsolete	A jester; a droll.
drollery		The quality of being droll; sportive tricks; buffoonery; droll stories; comical gestures or manners.
drollingly		In a jesting manner.
drollish		Somewhat droll.
drollist		A droll.
dromaeognathous		Having the structure of the palate like that of the ostrich and emu.
dromatherium		A small extinct triassic mammal from North Carolina, the earliest yet found in America.
drome		The crab plover (Dromas ardeola), a peculiar North African bird, allied to the oyster catcher.
dromedary		The Arabian camel (Camelus dromedarius), having one hump or protuberance on the back, in distinction from the Bactrian camel, which has two humps.
dromon		In the Middle Ages, a large, fast-sailing galley, or cutter; a large, swift war vessel.
dromond		In the Middle Ages, a large, fast-sailing galley, or cutter; a large, swift war vessel.
drone		(Zoöl.) The male of bees, esp. of the honeybee.
dronepipe		One of the low-toned tubes of a bagpipe.
drongo		A passerine bird of the family Dicruridæ.
dronish		Like a drone; indolent; slow.
dronkelewe	Obsolete	Given to drink; drunken.
dronte		The dodo.
drony		Like a drone; sluggish; lazy.
drool		To drivel, or drop saliva; as, the child drools.
droop		To hang bending downward; to sink or hang down, as an animal, plant, etc., from physical inability or exhaustion, want of nourishment, or the like.
drooper		One who, or that which, droops.
droopingly		In a drooping manner.
drop		The quantity of fluid which falls in one small spherical mass; a liquid globule; a minim; hence, also, the smallest easily measured portion of a fluid; a small quantity; as, a drop of water.
droplet		A little drop; a tear.
droplight		An apparatus for bringing artificial light down from a chandelier nearer to a table or desk; a pendant.
dropmeal	Obsolete	By drops or small portions.
dropmele	Obsolete	By drops or small portions.
dropper		One who, or that which, drops.
dropping		The action of causing to drop or of letting drop; falling.
droppingly		In drops.
dropsical		Diseased with dropsy; hydropical; tending to dropsy; as, a dropsical patient.
dropsicalness		State of being dropsical.
dropsied		Diseased with drops.
dropsy		An unnatural collection of serous fluid in any serous cavity of the body, or in the subcutaneous cellular tissue.
dropt		imp. & p. p. of Drop, v.
dropwise		After the manner of a drop; in the form of drops.
dropworm		The larva of any geometrid moth, which drops from trees by means of a thread of silk, as the cankerworm.
dropwort		An Old World species of Spiræa (S. filipendula), with finely cut leaves.
drosera		A genus of low perennial or biennial plants, the leaves of which are beset with gland-tipped bristles.
drosky		A low, four-wheeled, open carriage, used in Russia, consisting of a kind of long, narrow bench, on which the passengers ride as on a saddle, with their feet reaching nearly to the ground.
drosometer		An instrument for measuring the quantity of dew on the surface of a body in the open air.
dross		The scum or refuse matter which is thrown off, or falls from, metals in smelting the ore, or in the process of melting; recrement.
drossel	Obsolete	A slut; a hussy; a drazel.
drossless		Free from dross.
drossy		Of, pertaining to, resembling, dross; full of dross; impure; worthless. -- Dross"i*ness, n.
drotchel	Obsolete	See Drossel — a slut; a hussy; a drazel.
drough	Obsolete	of Draw — to cause to move continuously by force applied in advance of the thing moved; to pull along; to haul; to drag; to cause to follow.
drought		Dryness; want of rain or of water; especially, such dryness of the weather as affects the earth, and prevents the growth of plants; aridity.
droughtiness		A state of dryness of the weather; want of rain.
droughty		Characterized by drought; wanting rain; arid; adust.
droumy	Obsolete	Troubled; muddy.
drouth		Same as Drought.
drouthy		Droughty.
drove		of Drive — to impel or urge onward by force in a direction away from one, or along before one; to push forward; to compel to move on; to communicate motion to; as, to drive cattle; to drive a nail…
droven	Obsolete	of Drive — to impel or urge onward by force in a direction away from one, or along before one; to push forward; to compel to move on; to communicate motion to; as, to drive cattle; to drive a nail…
drover		One who drives cattle or sheep to market; one who makes it his business to purchase cattle, and drive them to market.
drovy	Obsolete	Turbid; muddy; filthy.
drow	Obsolete	of Draw — to cause to move continuously by force applied in advance of the thing moved; to pull along; to haul; to drag; to cause to follow.
drown		To be suffocated in water or other fluid; to perish in water.
drownage		The act of drowning.
drowner		One who, or that which, drowns.
drowse		To sleep imperfectly or unsoundly; to slumber; to be heavy with sleepiness; to doze.
drowsihead		Drowsiness.
drowsihed	Obsolete	Drowsihead.
drowsily		In a drowsy manner.
drowsiness		State of being drowsy.
drowsy		Inclined to drowse; heavy with sleepiness; lethargic; dozy.
drowth		See Drought — dryness; want of rain or of water; especially, such dryness of the weather as affects the earth, and prevents the growth of plants; aridity.
droyle	Obsolete	See Droil — to work sluggishly or slowly; to plod.
drub		To beat with a stick; to thrash; to cudgel.
drubber		One who drubs.
drudge		To perform menial work; to labor in mean or unpleasant offices with toil and fatigue.
drudger		One who drudges; a drudge.
drudgery		The act of drudging; disagreeable and wearisome labor; ignoble or slavish toil.
drudgingly		In a drudging manner; laboriously.
druery	Obsolete	Courtship; gallantry; love; an object of love.
drug		Any animal, vegetable, or mineral substance used in the composition of medicines; any stuff used in dyeing or in chemical operations.
drugger	Obsolete	A druggist.
drugget		(a) A coarse woolen cloth dyed of one color or printed on one side; generally used as a covering for carpets.
druggist		One who deals in drugs; especially, one who buys and sells drugs without compounding them; also, a pharmaceutist or apothecary.
drugster	Obsolete	A druggist.
druid		One of an order of priests which in ancient times existed among certain branches of the Celtic race, especially among the Gauls and Britons.
druidess		A female Druid; a prophetess.
druidic		Pertaining to, or resembling, the Druids.
druidical		Pertaining to, or resembling, the Druids.
druidish		Druidic.
druidism		The system of religion, philosophy, and instruction, received and taught by the Druids; the rites and ceremonies of the Druids.
drum		(Mus.) An instrument of percussion, consisting either of a hollow cylinder, over each end of which is stretched a piece of skin or vellum, to be beaten with a stick…
drumbeat		The sound of a beaten drum; drum music.
drumble	Obsolete	To be sluggish or lazy; to be confused.
drumfish		any fish of the family Sciænidæ, which makes a loud noise by means of its air bladder; -- called also drum.
drumhead		The parchment or skin stretched over one end of a drum.
drumlin		A hill of compact, unstratified, glacial drift or till, usually elongate or oval, with the larger axis parallel to the former local glacial motion.
drumly	Scots	Turbid; muddy.
drummer		One whose office is to best the drum, as in military exercises and marching.
drumming		The act of beating upon, or as if upon, a drum; also, the noise which the male of the ruffed grouse makes in spring, by beating his wings upon his sides.
drumstick		A stick with which a drum is beaten.
drunk		Intoxicated with, or as with, strong drink; inebriated; drunken; - - never used attributively, but always predicatively; as, the man is drunk (not, a drunk man).
drunkard		One who habitually drinks strong liquors immoderately; one whose habit it is to get drunk; a toper; a sot.
drunken		Overcome by strong drink; intoxicated by, or as by, spirituous liquor; inebriated.
drunkenhead	Obsolete	Drunkenness.
drunkenly		In a drunken manner.
drunkenness		The state of being drunken with, or as with, alcoholic liquor; intoxication; inebriety; -- used of the casual state or the habit.
drunkenship	Obsolete	The state of being drunk; drunkenness.
drunkship	Obsolete	The state of being drunk; drunkenness.
drupaceous		Producing, or pertaining to, drupes; having the form of drupes; as, drupaceous trees or fruits.
drupal		Drupaceous.
drupe		A fruit consisting of pulpy, coriaceous, or fibrous exocarp, without valves, containing a nut or stone with a kernel.
drupel		A small drupe, as one of the pulpy grains of the blackberry.
drupelet		A small drupe, as one of the pulpy grains of the blackberry.
druse		A cavity in a rock, having its interior surface studded with crystals and sometimes filled with water; a geode.
drused		Covered with a large number of minute crystals.
drusy		Covered with a large number of minute crystals.
druxey		Having decayed spots or streaks of a whitish color; -- said of timber.
druxy		Having decayed spots or streaks of a whitish color; -- said of timber.
dry		Free from moisture; having little humidity or none; arid; not wet or moist; deficient in the natural or normal supply of moisture, as rain or fluid of any kind; -- said especially: (a) Of the weather: Free from rain or mist.
dry-beat		To beat severely.
dry-boned		Having dry bones, or bones without flesh.
dry-eyed		Not having tears in the eyes.
dry-fisted		Niggardly.
dry-rub		To rub and cleanse without wetting.
dry-shod		Without wetting the feet.
dry-stone		Constructed of uncemented stone.
dryad		A wood nymph; a nymph whose life was bound up with that of her tree.
dryandra		A genus of shrubs growing in Australia, having beautiful, hard, dry, evergreen leaves.
dryas		A dryad.
dryer		See Drier — one who, or that which, dries; that which may expel or absorb moisture; a desiccative; as, the sun and a northwesterly wind are great driers of the earth.
dryfland		An ancient yearly payment made by some tenants to the king, or to their landlords, for the privilege of driving their cattle through a manor to fairs or markets.
dryfoot	Obsolete	The scent of the game, as far as it can be traced.
drying		Adapted or tending to exhaust moisture; as, a drying wind or day; a drying room.
dryly		In a dry manner; not succulently; without interest; without sympathy; coldly.
dryness		The state of being dry. See Dry.
drynurse		To feed, attend, and bring up without the breast.
dryobalanops		The genus to which belongs the single species D.
drysalter		A dealer in salted or dried meats, pickles, sauces, etc., and in the materials used in pickling, salting, and preserving various kinds of food Hence drysalters usually sell a number of saline substances and miscellaneous drugs.
drysaltery		The articles kept by a drysalter; also, the business of a drysalter.
dryth	Obsolete	Drought.
