duad		A union of two; duality.	
dual		Expressing, or consisting of, the number two; belonging to two; as, the dual number of nouns, etc., in Greek.	Latin dualis, from French dual.
dualin		An explosive substance consisting essentially of sawdust or wood pulp, saturated with nitroglycerin and other similar nitro compounds.	
dualism		State of being dual or twofold; a twofold division; any system which is founded on a double principle, or a twofold distinction; as: (a) (Philos.) A view of man as constituted of two original and independent elements…	
dualist		One who believes in dualism; a ditheist.	
dualistic		Consisting of two; pertaining to dualism or duality.	
duality		The quality or condition of being two or twofold; dual character or usage.	Latin dualitas.
duan		A division of a poem corresponding to a canto; a poem or song.	
duarchy		Government by two persons.	
dub		To confer knight.	
dubb		The Syrian bear. See under Bear.	
dubber		One who, or that which, dubs.	
dubbing		The act of dubbing, as a knight, etc.	
dubiety		Doubtfulness; uncertainty; doubt.	
dubiosity		The state of being doubtful; a doubtful statement or thing.	
dubious		Doubtful or not settled in opinion; being in doubt; wavering or fluctuating; undetermined.	Latin dubius.
dubiously		In a dubious manner.	
dubiousness		State of being dubious.	
dubitable		Liable to be doubted; uncertain.	
dubitancy		Doubt; uncertainty.	Latin dubitantia.
dubitate		To doubt.	Latin dubitatus.
dubitation		Act of doubting; doubt.	
dubitative		Tending to doubt; doubtful. -- Du"bi*ta*tive*ly, adv..	
duboisia		Same as Duboisine.	
duboisine		An alkaloid obtained from the leaves of an Australian tree (Duboisia myoporoides), and regarded as identical with hyoscyamine.	
ducal		Of or pertaining to a duke.	Old French ducal, from Latin ducalis.
ducally		In the manner of a duke, or in a manner becoming the rank of a duke.	
ducat		A coin, either of gold or silver, of several countries in Europe; originally, one struck in the dominions of a duke.	Old French ducat, from Latin ducatus.
ducatoon		A silver coin of several countries of Europe, and of different values.	
duchess		The wife or widow of a duke; also, a lady who has the sovereignty of a duchy in her own right.	
duchy		The territory or dominions of a duke; a dukedom.	
duck		A linen (or sometimes cotton) fabric, finer and lighter than canvas, -- used for the lighter sails of vessels, the sacking of beds, and sometimes for men's clothing.	Middle English douken.
duck-billed		Having a bill like that of a duck..	
duck-legged		Having short legs, like a waddling duck; short-legged.	
duckbill		See Duck mole, under Duck, n.	
ducker		One who, or that which, ducks; a plunger; a diver.	
ducking		, from Duck, v. t. & i.	
duckling		A young or little duck.	
duckweed		A genus (Lemna) of small plants, seen floating in great quantity on the surface of stagnant pools fresh water, and supposed to furnish food for ducks; -- called also duckmeat.	
duct		Any tube or canal by which a fluid or other substance is conducted or conveyed.	Latin ductus.
ductible		Capable of being drawn out Feltham.	
ductile		Easily led; tractable; complying; yielding to motives, persuasion, or instruction; as, a ductile people.	Latin ductilis.
ductilimeter		An instrument for accurately determining the ductility of metals.	
ductility		The property of a metal which allows it to be drawn into wires or filaments.	
duction	Obsolete	Guidance.	
ductless		Having to duct or outlet; as, a ductless gland.	
ductor		(Mach.) A contrivance for removing superfluous ink or coloring matter from a roller.	
ducture	Obsolete	Guidance.	
dudder		To confuse or confound with noise.	
duddery		A place where rags are bought and kept for sale.	
dude		A kind of dandy; especially, one characterized by an ultrafashionable style of dress and other affectations.	
dudeen		A short tobacco pipe.	
dudgeon		The root of the box tree, of which hafts for daggers were made.	
dudish		Like, or characterized of, a dude.	
duds	Colloquial	Old or inferior clothes; tattered garments.	
due		Owed, as a debt; that ought to be paid or done to or for another; payable; owing and demandable.	
duebill		A brief written acknowledgment of a debt, not made payable to order, like a promissory note.	
dueful	Obsolete	Fit; becoming.	
duel	Obsolete	A combat between two persons, fought with deadly weapons, by agreement.	Latin duellum.
dueler		One who engages in a duel.	
dueling		e act or practice of fighting in single combat.	
duelist		One who fights in single combat.	
duelo	Obsolete	A duel; also, the rules of dueling.	
duena		See Doña.	
dueness		Quality of being due; debt; what is due or becoming.	
duenna		The chief lady in waiting on the queen of Spain.	
duenya		See Doña.	
duet		A composition for two performers, whether vocal or instrumental.	
duettino		A duet of short extent and concise form.	
duetto		See Duet — a composition for two performers, whether vocal or instrumental.	
duff		A stiff flour pudding, boiled in a bag; -- a term used especially by seamen; as, plum duff.	
duffel		A kind of coarse woolen cloth, having a thick nap or frieze.	
duffer	Slang	A peddler or hawker, especially of cheap, flashy articles, as sham jewelry; hence, a sham or cheat.	
duffle		See Duffel — a kind of coarse woolen cloth, having a thick nap or frieze.	
dufrenite		A mineral of a blackish green color, commonly massive or in nodules.	
dug		A teat, pap, or nipple; -- formerly that of a human mother, now that of a cow or other beast.	
dugong		An aquatic herbivorous mammal (Halicore dugong), of the order Sirenia, allied to the manatee, but with a bilobed tail.	Tagalog dugong, from Malay (macrolanguage duyung.
dugout		A canoe or boat dug out from a large log.	
dugway		A way or road dug through a hill, or sunk below the surface of the land.	
duke		In England, one of the highest order of nobility after princes and princesses of the royal blood and the four archbishops of England and Ireland.	Old French duc, from Latin dux.
dukedom		The territory of a duke.	
dukeling		A little or insignificant duke.	
dukeship		The quality or condition of being a duke; also, the personality of a duke.	
dukhobors		A Russian religious sect founded about the middle of the 18th century at Kharkov.	
dukhobortsy		A Russian religious sect founded about the middle of the 18th century at Kharkov.	
dulcamara		A plant (Solanum Dulcamara). See Bittersweet, n., 3 (a).	
dulcamarin		A glucoside extracted from the bittersweet (Solanum Dulcamara), as a yellow amorphous substance.	
dulce	Obsolete	To make sweet; to soothe.	
dulceness	Obsolete	Sweetness.	
dulcet		Sweet to the ear; melodious; harmonious.	Latin dulcis.
dulciana		A sweet-toned stop of an organ.	
dulcification		The act of dulcifying or sweetening.	
dulcified		Sweetened; mollified.	
dulcifluous		Flowing sweetly.	
dulcify		(Pharm.) To sweeten; to free from acidity, saltness, or acrimony.	
dulciloquy		A soft manner of speaking.	Latin dulcis.
dulcimer		(a) An instrument, having stretched metallic wires which are beaten with two light hammers held in the hands of the performer.	Old French doulcemelle.
dulcinea		A mistress; a sweetheart.	
dulciness	Obsolete	See Dulceness — sweetness.	
dulcino		A small bassoon, formerly much used.	
dulcite		A white, sugarlike substance, C6H8.(OH)2, occurring naturally in a manna from Madagascar, and in certain plants, and produced artificially by the reduction of galactose and lactose or milk sugar.	Latin dulcis.
dulcitude		Sweetness.	
dulcorate		To sweeten; to make less acrimonious.	
dulcoration		The act of sweetening.	Latin dulcoratio.
duledge		One of the dowels joining the ends of the fellies which form the circle of the wheel of a gun carriage.	
dulia		An inferior kind of veneration or worship, given to the angels and saints as the servants of God.	Latin dulia, from Greek δουλεία.
dull		Slow of understanding; wanting readiness of apprehension; stupid; doltish; blockish.	Middle English dull.
dull-brained		Stupid; doltish.	
dull-browed		Having a gloomy look.	
dull-eyed		Having eyes wanting brightness, liveliness, or vivacity.	
dull-sighted		Having poor eyesight.	
dullard		A stupid person; a dunce.	
duller		One who, or that which, dulls.	
dullhead		A blockhead; a dolt.	
dullish		Somewhat dull; uninteresting; tiresome.	
dullness		The state of being dull; slowness; stupidity; heaviness; drowsiness; bluntness; obtuseness; dimness; want of luster; want of vividness, or of brightness.	
dully		In a dull manner; stupidly; slowly; sluggishly; without life or spirit.	
dulocracy		See Doulocracy — a government by slaves.	Modern Greek (1453- δουλοκρατία.
dulse		A seaweed of a reddish brown color, which is sometimes eaten, as in Scotland.	Irish duileasc.
dulwilly	English dialect	The ring plover.	
duly		In a due, fit, or becoming manner; as it (anything) ought to be; properly; regularly.	Middle English duweliche.
dumal		Pertaining to, or set with, briers or bushes; brambly.	
dumb		Destitute of the power of speech; unable; to utter articulate sounds; as, the dumb brutes.	Middle English dumbien, from Old English dumbian.
dumb-bell		A weight, consisting of two spheres or spheroids, connected by a short bar for a handle; used (often in pairs) for gymnastic exercise.	
dumb-waiter		A framework on which dishes, food, etc., are passed from one room or story of a house to another; a lift for dishes, etc.; also, a piece of furniture with movable or revolving shelves.	
dumbledor	English dialect	A bumblebee; also, a cockchafer.	
dumbly		In silence; mutely.	
dumbness		The quality or state of being dumb; muteness; silence; inability to speak.	
dumfound		To strike dumb; to confuse with astonishment.	
dumfounder		To dumfound; to confound.	
dummador		A dumbledor.	
dummerer	Obsolete	One who feigns dumbness.	
dummy		Silent; mute; noiseless; as a dummy engine.	
dumose		Abounding with bushes and briers.	
dumous		Abounding with bushes and briers.	Latin dumosus.
dump		A thick, ill-shapen piece; a clumsy leaden counter used by boys in playing chuck farthing.	
dumpage		The act of dumping loads from carts, especially loads of refuse matter; also, a heap of dumped matter.	
dumpiness		The state of being dumpy.	
dumpish		Dull; stupid; sad; moping; melancholy. -- Dump ish*ness, n.	
dumple		To make dumpy; to fold, or bend, as one part over another.	
dumpling		A roundish mass of dough boiled in soup, or as a sort of pudding; often, a cover of paste inclosing an apple or other fruit, and boiled or baked; as, an apple dumpling.	
dumpy		From Dump a short ill-shapen piece.	
dun		A mound or small hill.	Middle English dun.
dunbird		(a) The pochard; -- called also dunair, and dunker, or dun-curre. (b) An American duck; the ruddy duck.	
dunce		One backward in book learning; a child or other person dull or weak in intellect; a dullard; a dolt.	
duncedom		The realm or domain of dunces.	
duncery		Dullness; stupidity.	
duncical		Like a dunce; duncish.	
duncify		To make stupid in intellect.	
duncish		Somewhat like a dunce. -- Dun"cish*ness, n.	
dunder		The lees or dregs of cane juice, used in the distillation of rum.	
dunder-headed		Thick-headed; stupid.	
dunderhead		A dunce; a numskull; a blockhead.	
dunderpate		See Dunderhead — a dunce; a numskull; a blockhead.	
dune		A low hill of drifting sand usually formed on the coats, but often carried far inland by the prevailing winds.	
dunfish		Codfish cured in a particular manner, so as to be of a superior quality.	
dung		To manure with dung.	
dungaree		A coarse kind of unbleached cotton stuff.	
dungeon		A close, dark prison, commondonjon or keep of a castle, these being used as prisons.	Middle English dungeon.
dungfork		A fork for tossing dung.	
dunghill		Any mean situation or condition; a vile abode.	
dungmeer		A pit where dung and weeds rot for manure.	
dungy		Full of dung; filthy; vile; low.	
dungyard		A yard where dung is collected.	
dunker		One of a religious denomination whose tenets and practices are mainly those of the Baptists, but partly those of the Quakers; -- called also Tunkers, Dunkards, Dippers, and, by themselves, Brethren, and German Baptists.	
dunlin		A species of sandpiper (Tringa alpina); -- called also churr, dorbie, grass bird, and red-backed sandpiper.	
dunnage		Fagots, boughs, or loose materials of any kind, laid on the bottom of the hold for the cargo to rest upon to prevent injury by water, or stowed among casks and other cargo to prevent their motion.	
dunner		One employed in soliciting the payment of debts.	
dunnish		Inclined to a dun color.	
dunnock	Dialect	The hedge sparrow or hedge accentor.	
dunny	English dialect	Deaf; stupid.	
dunted	Obsolete	Beaten; hence, blunted.	
dunter	Scott	A porpoise.	
duo		A composition for two performers; a duet.	
duodecahedral		See Dodecahedral, and Dodecahedron.	
duodecahedron		See Dodecahedral, and Dodecahedron.	
duodecennial		Consisting of twelve years.	
duodecimal		Proceeding in computation by twelves; expressed in the scale of twelves. -- Du`o*dec"i*mal*ly, adv.	
duodecimfid		Divided into twelve parts.	Latin duodecim.
duodecimo		Having twelve leaves to a sheet; as, a duodecimo from, book, leaf, size, etc. A book consisting of sheets each of which is folded into twelve leaves; hence, indicating, more or less definitely, a size of a book…	
duodecuple		Consisting of twelves.	
duodenal		Of or pertaining to the duodenum; as, duodenal digestion.	
duodenary		Containing twelve; twelvefold; increasing by twelves; duodecimal.	
duodenum		The part of the small intestines between the stomach and the jejunum. See Illust. of Digestive apparatus, under Digestive.	
duograph		A picture printed from two half-tone plates made with the screen set at different angles, and usually printed in two shades of the same color or in black and one tint.	
duoliteral		Consisting of two letters only; biliteral.	
duomo		Of tower or duomo, sunny sweet.	
duotone		Any picture printed in two shades of the same color, as duotypes and duographs are usually printed.	
duotype		A print made from two half-tone plates made from the same negative, but etched differently.	
dup	Obsolete	To open; as, to dup the door.	
dupable		Capable of being duped.	
dupe		One who has been deceived or who is easily deceived; a gull; as, the dupe of a schemer.	
duper		One who dupes another.	
dupery		The act or practice of duping.	
dupion		A double cocoon, made by two silkworms.	French doupion.
duplex		Double; twofold.	Latin duplex.
duplicate		Double; twofold.	Latin duplicatus.
duplication		The act of duplicating, or the state of being duplicated; a doubling; a folding over; a fold.	
duplicative		Having the quality of duplicating or doubling.	
duplicature		A doubling; a fold, as of a membrane.	
duplicity		Doubleness of heart or speech; insincerity; a sustained form of deception which consists in entertaining or pretending to entertain one of feelings, and acting as if influenced by another; bad faith.	
dupper		See 2d Dubber.	
dur		Major; in the major mode; as, C dur, that is, C major.	
dura		Short form for Dura mater.	
durability		The state or quality of being durable; the power of uninterrupted or long continuance in any condition; the power of resisting agents or influences which tend to cause changes, decay, or dissolution; lastingness.	
durable		Able to endure or continue in a particular condition; lasting; not perishable or changeable; not wearing out or decaying soon; enduring; as, durable cloth; durable happiness.	
durableness		Power of lasting, enduring, or resisting; durability.	
durably		In a lasting manner; with long continuance.	
dural		Pertaining to the dura, or dura mater.	
duramen		The heartwood of an exogenous tree.	Latin duramen.
durance		Imprisonment; restraint of the person; custody by a jailer; duress.	Old French durance.
durancy	Obsolete	Duration.	
durant		See Durance, 3.	
durante		During; as, durante vita, during life; durante bene placito, during pleasure.	
duration		The state or quality of lasting; continuance in time; the portion of time during which anything exists.	
durative		Continuing; not completed; implying duration.	
durbar		An audience hall; the court of a native prince; a state levee; a formal reception of native princes, given by the governor general of India.	
dure	Obsolete	Hard; harsh; severe; rough; toilsome.	Middle English duren, from Old French durer, from Latin durare.
dureful	Obsolete	Lasting.	
dureless	Obsolete	Not lasting.	
durene		A colorless, crystalline, aromatic hydrocarbon, C6H2(CH3)4, off artificial production, with an odor like camphor.	Latin durus.
duress		Hardship; constraint; pressure; imprisonment; restraint of liberty.	
duressor		One who subjects another to duress Bacon.	
durga		Same as Doorga.	
durham		One or a breed of short-horned cattle, originating in the county of Durham, England.	
durian		The fruit of the durio.	Malay (macrolanguage durian.
during		In the time of; as long as the action or existence of; as, during life; during the space of a year.	
durio		A fruit tree (D. zibethinus, the only species known) of the Indian Archipelago.	
durion		The fruit of the durio.	
durity		Hardness; firmness.	Latin duritas.
durometer		An instrument for measuring the degree of hardness; especially, an instrument for testing the relative hardness of steel rails and the like.	
durra		A kind of millet, cultivated throughout Asia, and introduced into the south of Europe; a variety of Sorghum vulgare; -- called also Indian millet, and Guinea corn.	
durst		of Dare. See Dare, v. i.	
durukuli		A small, nocturnal, South American monkey (Nyctipthecus trivirgatus).	
durylic		Pertaining to, allied to, or derived from, durene; as, durylic acid.	
duse		A demon or spirit. See Deuce.	
dusk		Tending to darkness or blackness; moderately dark or black; dusky.	Middle English dosk.
dusken		To make dusk or obscure.	
duskily		In a dusky manner.	
duskiness		The state of being dusky.	
duskish		Somewhat dusky. -- Dusk ish*ness, n.	
duskness		Duskiness.	
dusky		Partially dark or obscure; not luminous; dusk; as, a dusky valley.	
dust		Fine, dry particles of earth or other matter, so comminuted that they may be raised and wafted by the wind; that which is crumbled too minute portions; fine powder; as, clouds of dust; bone dust.	Middle English dust, from Old English dust.
dust-point		An old rural game.	
dustbrush		A brush of feathers, bristles, or hair, for removing dust from furniture.	
duster		One who, or that which, dusts; a utensil that frees from dust. Specifically: (a) (Paper Making) A revolving wire-cloth cylinder which removes the dust from rags…	
dustiness		The state of being dusty.	
dustless		Without dust; as a dustless path.	
dustman		One whose employment is to remove dirt and defuse.	
dustpan		A shovel-like utensil for conveying away dust brushed from the floor.	
dusty		Filled, covered, or sprinkled with dust; clouded with dust; as, a dusty table; also, reducing to dust.	
dutch	Slang	Pertaining to Holland, or to its inhabitants.	
dutchman		A native, or one of the people, of Holland.	
duteous		Fulfilling duty; dutiful; having the sentiments due to a superior, or to one to whom respect or service is owed; obedient; as, a duteous son or daughter.	
dutiable		Subject to the payment of a duty; as dutiable goods.	
dutied		Subjected to a duty.	
dutiful		Performing, or ready to perform, the duties required by one who has the right to claim submission, obedience, or deference; submissive to natural or legal superiors; obedient, as to parents or superiors; as…	
duty		That which a person is bound by moral obligation to do, or refrain from doing; that which one ought to do; service morally obligatory.	Middle English duete, from Old French deu, from Latin deus.
duumvir		One of two Roman officers or magistrates united in the same public functions.	
duumviral		Of or belonging to the duumviri or the duumvirate.	Latin duumviralis.
duumvirate		The union of two men in the same office; or the office, dignity, or government of two men thus associated, as in ancient Rome.	Latin duumviratus.
dux		The scholastic name for the theme or subject of a fugue, the answer being called the comes, or companion.	
duykerbok		A small South African antelope (Cephalous mergens); -- called also impoon, and deloo.	
duyoung		See Dugong — an aquatic herbivorous mammal (Halicore dugong), of the order Sirenia, allied to the manatee, but with a bilobed tail.	
