dyad		Two units treated as one; a couple; a pair.
dyadic		Pertaining to the number two; of two parts or elements.
dyaks		; sing. Dyak. (Ethnol.) The aboriginal and most numerous inhabitants of Borneo.
dyas		A name applied in Germany to the Permian formation, there consisting of two principal groups.
dye		To stain; to color; to give a new and permanent color to, as by the application of dyestuffs.
dyehouse		A building in which dyeing is carried on.
dyeing		The process or art of fixing coloring matters permanently and uniformly in the fibers of wool, cotton, etc.
dyer		One whose occupation is to dye cloth and the like.
dyestuff		A material used for dyeing.
dyewood		Any wood from which coloring matter is extracted for dyeing.
dying		In the act of dying; destined to death; mortal; perishable; as, dying bodies.
dyingly		In a dying manner; as if at the point of death.
dyingness		The state of dying or the stimulation of such a state; extreme languor; languishment.
dyke		See Dike — a ditch; a channel for water made by digging.
dynactinometer		An instrument for measuring the intensity of the photogenic (light-producing) rays, and computing the power of object glasses.
dynam		A unit of measure for dynamical effect or work; a foot pound. See Foot pound.
dynameter		(Opt.) An instrument for determining the magnifying power of telescopes…
dynametrical		Pertaining to a dynameter.
dynamic		Of or pertaining to dynamics; belonging to energy or power; characterized by energy or production of force.
dynamical		Of or pertaining to dynamics; belonging to energy or power; characterized by energy or production of force.
dynamically		In accordance with the principles of dynamics or moving forces.
dynamics		That branch of mechanics which treats of the motion of bodies (kinematics) and the action of forces in producing or changing their motion (kinetics).
dynamism		The doctrine of Leibnitz, that all substance involves force.
dynamist		One who accounts for material phenomena by a theory of dynamics.
dynamitard		A political dynamiter.
dynamite		An explosive substance consisting of nitroglycerin absorbed by some inert, porous solid, as infusorial earth, sawdust, etc. It is safer than nitroglycerin, being less liable to explosion from moderate shocks…
dynamiter		One who uses dynamite; esp., one who uses it for the destruction of life and property.
dynamiting		Destroying by dynamite, for political ends.
dynamitism		The work of dynamiters.
dynamization		The act of setting free the dynamic powers of a medicine, as by shaking the bottle containing it.
dynamo		A dynamo-electric machine.
dynamo-electric		Pertaining to the development of electricity, especially electrical currents, by power; producing electricity or electrical currents by mechanical power.
dynamograph		A dynamometer to which is attached a device for automatically registering muscular power.
dynamometer		An apparatus for measuring force or power; especially, muscular effort of men or animals, or the power developed by a motor, or that required to operate machinery.
dynamometric		Relating to a dynamometer, or to the measurement of force doing work; as, dynamometrical instruments.
dynamometrical		Relating to a dynamometer, or to the measurement of force doing work; as, dynamometrical instruments.
dynamometry		The art or process of measuring forces doing work.
dynast		A ruler; a governor; a prince.
dynasta	Obsolete	A tyrant.
dynastic		Of or relating to a dynasty or line of kings.
dynastical		Dynastic.
dynastidan		One of a group of gigantic, horned beetles, including Dynastus Neptunus, and the Hercules beetle (D.
dynasty		Sovereignty; lordship; dominion.
dyne		The unit of force, in the C.
dys-		An inseparable prefix, fr. the Greek ill, bad, hard, difficult, and the like; cf. the prefixes, Skr. dus-, Goth. tuz-, OHG. zur-, G. zer-, AS. to-, Icel. tor-, Ir. do-.
dysaesthesia		Impairment of any of the senses, esp. of touch.
dyscrasia		An ill habit or state of the constitution; -- formerly regarded as dependent on a morbid condition of the blood and humors.
dyscrasite		A mineral consisting of antimony and silver.
dyscrasy		Dycrasia.
dysenteric		Of or pertaining to dysentery; having dysentery; as, a dysenteric patient.
dysenterical		Of or pertaining to dysentery; having dysentery; as, a dysenteric patient.
dysentery		A disease attended with inflammation and ulceration of the colon and rectum, and characterized by griping pains, constant desire to evacuate the bowels, and the discharge of mucus and blood.
dysgenesic		Not procreating or breeding freely; as, one race may be dysgenesic with respect to another.
dysgenesis		A condition of not generating or breeding freely; infertility; a form homogenesis in which the hybrids are sterile among themselves, but are fertile with members of either parent race.
dyslogistic		Unfavorable; not commendatory; -- opposed to eulogistic.
dysluite		A variety of the zinc spinel or gahnite.
dyslysin		A resinous substance formed in the decomposition of cholic acid of bile; -- so called because it is difficult to solve.
dysmenorrhea		Difficult and painful menstruation.
dysnomy		Bad legislation; the enactment of bad laws.
dysodile		An impure earthy or coaly bitumen, which emits a highly fetid odor when burning.
dyspepsia		A kind of indigestion; a state of the stomach in which its functions are disturbed, without the presence of other diseases, or, if others are present, they are of minor importance.
dyspepsy		A kind of indigestion; a state of the stomach in which its functions are disturbed, without the presence of other diseases, or, if others are present, they are of minor importance.
dyspeptic		Pertaining to dyspepsia; having dyspepsia; as, a dyspeptic or dyspeptical symptom.
dyspeptical		Pertaining to dyspepsia; having dyspepsia; as, a dyspeptic or dyspeptical symptom.
dyspeptone		An insoluble albuminous body formed from casein and other proteid substances by the action of gastric juice.
dysphagia		Difficulty in swallowing.
dysphagy		Difficulty in swallowing.
dysphonia		A difficulty in producing vocal sounds; enfeebled or depraved voice.
dysphony		A difficulty in producing vocal sounds; enfeebled or depraved voice.
dysphoria		Impatience under affliction; morbid restlessness; dissatisfaction; the fidgets.
dyspnea		Difficulty of breathing.
dyspnoea		Difficulty of breathing.
dyspnoic		Affected with shortness of breath; relating to dyspn
dysprosium		An element of the rare earth-group.
dysteleology		The doctrine of purposelessness; a term applied by Haeckel to that branch of physiology which treats of rudimentary organs, in view of their being useless to the life of the organism.
dystocia		Difficult delivery pr parturition.
dystome		Cleaving with difficulty.
dysuria		Difficult or painful discharge of urine.
dysuric		Pertaining to, or afflicted with, dysury.
dysury		Difficult or painful discharge of urine.
