each		Every one of the two or more individuals composing a number of objects, considered separately from the rest.	Middle English eche, from Old English ælc.
eachwhere	Obsolete	Everywhere.	
eadish		See Eddish — aftermath; also, stubble and stubble field. See Arrish.	
eager		Excited by desire in the pursuit of any object; ardent to pursue, perform, or obtain; keenly desirous; hotly longing; earnest; zealous; impetuous; vehement; as, the hounds were eager in the chase.	Middle English eger, from Old French egre.
eagerly		In an eager manner.	
eagerness		The state or quality of being eager; ardent desire.	
eagle		(Zoöl.) Any large, rapacious bird of the Falcon family, esp. of the genera Aquila and Haliæetus.	Middle English egle, from Anglo-Norman egle, from Old French aigle, from Latin aquila.
eagle-eyed		Sharp-sighted as an eagle.	
eagle-sighted		Farsighted and strong-sighted; sharp-sighted.	
eagle-winged		Having the wings of an eagle; swift, or soaring high, like an eagle.	
eagless		A female or hen eagle.	
eaglestone		A concretionary nodule of clay ironstone, of the size of a walnut or larger, so called by the ancients, who believed that the eagle transported these stones to her nest to facilitate the laying of her eggs; aëtites.	
eaglet		A young eagle, or a diminutive eagle.	
eaglewood		A kind of fragrant wood. See Agallochum.	
eagrass	Obsolete	See Eddish — aftermath; also, stubble and stubble field. See Arrish.	
eagre		A wave, or two or three successive waves, of great height and violence, at flood tide moving up an estuary or river; -- commonly called the bore.	Old English eágor.
ealderman	Obsolete	An alderman.	
ealdorman	Obsolete	An alderman.	
ean		To bring forth, as young; to yean.	Middle English enen, from Old English eanian.
eanling		A lamb just brought forth; a yeanling.	
ear		The organ of hearing; the external ear.	Middle English ere.
ear-bored		Having the ear perforated.	
ear-minded		Thinking chiefly or most readily through, or in terms related to, the sense of hearing; specif., thinking words as spoken, as a result of familiarity with speech or of mental peculiarity; -- opposed to eye-minded.	
ear-piercer		The earwig.	
ear-shell		A flattened marine univalve shell of the genus Haliotis; -- called also sea-ear.	
ear-splitting		Deafening; disagreeably loud or shrill; as, ear-splitting strains.	
earable	Archaic	Arable; tillable.	
earache		Ache or pain in the ear.	
earal	Obsolete	Receiving by the ear.	
earcap		A cap or cover to protect the ear from cold.	
earcockle		A disease in wheat, in which the blackened and contracted grain, or ear, is filled with minute worms.	
eardrop		A pendant for the ear; an earring; as, a pair of eardrops.	
eardrum		The tympanum. See Illust. of Ear.	
eared		Having (such or so many) ears; -- used in composition; as, long- eared-eared; sharp-eared; full-eared; ten-eared.	
eariness		Fear or timidity, especially of something supernatural.	
earing	Archaic	(a) A line used to fasten the upper corners of a sail to the yard or gaff; -- also called head earing.	
earl		A nobleman of England ranking below a marquis, and above a viscount.	Middle English erl, from Old English eorl.
earlap		The lobe of the ear.	
earldom		The jurisdiction of an earl; the territorial possessions of an earl.	
earldorman	Obsolete	Alderman.	
earlduck		The red-breasted merganser (Merganser serrator).	
earless		Without ears; hence, deaf or unwilling to hear.	
earlet	Obsolete	An earring.	
earliness		The state of being early or forward; promptness.	
earlock		A lock or curl of hair near the ear; a lovelock. See Lovelock.	
early		Soon; in good season; seasonably; betimes; as, come early.	Middle English erly.
earmark		A mark on the ear of sheep, oxen, dogs, etc., as by cropping or slitting.	
earn		To merit or deserve, as by labor or service; to do that which entitles one to (a reward, whether the reward is received or not).	
earnest		Seriousness; reality; fixed determination; eagerness; intentness.	Middle English eornest, from Old English eornoste.
earnestful	Obsolete	Serious.	
earnestly		In an earnest manner.	
earnestness		The state or quality of being earnest; intentness; anxiety.	
earnful	Obsolete	Full of anxiety or yearning.	
earning		That which is earned; wages gained by work or services; money earned; -- used commonly in the plural.	
earpick		An instrument for removing wax from the ear.	
earreach		Earshot.	
earring		An ornament consisting of a ring passed through the lobe of the ear, with or without a pendant.	
earsh		See Arrish — the stubble of wheat or grass; a stubble field; eddish.	
earshot		Reach of the ear; distance at which words may be heard.	
earshrift	Obsolete	A nickname for auricular confession; shrift.	
earsore		An annoyance to the ear.	
earst	Obsolete	See Erst — previously; before; formerly; heretofore.	
earth		The globe or planet which we inhabit; the world, in distinction from the sun, moon, or stars.	Middle English erthe, from Old English eorþe.
earth-tongue		A fungus of the genus Geoglossum.	
earthbag		A bag filled with earth, used commonly to raise or repair a parapet.	
earthbank		A bank or mound of earth.	
earthboard		The part of a plow, or other implement, that turns over the earth; the moldboard.	
earthborn		Born of the earth; terrigenous; springing originally from the earth; human.	
earthbred		Low; grovelling; vulgar.	
earthdin	Obsolete	An earthquake.	Middle English erthedine.
earthdrake		A mythical monster of the early Anglo-Saxon literature; a dragon.	Old English eorþdraca.
earthen		Made of earth; made of burnt or baked clay, or other like substances; as, an earthen vessel or pipe.	
earthen-hearted	Poetic	Hard-hearted; sordid; gross.	
earthenware		Vessels and other utensils, ornaments, or the like, made of baked clay.	
earthfork		A pronged fork for turning up the earth.	
earthiness		The quality or state of being earthy, or of containing earth; hence, grossness.	
earthlight		The sunlight reflected from the earth to the moon, by which we see faintly, when the moon is near the sun (either before or after new moon), that part of the moon's disk unillumined by direct sunlight, or	
earthliness		The quality or state of being earthly; worldliness; grossness; perishableness.	
earthling		An inhabitant of the earth; a mortal.	
earthly		Pertaining to the earth; belonging to this world, or to man's existence on the earth; not heavenly or spiritual; carnal; worldly; as, earthly joys; earthly flowers; earthly praise.	Old English eorþlic.
earthly-minded		Having a mind devoted to earthly things; worldly-minded; -- opposed to spiritual-minded. -- Earth"ly-mind`ed*ness, n.	
earthmad	Obsolete	The earthworm.	
earthnut		A name given to various roots, tubers, or pods grown under or on the ground; as to: (a) The esculent tubers of the umbelliferous plants Bunium flexuosum and Carum Bulbocastanum.	
earthpea		A species of pea (Amphicarpæa monoica).	
earthquake		A shaking, trembling, or concussion of the earth, due to subterranean causes, often accompanied by a rumbling noise.	Middle English ertheqwake.
earthquave		An earthquake.	
earthshock		An earthquake.	
earthstar		A curious fungus of the genus Geaster, in which the outer coating splits into the shape of a star, and the inner one forms a ball containing the dustlike spores.	
earthward		Toward the earth; -- opposed to heavenward or skyward.	
earthwards		Toward the earth; -- opposed to heavenward or skyward.	
earthwork		(Mil.) Any construction, whether a temporary breastwork or permanent fortification, for attack or defense, the material of which is chiefly earth.	
earthworm		(Zoöl.) Any worm of the genus Lumbricus and allied genera, found in damp soil.	
earthy		Consisting of, or resembling, earth; terrene; earthlike; as, earthy matter.	
earwax		See Cerumen — the yellow, waxlike secretion from the glands of the external ear; the earwax.	
earwig		(Zoöl.) Any insect of the genus Forticula and related genera, belonging to the order Euplexoptera.	Middle English erwigge, from Old English êarwicga.
earwitness		A witness by means of his ears; one who is within hearing and does hear; a hearer.	
ease		Freedom from anything that pains or troubles; as: (a) Relief from labor or effort; rest; quiet; relaxation; as, ease of body.	Middle English ese.
easeful		Full of ease; suitable for affording ease or rest; quiet; comfortable; restful.	
easel		A frame (commonly) of wood serving to hold a canvas upright, or nearly upright, for the painter's convenience or for exhibition.	
easeless		Without ease.	
easement		That which gives ease, relief, or assistance; convenience; accommodation.	Old French aisement.
easily		With ease; without difficulty or much effort; as, this task may be easily performed; that event might have been easily foreseen.	
easiness		The state or condition of being easy; freedom from distress; rest.	
east		The point in the heavens where the sun is seen to rise at the equinox, or the corresponding point on the earth…	Middle English est, from Old English east.
east-insular		Relating to the Eastern Islands; East Indian.	
easter		An annual church festival commemorating Christ's resurrection, and occurring on Sunday, the second day after Good Friday.	
easterling		A native of a country eastward of another; -- used, by the English, of traders or others from the coasts of the Baltic.	
easterly		Coming from the east; as, it was easterly wind.	
eastern		Situated or dwelling in the east; oriental; as, an eastern gate; Eastern countries.	Middle English esterne, from Old English easterne.
easternmost		Most eastern.	
easting		The distance measured toward the east between two meridians drawn through the extremities of a course; distance of departure eastward made by a vessel.	
eastward		Toward the east; in the direction of east from some point or place; as, New Haven lies eastward from New York.	
eastwards		Toward the east; in the direction of east from some point or place; as, New Haven lies eastward from New York.	
easy		At ease; free from pain, trouble, or constraint; as: (a) Free from pain, distress, toil, exertion, and the like; quiet; as, the patient is easy.	Middle English esy.
easy-chair		An armichair for ease or repose.	
easy-going		Moving easily; hence, mild-tempered; ease-loving; inactive.	
eat		To chew and swallow as food; to devour; -- said especially of food not liquid; as, to eat bread. iv. 25.	Middle English eten, from Old English etan.
eatable		Capable of being eaten; fit to be eaten; proper for food; esculent; edible. -- n.	
eatage		Eatable growth of grass for horses and cattle, esp. that of aftermath.	
eater		One who, or that which, eats.	
eath	Obsolete	Easy or easily.	Middle English ethe, from Old English eaþe.
eating		The act of tasking food; the act of consuming or corroding.	
eavedrop		A drop from the eaves; eavesdrop.	
eaves		(Arch.) The edges or lower borders of the roof of a building, which overhang the walls, and cast off the water that falls on the roof.	
eavesdrop		To stand under the eaves, near a window or at the door, of a house, to listen and learn what is said within doors; hence, to listen secretly to what is said in private.	
eavesdropper		One who stands under the eaves, or near the window or door of a house, to listen; hence, a secret listener.	
eavesdropping		The habit of lurking about dwelling houses, and other places where persons meet fro private intercourse, secretly listening to what is said, and then tattling it abroad.	
