ebb		The European bunting.
ebionite		One of a sect of heretics, in the first centuries of the church, whose doctrine was a mixture of Judaism and Christianity.
ebionitism		The system or doctrine of the Ebionites.
eblanin		See Pyroxanthin — a yellow crystalline hydrocardon extracted from crude wood spirit; -- called also eblanin.
eblis		The prince of the evil spirits; Satan.
ebon	Poetic	Like ebony, especially in color; black; dark.
ebonist		One who works in ebony.
ebonite		A hard, black variety of vulcanite.
ebonize		To make black, or stain black, in imitation of ebony; as, to ebonize wood.
ebony		A hard, heavy, and durable wood, which admits of a fine polish or gloss.
ebracteate		Without bracts.
ebracteolate		Without bracteoles, or little bracts; -- said of a pedicel or flower stalk.
ebriety		Drunkenness; intoxication by spirituous liquors; inebriety.
ebrillade		A bridle check; a jerk of one rein, given to a horse when he refuses to turn.
ebriosity		Addiction to drink; habitual drunkenness.
ebrious		Inclined to drink to excess; intoxicated; tipsy.
ebulliate	Obsolete	To boil or bubble up.
ebullience		A boiling up or over; effervescence.
ebulliency		A boiling up or over; effervescence.
ebullient		Boiling up or over; hence, manifesting exhilaration or excitement, as of feeling; effervescing.
ebullioscope		An instrument for observing the boiling point of liquids, especially for determining the alcoholic strength of a mixture by the temperature at which it boils.
ebullition		A boiling or bubbling up of a liquid; the motion produced in a liquid by its rapid conversion into vapor.
eburin		A composition of dust of ivory or of bone with a cement; -- used for imitations of valuable stones and in making moldings, seals, etc. Knight.
eburnation		A condition of bone cartilage occurring in certain diseases of these tissues, in which they acquire an unnatural density, and come to resemble ivory.
eburnean		Made of or relating to ivory.
eburnification		The conversion of certain substances into others which have the appearance or characteristics of ivory.
eburnine		Of or pertaining to ivory.
