ecardines		An order of Brachiopoda; the Lyopomata. See Brachiopoda.	
ecarte		A game at cards, played usually by two persons, in which the players may discard any or all of the cards dealt and receive others from the pack.	French écarté.
ecaudate		(Bot.) Without a tail or spur.	
ecballium		A genus of cucurbitaceous plants consisting of the single species Ecballium agreste (or Elaterium), the squirting cucumber.	
ecbasis		A figure in which the orator treats of things according to their events consequences.	
ecbatic		Denoting a mere result or consequence, as distinguished from telic, which denotes intention or purpose; thus the phrase so that it was fulfilled, in order that it might be." etc., is telic.	
ecbole		A digression in which a person is introduced speaking his own words.	
ecbolic		A drug, as ergot, which by exciting uterine contractions promotes the expulsion of the contents of the uterus.	
ecboline		An alkaloid constituting the active principle of ergot; -- so named from its power of producing abortion.	
eccaleobion		A contrivance for hatching eggs by artificial heat.	
eccentric		Deviating or departing from the center, or from the line of a circle; as, an eccentric or elliptical orbit; pertaining to deviation from the center or from true circular motion.	Latin eccentricus, from Greek ἔκκεντρος.
eccentrical		See Eccentric — deviating or departing from the center, or from the line of a circle; as, an eccentric or elliptical orbit; pertaining to deviation from the center or from true circular motion.	
eccentrically		In an eccentric manner.	
eccentricity		The state of being eccentric; deviation from the customary line of conduct; oddity.	
ecchymose		To discolor by the production of an ecchymosis, or effusion of blood, beneath the skin; -- chiefly used in the passive form; as, the parts were much ecchymosed.	
ecchymosis		A livid or black and blue spot, produced by the extravasation or effusion of blood into the areolar tissue from a contusion.	
ecchymotic		Pertaining to ecchymosis.	
eccle	English dialect	The European green woodpecker; -- also called ecall, eaquall, yaffle.	
ecclesia		(Gr. Antiq.) The public legislative assembly of the Athenians.	Latin ecclesia, from Greek ἐκκλησία.
ecclesial	Obsolete	Ecclesiastical.	
ecclesiarch		An official of the Eastern Church, resembling a sacrist in the Western Church.	Latin ecclesiarcha.
ecclesiast	Obsolete	The Apocryphal book of Ecclesiasticus.	
ecclesiastes		One of the canonical books of the Old Testament.	
ecclesiastic		Of or pertaining to the church. See Ecclesiastical.	Latin ecclesia, from Greek ἐκκλησία.
ecclesiastical		Of or pertaining to the church; relating to the organization or government of the church; not secular; as, ecclesiastical affairs or history; ecclesiastical courts.	
ecclesiastically		In an ecclesiastical manner; according ecclesiastical rules.	
ecclesiasticism		Strong attachment to ecclesiastical usages, forms, etc.	
ecclesiasticus		A book of the Apocrypha.	
ecclesiological		Belonging to ecclesiology.	
ecclesiologist		One versed in ecclesiology.	
ecclesiology		The science or theory of church building and decoration.	
eccritic		A remedy which promotes discharges, as an emetic, or a cathartic.	
ecderon		See Ecteron. -- Ec`der*on"ic, a.	
ecdysis		The act of shedding, or casting off, an outer cuticular layer, as in the case of serpents, lobsters, etc.; a coming out; as, the ecdysis of the pupa from its shell; exuviation.	Greek ἔκδυσις.
ecgonine		A colorless, crystalline, nitrogenous base, obtained by the decomposition of cocaine.	
echauguette		A small chamber or place of protection for a sentinel, usually in the form of a projecting turret, or the like.	
echelon		(Mil.) An arrangement of a body of troops when its divisions are drawn up in parallel lines each to the right or the left of the one in advance of it, like the steps of a ladder in position for climbing.	French échelon.
echidna		(Gr. Myth.) A monster, half maid and half serpent.	
echidnine		The clear, viscid fluid secreted by the poison glands of certain serpents; also, a nitrogenous base contained in this, and supposed to be the active poisonous principle of the virus.	
echinate		Set with prickles; prickly, like a hedgehog; bristled; as, an echinated pericarp.	
echinated		Set with prickles; prickly, like a hedgehog; bristled; as, an echinated pericarp.	
echinid		Same as Echinoid.	
echinidan		One the Echinoidea.	
echinital		Of, or like, an echinite.	
echinite		A fossil echinoid.	
echinococcus		A parasite of man and of many domestic and wild animals, forming compound cysts or tumors (called hydatid cysts) in various organs, but especially in the liver and lungs, which often cause death.	
echinoderm		One of the Echinodermata.	
echinodermal		Relating or belonging to the echinoderms.	
echinodermata		One of the grand divisions of the animal kingdom.	
echinodermatous		Relating to Echinodermata; echinodermal.	
echinoid		Of or pertaining to the Echinoidea. -- n.	
echinoidea		The class Echinodermata which includes the sea urchins.	
echinozoa		The Echinodermata.	
echinulate		Set with small spines or prickles.	Latin echinulus.
echinus		(Zoöl.) A genus of echinoderms, including the common edible sea urchin of Europe.	
echiuroidea		A division of Annelida which includes the genus Echiurus and allies.	
echo		A sound reflected from an opposing surface and repeated to the ear of a listener; repercussion of sound; repetition of a sound.	Latin echo, from Greek ἠχώ.
echoer		One who, or that which, echoes.	
echoless		Without echo or response.	
echometer		A graduated scale for measuring the duration of sounds, and determining their different, and the relation of their intervals.	
echometry		The art of measuring the duration of sounds or echoes.	
echon	Obsolete	Each one.	
echoon	Obsolete	Each one.	
echopathy		A morbid condition characterized by automatic and purposeless repetition of words or imitation of actions.	
echoscope		An instrument for intensifying sounds produced by percussion of the thorax.	
eclair		A kind of frosted cake, containing flavored cream.	
eclaircise		To make clear; to clear up what is obscure or not understood; to explain.	
eclaircissement		The clearing up of anything which is obscure or not easily understood; an explanation.	French éclaircissement.
eclampsia		A fancied perception of flashes of light, a symptom of epilepsy; hence, epilepsy itself; convulsions.	
eclampsy		Same as Eclampsia.	
eclat		Brilliancy of success or effort; splendor; brilliant show; striking effect; glory; renown.	
eclectic		Selecting; choosing (what is true or excellent in doctrines, opinions, etc.) from various sources or systems; as, an eclectic philosopher.	French éclectique, from Greek ἐκλεκτικός.
eclectically		In an eclectic manner; by an eclectic method.	
eclecticism		Theory or practice of an eclectic.	
eclegm		A medicine made by mixing oils with sirups.	
eclipse		(Astron.) An interception or obscuration of the light of the sun, moon, or other luminous body, by the intervention of some other body, either between it and the eye, or between the luminous body and that illuminated by it.	Latin eclipsis, from Greek ἔκλειψις.
ecliptic		(Astron.) A great circle of the celestial sphere, making an angle with the equinoctial of about 23º 28'.	
eclogite		A rock consisting of granular red garnet, light green smaragdite, and common hornblende; -- so called in reference to its beauty.	Greek ἐκλογή.
eclogue		A pastoral poem, in which shepherds are introduced conversing with each other; a bucolic; an idyl; as, the Ecloques of Virgil, from which the modern usage of the word has been established.	
economic		Pertaining to the household; domestic.	
economical		Pertaining to the household; domestic.	
economically		With economy; with careful management; with prudence in expenditure.	
economics		The science of household affairs, or of domestic management.	
economist		One who economizes, or manages domestic or other concerns with frugality; one who expends money, time, or labor, judiciously, and without waste.	Middle French économiste.
economization		The act or practice of using to the best effect.	
economize		To manage with economy; to use with prudence; to expend with frugality; as, to economize one's income.	
economizer		One who, or that which, economizes.	
economy		The management of domestic affairs; the regulation and government of household matters; especially as they concern expense or disbursement; as, a careful economy.	Latin oeconomia, from Greek οἰκονομία.
ecorche		A manikin, or image, representing an animal, especially man, with the skin removed so that the muscles are exposed for purposes of study.	
ecossaise		A dancing tune in the Scotch style.	
ecostate		Having no ribs or nerves; -- said of a leaf.	
ecoute		One of the small galleries run out in front of the glacis.	
ecphasis		An explicit declaration.	
ecphonema		A breaking out with some interjectional particle.	
ecphoneme		A mark (!) used to indicate an exclamation.	
ecphonesis		An animated or passionate exclamation.	Greek ἐκφώνησις.
ecphractic		Serving to dissolve or attenuate viscid matter, and so to remove obstructions; deobstruent. -- n.	
ecrasement		The operation performed with an écraseur.	
ecraseur		An instrument intended to replace the knife in many operations, the parts operated on being severed by the crushing effect produced by the gradual tightening of a steel chain, so that hemorrhage rarely follows.	French écraseur.
ecru		Having the color or appearance of unbleached stuff, as silk, linen, or the like.	French écru.
ecstasy		The state of being beside one's self or rapt out of one's self; a state in which the mind is elevated above the reach of ordinary impressions, as when under the influence of overpowering emotion…	Greek ἔκστασις.
ecstatic		Pertaining to, or caused by, ecstasy or excessive emotion; of the nature, or in a state, of ecstasy; as, ecstatic gaze; ecstatic trance.	
ecstatical		Tending to external objects.	
ecstatically		Rapturously; ravishingly.	
ect-		A combining form signifying without, outside, external.	
ectad		Toward the outside or surface; -- opposed to entad.	
ectal		Pertaining to, or situated near, the surface; outer; -- opposed to ental.	
ectasia		A dilatation of a hollow organ or of a canal.	
ectasis		The lengthening of a syllable from short to long.	
ectental		Relating to, or connected with, the two primitive germ layers, the ectoderm and ectoderm; as, the or line of juncture of the two layers in the segmentation of the ovum.	
ecteron		The external layer of the skin and mucous membranes; epithelium; ecderon. -- Ec`ter*on"ic, a.	
ectethmoid		External to the ethmoid; prefrontal.	
ecthlipsis		The dropping out or suppression from a word of a consonant, with or without a vowel.	
ecthoreum		The slender, hollow thread of a nettling cell or cnida. See Nettling cell.	
ecthyma		A cutaneous eruption, consisting of large, round pustules, upon an indurated and inflamed base.	
ecto-		A combining form signifying without, outside, external. See Ect-.	
ectoblast		(a) The outer layer of the blastoderm; the epiblast; the ectoderm. (b) The outer envelope of a cell; the cell wall.	
ectobronchium		One of the dorsal branches of the main bronchi in the lungs of birds.	
ectocuneriform		One of the bones of the tarsus. See Cuneiform.	
ectocuniform		One of the bones of the tarsus. See Cuneiform.	
ectocyst		The outside covering of the Bryozoa.	
ectoderm		(a) The outer layer of the blastoderm; epiblast. (b) The external skin or outer layer of an animal or plant, this being formed in an animal from the epiblast.	
ectodermal		Of or relating to the ectoderm.	
ectodermic		Of or relating to the ectoderm.	
ectolecithal		Having the food yolk, at the commencement of segmentation, in a peripheral position, and the cleavage process confined to the center of the egg; as, ectolecithal ova.	
ectomere		The more transparent cells, which finally become external, in many segmenting ova, as those of mammals.	
ectoparasite		Any parasite which lives on the exterior of animals; -- opposed to endoparasite. -- Ec`to*par`a*sit"ic, a.	
ectopia		A morbid displacement of parts, especially such as is congenial; as, ectopia of the heart, or of the bladder.	
ectopic		Out of place; congenitally displaced; as, an ectopic organ.	Greek ἐκτόπιος.
ectoplasm		(a) The outer transparent layer of protoplasm in a developing ovum. (b) The outer hyaline layer of protoplasm in a vegetable cell.	
ectoplastic		Pertaining to, or composed of, ectoplasm.	
ectoprocta		An order of Bryozoa in which the anus lies outside the circle of tentacles.	
ectopy		Same as Ectopia.	
ectorganism		An external parasitic organism.	
ectosarc		The semisolid external layer of protoplasm in some unicellular organisms, as the amoeba; ectoplasm; exoplasm.	
ectosteal		Of or pertaining to ectostosis; as, ectosteal ossification.	
ectostosis		A process of bone formation in which ossification takes place in the perichondrium and either surrounds or gradually replaces the cartilage.	
ectozoic		See Epizoic — living upon the exterior of another animal; ectozoic; -- said of external parasites.	
ectozooen		See Epizoön.	
ectozoon		See Epizoön.	
ectropion		An unnatural eversion of the eyelids.	
ectropium		Same as Ectropion.	
ectrotic		Having a tendency to prevent the development of anything, especially of a disease.	
ectypal		Copied, reproduced as a molding or cast, in contradistinction from the original model.	
ectype		(Classical Archæol.) (a) A copy, as in pottery, of an artist's original work.	
ectypography		A method of etching in which the design upon the plate is produced in relief.	
ecumenic		General; universal; in ecclesiastical usage, that which concerns the whole church; as, an ecumenical council.	Latin oecumenicus, from Greek οἰκουμενικός.
ecumenical		General; universal; in ecclesiastical usage, that which concerns the whole church; as, an ecumenical council.	
ecurie		A stable.	
eczema		An inflammatory disease of the skin, characterized by the presence of redness and itching, an eruption of small vesicles, and the discharge of a watery exudation, which often dries up, leaving the skin covered with crusts…	Greek ἔκζεμα.
eczematous		Pertaining to eczema; having the characteristic of eczema.	
