edacious		Given to eating; voracious; devouring.
edacity		Greediness; voracity; ravenousness; rapacity.
edam		A Dutch pressed cheese of yellow color and fine flavor, made in balls weighing three or four pounds, and usually colored crimson outside; -- so called from the village of Edam, near Amsterdam.
edda		The religious or mythological book of the old Scandinavian tribes of German origin, containing two collections of Sagas (legends, myths) of the old northern gods and heroes.
eddaic		Relating to the Eddas; resembling the Eddas.
edder	English dialect	An adder or serpent.
eddic		Relating to the Eddas; resembling the Eddas.
eddish		Aftermath; also, stubble and stubble field. See Arrish.
eddoes		The tubers of Colocasia antiquorum. See Taro.
eddy		A current of air or water running back, or in a direction contrary to the main current.
edelweiss		A little, perennial, white, woolly plant (Leontopodium alpinum), growing at high elevations in the Alps.
edema		Same as oedema.
edematose		Same as oedematous.
edematous		Same as oedematous.
eden		The garden where Adam and Eve first dwelt; hence, a delightful region or residence.
edenic		Of or pertaining to Eden; paradisaic.
edenite		A variety of amphibole. See Amphibole.
edenized		Admitted to a state of paradisaic happiness.
edental		See Edentate, a. -- n. (Zoöl.) One of the Edentata.
edentalous		See Edentate, a.
edentata		An order of mammals including the armadillos, sloths, and anteaters; -- called also Bruta.
edentate		Destitute of teeth; as, an edentate quadruped; an edentate leaf.
edentated		Same as Edentate, a.
edentation		A depriving of teeth.
edentulous		Toothless.
edge		The thin cutting side of the blade of an instrument; as, the edge of an ax, knife, sword, or scythe.
edgebone		Same as Aitchbone.
edgeless		Without an edge; not sharp; blunt; obtuse; as, an edgeless sword or weapon.
edgelong	Obsolete	In the direction of the edge.
edgeshot		Having an edge planed, -- said of a board.
edgeways		With the edge towards anything; in the direction of the edge.
edgewise		With the edge towards anything; in the direction of the edge.
edging		That which forms an edge or border, as the fringe, trimming, etc., of a garment, or a border in a garden.
edgingly		Gradually; gingerly.
edgy		Easily irritated; sharp; as, an edgy temper.
edh		The name of the Anglo-Saxon letter edh, capital form th in a similar word: oedher, other, dôedh, doth." March.
edibility		Suitableness for being eaten; edibleness.
edible		Fit to be eaten as food; eatable; esculent; as, edible fishes.
edibleness		Suitableness for being eaten.
edict		A public command or ordinance by the sovereign power; the proclamation of a law made by an absolute authority, as if by the very act of announcement; a decree; as, the edicts of the Roman emperors…
edictal		Relating to, or consisting of, edicts; as, the Roman edictal law.
edificant		Building; constructing.
edification		The act of edifying, or the state of being edified; a building up, especially in a moral or spiritual sense; moral, intellectual, or spiritual improvement; instruction.
edificatory		Tending to edification.
edifice		A building; a structure; an architectural fabric; -- chiefly applied to elegant houses, and other large buildings; as, a palace, a church, a statehouse.
edificial		Pertaining to an edifice; structural.
edifier		One who edifies, builds up, or strengthens another by moral or religious instruction.
edify		To instruct and improve, especially in moral and religious knowledge; to teach.
edifying		Instructing; improving; as, an edifying conversation. -- Ed i*fy`ing*ness, n.
edile		See Ædile.
edileship		The office of ædile.
edingtonite		A grayish white zeolitic mineral, in tetragonal crystals.
edit		To superintend the publication of; to revise and prepare for publication; to select, correct, arrange, etc., the matter of, for publication; as, to edit a newspaper.
edition		A literary work edited and published, as by a certain editor or in a certain manner; as, a good edition of Chaucer; Chalmers' edition of Shakespeare.
editioner	Obsolete	An editor.
editor		One who edits; esp., a person who prepares, superintends, revises, and corrects a book, magazine, or newspaper, etc., for publication.
editorial		Of or pertaining to an editor; written or sanctioned by an editor; as, editorial labors; editorial remarks. editorial content A leading article in a newspaper or magazine; an editorial article…
editorially		In the manner or character of an editor or of an editorial article.
editorship		The office or charge of an editor; care and superintendence of a publication.
editress		A female editor.
edituate	Obsolete	To guard as a churchwarden does.
edomite		One of the descendants of Esau or Edom, the brother of Jacob; an Idumean.
edriophthalma		A group of Crustacea in which the eyes are without stalks; the Arthrostraca.
edriophthalmous		Pertaining to the Edriophthalma.
educability		Capability of being educated.
educable		Capable of being educated.
educate		To bring as, to educate a child; to educate the eye or the taste.
educated		Formed or developed by education; as, an educated man.
education		The act or process of educating; the result of educating, as determined by the knowledge skill, or discipline of character, acquired; also…
educational		Of or pertaining to education.
educationist		One who is versed in the theories of, or who advocates and promotes, education.
educative		Tending to educate; that gives education; as, an educative process; an educative experience.
educator		One who educates; a teacher.
educe		To bring or draw out; to cause to appear; to produce against counter agency or influence; to extract; to evolve; as, to educe a form from matter.
educible		Capable of being educed.
educt		That which is educed, as by analysis.
eduction		The act of drawing out or bringing into view.
eductive		Tending to draw out; extractive.
eductor		One who, or that which, brings forth, elicits, or extracts.
edulcorant		Having a tendency to purify or to sweeten by removing or correcting acidity and acrimony.
edulcorate		To render sweet; to sweeten; to free from acidity.
edulcoration		(Chem.) The act of freeing from acids or any soluble substances, by affusions of water.
edulcorative		Tending to
edulcorator		A contrivance used to supply small quantities of sweetened liquid, water, etc., to any mixture, or to test tubes, etc.; a dropping bottle.
