effable		Capable of being uttered or explained; utterable.
efface		To cause to disappear (as anything impresses or inscribed upon a surface) by rubbing out, striking out, etc.; to erase; to render illegible or indiscernible; as, to efface the letters on a monument, or the inscription on a coin.
effaceable		Capable of being effaced.
effacement		The act if effacing; also, the result of the act.
effascinate	Obsolete	To charm; to bewitch.
effascination	Obsolete	A charming; state of being bewitched or deluded.
effect		Execution; performance; realization; operation; as, the law goes into effect in May.
effecter		One who effects.
effectible		Capable of being done or achieved; practicable; feasible.
effection		Creation; a doing.
effective		Having the power to produce an effect or effects; producing a decided or decisive effect; efficient; serviceable; operative; as, an effective force, remedy, speech; the effective men in a regiment.
effectively		With effect; powerfully; completely; thoroughly.
effectiveness		The quality of being effective.
effectless		Without effect or advantage; useless; bootless.
effector		An effecter.
effectual		Producing, or having adequate power or force to produce, an intended effect; adequate; efficient; operative; decisive.
effectually		With effect; efficaciously.
effectualness		The quality of being effectual.
effectuate		To bring to pass; to effect; to achieve; to accomplish; to fulfill.
effectuation		Act of effectuating.
effectuose	Obsolete	Effective.
effectuous	Obsolete	Effective.
effectuously	Obsolete	Effectively.
effeminacy		Characteristic quality of a woman, such as softness, luxuriousness, delicacy, or weakness, which is unbecoming a man; womanish delicacy or softness; -- used reproachfully of men.
effeminate		Having some characteristic of a woman, as delicacy, luxuriousness, etc.; soft or delicate to an unmanly degree; womanish; weak.
effeminately		In an effeminate or womanish manner; weakly; softly; delicately.
effeminateness		The state of being effeminate; unmanly softness.
effemination	Obsolete	Effeminacy; womanishness.
effeminize	Obsolete	To make effeminate.
effendi		Master; sir; -- a title of a Turkish state official and man of learning, especially one learned in the law.
efferent		(a) Conveying outward, or discharging; -- applied to certain blood vessels, lymphatics, nerves, etc. (b) Conveyed outward; as, efferent impulses, i. e.…
efferous	Obsolete	Like a wild beast; fierce.
effervesce		To be in a state of natural ebullition; to bubble and hiss, as fermenting liquors, or any fluid, when some part escapes in a gaseous form.
effervescence		A kind of natural ebullition; that commotion of a fluid which takes place when some part of the mass flies off in a gaseous form, producing innumerable small bubbles; as, the effervescence of a carbonate with citric acid.
effervescency		A kind of natural ebullition; that commotion of a fluid which takes place when some part of the mass flies off in a gaseous form, producing innumerable small bubbles; as, the effervescence of a carbonate with citric acid.
effervescent		Gently boiling or bubbling, by means of the disengagement of gas
effervescible		Capable of effervescing.
effervescive		Tending to produce effervescence.
effet		The common newt; -- called also asker, eft, evat, and ewt.
effete		No longer capable of producing young, as an animal, or fruit, as the earth; hence, worn out with age; exhausted of energy; incapable of efficient action; no longer productive; barren; sterile.
efficacious		Possessing the quality of being effective; productive of, or powerful to produce, the effect intended; as, an efficacious law.
efficacity		Efficacy.
efficacy		Power to produce effects; operation or energy of an agent or force; production of the effect intended; as, the efficacy of medicine in counteracting disease; the efficacy of prayer. -- Virtue; force; energy; potency; efficiency.
efficience		The quality of being efficient or producing an effect or effects; efficient power; effectual agency.
efficiency		The quality of being efficient or producing an effect or effects; efficient power; effectual agency.
efficient		Causing effects; producing results; that makes the effect to be what it is; actively operative; not inactive, slack, or incapable; characterized by energetic and useful activity; as, an efficient officer, power.
efficiently		With effect; effectively.
effierce	Obsolete	To make fierce.
effigial		Relating to an effigy.
effigiate		To form as an effigy; hence, to fashion; to adapt. effigiate and conform himself to those circumstances.
effigiation		The act of forming in resemblance; an effigy.
effigies		See Effigy — the image, likeness, or representation of a person, whether a full figure, or a part; an imitative figure; -- commonly applied to sculptured likenesses, as those on monuments…
effigy		The image, likeness, or representation of a person, whether a full figure, or a part; an imitative figure; -- commonly applied to sculptured likenesses, as those on monuments…
efflagitate	Obsolete	To ask urgently.
efflate		To fill with breath; to puff up.
efflation		The act of filling with wind; a breathing or puffing out; a puff, as of wind.
effloresce		To blossom forth.
efflorescence		(Bot.) Flowering, or state of flowering; the blooming of flowers; blowth.
efflorescency		The state or quality of being efflorescent; efflorescence.
efflorescent		That effloresces, or is liable to effloresce on exposure; as, an efflorescent salt.
efflower		To remove the epidermis of (a skin) with a concave knife, blunt in its middle part, -- as in making chamois leather.
effluence		A flowing out, or emanation.
effluency		Effluence.
effluent		Flowing out; as, effluent beams.
effluviable		Capable of being given off as an effluvium.
effluvial		Belonging to effluvia.
effluviate		To give forth effluvium.
effluvium		Subtile or invisible emanation; exhalation perceived by the sense of smell; especially, noisome or noxious exhalation; as, the effluvium from diseased or putrefying bodies, or from ill drainage.
efflux		The act or process of flowing out, or issuing forth; effusion; outflow; as, the efflux of matter from an ulcer; the efflux of men's piety.
effluxion		The act of flowing out; effusion.
effodient		Digging up.
efforce	Obsolete	To force; to constrain; to compel to yield.
efform	Obsolete	To form; to shape.
efformation	Obsolete	The act of giving shape or form.
effort		An exertion of strength or power, whether physical or mental, in performing an act or aiming at an object; more or less strenuous endeavor; struggle directed to the accomplishment of an object; as, an effort to scale a wall.
effortless		Making no effort.
effossion		A digging out or up.
effranchise		To enfranchise.
effray	Obsolete	To frighten; to scare.
effrayable	Obsolete	Frightful.
effrenation	Obsolete	Unbridled license; unruliness.
effront	Obsolete	To give assurance to.
effrontery		Impudence or boldness in confronting or in transgressing the bounds of duty or decorum; insulting presumptuousness; shameless boldness; barefaced assurance.
effrontit	Obsolete	Marked by impudence.
effrontuously	Obsolete	Impudently.
effulge		To cause to shine with abundance of light; to radiate; to beam.
effulgence		The state of being effulgent; extreme brilliancy; a flood of light; great luster or brightness; splendor.
effulgent		Diffusing a flood of light; shining; luminous; beaming; bright; splendid.
effulgently		In an effulgent manner.
effumability	Obsolete	The capability of flying off in fumes or vapor.
effume	Obsolete	To breathe or puff out.
effund	Obsolete	To pour out.
effuse		(Bot.) Spreading loosely, especially on one side; as, an effuse inflorescence.
effusion		The act of pouring out; as, effusion of water, of blood, of grace, of words, and the like.
effusive		Pouring out; pouring forth freely.
efreet		See Afrit — a powerful evil jinnee, demon, or monstrous giant.
eft	Obsolete	(a) A European lizard of the genus Seps. (b) A salamander, esp. the European smooth newt (Triton punctatus).
eftsoon	Archaic	Again; anew; a second time; at once; speedily.
eftsoons	Archaic	Again; anew; a second time; at once; speedily.
