egad		An exclamation expressing exultation or surprise, etc.
egal	Obsolete	Equal; impartial.
egality		Equality.
egean		See Ægean.
egence		The state of needing, or of suffering a natural want.
eger	Obsolete	Sharp; bitter; acid; sour.
egerminate	Obsolete	To germinate.
egest		To cast or throw out; to void, as excrement; to excrete, as the indigestible matter of the food; in an extended sense, to excrete by the lungs, skin, or kidneys.
egesta		That which is egested or thrown off from the body by the various excretory channels; excrements; -- opposed to ingesta.
egestion		Act or process of egesting; a voiding.
egg		(Popularly) The oval or roundish body laid by domestic poultry and other birds, tortoises, etc. It consists of a yolk, usually surrounded by the "white" or albumen, and inclosed in a shell or strong membrane.
egg-bird		A species of tern, esp. the sooty tern (Sterna fuliginosa) of the West Indies.
egg-cup		A cup used for holding an egg, at table.
egg-glass		A small sandglass, running about three minutes, for marking time in boiling eggs; also, a small glass for holding an egg, at table.
egg-shaped		Resembling an egg in form; ovoid.
eggar		Any bombycid moth of the genera Eriogaster and Lasiocampa; as, the oak eggar (L. roboris) of Europe.
eggement	Obsolete	Instigation; incitement.
egger		One who gathers eggs; an eggler.
eggery		A place where eggs are deposited (as by sea birds) or kept; a nest of eggs.
egghot		A kind of posset made of eggs, brandy, sugar, and ale.
eggler		One who gathers, or deals in, eggs.
eggnog		A drink consisting of eggs beaten up with sugar, milk, and (usually) wine or spirits.
eggplant		A plant (Solanum Melongena), of East Indian origin, allied to the tomato, and bearing a large, smooth, edible fruit, shaped somewhat like an egg; mad-apple.
eggshell		The shell or exterior covering of an egg.
egilopical		Pertaining to, of the nature of, or affected with, an ægilops, or tumor in the corner of the eye.
egilops		See Ægilops.
eglandulose		Destitute of glands.
eglandulous		Destitute of glands.
eglantine		(a) A species of rose (Rosa Eglanteria), with fragrant foliage and flowers of various colors.
eglatere	Obsolete	Eglantine.
egling	English dialect	The European perch when two years old.
eglomerate		To unwind, as a thread from a ball.
ego		The conscious and permanent subject of all psychical experiences, whether held to be directly known or the product of reflective thought; -- opposed to non-ego.
egoical		Pertaining to egoism.
egoism		(Philos.) The doctrine of certain extreme adherents or disciples of Descartes and Johann Gottlieb Fichte, which finds all the elements of knowledge in the ego and the relations which it implies or provides for.
egoist		One given overmuch to egoism or thoughts of self.
egoistic		Pertaining to egoism; imbued with egoism or excessive thoughts of self; self-loving.
egoistical		Pertaining to egoism; imbued with egoism or excessive thoughts of self; self-loving.
egoistically		In an egoistic manner.
egoity		Personality.
egophonic		Belonging to, or resembling, egophony.
egophony		The sound of a patient's voice so modified as to resemble the bleating of a goat, heard on applying the ear to the chest in certain diseases within its cavity, as in pleurisy with effusion.
egotheism		The deification of self.
egotism		The practice of too frequently using the word I; hence, a speaking or writing overmuch of one's self; self-exaltation; self- praise; the act or practice of magnifying one's self or parading one's own doings.
egotist		One addicted to egotism; one who speaks much of himself or magnifies his own achievements or affairs.
egotistic		Addicted to, or manifesting, egotism.
egotistical		Addicted to, or manifesting, egotism.
egotistically		With egotism.
egotize		To talk or write as an egotist.
egranulose		Having no granules, as chlorophyll in certain conditions.
egre	Obsolete	Sharp; bitter; acid; sour.
egregious		Surpassing; extraordinary; distinguished (in a bad sense); -- formerly used with words importing a good quality, but now joined with words having a bad sense; as, an egregious rascal; an egregious ass; an egregious mistake.
egregiously		Greatly; enormously; shamefully; as, egregiously cheated.
egregiousness		The state of being egregious.
egremoin	Obsolete	Agrimony (Agrimonia Eupatoria).
egress		The act of going out or leaving, or the power to leave; departure.
egression		The act of going; egress.
egressor		One who goes out.
egret		(Zoöl.) The name of several species of herons which bear plumes on the back.
egrette		Same as Egret, n., 2.
egrimony	Obsolete	The herb agrimony.
egriot		A kind of sour cherry.
egritude	Obsolete	Sickness; ailment; sorrow.
egyptian		-- Egyptian cross. See Illust. (No. 6) of Cross. -- Egyptian thorn (Bot.), a medium-sized tree (Acacia vera).
egyptize		To give an Egyptian character or appearance to.
egyptologer		One skilled in the antiquities of Egypt; a student of Egyptology.
egyptological		Of, pertaining to, or devoted to, Egyptology.
egyptologist		One skilled in the antiquities of Egypt; a student of Egyptology.
egyptology		The science or study of Egyptian antiquities, esp. the hieroglyphics.
