eider		Any species of sea duck of the genus Somateria, esp. Somateria mollissima, which breeds in the northern parts of Europe and America, and lines its nest with fine down (taken from its own body) which is an article of commerce…
eidograph		An instrument for copying drawings on the same or a different scale; a form of the pantograph.
eidolon		An image or representation; a form; a phantom; an apparition.
eigh		An exclamation expressing delight.
eight		The number greater by a unit than seven; eight units or objects.
eighteen		Eight and ten; as, eighteen pounds.
eighteenmo		See Octodecimo — having eighteen leaves to a sheet; as, an octodecimo form, book, leaf, size, etc. A book composed of sheets each of which is folded into eighteen leaves; hence…
eighteenth		Next in order after the seventeenth.
eightetethe	Obsolete	Eighteenth.
eightfold		Eight times a quantity.
eighth		Next in order after the seventh.
eighthly		As the eighth in order.
eightieth		The next in order after seventy-ninth.
eightling		A compound or twin crystal made up of eight individuals.
eightscore		Eight times twenty; a hundred and sixty.
eighty		Eight times ten; fourscore.
eigne		(Law) Eldest; firstborn.
eiking		See Eking — (a) A lengthening or filling piece to make good a deficiency in length.
eikon		An image or effigy; -- used rather in an abstract sense, and rarely for a work of art.
eikonogen		The sodium salt of a sulphonic acid of a naphthol, C10H5(OH)(NH2)SO3Na used as a developer.
eikosane		A solid hydrocarbon, C20H42, of the paraffine series, of artificial production, and also probably occurring in petroleum.
eikosylene		A liquid hydrocarbon, C20H38, of the acetylene series, obtained from brown coal.
eirenarch		A justice of the peace; irenarch.
eirenic		Pacific. See Irenic.
eirie		See Aerie, and Eyrie.
eisel	Obsolete	Vinegar; verjuice.
eisteddfod		Am assembly or session of the Welsh bards; an annual congress of bards, minstrels and literati of Wales, -- being a patriotic revival of the old custom.
either		One of two; the one or the other; -- properly used of two things, but sometimes of a larger number, for any one.
