elaborate		Wrought with labor; finished with great care; studied; executed with exactness or painstaking; as, an elaborate discourse; an elaborate performance; elaborate research.	
elaborated		developed or executed with care and in minute detail; as, the carefully elaborated theme.	
elaboration		The act or process of producing or refining with labor; improvement by successive operations; refinement.	
elaborative		Serving or tending to elaborate; constructing with labor and minute attention to details.	
elaborator		One who, or that which, elaborates.	
elaboratory	Obsolete	Tending to elaborate.	
elaeagnus		A genus of shrubs or small trees, having the foliage covered with small silvery scales; oleaster.	
elaeis		A genus of palms.	
elaeolite		A variety of hephelite, usually massive, of greasy luster, and gray to reddish color.	
elaeoptene		The more liquid or volatile portion of certain oily substance, as distinguished from stearoptene, the more solid parts.	
elaidate		A salt of elaidic acid.	
elaidic		Relating to oleic acid, or elaine.	
elaidin		A solid isomeric modification of olein.	
elain		Same as Olein.	
elaine		Same as Olein.	
elaiodic		Derived from castor oil; ricinoleic; as, elaiodic acid.	
elaiometer		An apparatus for determining the amount of oil contained in any substance, or for ascertaining the degree of purity of oil.	
elamite		A dweller in Flam (or Susiana), an ancient kingdom of Southwestern Asia, afterwards a province of Persia.	
elamping	Obsolete	Shining.	
elan		Ardor inspired by passion or enthusiasm.	
elance		To throw as a lance; to hurl; to dart.	French élancer.
eland		(Zoöl.) A species of large South African antelope (Oreas canna).	Dutch eland.
elanet		A kite of the genus Elanus.	
elaolite		See Elæolite.	
elaoptene		See Elæoptene.	
elaphine		Pertaining to, resembling, or characteristic of, the stag, or Cervus elaphus.	
elaphure		A species of deer (Elaphurus Davidianus) found in china.	
elapidation		A clearing away of stones.	
elapine		Like or pertaining to the Elapidæ, a family of poisonous serpents, including the cobras.	
elaps		A genus of venomous snakes found both in America and the Old World.	
elapse		To slip or glide away; to pass away silently, as time; -- used chiefly in reference to time.	
elapsion		The act of elapsing.	
elaqueate		To disentangle.	
elasipoda		An order of holothurians mostly found in the deep sea.	
elasmobranch		Of or pertaining to the Elasmobranchii. -- n.	
elasmobranchiate		Of or pertaining to Elasmobranchii. -- n.	
elasmobranchii		A subclass of fishes, comprising the sharks, the rays, and the Chimæra.	
elasmosaurus		An extinct, long-necked, marine, cretaceous reptile from Kansas, allied to Plesiosaurus.	
elastic		Springing back; having a power or inherent property of returning to the form from which a substance is bent, drawn, pressed, or twisted; springy; having the power of rebounding; as, a bow is elastic; the air is elastic…	Latin elasticus.
elastical		Elastic.	
elastically		In an elastic manner; by an elastic power; with a spring.	
elasticity		The quality of being elastic; the inherent property in bodies by which they recover their former figure or dimensions, after the removal of external pressure or altering force; springiness; tendency to rebound; as…	
elasticness		The quality of being elastic; elasticity.	
elastin		A nitrogenous substance, somewhat resembling albumin, which forms the chemical basis of elastic tissue.	
elate		Lifted up; raised; elevated.	Latin elatus.
elatedly		With elation.	
elatedness		The state of being elated.	
elater		One who, or that which, elates.	Latin elater, from Greek ἐλατήρ.
elaterite		A mineral resin, of a blackish brown color, occurring in soft, flexible masses; -- called also mineral caoutchouc, and elastic bitumen.	
elaterium		A cathartic substance obtained, in the form of yellowish or greenish cakes, as the dried residue of the juice of the wild or squirting cucumber (Ecballium agreste, formerly called Momordica Elaterium).	
elaterometer		Same as Elatrometer.	
elatery	Obsolete	Acting force; elasticity.	
elation		A lifting up by success; exaltation; inriation with pride of prosperity.	Middle English elacioun, from Old French elacion, from Latin elationem.
elative		Raised; lifted up; -- a term applied to what is also called the absolute superlative, denoting a high or intense degree of a quality, but not excluding the idea that an equal degree may exist in other cases.	Latin elatum.
elatrometer		An instrument for measuring the degree of rarefaction of air contained in the receiver of an air pump.	
elayl		Olefiant gas or ethylene; -- so called by Berzelius from its forming an oil combining with chlorine.	
elbow		The joint or bend of the arm; the outer curve in the middle of the arm when bent.	Old English elnboga.
elbowboard		The base of a window casing, on which the elbows may rest.	
elbowchair		A chair with arms to support the elbows; an armchair.	
elbowroom		Room to extend the elbows on each side; ample room for motion or action; free scope.	
elcaja		An Arabian tree (Trichilia emetica).	
elcesaite		One of a sect of Asiatic Gnostics of the time of the Emperor Trajan.	
eld	Obsolete	Age; esp., old age.	Middle English elde, from Old English ieldu.
elder		Older; more aged, or existing longer.	Old English eldra.
elderberry		The berrylike drupe of the elder.	
elderish		Somewhat old; elderly.	
elderly		Somewhat old; advanced beyond middle age; bordering on old age; as, elderly people.	
eldern	Obsolete	Made of elder.	Middle English eldrin.
eldership		The state of being older; seniority.	
elderwort		Danewort.	
eldest		Oldest; longest in duration.	
eldritch	Dialect	Hideous; ghastly; as, an eldritch shriek or laugh.	
eleatic		Of or pertaining to a certain school of Greek philosophers who taught that the only certain science is that which owes nothing to the senses, and all to the reason. -- n.	
eleaticism		The Eleatic doctrine.	
elecampane		(Bot.) A large, coarse herb (Inula Helenium), with composite yellow flowers.	
elect		Chosen; taken by preference from among two or more.	Latin electus.
electant		One who has the power of choosing; an elector.	Latin electans.
electary		See Electuary — a medicine composed of powders, or other ingredients, incorporated with some convserve, honey, or sirup; a confection.	
electer	Obsolete	A metallic substance compounded of gold and silver; an alloy.	
electic		See Eclectic — selecting; choosing (what is true or excellent in doctrines, opinions, etc.) from various sources or systems; as, an eclectic philosopher.	
electicism		See Eclecticism — theory or practice of an eclectic.	
election		The act of choosing; choice; selection.	Anglo-Norman eleccioun.
electioneer		To make interest for a candidate at an election; to use arts for securing the election of a candidate.	
electioneerer		One who electioneers.	
elective		Exerting the power of choice; selecting; as, an elective act.	
electively		In an elective manner; by choice.	
elector		One who elects, or has the right of choice; a person who is entitled to take part in an election, or to give his vote in favor of a candidate for office.	
electorality		The territory or dignity of an elector; electorate.	
electorate		The territory, jurisdiction, or dignity of an elector, as in the old German empire.	
electoress		An electress.	
electorial		Electoral.	
electorship		The office or status of an elector.	
electre	Obsolete	A metallic substance compounded of gold and silver; an alloy.	
electrepeter		An instrument used to change the direction of electric currents; a commutator.	
electress		The wife or widow of an elector in the old German empire.	
electric		Pertaining to electricity; consisting of, containing, derived from, or produced by, electricity; as, electric power or virtue; an electric jar; electric effects; an electric spark.	Latin electricus, from Greek ἤλεκτρον.
electrical		Pertaining to electricity; consisting of, containing, derived from, or produced by, electricity; as, electric power or virtue; an electric jar; electric effects; an electric spark.	
electrically		In the manner of electricity, or by means of it; thrillingly.	
electricalness		The state or quality of being electrical.	
electrician		An investigator of electricity; one versed in the science of electricity.	
electricity		A power in nature, a manifestation of energy, exhibiting itself when in disturbed equilibrium or in activity by a circuit movement, the fact of direction in which involves polarity…	
electrifiable		Capable of receiving electricity, or of being charged with it.	
electrification		The act of electrifying, or the state of being charged with electricity.	
electrify		To communicate electricity to; to charge with electricity; as, to electrify a jar.	
electrine		Made of electrum, an alloy used by the ancients.	
electrition		The recognition by an animal body of the electrical condition of external objects.	
electrization		The act of electrizing; electrification.	
electrize		To electricity.	
electrizer		One who, or that which, electrizes.	
electro		An electrotype.	
electro-		A prefix or combining form signifying pertaining to electricity, produced by electricity, producing or employing electricity, etc.; as, electro-negative; electro-dynamic; electro- magnet.	
electro-ballistic		Pertaining to electro-ballistics.	
electro-ballistics		The art or science of measuring the force or velocity of projectiles by means of electricity.	
electro-biologist		One versed in electro-biology.	
electro-biology		That branch of biology which treats of the electrical phenomena of living organisms.	
electro-bioscopy		A method of determining the presence or absence of life in an animal organism with a current of electricity, by noting the presence or absence of muscular contraction.	
electro-capillarity		The occurrence or production of certain capillary effects by the action of an electrical current or charge.	
electro-capillary		Pert. to, or caused by, electro-capillarity.	
electro-chemical		Of or pertaining to electro-chemistry.	
electro-chemistry		That branch of science which treats of the relation of electricity to chemical changes.	
electro-chronograph		An instrument for obtaining an accurate record of the time at which any observed phenomenon occurs, or of its duration.	
electro-chronographic		Belonging to the electro-chronograph, or recorded by the aid of it.	
electro-dynamic		Pertaining to the movements or force of electric or galvanic currents; dependent on electric force.	
electro-dynamical		Pertaining to the movements or force of electric or galvanic currents; dependent on electric force.	
electro-dynamics		The branch of science which treats of the properties of electric currents; dynamical electricity.	
electro-dynamometer		An instrument for measuring the strength of electro-dynamic currents.	
electro-engraving		The art or process of engraving by means of electricity.	
electro-etching		A mode of etching upon metals by electrolytic action.	
electro-gilding		The art or process of gilding copper, iron, etc., by means of voltaic electricity.	
electro-gilt		Gilded by means of voltaic electricity.	
electro-kinetic		Of or pertaining to electro-kinetics.	
electro-kinetics		That branch of electrical science which treats of electricity in motion.	
electro-magnet		A mass, usually of soft iron, but sometimes of some other magnetic metal, as nickel or cobalt, rendered temporarily magnetic by being placed within a coil of wire through which a current of electricity is passing.	
electro-magnetic		Of, Pertaining to, or produced by, magnetism which is developed by the passage of an electric current.	
electro-magnetism		The magnetism developed by a current of electricity; the science which treats of the development of magnetism by means of voltaic electricity, and of the properties or actions of the currents evolved.	
electro-metallurgy		The act or art precipitating a metal electro-chemical action, by which a coating is deposited, on a prepared surface, as in electroplating and electrotyping; galvanoplasty.	
electro-metric		Pertaining to electrometry; made by means of electrometer; as, an electrometrical experiment.	
electro-metrical		Pertaining to electrometry; made by means of electrometer; as, an electrometrical experiment.	
electro-motion		The motion of electricity or its passage from one metal to another in a voltaic circuit; mechanical action produced by means of electricity.	
electro-motive		Producing electro-motion; producing, or tending to produce, electricity or an electric current; causing electrical action or effects.	
electro-muscular		Pertaining the reaction (contraction) of the muscles under electricity, or their sensibility to it.	
electro-negative		(a) Having the property of being attracted by an electro-positive body, or a tendency to pass to the positive pole in electrolysis, by the law that opposite electricities attract each other.	
electro-physiological		Pertaining to electrical results produced through physiological agencies, or by change of action in a living organism.	
electro-physiology		That branch of physiology which treats of electric phenomena produced through physiological agencies.	
electro-polar		Possessing electrical polarity; positively electrified at one end, or on one surface, and negatively at the other; -- said of a conductor.	
electro-positive		(Physics) Of such a nature relatively to some other associated body or bodies, as to tend to the negative pole of a voltaic battery, in electrolysis, while the associated body tends to the positive pole…	
electro-puncturation		See Electropuncture.	
electro-puncture		An operation that consists in inserting needless in the part affected, and connecting them with the poles of a galvanic apparatus.	
electro-puncturing		See Electropuncture.	
electro-stereotype		Same as Electrotype.	
electro-telegraphic		Pertaining to the electric telegraph, or by means of it.	
electro-telegraphy		The art or science of constructing or using the electric telegraph; the transmission of messages by means of the electric telegraph.	
electro-therapeutics		The branch of medical science which treats of the applications agent.	
electro-thermancy		That branch of electrical science which treats of the effect of an electric current upon the temperature of a conductor, or a part of a circuit composed of two different metals.	
electro-tint		A style of engraving in relief by means of voltaic electricity.	
electro-vital		Derived from, or dependent upon, vital processes; -- said of certain electric currents supposed by some physiologists to circulate in the nerves of animals.	
electro-vitalism		The theory that the functions of living organisms are dependent upon electricity or a kindred force.	
electrocute		To execute or put to death by electricity. -- E*lec`tro*cu"tion, n.	
electrode		The path by which electricity is conveyed into or from a solution or other conducting medium; esp., the ends of the wires or conductors, leading from source of electricity, and terminating in the medium traversed by the current.	
electrogenesis		Same as Electrogeny.	
electrogenic		Of or pertaining to electrogenesis; as, an electrogenic condition.	
electrogeny		A term sometimes applied to the effects (tetanus) produced in the muscles of the limbs, when a current of electricity is passed along the spinal cord or nerves.	
electrograph		A mark, record, or tracing, made by the action of electricity.	
electrographic		Of or pertaining to an electrograph or electrography.	
electrography		The art or process of making electrographs or using an electrograph.	
electrolier		A branching frame, often of ornamental design, to support electric illuminating lamps.	
electrology		That branch of physical science which treats of the phenomena of electricity and its properties.	
electrolysis		The act or process of chemical decomposition, by the action of electricity; as, the electrolysis of silver or nickel for plating; the electrolysis of water.	
electrolyte		A compound decomposable, or subjected to decomposition, by an electric current.	
electrolytic		Pertaining to electrolysis; as, electrolytic action. -- E*lec`tro*lyt"ic*al*ly, adv.	
electrolytical		Pertaining to electrolysis; as, electrolytic action. -- E*lec`tro*lyt"ic*al*ly, adv.	
electrolyzable		Capable of being electrolyzed, or decomposed by electricity.	
electrolyzation		The act or the process of electrolyzing.	
electrolyze		To decompose by the direct action of electricity.	
electrometer		An instrument for measuring the quantity or intensity of electricity; also, sometimes, and less properly, applied to an instrument which indicates the presence of electricity (usually called an electroscope).	
electrometry		The art or process of making electrical measurements.	
electromotor		(Physics) A mover or exciter of electricity; as apparatus for generating a current of electricity.	
electron		Amber; also, the alloy of gold and silver, called electrum.	Greek ἤλεκτρον.
electronic		Of or pertaining to an electron or electrons.	Latin electrinus, from Greek ἤλεκτρον.
electropathy		The treatment of disease by electricity.	
electrophone		An instrument for producing sound by means of electric currents.	
electrophorus		An instrument for exciting electricity, and repeating the charge indefinitely by induction, consisting of a flat cake of resin, shelllac, or ebonite, upon which is placed a plate of metal.	
electroplate		To plate or cover with a coating of metal, usually silver, nickel, or gold, by means of electrolysis.	
electroplater		One who electroplates.	
electroplating		The art or process of depositing a coating (commonly) of silver, gold, or nickel on an inferior metal, by means of electricity.	
electropoion		An exciting and depolarizing acid solution used in certain cells or batteries, as the Grenet battery.	
electroscope		An instrument for detecting the presence of electricity, or changes in the electric state of bodies, or the species of electricity present, as by means of pith balls, and the like.	
electroscopic		Relating to, or made by means of, the electroscope.	
electrostatic		Pertaining to electrostatics.	
electrostatics		That branch of science which treats of statical electricity or electric force in a state of rest.	
electrotonic		(Physics) Of or pertaining to electrical tension; -- said of a supposed peculiar condition of a conducting circuit during its exposure to the action of another conducting circuit traversed by a uniform electric current when both…	
electrotonize		To cause or produce electrotonus.	
electrotonous		Electrotonic.	
electrotonus		The modified condition of a nerve, when a constant current of electricity passes through any part of it.	
electrotype		A facsimile plate made by electrotypy for use in printing; also, an impression or print from such plate.	
electrotyper		One who electrotypes.	
electrotypic		Pertaining to, or effected by means of, electrotypy.	
electrotyping		The act or the process of making electrotypes.	
electrotypy		The process of producing electrotype plates. See Note under Electrotype, n.	
electrum		An alloy of gold and silver, of an amber color, used by the ancients.	Latin electrum, from Greek ἤλεκτρον.
electuary		A medicine composed of powders, or other ingredients, incorporated with some convserve, honey, or sirup; a confection.	Latin electuarium, from Greek ἐκλείκτον.
eleemosynarily		In an eleemosynary manner; by charity; charitably.	
eleemosynary		Relating to charity, alms, or almsgiving; intended for the distribution of charity; as, an eleemosynary corporation.	Latin eleemosynarius.
elegance		The state or quality of being elegant; beauty as resulting from choice qualities and the complete absence of what deforms or impresses unpleasantly; grace given by art or practice; fine polish; refinement; -- said of manners…	
elegancy		The state or quality of being elegant; beauty as resulting from choice qualities and the complete absence of what deforms or impresses unpleasantly; grace given by art or practice; fine polish; refinement; -- said of manners…	
elegant		Very choice, and hence, pleasing to good taste; characterized by grace, propriety, and refinement, and the absence of every thing offensive; exciting admiration and approbation by symmetry, completeness, freedom from blemish…	Middle French elegant.
elegantly		In a manner to please nice taste; with elegance; with due symmetry; richly.	
elegiac		Belonging to elegy, or written in elegiacs; plaintive; expressing sorrow or lamentation; as, an elegiac lay; elegiac strains.	
elegiacal		Elegiac.	
elegiast		One who composes elegies.	
elegiographer	Obsolete	An elegist.	
elegist		A write of elegies.	
elegit		A judicial writ of execution, by which a defendant's goods are appraised and delivered to the plaintiff, and, if no sufficient to satisfy the debt, all of his lands are delivered…	Latin elegit.
elegize		To lament in an elegy; to celebrate in elegiac verse; to bewail.	
elegy		A mournful or plaintive poem; a funereal song; a poem of lamentation.	
eleidin		Lifeless matter deposited in the form of minute granules within the protoplasm of living cells.	
element		One of the simplest or essential parts or principles of which anything consists, or upon which the constitution or fundamental powers of anything are based.	Middle English element, from Old French element.
elemental		Pertaining to the elements, first principles, and primary ingredients, or to the four supposed elements of the material world; as, elemental air.	
elementalism		The theory that the heathen divinities originated in the personification of elemental powers.	
elementality		The condition of being composed of elements, or a thing so composed.	
elementally		According to elements; literally; as, the words, elementally understood.	
elementar	Obsolete	Elementary.	
elementariness		The state of being elementary; original simplicity; uncompounded state.	
elementarity	Obsolete	Elementariness.	
elementary		Having only one principle or constituent part; consisting of a single element; simple; uncompounded; as, an elementary substance.	
elementation		Instruction in the elements or first principles.	
elementoid		Resembling an element.	
elemi		A fragrant gum resin obtained chiefly tropical trees of the genera Amyris and Canarium.	
elemin		A transparent, colorless oil obtained from elemi resin by distillation with water; also, a crystallizable extract from the resin.	
elench		(a) That part of an argument on which its conclusiveness depends; that which convinces of refutes an antagonist; a refutation.	Latin elenchus.
elenchical		Pertaining to an elench.	
elenchically		By means of an elench.	
elenchize		To dispute.	
elenchtic		Same as Elenctic.	
elenchtical		Same as Elenctic.	
elenchus		Same as Elench.	Greek ἔλεγχος.
elenctic		Serving to refute; refutative; -- applied to indirect modes of proof, and opposed to deictic.	Greek ἐλεγκτικός.
elenctical		Serving to refute; refutative; -- applied to indirect modes of proof, and opposed to deictic.	
elenge	Obsolete	Sorrowful; wretched; full of trouble.	
elengeness	Obsolete	Loneliness; misery.	
elephansy	Obsolete	Elephantiasis.	
elephant		(Zoöl.) A mammal of the order Proboscidia, of which two living species, Elephas Indicus and E.	Middle English elefant.
elephantiac		Affected with elephantiasis; characteristic of elephantiasis.	
elephantiasis		A disease of the skin, in which it become enormously thickened, and is rough, hard, and fissured, like an elephant's hide.	Latin elephas, from Greek ἐλέφας.
elephantine		Pertaining to the elephant, or resembling an elephant (commonly, in size); hence, huge; immense; heavy; as, of elephantine proportions; an elephantine step or tread.	
elephantoid		Resembling an elephant in form or appearance.	
elephantoidal		Resembling an elephant in form or appearance.	
eleusinian		Pertaining to Eleusis, in Greece, or to secret rites in honor of Ceres, there celebrated; as, Eleusinian mysteries or festivals.	
eleuthero-petalous		Having the petals free, that is, entirely separate from each other; -- said of both plant and flower.	
eleutheromania		A mania or frantic zeal for freedom.	
eleutheromaniac		Mad for freedom.	
elevate	Poetic	Elevated; raised aloft.	Latin elevatus.
elevated		Uplifted; high; lofty; also, animated; noble; as, elevated thoughts.	
elevatedness		The quality of being elevated.	
elevation		The act of raising from a lower place, condition, or quality to a higher; -- said of material things, persons, the mind, the voice, etc.; as, the elevation of grain; elevation to a throne; elevation of mind, thoughts…	
elevator		One who, or that which, raises or lifts up anything; as: (a) A mechanical contrivance, usually an endless belt or chain with a series of scoops or buckets, for transferring grain to an upper loft for storage.	
elevatory		Tending to raise, or having power to elevate; as, elevatory forces. See Elevator, n.	
eleve		A pupil; a student.	
eleven		Ten and one added; as, eleven men.	
eleventh		Next after the tenth; as, the eleventh chapter.	
elf		An imaginary supernatural being, commonly a little sprite, much like a fairy; a mythological diminutive spirit, supposed to haunt hills and wild places, and generally represented as delighting in mischievous tricks.	
elfin		Relating to elves.	Middle English elven, from Old English elfen.
elfish		Of or relating to the elves; elflike; implike; weird; scarcely human; mischievous, as though caused by elves.	
elfishly		In an elfish manner.	
elfishness		The quality of being elfish.	
elfkin		A little elf.	
elfland		Fairyland.	
elflock		Hair matted, or twisted into a knot, as if by elves.	
elicit	Obsolete	Elicited; drawn out; made real; open; evident.	Latin elicitus.
elicitate	Obsolete	To elicit.	
elicitation	Obsolete	The act of eliciting.	
elide		(Gram.) To cut off, as a vowel or a syllable, usually the final one; to subject to elision.	
eligibility		The quality of being eligible; eligibleness; as, the eligibility of a candidate; the eligibility of an offer of marriage.	
eligible		That may be selected; proper or qualified to be chosen; legally qualified to be elected and to hold office.	Middle French eligible, from Latin eligibilis.
eligibleness		The quality worthy or qualified to be chosen; suitableness; desirableness.	
eligibly		In an eligible manner.	
elimate	Obsolete	To render smooth; to polish.	
eliminant		The result of eliminating n variables between n homogeneous equations of any degree; -- called also resultant.	
eliminate		To put out of doors; to expel; to discharge; to release; to set at liberty.	Latin eliminatus.
elimination		The act of expelling or throwing off; (Physiol.) the act of discharging or excreting waste products or foreign substances through the various emunctories.	
eliminative		Relating to, or carrying on, elimination.	
elinguate	Obsolete	To deprive of the tongue.	
elinguation		Punishment by cutting out the tongue.	
elinguid	Obsolete	Tongue-tied; dumb.	Latin elinguis.
eliquament		A liquid obtained from fat, or fat fish, by pressure.	
eliquation		The process of separating a fusible substance from one less fusible, by means of a degree of heat sufficient to melt the one and not the other, as an alloy of copper and lead; liquation.	Latin eliquatio.
elison		(Gram.) The cutting off or suppression of a vowel or syllable, for the sake of meter or euphony; esp., in poetry, the dropping of a final vowel standing before an initial vowel in the following word…	
elisor		An elector or chooser; one of two persons appointed by a court to return a jury or serve a writ when the sheriff and the coroners are disqualified.	French éliseur.
elite		A choice or select body; the flower; as, the élite of society.	Old French elit.
elix	Obsolete	To extract.	
elixate	Obsolete	To boil; to seethe; hence, to extract by boiling or seething.	Latin elixatus.
elixation	Obsolete	A seething; digestion.	Latin elixare.
elixir		(Med.) A tincture with more than one base; a compound tincture or medicine, composed of various substances, held in solution by alcohol in some form.	Latin elixir, from Arabic إكسير, from Greek ξήριον.
elizabethan		Pertaining to Queen Elizabeth or her times, esp. to the architecture or literature of her reign; as, the Elizabethan writers, drama, literature. -- n.	
elk		A large deer, of several species.	
elke		The European wild or whistling swan (Cygnus ferus).	
elknut		The buffalo nut. See under Buffalo.	
elkwood		The soft, spongy wood of a species of Magnolia (M.	
ell		A measure for cloth; -- now rarely used.	
ellachick		A fresh-water tortoise (Chelopus marmoratus) of California; -- used as food.	
ellagic		Pertaining to, or derived from, gallnuts or gallic acid; as, ellagic acid.	
ellebore	Obsolete	Hellebore.	
elleborin		See Helleborin — a poisonous glucoside found in several species of hellebore, and extracted as a white crystalline substance with a sharp tingling taste.	
elleck	English dialect	The red gurnard or cuckoo fish.	
ellenge	Obsolete	See Elenge, Elengeness.	
ellengeness	Obsolete	See Elenge, Elengeness.	
elles	Obsolete	See Else — other; one or something beside; as, Who else is coming What else shall I give Do you expect anything else	
ellinge	Obsolete	See Elenge, Elengeness.	
ellingeness	Obsolete	See Elenge, Elengeness.	
ellipse		(Geom.) An oval or oblong figure, bounded by a regular curve, which corresponds to an oblique projection of a circle, or an oblique section of a cone through its opposite sides.	French ellipse, from Latin ellipsis, from Greek ἔλλειψις.
ellipsis		(Gram.) Omission; a figure of syntax, by which one or more words, which are obviously understood, are omitted; as, the virtues I admire, for, the virtues which I admire.	Greek ἔλλειψις.
ellipsograph		An instrument for describing ellipses; -- called also trammel.	
ellipsoid		A solid, all plane sections of which are ellipses or circles. See Conoid, n., 2 (a).	
ellipsoidal		Pertaining to, or shaped like, an ellipsoid; as, ellipsoid or ellipsoidal form.	
elliptic		Of or pertaining to an ellipse; having the form of an ellipse; oblong, with rounded ends.	Greek ἐλλειπτικός.
elliptic-lanceolate		Having a form intermediate between elliptic and lanceolate.	
elliptical		Of or pertaining to an ellipse; having the form of an ellipse; oblong, with rounded ends.	
elliptically		In the form of an ellipse.	
ellipticity		Deviation of an ellipse or a spheroid from the form of a circle or a sphere; especially, in reference to the figure of the earth, the difference between the equatorial and polar semidiameters, divided by the equatorial; thus…	
elliptograph		Same as Ellipsograph.	
ellwand		Formerly, a measuring rod an ell long.	
elm		A tree of the genus Ulmus, of several species, much used as a shade tree, particularly in America.	Old English elm.
elmen	Obsolete	Belonging to elms.	
elmy		Abounding with elms.	
elocation	Obsolete	A removal from the usual place of residence.	
elocular		Having but one cell, or cavity; not divided by a septum or partition.	
elocution		Utterance by speech. whose taste … Gave elocution to the mute, and taught The tongue not made for speech to speak thy praise.	
elocutionary		Pertaining to elocution.	
elocutionist		One who is versed in elocution; a teacher of elocution.	
elocutive	Obsolete	Pertaining to oratorical expression.	
elodian		One of a tribe of tortoises, including the terrapins, etc., in which the head and neck can be withdrawn.	
eloge		A panegyrical funeral oration.	French éloge, from Latin elogium.
elogist		One who pronounces an éloge.	French élogiste.
elogium		The praise bestowed on a person or thing; panegyric; eulogy.	
elogy		The praise bestowed on a person or thing; panegyric; eulogy.	
elohim		One of the principal names by which God is designated in the Hebrew Scriptures.	
elohist		The writer, or one of the writers, of the passages of the Old Testament, notably those of Elohim instead of Jehovah, as the name of the Supreme Being; -- distinguished from Jehovist.	
elohistic		Relating to Elohim as a name of God; -- said of passages in the Old Testament.	
eloign		(Law) To convey to a distance, or beyond the jurisdiction, or to conceal, as goods liable to distress.	Anglo-Norman esloignier.
eloignate	Obsolete	To remove.	
eloignment	Obsolete	Removal to a distance; withdrawal.	French éloignement.
eloin		See Eloign — (Law) To convey to a distance, or beyond the jurisdiction, or to conceal, as goods liable to distress.	
eloinate		See Eloignate — to remove.	
eloinment		See Eloignment — removal to a distance; withdrawal.	
elong	Obsolete	To lengthen out; to prolong.	
elongate	Obsolete	To remove further off.	Latin elongare.
elongation		The act of lengthening, or the state of being lengthened; protraction; extension.	
elope		To run away, or escape privately, from the place or station to which one is bound by duty; -- said especially of a woman or a man, either married or unmarried, who runs away with a paramour or a sweetheart.	Dutch ontlopen.
elopement		The act of eloping; secret departure; -- said of a woman and a man, one or both, who run away from their homes for marriage or for cohabitation.	
eloper		One who elopes.	
elops	Obsolete	A mythical serpent.	
eloquence		Fluent, forcible, elegant, and persuasive speech in public; the power of expressing strong emotions in striking and appropriate language either spoken or written, thereby producing conviction or persuasion.	
eloquent		Having the power of expressing strong emotions or forcible arguments in an elevated, impassioned, and effective manner; as, an eloquent orator or preacher.	Latin eloquens.
eloquently		In an eloquent manner.	
elrich	Scots	Ghastly; preternatural.	
elritch	Scots	Ghastly; preternatural.	
else		Other; one or something beside; as, Who else is coming What else shall I give Do you expect anything else	
elsewhere		In any other place; as, these trees are not to be found elsewhere.	
elsewhither		To some, or any, other place; as, you will have to go elsewhither for it.	
elsewise		Otherwise.	
elsin	English dialect	A shoemaker's awl.	Middle English aslen.
elucidate		To make clear or manifest; to render more intelligible; to illustrate; as, an example will elucidate the subject.	Latin elucidatus.
elucidation		A making clear; the act of elucidating or that which elucidates, as an explanation, an exposition, an illustration; as, one example may serve for further elucidation of the subject.	
elucidative		Making clear; tending to elucidate; as, an elucidative note.	
elucidator		One who explains or elucidates; an expositor.	
elucidatory		Tending to elucidate; elucidative.	
eluctate	Obsolete	To struggle out; -- with out.	
eluctation	Obsolete	A struggling out of any difficulty.	Latin eluctatio.
elucubrate	Obsolete	See Lucubrate — to study by candlelight or a lamp; to study by night.	
elucubration	Obsolete	See Lucubration — the act of lucubrating, or studying by candlelight; nocturnal study; meditation.	
elude		To avoid slyly, by artifice, stratagem, or dexterity; to escape from in a covert manner; to mock by an unexpected escape; to baffle; as, to elude an officer; to elude detection, inquiry, search, comprehension…	Latin eludo.
eludible		Capable of being eluded; evadible.	
elul		The sixth month of the Jewish year, by the sacred reckoning, or the twelfth, by the civil reckoning, corresponding nearly to the month of September.	
elumbated	Obsolete	Weak or lame in the loins.	Latin elumbis.
elusion		Act of eluding; adroit escape, as by artifice; a mockery; a cheat; trickery.	
elusive		Tending to elude; using arts or deception to escape; adroitly escaping or evading; eluding the grasp; fallacious.	
elusory		Tending to elude or deceive; evasive; fraudulent; fallacious; deceitful; deceptive. -- E*lu"so*ri*ness, n.	
elute		To wash out.	Latin elutus.
elutriate		To wash or strain out so as to purify; as, to elutriate the blood as it passes through the lungs; to strain off or decant, as a powder which is separated from heavier particles by being drawn off with water; to cleanse…	Latin elutriare.
elutriation		The process of elutriating; a decanting or racking off by means of water, as finer particles from heavier.	
eluxate		To dislocate; to luxate.	
eluxation		Dislocation; luxation.	
elvan		Pertaining to elves; elvish.	
elvanite		The rock of an elvan vein, or the elvan vein itself; an elvan course.	
elve		An old form of Elf.	
elver		A young eel; a young conger or sea eel; -- called also elvene.	
elves		pl. of Elf — an imaginary supernatural being, commonly a little sprite, much like a fairy; a mythological diminutive spirit, supposed to haunt hills and wild places…	
elvish		Pertaining to elves; implike; mischievous; weird; also, vacant; absent in demeanor.	
elvishly		In an elvish manner.	
elwand		See Ellwand — formerly, a measuring rod an ell long.	
elysian		Pertaining, or the abode of the blessed after death; hence, yielding the highest pleasures; exceedingly delightful; beatific.	
elysium		A dwelling place assigned to happy souls after death; the seat of future happiness; Paradise.	
elytriform		Having the form, or structure, of an elytron.	
elytrin		See Chitin — a white amorphous horny substance forming the harder part of the outer integument of insects, crustacea, and various other invertebrates; entomolin.	
elytroid		Resembling a beetle's wing case.	
elytron		(a) One of the anterior pair of wings in the Coleoptera and some other insects, when they are thick and serve only as a protection for the posterior pair.	Greek ἔλυτρον.
elytrum		(a) One of the anterior pair of wings in the Coleoptera and some other insects, when they are thick and serve only as a protection for the posterior pair.	
elzevir		Applied to books or editions (esp. of the Greek New Testament and the classics) printed and published by the Elzevir family at Amsterdam, Leyden, etc., from about 1592 to 1680; also…	
