em		The portion of a line formerly occupied by the letter m, then a square type, used as a unit by which to measure the amount of printed matter on a page; the square of the body of a type.	
em-		A prefix. See En-.	
emacerate	Obsolete	To make lean or to become lean; to emaciate.	
emaceration	Obsolete	Emaciation.	
emaciate		To lose flesh gradually and become very lean; to waste away in flesh.	Latin emaciare.
emaciation		The act of making very lean.	
emaculate	Obsolete	To clear from spots or stains, or from any imperfection.	Latin emaculatus.
emaculation	Obsolete	The act of clearing from spots.	
emanant		Issuing or flowing forth; emanating; passing forth into an act, or making itself apparent by an effect; -- said of mental acts; as, an emanant volition.	
emanate		To issue forth from a source; to flow out from more or less constantly; as, fragrance emanates from flowers.	Latin emanare.
emanation		The act of flowing or proceeding from a fountain head or origin.	
emanative		Issuing forth; effluent.	
emanatively		By an emanation.	
emanatory		Emanative; of the nature of an emanation.	
emancipate		To set free from the power of another; to liberate; as: (a) To set free, as a minor from a parent; as, a father may emancipate a child.	Latin emancipatus.
emancipation		The act of setting free from the power of another, from slavery, subjection, dependence, or controlling influence; also, the state of being thus set free; liberation; as, the emancipation of slaves; the emancipation of minors…	
emancipationist		An advocate of emancipation, esp. the emancipation of slaves.	
emancipator		One who emancipates.	Latin emancipator.
emancipatory		Pertaining to emancipation, or tending to effect emancipation.	
emancipist		A freed convict.	
emarginate		To take away the margin of.	
emarginated		Having the margin interrupted by a notch or shallow sinus.	
emarginately		In an emarginate manner.	
emargination		The act of notching or indenting the margin, or the state of being so notched; also, a notch or shallow sinus in a margin.	
emasculate		To deprive of virile or procreative power; to castrate power; to castrate; to geld.	Latin emasculo.
emasculation		The act of depriving of virility, or the state of being so deprived; castration.	
emasculator		One who, or that which, emasculates.	
emasculatory		Serving or tending to emasculate.	
embace	Obsolete	See Embase — to bring down or lower, as in position, value, etc.; to debase; to degrade; to deteriorate.	
embale		To make up into a bale or pack.	French emballer.
emball	Obsolete	To encircle or embrace.	
embalm		To anoint all over with balm; especially, to preserve from decay by means of balm or other aromatic oils, or spices; to fill or impregnate (a dead body), with aromatics and drugs that it may resist putrefaction.	
embalmer		One who embalms.	
embalmment		The act of embalming.	
embank		To throw up a bank so as to confine or to defend; to protect by a bank of earth or stone.	
embankment		The act of surrounding or defending with a bank.	
embar		To bar or shut in; to inclose securely, as with bars.	Middle French embarrer.
embarcation		Same as Embarkation.	
embarge	Poetic	To put in a barge.	
embargo		An edict or order of the government prohibiting the departure of ships of commerce from some or all of the ports within its dominions; a prohibition to sail.	Spanish embargar.
embark		To engage, enlist, or invest (as persons, money, etc.) in any affair; as, he embarked his fortune in trade.	Middle French embarquer.
embarkation		The act of putting or going on board of a vessel; as, the embarkation of troops.	
embarkment		Embarkation.	
embarrass		To hinder from freedom of thought, speech, or action by something which impedes or confuses mental action; to perplex; to discompose; to disconcert; as, laughter may embarrass an orator.	French embarrasser, from Spanish embarazar, from Portuguese embaraçar.
embarrassment		A state of being embarrassed; perplexity; impediment to freedom of action; entanglement; hindrance; confusion or discomposure of mind, as from not knowing what to do or to say; disconcertedness.	
embase	Obsolete	To bring down or lower, as in position, value, etc.; to debase; to degrade; to deteriorate.	
embasement		Act of bringing down; depravation; deterioration.	
embassade	Obsolete	The mission of an ambassador.	
embassador		A minister of the highest rank sent a foreign court to represent there his sovereign or country.	
embassadorial		Same as Ambassadorial.	
embassadress		Same as Ambassadress.	
embassadry	Obsolete	Embassy.	
embassage		Message; errand.	
embassy		The public function of an ambassador; the charge or business intrusted to an ambassador or to envoys; a public message to; foreign court concerning state affairs; hence, any solemn message.	
embastardize	Obsolete	To bastardize.	
embathe		To bathe; to imbathe.	
embattail	Archaic	To furnish with battlements; to fortify as with battlements.	
embattle	Obsolete	To arrange in order of battle; to array for battle; also, to prepare or arm for battle; to equip as for battle.	
embattled		(Her.) Having the edge broken like battlements; -- said of a bearing such as a fess, bend, or the like.	
embattlement		An intended parapet; a battlement.	
embay	Obsolete	To bathe; to soothe or lull as by bathing.	
embeam		To make brilliant with beams.	
embed		To lay as in a bed; to lay in surrounding matter; to bed; as, to embed a thing in clay, mortar, or sand.	
embedment		The act of embedding, or the state of being embedded.	
embellish		To make beautiful or elegant by ornaments; to decorate; to adorn; as, to embellish a book with pictures, a garden with shrubs and flowers, a narrative with striking anecdotes, or style with metaphors.	Old French embellir.
embellisher		One who embellishes.	
embellishment		The act of adorning, or the state of being adorned; adornment.	
ember		A lighted coal, smoldering amid ashes; -- used chiefly in the plural, to signify mingled coals and ashes; the smoldering remains of a fire.	
ember-goose		The loon or great northern diver. See Loon.	
emberings	Obsolete	Ember days.	
emberizidae		a natural subfamily including buntings and some New World sparrows.	
embetter	Obsolete	To make better.	
embezzle		To appropriate fraudulently to one's own use, as property intrusted to one's care; to apply to one's private uses by a breach of trust; as, to embezzle money held in trust.	
embezzlement		The fraudulent appropriation of property by a person to whom it has been intrusted; as, the embezzlement by a clerk of his employer's; embezzlement of public funds by the public officer having them in charge.	
embezzler		One who embezzles.	
embillow		To swell or heave like a Lisle.	
embiotocoid		Belonging to, or resembling, the Embiotocidæ. -- n.	
embitter		To make bitter or sad. See Imbitter.	
embitterment		The act of embittering; also, that which embitters.	
emblanch	Obsolete	To whiten. See Blanch.	
emblaze		To adorn with glittering embellishments.	
emblazon		To depict or represent; -- said of heraldic bearings. See Blazon.	
emblazoner		One who emblazons; also, one who publishes and displays anything with pomp.	
emblazoning		The act or art of heraldic decoration; delineation of armorial bearings.	
emblazonment		An emblazoning.	
emblazonry		The act or art of an emblazoner; heraldic or ornamental decoration, as pictures or figures on shields, standards, etc.; emblazonment.	
emblem		A visible sign of an idea; an object, or the figure of an object, symbolizing and suggesting another object, or an idea, by natural aptness or by association; a figurative representation; a typical designation; a symbol; as…	Old French embleme, from Latin emblema, from Greek ἔμβλημα.
emblematic		Pertaining to, containing, or consisting in, an emblem; symbolic; typically representative; representing as an emblem; as, emblematic language or ornaments; a crown is emblematic of royalty…	
emblematical		Pertaining to, containing, or consisting in, an emblem; symbolic; typically representative; representing as an emblem; as, emblematic language or ornaments; a crown is emblematic of royalty…	
emblematiccize		To render emblematic; as, to emblematicize a picture.	
emblematist		A writer or inventor of emblems.	
emblematize		To represent by, or as by, an emblem; to symbolize.	
emblement		The growing crop, or profits of a crop which has been sown or planted; -- used especially in the plural.	
emblemize		To represent by an emblem; to emblematize.	
embloom		To emblossom.	
emblossom		To cover or adorn with blossoms.	
embodier		One who embodies.	
embodiment		The act of embodying; the state of being embodied.	
embody		To form into a body; to invest with a body; to collect into a body, a united mass, or a whole; to incorporate; as, to embody one's ideas in a treatise.	
embogue		To disembogue; to discharge, as a river, its waters into the sea or another river.	
emboguing		The mouth of a river, or place where its waters are discharged.	
emboil	Obsolete	To boil with anger; to effervesce.	
emboitement		The hypothesis that all living things proceed from preëxisting germs, and that these encase the germs of all future living things, inclosed one within another.	
embolden		To give boldness or courage to; to encourage.	
emboldener		One who emboldens.	
embolic		(Med.) Pertaining to an embolism; produced by an embolism; as, an embolic abscess.	
embolism		Intercalation; the insertion of days, months, or years, in an account of time, to produce regularity; as, the embolism of a lunar month in the Greek year.	
embolismal		Pertaining to embolism; intercalary; as, embolismal months.	
embolismatic		Embolismic.	
embolismatical		Embolismic.	
embolismic		Pertaining to embolism or intercalation; intercalated; as, an embolismic year, i. e., the year in which there is intercalation.	
embolismical		Pertaining to embolism or intercalation; intercalated; as, an embolismic year, i. e., the year in which there is intercalation.	
embolite		A mineral consisting of both the chloride and the bromide of silver.	
embolus		Something inserted, as a wedge; the piston or sucker of a pump or syringe.	Latin embolus, from Greek ἔμβολος.
emboly		Embolic invagination. See under Invagination.	
embonpoint		Plumpness of person; -- said especially of persons somewhat corpulent.	French embonpoint.
emborder		To furnish or adorn with a border; to imborder.	
embosom		To take into, or place in, the bosom; to cherish; to foster.	
emboss		To arise the surface of into bosses or protuberances; particularly, to ornament with raised work.	
embossed		Formed or covered with bosses or raised figures.	
embosser		One who embosses.	
embossment		The act of forming bosses or raised figures, or the state of being so formed.	
embottle		To bottle.	
embouchure		The mouth of a river; also, the mouth of a cannon.	French embouchure.
embow	Obsolete	To bend like a bow; to curve.	
embowel		To imbed; to hide in the inward parts; to bury.	
emboweler		One who takes out the bowels.	
embowelment		Disembowelment.	
embower	Poetic	To cover with a bower; to shelter with trees.	
embowl	Obsolete	To form like a bowl; to give a globular shape to.	
embox		To inclose, as in a box; to imbox.	
emboyssement	Obsolete	An ambush.	
embrace		To clasp in the arms with affection; to take in the arms; to hug.	Middle English embracen, from Old French embracier.
embracement		A clasp in the arms; embrace.	
embraceor		One guilty of embracery.	
embracer		One who embraces.	
embracery		An attempt to influence a court, jury, etc., corruptly, by promises, entreaties, money, entertainments, threats, or other improper inducements.	
embracive		Disposed to embrace; fond of caressing.	
embraid	Obsolete	To braid up, as hair.	
embranchment		The branching forth, as of trees.	
embrangle		To confuse; to entangle.	
embrasure		(Fort.) An aperture with slant sides in a wall or parapet, through which cannon are pointed and discharged; a crenelle.	French embrasure.
embrave	Obsolete	To inspire with bravery.	
embrawn	Obsolete	To harden.	
embread	Obsolete	To braid.	
embreathement		The act of breathing in; inspiration.	
embrew	Obsolete	To imbrue; to stain with blood.	
embright	Obsolete	To brighten.	
embrocate		To moisten and rub (a diseased part) with a liquid substance, as with spirit, oil, etc., by means of a cloth or sponge.	
embrocation		(a) The act of moistening and rubbing a diseased part with spirit, oil, etc. (b) The liquid or lotion with which an affected part is rubbed.	
embroglio		See Imbroglio — an intricate, complicated plot, as of a drama or work of fiction.	
embroider		To ornament with needlework; as, to embroider a scarf.	Middle English embroudren.
embroiderer		One who embroiders.	
embroidery		Needlework used to enrich textile fabrics, leather, etc.; also, the art of embroidering.	
embroil		To throw into confusion or commotion by contention or discord; to entangle in a broil or quarrel; to make confused; to distract; to involve in difficulties by dissension or strife.	
embroiler		One who embroils.	
embroilment		The act of embroiling, or the condition of being embroiled; entanglement in a broil.	
embronze	Poetic	To embody in bronze; to set up a bronze representation of, as of a person.	
embrothel	Obsolete	To inclose in a brothel.	
embroude	Obsolete	To embroider; to adorn.	
embrowde	Obsolete	To embroider; to adorn.	
embrown		To give a brown color to; to imbrown.	
embroyde	Obsolete	To embroider; to adorn.	
embrue	Obsolete	See Imbrue, Embrew.	
embrute		To brutify; to imbrute.	
embryo		The first rudiments of an organism, whether animal or plant; as: (a) The young of an animal in the womb, or more specifically, before its parts are developed and it becomes a fetus (see Fetus).	
embryogenic		Pertaining to the development of an embryo.	
embryogeny		The production and development of an embryo.	
embryogony		The formation of an embryo.	
embryography		The general description of embryos.	
embryologic		Of or pertaining to embryology.	
embryological		Of or pertaining to embryology.	
embryologist		One skilled in embryology.	
embryology		The science which relates to the formation and development of the embryo in animals and plants; a study of the gradual development of the ovum until it reaches the adult stage.	
embryon		See Embryo — the first rudiments of an organism, whether animal or plant; as: (a) The young of an animal in the womb, or more specifically…	
embryonal		Pertaining to an embryo, or the initial state of any organ; embryonic.	
embryonary		Embryonic.	
embryonate		In the state of, or having, an embryonal.	
embryonated		In the state of, or having, an embryonal.	
embryonic		Of or pertaining to an embryo; embryonal; rudimentary.	
embryoniferous		Having an embryo.	
embryoniform		Like an embryo in form.	
embryoplastic		Relating to, or aiding in, the formation of an embryo; as, embryoplastic cells.	
embryotic		Embryonic.	
embryotomy		The cutting a fetus into pieces within the womb, so as to effect its removal.	
embryotroph		The material from which an embryo is formed and nourished.	
embryous		Embryonic; undeveloped.	
embulk		To enlarge in the way of bulk.	
emburse	Obsolete	To furnish with money; to imburse.	
embush	Obsolete	To place or hide in a thicket; to ambush.	
embushment	Obsolete	An ambush.	
embusy	Obsolete	To employ.	
eme	Obsolete	An uncle.	Middle English eam.
emeer		Same as Emir.	
emeership		The rank or office of an Emir.	
emenagogue		See Emmenagogue — a medicine that promotes the menstrual discharge.	
emend		To purge of faults; to make better; to correct; esp., to make corrections in (a literary work); to alter for the better by textual criticism, generally verbal.	
emendable		Corrigible; amendable.	
emendately	Obsolete	Without fault; correctly.	
emendation		The act of altering for the better, or correcting what is erroneous or faulty; correction; improvement.	
emendator		One who emends or critically edits.	
emendatory		Pertaining to emendation; corrective.	
emender		One who emends.	
emerald		(Min.) A precious stone of a rich green color, a variety of beryl. See Beryl.	Middle English emeraude, from Old French esmeraude.
emeraldine		A green compound used as a dyestuff, produced from aniline blue when acted upon by acid.	
emeraud	Obsolete	An emerald.	
emerge		To rise out of a fluid; to come forth from that in which anything has been plunged, enveloped, or concealed; to issue and appear; as, to emerge from the water or the ocean; the sun emerges from behind the moon in an eclipse…	
emergence		The act of rising out of a fluid, or coming forth from envelopment or concealment, or of rising into view; sudden uprisal or appearance.	
emergency		Sudden or unexpected appearance; an unforeseen occurrence; a sudden occasion.	
emergent		Rising or emerging out of a fluid or anything that covers or conceals; issuing; coming to light.	
emerited	Obsolete	Considered as having done sufficient public service, and therefore honorably discharged.	
emeritus		Honorably discharged from the performance of public duty on account of age, infirmity, or long and faithful services; -- said of an officer of a college or pastor of a church.	Latin emeritus.
emerods		Hemorrhoids; piles; tumors; boils.	
emeroids		Hemorrhoids; piles; tumors; boils.	
emersed		Standing out of, or rising above, water.	
emersion		The act of emerging, or of rising out of anything; as, emersion from the sea; emersion from obscurity or difficulties.	
emery		Corundum in the form of grains or powder, used in the arts for grinding and polishing hard substances.	French émeri, from Old French esmeril, from Latin smericulum, from Greek σμῆρις.
emesis		A vomiting.	
emetic		Inducing to vomit; exciting the stomach to discharge its contents by the mouth. -- n.	Greek ἔμετος.
emetical		Inducing to vomit; producing vomiting; emetic. -- E*met"ic*al*ly, adv.	
emetine		A white crystalline bitter alkaloid extracted from ipecacuanha root, and regarded as its peculiar emetic principle.	
emeto-cathartic		Producing vomiting and purging at the same time.	
emeu		See Emu — a large Australian bird, of two species (Dromaius Novæ- Hollandiæ and D. irroratus), related to the cassowary and the ostrich.	
emeute		A seditious tumult; an outbreak.	
emew		See Emu — a large Australian bird, of two species (Dromaius Novæ- Hollandiæ and D. irroratus), related to the cassowary and the ostrich.	
emforth	Obsolete	According to; conformably to.	
emgalla		The South African wart hog. See Wart hog.	
emicant		Beaming forth; flashing.	Latin emicans.
emication		A flying off in small particles, as heated iron or fermenting liquors; a sparkling; scintillation.	Latin emicatio.
emiction		What is voided by the urinary passages; urine.	
emictory		Diuretic.	
emigrant		Removing from one country to another; emigrating; as, an emigrant company or nation.	
emigrate	Obsolete	To remove from one country or State to another, for the purpose of residence; to migrate from home.	Latin emigratus.
emigration		The act of emigrating; removal from one country or state to another, for the purpose of residence, as from Europe to America, or, in America, from the Atlantic States to the Western.	
emigrational		Relating to emigration.	
emigrationist		An advocate or promoter of emigration.	
emigrator		One who emigrates; am emigrant.	
emigre		One of the natives of France who were opposed to the first Revolution, and who left their country in consequence.	French émigré.
eminence		That which is eminent or lofty; a high ground or place; a height.	
eminency		State of being eminent; eminence.	
eminent		High; lofty; towering; prominent.	
eminently		In an eminent manner; in a high degree; conspicuously; as, to be eminently learned.	
emir		An Arabian military commander, independent chieftain, or ruler of a province; also, an honorary title given to the descendants of Mohammed, in the line of his daughter Fatima; among the Turks, likewise, a title of dignity…	Arabic أَمِير.
emirship		The rank or office of an Emir.	
emissary		An agent employed to advance, in a covert manner, the interests of his employers; one sent out by any power that is at war with another, to create dissatisfaction among the people of the latter.	
emissaryship		The office of an emissary.	
emission		The act of sending or throwing out; the act of sending forth or putting into circulation; issue; as, the emission of light from the sun; the emission of heat from a fire; the emission of bank notes. issue bank notes.	
emissitious	Obsolete	Looking, or narrowly examining; prying.	Latin emissitius.
emissive		Sending out; emitting; as, emissive powers.	
emissivity		Tendency to emission; comparative facility of emission, or rate at which emission takes place, as of heat from the surface of a heated body.	
emissory		Same as Emissary, a., 2.	
emit		To send forth; to throw or give out; to cause to issue; to give vent to; to eject; to discharge; as, fire emits heat and smoke; boiling water emits steam; the sun emits light.	
emittent		Sending forth; emissive.	
emmantle	Obsolete	To cover over with, or as with, a mantle; to put about as a protection.	
emmanuel		See Immanuel — god with us; -- an appellation of the Christ.	
emmarble	Obsolete	To turn to marble; to harden.	
emmenagogue		A medicine that promotes the menstrual discharge.	
emmetropia		That refractive condition of the eye in which the rays of light are all brought accurately and without undue effort to a focus upon the retina; -- opposed to hypermetropia, myopia, an astigmatism.	
emmetropic		Pertaining to, or characterized by, emmetropia.	
emmetropy		Same as Emmetropia.	
emmew	Obsolete	To mew or coop up.	
emmove	Obsolete	To move; to rouse; to excite.	
emodin		An orange-red crystalline substance, C15H10O5, obtained from the buckthorn, rhubarb, etc., and regarded as a derivative of anthraquinone; -- so called from a species of rhubarb (Rheum emodei).	
emollescence		That degree of softness in a body beginning to melt which alters its shape; the first or lowest degree of fusibility.	
emolliate		To soften; to render effeminate.	
emollient		Softening; making supple; acting as an emollient.	Latin emolliens.
emollition		The act of softening or relaxing; relaxation.	
emolument		The profit arising from office, employment, or labor; gain; compensation; advantage; perquisites, fees, or salary.	Latin emolumentum.
emolumental		Pertaining to an emolument; profitable.	
emong	Obsolete	, (prep.	
emongst	Obsolete	, (prep.	
emotion		A moving of the mind or soul; excitement of the feelings, whether pleasing or painful; disturbance or agitation of mind caused by a specific exciting cause and manifested by some sensible effect on the body.	French émotion.
emotional		Pertaining to, or characterized by, emotion; excitable; easily moved; sensational; as, an emotional nature.	
emotionalism		The cultivation of an emotional state of mind; tendency to regard things in an emotional manner.	
emotionalize		To give an emotional character to.	
emotioned		Affected with emotion.	
emotive		Attended by, or having the character of, emotion.	
emotiveness		Susceptibility to emotion.	
emotivity		Emotiveness.	
emove	Obsolete	To move.	
empair	Obsolete	To impair.	
empaistic		Having to do with inlaid work; -- especially used with reference to work of the ancient Greeks.	
empale		To fence or fortify with stakes; to surround with a line of stakes for defense; to impale.	
empalement		A fencing, inclosing, or fortifying with stakes.	
empanel	Obsolete	A list of jurors; a panel.	
empanoplied		Completely armed; panoplied.	
emparadise		Same as Imparadise.	
empark	Obsolete	To make a park of; to inclose, as with a fence; to impark.	
emparlance	Obsolete	Parley; imparlance.	
empasm		A perfumed powder sprinkled upon the body to mask the odor of sweat.	
empassion	Obsolete	To move with passion; to affect strongly. See Impassion.	
empassionate	Obsolete	Strongly affected.	
empawn		To put in pawn; to pledge; to impawn.	
empeach	Obsolete	To hinder. See Impeach.	
empearl		To form like pearls; to decorate with, or as with, pearls; to impearl.	
empeople	Obsolete	To form into a people or community; to inhabit; to people.	
emperess	Obsolete	See Empress — a female sovereign.	
emperice	Obsolete	An empress.	
emperil		To put in peril. See Imperil.	
emperished	Obsolete	Perished; decayed.	
emperor		The sovereign or supreme monarch of an empire; -- a title of dignity superior to that of king; as, the emperor of Germany or of Austria; the emperor or Czar of Russia.	French empereor, from Latin imperator.
emperorship		The rank or office of an emperor.	
empery	Archaic	Empire; sovereignty; dominion.	Middle English emperie.
emphasis		(Rhet.) A particular stress of utterance, or force of voice, given in reading and speaking to one or more words whose signification the speaker intends to impress specially upon his audience.	
emphasize		To utter or pronounce with a particular stress of voice; to make emphatic; as, to emphasize a word or a phrase.	
emphatic		Uttered with emphasis; made prominent and impressive by a peculiar stress of voice; laying stress; deserving of stress or emphasis; forcible; impressive; strong; as, to remonstrate in am emphatic manner; an emphatic word…	Greek ἐμφατικός.
emphatical		Uttered with emphasis; made prominent and impressive by a peculiar stress of voice; laying stress; deserving of stress or emphasis; forcible; impressive; strong; as, to remonstrate in am emphatic manner; an emphatic word…	
emphatically		With emphasis; forcibly; in a striking manner or degree; preëminently.	
emphaticalness		The quality of being emphatic; emphasis.	
emphractic		Having the quality of closing the pores of the skin.	
emphrensy	Obsolete	To madden.	
emphysema		A swelling produced by gas or air diffused in the cellular tissue.	
emphysematous		Pertaining to, or of the nature of, emphysema; swelled; bloated.	
emphyteusis		A real right, susceptible of assignment and of descent, charged on productive real estate, the right being coupled with the enjoyment of the property on condition of taking care of the estate and paying taxes…	
emphyteutic		Of or pertaining to an emphyteusis; as, emphyteutic lands.	
emphyteuticary		One who holds lands by emphyteusis.	Latin emphyteuticarius.
empierce	Obsolete	To pierce; to impierce.	
empight	Obsolete	Fixed; settled; fastened.	
empire		Supreme power; sovereignty; sway; dominion.	
empiric		One who follows an empirical method; one who relies upon practical experience.	Old French empirique, from Latin empiricus, from Greek ἐμπειρικός.
empirical		Pertaining to, or founded upon, experiment or experience; depending upon the observation of phenomena; versed in experiments.	
empirically		By experiment or experience; without science; in the manner of quacks.	
empiricism		The method or practice of an empiric; pursuit of knowledge by observation and experiment.	Greek ἐμπειρία.
empiricist		An empiric.	
empiristic		Relating to, or resulting from, experience, or experiment; following from empirical methods or data; -- opposed to nativistic.	
emplace		To put into place or position; to fix on an emplacement.	
emplacement		A putting in, or assigning to, a definite place; localization; as, the emplacement of a structure.	French emplacement.
emplaster	Obsolete	See Plaster — (Med.) An external application of a consistency harder than ointment, prepared for use by spreading it on linen, leather, silk, or other material.	Old French emplastre, from Latin emplastrum, from Greek ἔμπλαστρον.
emplastic		Fit to be applied as a plaster; glutinous; adhesive; as, emplastic applications.	
emplastration	Obsolete	The act or process of grafting by inoculation; budding.	
emplead		To accuse; to indict. See Implead.	
emplection		See Emplecton — a kind of masonry in which the outer faces of the wall are ashlar, the space between being filled with broken stone and mortar.	
emplecton		A kind of masonry in which the outer faces of the wall are ashlar, the space between being filled with broken stone and mortar.	
emplore	Obsolete	See Implore — to call upon, or for, in supplication; to beseech; to prey to, or for, earnestly; to petition with urency; to entreat; to beg; -- followed directly by the word expressing the thing sought…	
employ		To use; to have in service; to cause to be engaged in doing something; -- often followed by in, about, on, or upon, and sometimes by to; as: (a) To make use of, as an instrument, a means, a material, etc., for a specific purpose…	Middle French employer, from Latin implicare.
employable		Capable of being employed; capable of being used; fit or proper for use.	
employe		One employed by another; a clerk or workman in the service of an employer.	French employé.
employee		One employed by another.	French employé.
employer		One who employs another; as, an employer of workmen.	French employeur.
employment		The act of employing or using; also, the state of being employed.	
emplunge	Obsolete	To plunge; to implunge.	
empoison	Obsolete	To poison; to impoison.	Middle French empoisonner.
empoisoner	Obsolete	Poisoner.	
empoisonment		The act of poisoning.	French empoisonnement.
emporetic	Obsolete	Pertaining to an emporium; relating to merchandise.	
emporetical	Obsolete	Pertaining to an emporium; relating to merchandise.	
emporium		A place of trade; a market place; a mart; esp., a city or town with extensive commerce; the commercial center of a country.	
empoverish		See Impoverish — to make poor; to reduce to poverty or indigence; as, misfortune and disease impoverish families.	
empower		To give authority to; to delegate power to; to commission; to authorize (having commonly a legal force); as, the Supreme Court is empowered to try and decide cases, civil or criminal…	
empress		A female sovereign.	
empressement		Demonstrative warmth or cordiality of manner; display of enthusiasm.	
emprint		See Imprint — to stamp or mark, as letters on paper, by means of type, plates, stamps, or the like; to print the mark (figures, letters, etc., upon something).	
emprise		An enterprise; endeavor; adventure.	Old French emprise.
emprising	Archaic	Full of daring; adventurous.	
emprison		See Imprison — to put in prison or jail; To arrest and detain in custody; to confine.	
emprosthotonos		A drawing of the body forward, in consequence of the spasmodic action of some of the muscles.	
empte	Obsolete	To empty.	
emptier		One who, or that which, empties. of Empty.	
emptiness		The state of being empty; absence of contents; void space; vacuum; as, the emptiness of a vessel; emptiness of the stomach.	
emption		The act of buying.	Latin emptio.
emptional		Capable of being purchased.	
empty		Containing nothing; not holding or having anything within; void of contents or appropriate contents; not filled; -- said of an inclosure, as a box, room, house, etc.; as, an empty chest, room, purse, or pitcher; an empty stomach…	Middle English emty, from Old English æmtig.
emptying		The act of making empty.	
empugn		See Impugn — to attack by words or arguments; to contradict; to assail; to call in question; to make insinuations against; to gainsay; to oppose.	
empurple		To tinge or dye of a purple color; to color with purple; to impurple.	
empuse	Obsolete	A phantom or specter.	Latin empusa.
empuzzle	Archaic	To puzzle.	
empyema		A collection of blood, pus, or other fluid, in some cavity of the body, especially that of the pleura.	Greek ἐμπύημα.
empyesis		An eruption of pustules.	
empyreal		Formed of pure fire or light; refined beyond aërial substance; pertaining to the highest and purest region of heaven.	Latin empyreus, from Greek ἐμπύριος.
empyrean		The highest heaven, where the pure element of fire was supposed by the ancients to subsist.	Latin empyreus, from Greek ἐμπύριος.
empyreuma		The peculiar smell and taste arising from products of decomposition of animal or vegetable substances when burnt in close vessels.	
empyreumatic		Of or pertaining to empyreuma; as, an empyreumatic odor.	
empyreumatical		Of or pertaining to empyreuma; as, an empyreumatic odor.	
empyreumatize		To render empyreumatic.	
empyrical		Containing the combustible principle of coal.	
empyrosis	Obsolete	A general fire; a conflagration.	
emrods	Obsolete	See Emerods — hemorrhoids; piles; tumors; boils.	
emu		A large Australian bird, of two species (Dromaius Novæ- Hollandiæ and D. irroratus), related to the cassowary and the ostrich.	Portuguese ema.
emulable		Capable of being emulated.	
emulate	Obsolete	Striving to excel; ambitious; emulous.	
emulation		The endeavor to equal or to excel another in qualities or actions; an assiduous striving to equal or excel another; rivalry.	
emulative		Inclined to emulation; aspiring to competition; rivaling; as, an emulative person or effort.	
emulatively		In an emulative manner; with emulation.	
emulator		One who emulates, or strives to equal or surpass.	
emulatory		Pertaining to emulation; connected with rivalry.	
emulatress		A female emulator.	
emule	Obsolete	To emulate.	French émuler.
emulge	Obsolete	To milk out; to drain.	
emulgent	Obsolete	Pertaining to the kidneys; renal; as, emulgent arteries and veins. -- n.	
emulous		Ambitiously desirous to equal or even to excel another; eager to emulate or vie with another; desirous of like excellence with another; -- with of; as, emulous of another's example or virtues.	Latin aemulus, from Greek ἁμιλλάομαι.
emulously		In an emulous manner.	
emulousness		The quality of being emulous.	
emulsic		Pertaining to, or produced from, emulsin; as, emulsic acid.	
emulsify		To convert into an emulsion; to form an emulsion; to reduce from an oily substance to a milky fluid in which the fat globules are in a very finely divided state, giving it the semblance of solution; as…	
emulsin		(a) The white milky pulp or extract of bitter almonds. (b) An unorganized ferment (contained in this extract and in other vegetable juices), which effects the decomposition of certain glucosides.	
emulsion		Any liquid preparation of a color and consistency resembling milk; as: (a) In pharmacy, an extract of seeds, or a mixture of oil and water united by a mucilaginous substance.	
emulsive		Softening; milklike.	
emunctory		Any organ or part of the body (as the kidneys, skin, etc.,) which serves to carry off excrementitious or waste matter.	Latin emunctus.
emuscation	Obsolete	A freeing from moss.	
emyd		A fresh-water tortoise of the family Emydidæ.	
emydea		A group of chelonians which comprises many species of fresh- water tortoises and terrapins.	
