en		Half an em, that is, half of the unit of space in measuring printed matter.	
en-		Etym: A prefix signifying in or into, used in many English words, chiefly those borrowed from the French.	
enable		To make able (to do, or to be, something); to confer sufficient power upon; to furnish with means, opportunities, and the like; to render competent for; to empower; to endow.	
enablement		The act of enabling, or the state of being enabled; ability.	
enact		To decree; to establish by legal and authoritative act; to make into a law; especially, to perform the legislative act with reference to (a bill) which gives it the validity of law.	Middle English enacten.
enactive		Having power to enact or establish as a law.	
enactment		The passing of a bill into a law; the giving of legislative sanction and executive approval to a bill whereby it is established as a law.	
enactor		One who enacts a law; one who decrees or establishes as a law.	
enacture	Obsolete	Enactment; resolution.	
enaliosaur		One of the Enaliosauria.	
enaliosauria		An extinct group of marine reptiles, embracing both the Ichthyosauria and the Plesiosauria, now regarded as distinct orders.	
enaliosaurian		Pertaining to the Enaliosauria. -- n.	
enallage		A substitution, as of one part of speech for another, of one gender, number, case, person, tense, mode, or voice, of the same word, for another.	Greek ἐναλλαγή.
enambush	Obsolete	To ambush.	
enamel		A variety of glass, used in ornament, to cover a surface, as of metal or pottery, and admitting of after decoration in color, or used itself for inlaying or application in varied colors.	
enamelar		Consisting of enamel; resembling enamel; smooth; glossy.	
enameled		Coated or adorned with enamel; having a glossy or variegated surface; glazed.	
enameler		One who enamels; a workman or artist who applies enamels in ornamental work.	
enamelist		One who enamels; a workman or artist who applies enamels in ornamental work.	
enamor		To inflame with love; to charm; to captivate; -- with of, or with, before the person or thing; as, to be enamored with a lady; to be enamored of books or science.	
enamorment		The state of being enamored.	
enantiomorphous		Similar, but not superposable, i. e., related to each other as a right-handed to a left-handed glove; -- said of certain hemihedral crystals.	
enantiopathic		Serving to palliate; palliative.	
enantiopathy		An opposite passion or affection.	
enantiosis		A figure of speech by which what is to be understood affirmatively is stated negatively, and the contrary; affirmation by contraries.	Greek ἐναντίος.
enarch	Obsolete	To arch.	
enarched		Bent into a curve; -- said of a bend or other ordinary.	
enargite		An iron-black mineral of metallic luster, occurring in small orthorhombic crystals, also massive.	
enarmed		Same as Armed, 3.	
enarration	Obsolete	A detailed exposition; relation.	Latin enarratio.
enarthrodia		See Enarthrosis. -- En`ar*thro"di*al, a.	
enarthrosis		A ball and socket joint, or the kind of articulation represented by such a joint.	
enascent	Obsolete	Coming into being; nascent.	Latin enascens.
enatation	Obsolete	A swimming out.	
enate		Growing out.	
enation		Any unusual outgrowth from the surface of a thing, as of a petal; also, the capacity or act of producing such an outgrowth.	
enaunter	Obsolete	Lest that.	
enavigate	Obsolete	To sail away or over.	
enbattled	Obsolete	Embattled.	
enbibe	Obsolete	To imbibe.	
enbroude		See Embroude — to embroider; to adorn.	
encaenia		= Encenia.	
encage		To confine in a cage; to coop up.	
encalendar		To register in a calendar; to calendar.	
encamp		To form and occupy a camp; to prepare and settle in temporary habitations, as tents or huts; to halt on a march, pitch tents, or form huts, and remain for the night or for a longer time, as an army or a company traveling.	
encampment		The act of pitching tents or forming huts, as by an army or traveling company, for temporary lodging or rest.	
encanker	Obsolete	To canker.	
encapsulation		The act of inclosing in a capsule; the growth of a membrane around (any part) so as to inclose it in a capsule.	
encarnalize		To carnalize; to make gross.	
encarpus		An ornament on a frieze or capital, consisting of festoons of fruit, flowers, leaves, etc.	
encase		To inclose as in a case. See Incase.	
encasement		The act of encasing; also, that which encases.	
encash		To turn into cash; to cash.	
encashment		The payment in cash of a note, draft, etc.	
encauma		An ulcer in the eye, upon the cornea, which causes the loss of the humors.	
encaustic		Prepared by means of heat; burned in.	
encave		To hide in, or as in, a cave or recess.	
enceinte		(Fort.) The line of works which forms the main inclosure of a fortress or place; -- called also body of the place.	French enceinte, from Latin incincta.
encenia		A festival commemorative of the founding of a city or the consecration of a church; also, the ceremonies (as at Oxford and Cambridge, England) commemorative of founders or benefactors.	
encense	Obsolete	To offer incense to or upon; to burn incense.	
encephalic		Pertaining to the encephalon or brain.	
encephalitis		Inflammation of the brain. -- En`ceph*a*lit"ic, a.	
encephalocele		Hernia of the brain.	
encephaloid		Resembling the material of the brain; cerebriform.	
encephalology		The science which treats of the brain, its structure and functions.	
encephalon		The contents of the cranium; the brain.	Greek ἐγκέφαλος.
encephalopathy		Any disease or symptoms of disease referable to disorders of the brain; as, lead encephalopathy, the cerebral symptoms attending chronic lead poisoning.	
encephalos		The encephalon.	
encephalotomy		The act or art of dissecting the brain.	
encephalous		Having a head; -- said of most Mollusca; -- opposed to acephalous.	
enchafe	Obsolete	To chafe; to enrage; to heat.	
enchafing	Obsolete	Heating; burning.	
enchain		To bind with a chain; to hold in chains.	
enchainment		The act of enchaining, or state of being enchained.	
enchair		To seat in a chair.	
enchannel		To make run in a channel.	
enchant		To charm by sorcery; to act on by enchantment; to get control of by magical words and rites.	French enchanter, from Latin incantare.
enchanted		Under the power of enchantment; possessed or exercised by enchanters; as, an enchanted castle.	
enchanter		One who enchants; a sorcerer or magician; also, one who delights as by an enchantment.	
enchanting		Having a power of enchantment; charming; fascinating. -- En*chant"ing*ly, adv.	
enchantment		The act of enchanting; the production of certain wonderful effects by the aid of demons, or the agency of supposed spirits; the use of magic arts, spells, or charms; incantation.	
enchantress		A woman versed in magical arts; a sorceress; also, a woman who fascinates.	
encharge	Obsolete	To charge (with); to impose (a charge) upon.	Old French enchargier.
enchase		To incase or inclose in a border or rim; to surround with an ornamental casing, as a gem with gold; to encircle; to inclose; to adorn.	
enchaser		One who enchases.	
enchasten	Obsolete	To chasten.	
encheason	Obsolete	Occasion, cause, or reason.	Old French encheson.
encheson	Obsolete	Occasion, cause, or reason.	
enchest		To inclose in a chest.	
enchiridion		Handbook; a manual of devotions.	Greek ἐγχειρίδιον.
enchisel		To cut with a chisel.	
enchodus		A genus of extinct Cretaceous fishes; -- so named from their spear-shaped teeth.	
enchondroma		A cartilaginous tumor growing from the interior of a bone.	
enchorial		Belonging to, or used in, a country; native; domestic; popular; common; -- said especially of the written characters employed by the common people of ancient Egypt, in distinction from the hieroglyphics.	Greek ἐγχώριος.
enchoric		Belonging to, or used in, a country; native; domestic; popular; common; -- said especially of the written characters employed by the common people of ancient Egypt, in distinction from the hieroglyphics.	
enchylemma		The basal substance of the cell nucleus; a hyaline or granular substance, more or less fluid during life, in which the other parts of the nucleus are imbedded.	
enchyma		The primitive formative juice, from which the tissues, particularly the cellular tissue, are formed.	Greek ἔγχυμα.
encincture	Poetic	A cincture.	
encindered		Burnt to cinders.	
encircle		To form a circle about; to inclose within a circle or ring; to surround; as, to encircle one in the arms; the army encircled the city.	
encirclet	Obsolete	A small circle; a ring.	
enclasp		To clasp. See Inclasp.	
enclave		A tract of land or a territory inclosed within another territory of which it is independent.	French enclave, from Middle French enclave.
enclavement		The state of being an enclave.	
enclitic		Affixed; subjoined; -- said of a word or particle which leans back upon the preceding word so as to become a part of it, and to lose its own independent accent, generally varying also the accent of the preceding word.	Latin encliticus, from Greek ἐγκλιτικός.
enclitical		Affixed; subjoined; -- said of a word or particle which leans back upon the preceding word so as to become a part of it, and to lose its own independent accent, generally varying also the accent of the preceding word.	
enclitically		In an enclitic manner; by throwing the accent back.	
enclitics		The art of declining and conjugating words.	
encloister		To shut up in a cloister; to cloister.	
enclose		To inclose. See Inclose.	
enclosure		Inclosure. See Inclosure.	
enclothe		To clothe.	
encloud		To envelop in clouds; to cloud.	
encoach		To carry in a coach.	
encoffin		To put in a coffin.	
encolden	Obsolete	To render cold.	
encollar		To furnish or surround with a collar.	
encolor		To color.	
encolure		The neck of horse.	
encomber	Obsolete	See Encumber — to impede the motion or action of, as with a burden; to retard with something superfluous; to weigh down; to obstruct or embarrass; as, his movements were encumbered by his mantle…	
encomberment	Obsolete	Hindrance; molestation.	
encomiast		One who praises; a panegyrist.	Greek ἐγκωμιαστής.
encomiastic		Bestowing praise; praising; eulogistic; laudatory; as, an encomiastic address or discourse. -- En*co`mi*as"tic*al*ly, adv.	Greek ἐγκωμιαστικός.
encomiastical		Bestowing praise; praising; eulogistic; laudatory; as, an encomiastic address or discourse. -- En*co`mi*as"tic*al*ly, adv.	
encomion	Obsolete	Encomium; panegyric.	
encomium		Warm or high praise; panegyric; strong commendation.	Latin encomium, from Greek ἐγκώμιον.
encompass		To circumscribe or go round so as to surround closely; to encircle; to inclose; to environ; as, a ring encompasses the finger; an army encompasses a city; a voyage encompassing the world.	
encompassment		The act of surrounding, or the state of being surrounded; circumvention.	
encore		Once more; again; -- used by the auditors and spectators of plays, concerts, and other entertainments, to call for a repetition of a particular part.	French encore.
encorporing	Obsolete	Incorporation.	
encoubert		One of several species of armadillos of the genera Dasypus and Euphractus, having five toes both on the fore and hind feet.	
encounter		To come against face to face; to meet; to confront, either by chance, suddenly, or deliberately; especially, to meet in opposition or with hostile intent; to engage in conflict with; to oppose; to struggle with; as…	
encounterer		One who encounters; an opponent; an antagonist.	
encourage		To give courage to; to inspire with courage, spirit, or hope; to raise, or to increase, the confidence of; to animate; enhearten; to incite; to help forward; -- the opposite of discourage.	Middle English encoragen, from Anglo-Norman encoragier, from Old French encoragier.
encouragement		The act of encouraging; incitement to action or to practice; as, the encouragement of youth in generosity.	
encourager		One who encourages, incites, or helps forward; a favorer.	
encouraging		Furnishing ground to hope; inspiriting; favoring. -- En*cour"a*ging*ly, adv.	
encowl		To make a monk (or wearer of a cowl) of.	
encradle		To lay in a cradle.	
encratite		One of a sect in the 2d century who abstained from marriage, wine, and animal food; -- called also Continent.	
encrease	Obsolete	i. See Increase — to become greater or more in size, quantity, number, degree, value, intensity, power, authority, reputation, wealth; to grow; to augment; to advance; -- opposed to decrease.	
encrimson		To give a crimson or red color to; to crimson.	
encrinal		Relating to encrinites; containing encrinites, as certain kinds of limestone.	
encrinic		Relating to encrinites; containing encrinites, as certain kinds of limestone.	
encrinital		Relating to encrinites; containing encrinites, as certain kinds of limestone.	
encrinite		A fossil crinoid, esp. one belonging to, or resembling, the genus Encrinus.	
encrinitic		Pertaining to encrinites; encrinal.	
encrinitical		Pertaining to encrinites; encrinal.	
encrinoidea		That order of the Crinoidea which includes most of the living and many fossil forms, having jointed arms around the margin of the oral disk; -- also called Brachiata and Articulata.	
encrinus		A genus of fossil encrinoidea, from the Mesozoic rocks.	
encroach	Obsolete	To enter by gradual steps or by stealth into the possessions or rights of another; to trespass; to intrude; to trench; -- commonly with on or upon; as, to encroach on a neighbor; to encroach on the highway.	Old French encrochier.
encroacher		One who by gradual steps enters on, and takes possession of, what is not his own.	
encroachingly		By way of encroachment.	
encroachment		The act of entering gradually or silently upon the rights or possessions of another; unlawful intrusion.	
encrust		To incrust. See Incrust.	Latin incrustare.
encrustment		That which is formed as a crust; incrustment; incrustation.	
encumber		To impede the motion or action of, as with a burden; to retard with something superfluous; to weigh down; to obstruct or embarrass; as, his movements were encumbered by his mantle; his mind is encumbered with useless learning.	Old French encombrer.
encumberment		Encumbrance.	
encumbrance		That which encumbers; a burden which impedes action, or renders it difficult and laborious; a clog; an impediment.	
encumbrancer		Same as Incumbrancer.	
encurtain		To inclose with curtains.	
encyclic		Sent to many persons or places; intended for many, or for a whole order of men; general; circular; as, an encyclical letter of a council, of a bishop, or the pope.	
encyclical		Sent to many persons or places; intended for many, or for a whole order of men; general; circular; as, an encyclical letter of a council, of a bishop, or the pope.	Latin encyclicus, from Greek εγκυκλιος.
encyclopaedia		The circle of arts and sciences; a comprehensive summary of knowledge, or of a branch of knowledge; esp., a work in which the various branches of science or art are discussed separately, and usually in alphabetical order…	
encyclopedia		The circle of arts and sciences; a comprehensive summary of knowledge, or of a branch of knowledge; esp., a work in which the various branches of science or art are discussed separately, and usually in alphabetical order…	Latin encyclopaedia, from Greek ἐγκύκλιος παιδεία.
encyclopediacal		Encyclopedic.	
encyclopedian		Embracing the whole circle of learning, or a wide range of subjects.	
encyclopedic		Pertaining to, or of the nature of, an encyclopedia; embracing a wide range of subjects.	
encyclopedical		Pertaining to, or of the nature of, an encyclopedia; embracing a wide range of subjects.	
encyclopedism		The art of writing or compiling encyclopedias; also, possession of the whole range of knowledge; encyclopedic learning.	
encyclopedist		The compiler of an encyclopedia, or one who assists in such compilation; also, one whose knowledge embraces the whole range of the sciences.	
encyst		To inclose in a cyst.	
encystation		Encystment.	
encysted		Inclosed in a cyst, or a sac, bladder, or vesicle; as, an encysted tumor.	
encystment		(Biol.) A process which, among some of the lower forms of life, precedes reproduction by budding, fission, spore formation, etc.	
end		The extreme or last point or part of any material thing considered lengthwise (the extremity of breadth being side); hence, extremity, in general; the concluding part; termination; close; limit; as, the end of a field, line…	Middle English enden.
end-		A combining form signifying within; as, endocarp, endogen, endocuneiform, endaspidean.	
end-all		Complete termination.	
endable		That may be ended; terminable.	
endall		Complete termination.	
endamage		To bring loss or damage to; to harm; to injure.	
endamageable	Obsolete	Capable of being damaged, or injured; damageable.	
endamagement	Obsolete	Damage; injury; harm.	
endamnify		To damnify; to injure.	
endanger		To put to hazard; to bring into danger or peril; to expose to loss or injury; as, to endanger life or peace.	
endangerment		Hazard; peril.	
endark	Obsolete	To darken.	
endaspidean		Having the anterior scutes extending around the tarsus on the inner side; -- said of certain birds.	
endazzle	Obsolete	To dazzle.	
endear		To make dear or beloved.	
endearedly		With affection or endearment; dearly.	
endearedness		State of being endeared.	
endearing		Making dear or beloved; causing love. -- En*dear"ing*ly, adv.	
endearment		The act of endearing or the state of being endeared; also, that which manifests, excites, or increases, affection.	
endeavor	Obsolete	To exert physical or intellectual strength for the attainment of; to use efforts to effect; to strive to achieve or reach; to try; to attempt.	Middle English endevour.
endeavorer		One who makes an effort or attempt.	
endeavorment	Obsolete	Act of endeavoring; endeavor.	
endecagon		A plane figure of eleven sides and angles.	
endecagynous		Having eleven pistils; as, an endecagynous flower.	
endecane		One of the higher hydrocarbons of the paraffin series, C11H24, found as a constituent of petroleum.	
endecaphyllous		Composed of eleven leaflets; -- said of a leaf.	
endeictic		Serving to show or exhibit; as, an endeictic dialogue, in the Platonic philosophy, is one which exhibits a specimen of skill.	
endeixis		An indication.	
endemial		Endemic.	
endemic		Peculiar to a district or particular locality, or class of persons; as, an endemic disease.	
endemical		Peculiar to a district or particular locality, or class of persons; as, an endemic disease.	
endemically		In an endemic manner.	
endemiology		The science which treats of endemic affections.	
endenization		The act of naturalizing.	
endenize	Obsolete	To endenizen.	
endenizen	Obsolete	To admit to the privileges of a denizen; to naturalize.	
ender		One who, or that which, makes an end of something; as, the ender of my life.	
endermatic		Endermic.	
endermic		Acting through the skin, or by direct application to the skin.	
endermically		By the endermic method; as, applied endermically.	
enderon		The deep sensitive and vascular layer of the skin and mucous membranes. -- En`de*ron"ic, a.	
endiademed		Diademed.	
endiaper		To decorate with a diaper pattern.	
endict		See Indict — (Law) To charge with a crime, in due form of law, by the finding or presentment of a grand jury; to find an indictment against; as, to indict a man for arson.	
endictment		See Indictment — the act of indicting, or the state of being indicted.	
ending		Termination; concluding part; result; conclusion; destruction; death.	
endite		See Indite — could a common grief have indited such expressions South.	
endive		A composite herb (Cichorium Endivia).	
endless		Without end; having no end or conclusion; perpetual; interminable; -- applied to length, and to duration; as, an endless line; endless time; endless bliss; endless praise; endless clamor.	
endlessly		In an endless manner.	
endlessness		The quality of being endless; perpetuity.	
endlong	Archaic	Lengthwise; along.	
endmost		Farthest; remotest; at the very end.	
endo-		A combining form signifying within; as, endocarp, endogen, endocuneiform, endaspidean.	
endoblast		Entoblast; endoplast. See Nucleus,	
endoblastic		Relating to the endoblast; as, the endoblastic layer.	
endocardiac		Pertaining to the endocardium.	
endocardial		Pertaining to the endocardium.	
endocarditis		Inflammation of the endocardium.	
endocardium		The membrane lining the cavities of the heart.	
endocarp		The inner layer of a ripened or fructified ovary.	
endochondral		Growing or developing within cartilage; -- applied esp. to developing bone.	
endochrome		The coloring matter within the cells of plants, whether green, red, yellow, or any other color.	
endoctrine	Obsolete	To teach; to indoctrinate.	
endocyst		The inner layer of the cells of Bryozoa.	
endoderm		(a) The inner layer of the skin or integument of an animal. (b) The innermost layer of the blastoderm and the structures derived from it; the hypoblast; the entoblast.	
endodermal		Of or pertaining to the endoderm.	
endodermic		Of or pertaining to the endoderm.	
endodermis		A layer of cells forming a kind of cuticle inside of the proper cortical layer, or surrounding an individual fibrovascular bundle.	
endogamous		Marrying within the same tribe; -- opposed to exogamous.	
endogamy		Marriage only within the tribe; a custom restricting a man in his choice of a wife to the tribe to which he belongs; -- opposed to exogamy.	
endogen		A plant which increases in size by internal growth and elongation at the summit, having the wood in the form of bundles or threads, irregularly distributed throughout the whole diameter, not forming annual layers…	
endogenesis		Endogeny.	
endogenetic		Endogenous.	
endogenous		(Bot.) Increasing by internal growth and elongation at the summit, instead of externally, and having no distinction of pith, wood, and bark, as the rattan, the palm, the cornstalk.	
endogenously		By endogenous growth.	
endogeny		Growth from within; multiplication of cells by endogenous division, as in the development of one or more cells in the interior of a parent cell.	
endognath		The inner or principal branch of the oral appendages of Crustacea. See Maxilla.	
endognathal		Pertaining to the endognath.	
endolymph		The watery fluid contained in the membranous labyrinth of the internal ear.	
endolymphangial		Within a lymphatic vessel.	
endolymphatic		(a) Pertaining to, or containing, endolymph; as, the endolymphatic duct.	
endome		To cover as with a dome.	
endometritis		Inflammation of the endometrium.	
endometrium		The membrane lining the inner surface of the uterus, or womb.	
endomorph		A crystal of one species inclosed within one of another, as one of rutile inclosed in quartz.	
endomysium		The delicate bands of connective tissue interspersed among muscular fibers.	
endoneurium		The delicate bands of connective tissue among nerve fibers.	
endoparasite		Any parasite which lives in the internal organs of an animal, as the tapeworms, Trichina, etc.; -- opposed to ectoparasite.	
endophloeum		The inner layer of the bark of trees.	
endophragma		A chitinous structure above the nervous cord in the thorax of certain Crustacea.	
endophragmal		Of or pertaining to the endophragma.	
endophyllous		Wrapped up within a leaf or sheath.	
endoplasm		The protoplasm in the interior of a cell.	
endoplasma		Same as Entoplasm and Endosarc.	
endoplast		See Nucleus — a kernel; hence, a central mass or point about which matter is gathered, or to which accretion is made; the central or material portion; -- used both literally and figuratively.	
endoplastica		A group of Rhizopoda having a distinct nucleus, as the am	
endoplastule		See Nucleolus — a little nucleus.	
endopleura		The inner coating of a seed. See Tegmen.	
endopleurite		The portion of each apodeme developed from the interepimeral membrane in certain crustaceans.	
endopodite		The internal or principal branch of the locomotive appendages of Crustacea.	
endorhiza		Any monocotyledonous plant; -- so named because many monocotyledons have an endorhizal embryo.	
endorhizal		Having the radicle of the embryo sheathed by the cotyledon, through which the embryo bursts in germination, as in many monocotyledonous plants.	
endorhizous		Having the radicle of the embryo sheathed by the cotyledon, through which the embryo bursts in germination, as in many monocotyledonous plants.	
endorse		Same as Indorse.	
endorsee		Same as Indorsee.	
endorsement		Same as Indorsement.	
endorser		Same as Indorser.	
endosarc		The semifluid, granular interior of certain unicellular organisms, as the inner layer of sarcode in the amoeba; entoplasm; endoplasta.	
endoscope		An instrument for examining the interior of the rectum, the urethra, and the bladder.	
endoscopy		The art or process of examining by means of the endoscope.	
endoskeletal		Pertaining to, or connected with, the endoskeleton; as, endoskeletal muscles.	
endoskeleton		The bony, cartilaginous, or other internal framework of an animal, as distinguished from the exoskeleton.	
endosmometer		An instrument for measuring the force or amount of endosmotic action.	
endosmometric		Pertaining to, or designed for, the measurement of endosmotic action.	
endosmose		The transmission of a fluid or gas from without inward in the phenomena, or by the process, of osmose.	
endosmosis		The transmission of a fluid or gas from without inward in the phenomena, or by the process, of osmose.	
endosmosmic		Endosmotic.	
endosmotic		Pertaining to endosmose; of the nature endosmose; osmotic.	
endosperm		The albumen of a seed; -- limited by recent writers to that formed within the embryo sac.	
endospermic		Relating to, accompanied by, or containing, endosperm.	
endospore		The thin inner coat of certain spores.	
endosporous		Having the spores contained in a case; -- applied to fungi.	
endoss	Obsolete	To put upon the back or outside of anything; -- the older spelling of endorse.	French endosser.
endosteal		Relating to endostosis; as, endosteal ossification.	
endosternite		The part of each apodeme derived from the intersternal membrane in Crustacea and insects.	
endosteum		The layer of vascular connective tissue lining the medullary cavities of bone.	
endostoma		A plate which supports the labrum in certain Crustacea.	
endostome		(Bot.) The foramen or passage through the inner integument of an ovule.	
endostosis		A process of bone formation in which ossification takes place within the substance of the cartilage.	
endostyle		A fold of the endoderm, which projects into the blood cavity of ascidians.	
endotheca		The tissue which partially fills the interior of the interseptal chambers of most madreporarian corals.	
endothecium		The inner lining of an another cell.	
endothelial		Of, or relating to, endothelium.	
endothelium		The thin epithelium lining the blood vessels, lymphatics, and serous cavities.	
endotheloid		Like endothelium.	
endothermic		Designating, or pert. to, a reaction which occurs with absorption of heat; formed by such a reaction; as, an endothermic substance; -- opposed to exothermic.	
endothorax		An internal process of the sternal plates in the thorax of insects.	
endow		To furnish with money or its equivalent, as a permanent fund for support; to make pecuniary provision for; to settle an income upon; especially, to furnish with dower; as, to endow a wife; to endow a public institution.	Anglo-Norman endover.
endower	Obsolete	To endow.	
endowment		The act of bestowing a dower, fund, or permanent provision for support.	
endozoa		See Entozoa — a group of worms, including the tapeworms, flukes, roundworms, etc., most of which live parasitically in the interior of other animals; the Helminthes.	
endrudge	Obsolete	To make a drudge or slave of.	
endue		To invest.	Old French enduire.
enduement		Act of enduing; induement.	
endurable		Capable of being endured or borne; sufferable.	
endurably		In an endurable manner.	
endurance		A state or quality of lasting or duration; lastingness; continuance.	
endurant		Capable of enduring fatigue, pain, hunger, etc. The ibex is a remarkably endurant animal.	
endure		To continue in the same state without perishing; to last; to remain.	Middle English enduren, from Old French endurer, from Latin induro.
endurement	Obsolete	Endurance.	
endurer		One who, or that which, endures or lasts; one who bears, suffers, or sustains.	
enduring		Lasting; durable; long-suffering; as, an enduring disposition. x. 34. -- En*dur ing*ness, n.	
endways		On end; erectly; in an upright position.	
endwise		On end; erectly; in an upright position.	
endyma		See Ependyma — the epithelial lining of the ventricles of the brain and the canal of the spinal cord; endyma; ependymis.	
endysis		The act of developing a new coat of hair, a new set of feathers, scales, etc.; -- opposed to ecdysis.	
enecate	Obsolete	To kill off; to destroy.	
eneid		Same as Æneid.	
enema		An injection, or clyster, thrown into the rectum as a medicine, or to impart nourishment.	Greek ἔνεμα.
enemy	Obsolete	One hostile to another; one who hates, and desires or attempts the injury of, another; a foe; an adversary; as, an enemy of or to a person; an enemy to truth, or to falsehood.	Old French enemi, from Latin inimicus.
enepidermic		Applied to the skin without friction; -- said of medicines.	
energetic		Having energy or energies; possessing a capacity for vigorous action or for exerting force; active.	Greek ἐνεργητικός.
energetical		Having energy or energies; possessing a capacity for vigorous action or for exerting force; active.	
energetics		That branch of science which treats of the laws governing the physical or mechanical, in distinction from the vital, forces…	
energic		In a state of action; acting; operating.	
energical		In a state of action; acting; operating.	
energize		To use strength in action; to act or operate with force or vigor; to act in producing an effect.	
energizer		One who, or that which, gives energy, or acts in producing an effect.	
energizing		Capable of imparting or exercising energy.	
energumen		One possessed by an evil spirit; a demoniac.	Latin energumenus, from Greek ἐνεργούμενον.
energy		Internal or inherent power; capacity of acting, operating, or producing an effect, whether exerted or not; as, men possessing energies may suffer them to lie inactive.	Greek ἐνέργεια.
enervate		To deprive of nerve, force, strength, or courage; to render feeble or impotent; to make effeminate; to impair the moral powers of.	
enervation		The act of weakening, or reducing strength.	
enervative		Having power, or a tendency, to enervate; weakening.	
enerve	Obsolete	To weaken; to enervate.	
enervous		Lacking nerve or force; enervated.	Latin enervis.
enface		To write or print on the face of (a draft, bill, etc.); as, to enface drafts with memoranda.	
enfamish		To famish; to starve.	
enfect	Obsolete	Contaminated with illegality.	
enfeeble		To make feeble; to deprive of strength; to reduce the strength or force of; to weaken; to debilitate.	
enfeeblement		The act of weakening; enervation; weakness.	
enfeebler		One who, or that which, weakens or makes feeble.	
enfeeblish	Obsolete	To enfeeble.	
enfeloned	Obsolete	Rendered fierce or frantic.	
enfeoff		(Law) To give a feud, or right in land, to; to invest with a fief or fee; to invest (any one) with a freehold estate by the process of feoffment.	
enfeoffment		(a) The act of enfeoffing. (b) The instrument or deed by which one is invested with the fee of an estate.	
enfester	Obsolete	To fester.	
enfetter		To bind in fetters; to enchain.	
enfever		To excite fever in.	
enfierce	Obsolete	To make fierce.	
enfilade		A line or straight passage, or the position of that which lies in a straight line.	
enfiled		Having some object, as the head of a man or beast, impaled upon it; as, a sword which is said to be the thing which it pierces.	
enfire	Obsolete	To set on fire.	
enflesh	Obsolete	To clothe with flesh.	
enfleurage		A process of extracting perfumes by exposing absorbents, as fixed oils or fats, to the exhalations of the flowers.	French enfleurage.
enflower	Poetic	To cover or deck with flowers.	
enfold		To infold. See Infold.	
enfoldment		The act of infolding. See Infoldment.	
enforce		To put force upon; to force; to constrain; to compel; as, to enforce obedience to commands.	Old French enforcier, from Latin infortiare.
enforceable		Capable of being enforced.	
enforced		Compelled; forced; not voluntary. -- En*for"ced*ly, adv.	
enforcement		The act of enforcing; compulsion.	
enforcer		One who enforces.	
enforcible		That may be enforced.	
enforcive		Serving to enforce or constrain; compulsive.	
enforest		To turn into a forest.	
enform	Obsolete	To form; to fashion.	French enformer.
enfouldred	Obsolete	Mixed with, or emitting, lightning.	
enframe		To inclose, as in a frame.	
enfranchise		To set free; to liberate from slavery, prison, or any binding power.	
enfranchisement		Releasing from slavery or custody.	
enfranchiser		One who enfranchises.	
enfree	Obsolete	To set free.	
enfreedom	Obsolete	To set free.	
enfreeze	Obsolete	To freeze; to congeal.	
enfroward	Obsolete	To make froward, perverse, or ungovernable.	
engage		To put under pledge; to pledge; to place under obligations to do or forbear doing something, as by a pledge, oath, or promise; to bind by contract or promise.	Middle French engagier, from Old French engager.
engaged		Occupied; employed; busy.	
engagedly		With attachment; with interest; earnestly.	
engagedness		The state of being deeply interested; earnestness; zeal.	
engagement		The act of engaging, pledging, enlisting, occupying, or entering into contest.	French engagement.
engager		One who enters into an engagement or agreement; a surety.	
engaging		Tending to draw the attention or affections; attractive; as, engaging manners or address. -- En*ga ging*ness, n.	
engallant	Obsolete	To make a gallant of.	
engaol	Obsolete	To put in jail; to imprison.	
engarboil	Obsolete	To throw into disorder; to disturb.	
engarland		To encircle with a garland, or with garlands.	
engarrison		To garrison; to put in garrison, or to protect by a garrison.	
engastrimuth	Obsolete	An ventriloquist.	
engender		To produce by the union of the sexes; to beget.	Middle French engendrer, from Latin ingenerare.
engendrure	Obsolete	The act of generation.	Old French engendreure.
engild		To gild; to make splendent.	
engine		Anything used to effect a purpose; any device or contrivance; an agent.	Middle English engin, from Old French engin, from Latin ingenium.
engine-sized		Sized by a machine, and not while in the pulp; -- said of paper.	
engineer		A person skilled in the principles and practice of any branch of engineering.	Middle English engineour, from Old French engignier, from Latin ingeniarius.
engineering		Originally, the art of managing engines; in its modern and extended sense, the art and science by which the mechanical properties of matter are made useful to man in structures and machines; the occupation and work of an engineer.	
engineman		A man who manages, or waits on, an engine.	
enginer	Obsolete	A contriver; an inventor; a contriver of engines.	
enginery		The act or art of managing engines, or artillery.	
enginous	Obsolete	Contrived with care; ingenious.	Old French engignos.
engird		To gird; to encompass.	
engirdle		To surround as with a girdle; to girdle.	
engirt		To engird.	
engiscope	Obsolete	A kind of reflecting microscope.	
engle	Obsolete	A favorite; a paramour; an ingle.	
english		Of or pertaining to England, or to its inhabitants, or to the present so-called Anglo-Saxon race.	
englishable		Capable of being translated into, or expressed in, English.	
englishism		A quality or characteristic peculiar to the English.	
englishman		A native or a naturalized inhabitant of England.	
englishry		A body of English or people of English descent; -- commonly applied to English people in Ireland.	
englishwoman		Fem. of Englishman.	
engloom		To make gloomy.	
englue		To join or close fast together, as with glue; as, a coffer well englued.	
englut	Obsolete	To swallow or gulp down.	
engore	Obsolete	To make bloody.	
engorge		To swallow with greediness or in large quantities; to devour.	
engorged		Swallowed with greediness, or in large draughts.	
engorgement		The act of swallowing greedily; a devouring with voracity; a glutting.	
engouled		Partly swallowed; disappearing in the jaws of anything; as, an infant engouled by a serpent; said also of an ordinary, when its two ends to issue from the mouths of lions, or the like; as, a bend engouled.	Old French engoulé.
engoulee		Same as Engouled.	
engraff	Obsolete	To graft; to fix deeply.	
engraffment	Obsolete	See Ingraftment — the thing ingrafted; a scion.	
engraft		See Ingraft — to insert, as a scion of one tree, shrub, or plant in another for propagation; as, to ingraft a peach scion on a plum tree; figuratively…	
engraftation		The act of ingrafting; ingraftment.	
engraftment		The act of ingrafting; ingraftment.	
engrail		To variegate or spot, as with hail.	
engrailed		Indented with small concave curves, as the edge of a bordure, bend, or the like.	
engrailment		The ring of dots round the edge of a medal, etc. Brande & C.	
engrain		To dye in grain, or of a fast color. See Ingrain.	
engrapple	Obsolete	To grapple.	
engrasp		To grasp; to grip.	
engrave		To cut with a graving instrument in order to form an inscription or pictorial representation; to carve figures; to mark with incisions.	
engraved		Made by engraving or ornamented with engraving.	
engravement		Engraving.	
engraver		One who engraves; a person whose business it is to produce engraved work, especially on metal or wood.	
engravery		The trade or work of an engraver.	
engraving		The act or art of producing upon hard material incised or raised patterns, characters, lines, and the like; especially, the art of producing such lines, etc., in the surface of metal plates or blocks of wood.	
engregge	Obsolete	To aggravate; to make worse; to lie heavy on.	
engrieve	Obsolete	To grieve.	
engross		To copy or write in a large hand (en gross, i. e., in large); to write a fair copy of in distinct and legible characters; as, to engross a deed or like instrument on parchment.	Middle English engrossen.
engrosser		One who copies a writing in large, fair characters.	
engrossment		The act of engrossing; as, the engrossment of a deed.	
enguard	Obsolete	To surround as with a guard.	
engulf		To absorb or swallow up as in a gulf.	
engulfment		A swallowing up as if in a gulf.	
engyn	Obsolete	Variant of Engine.	
enhalo		To surround with a halo.	
enhance		To advance; to augment; to increase; to heighten; to make more costly or attractive; as, to enhance the price of commodities; to enhance beauty or kindness; hence, also, to render more heinous; to aggravate; as, to enhance crime.	Middle English enhauncen, from Anglo-Norman enhauncer, from Old French enhaucier.
enhancement		The act of increasing, or state of being increased; augmentation; aggravation; as, the enhancement of value, price, enjoyments, crime.	
enhancer		One who enhances; one who, or that which, raises the amount, price, etc.	
enharbor		To find harbor or safety in; to dwell in or inhabit.	
enharden	Obsolete	To harden; to embolden.	
enharmonic		(Mus.) (a) Pertaining to a change of notes to the eye, while, as the same keys are used, the instrument can mark no difference to the ear, as the substitution of A for G#.	
enharmonical		(Mus.) (a) Pertaining to a change of notes to the eye, while, as the same keys are used, the instrument can mark no difference to the ear, as the substitution of A for G#.	
enharmonically		In the enharmonic style or system; in just intonation.	
enhearten		To give heart to; to fill with courage; to embolden.	
enhedge		To surround as with a hedge.	
enhort	Obsolete	To encourage.	Old French enhorter.
enhunger		To make hungry.	
enhydros		A variety of chalcedony containing water.	
enhydrous		Having water within; containing fluid drops; -- said of certain crystals.	
enigma		A dark, obscure, or inexplicable saying; a riddle; a statement, the hidden meaning of which is to be discovered or guessed.	Latin aenigma, from Greek αἴνιγμα.
enigmatic		Relating to or resembling an enigma; not easily explained or accounted for; darkly expressed; obscure; puzzling; as, an enigmatical answer.	
enigmatical		Relating to or resembling an enigma; not easily explained or accounted for; darkly expressed; obscure; puzzling; as, an enigmatical answer.	
enigmatically		Darkly; obscurely.	
enigmatist		One who makes, or talks in, enigmas.	
enigmatize		To make, or talk in, enigmas; to deal in riddles.	
enigmatography		The art of making or of solving enigmas.	
enigmatology		The art of making or of solving enigmas.	
enisled		Placed alone or apart, as if on an island; severed, as an island.	
enjail		To put into jail; to imprison.	
enjoin		To lay upon, as an order or command; to give an injunction to; to direct with authority; to order; to charge.	Old French enjoindre, from Latin injungere.
enjoiner		One who enjoins.	
enjoinment	Obsolete	Direction; command; authoritative admonition.	
enjoy		To take pleasure or satisfaction in the possession or experience of; to feel or perceive with pleasure; to be delighted with; as, to enjoy the dainties of a feast; to enjoy conversation.	Old French enjoir, from Latin gaudere.
enjoyable		Capable of being enjoyed or of giving joy; yielding enjoyment.	
enjoyer		One who enjoys.	
enjoyment		The condition of enjoying anything; pleasure or satisfaction, as in the possession or occupancy of anything; possession and use; as, the enjoyment of an estate.	
enkennel		To put into a kennel.	
enkerchiefed		Bound with a kerchief; draped; hooded; covered.	
enkindle		To excite; to rouse into action; to incite.	
enlace		To bind or encircle with lace, or as with lace; to lace; to encircle; to enfold; hence, to entangle.	
enlacement		The act of enlacing, or state of being enlaced; a surrounding as with a lace.	
enlard		To cover or dress with lard or grease; to fatten.	
enlarge		To make larger; to increase in quantity or dimensions; to extend in limits; to magnify; as, the body is enlarged by nutrition; to enlarge one's house.	
enlarged		Made large or larger; extended; swollen. -- En*lar ged*ness, n.	
enlargement		The act of increasing in size or bulk, real or apparent; the state of being increased; augmentation; further extension; expansion.	
enlarger		One that enlarges.	
enlay		See Inlay — to lay within; hence, to insert, as pieces of pearl, iviry, choice woods, or the like, in a groundwork of some other material; to form an ornamental surface…	
enlengthen	Obsolete	To lengthen.	
enlight		To illumine; to enlighten.	
enlighten		To supply with light; to illuminate; as, the sun enlightens the earth.	
enlightener		One who enlightens or illuminates; one who, or that which, communicates light to the eye, or clear views to the mind.	
enlightenment		Act of enlightening, or the state of being enlightened or instructed.	
enlimn		To adorn by illuminating or ornamenting with colored and decorated letters and figures, as a book or manuscript.	
enlink		To chain together; to connect, as by links.	
enlist		To engage for military or naval service, the name being entered on a list or register; as, to enlist men.	
enlistment		The act or enlisting, or the state of being enlisted; voluntary enrollment to serve as a soldier or a sailor.	
enlive	Obsolete	To enliven.	
enliven		To give life, action, or motion to; to make vigorous or active; to excite; to quicken; as, fresh fuel enlivens a fire.	
enlivener		One who, or that which, enlivens, animates, or invigorates.	
enlock		To lock; to inclose.	
enlumine	Obsolete	To illumine.	French enluminer.
enlute	Obsolete	To coat with clay; to lute.	
enmanche		Resembling, or covered with, a sleeve; -- said of the chief when lines are drawn from the middle point of the upper edge upper edge to the sides.	
enmarble	Obsolete	To make hard as marble; to harden.	
enmesh		To catch or entangle in, or as in, meshes.	
enmew		See Emmew — to mew or coop up.	
enmist		To infold, as in a mist.	
enmity		The quality of being an enemy; hostile or unfriendly disposition.	Old French enemistié.
enmossed		Covered with moss; mossed.	
enmove	Obsolete	See Emmove — to move; to rouse; to excite.	
enmuffle		To muffle up.	
enmure	Obsolete	To immure.	
ennation		The ninth segment in insects.	
ennead		The number nine or a group of nine.	
enneagon		A polygon or plane figure with nine sides and nine angles; a nonagon.	
enneagonal		Belonging to an enneagon; having nine angles.	
enneagynous		Having or producing nine pistils or styles; -- said of a flower or plant.	
enneahedral		Having nine sides.	
enneahedria		A figure having nine sides; a nonagon.	
enneahedron		A figure having nine sides; a nonagon.	
enneandria		A Linnæan class of plants having nine stamens.	
enneandrian		Having nine stamens.	
enneandrous		Having nine stamens.	
enneapetalous		Having nine petals, or flower leaves.	
enneaspermous		Having nine seeds; -- said of fruits.	
enneatic		Occurring once in every nine times, days, years, etc.; every ninth.	
enneatical		Occurring once in every nine times, days, years, etc.; every ninth.	
ennew	Obsolete	To make new.	
enniche		To place in a niche.	
ennoble		To make noble; to elevate in degree, qualities, or excellence; to dignify.	Middle English ennoblen, from Old French ennoblir.
ennoblement		The act of making noble, or of exalting, dignifying, or advancing to nobility.	
ennobler		One who ennobles.	
ennui		A feeling of weariness and disgust; dullness and languor of spirits, arising from satiety or want of interest; tedium.	
ennuye		Affected with ennui; weary in spirits; emotionally exhausted.	
ennuyee		A woman affected with ennui.	
enodal		Without a node.	
enodation		The act or operation of clearing of knots, or of untying; hence, also, the solution of a difficulty.	
enode	Obsolete	To clear of knots; to make clear.	
enoint	Obsolete	Anointed.	
enomotarch		The commander of an enomoty.	
enomoty		A band of sworn soldiers; a division of the Spartan army ranging from twenty-five to thirty-six men, bound together by oath.	
enopla		One of the orders of Nemertina, characterized by the presence of a peculiar armature of spines or plates in the proboscis.	
enoptomancy		Divination by the use of a mirror.	
enorm	Obsolete	Enormous.	
enormity		The state or quality of exceeding a measure or rule, or of being immoderate, monstrous, or outrageous.	Middle French énormité, from Latin enormitatem.
enormous		Exceeding the usual rule, norm, or measure; out of due proportion; inordinate; abnormal.	Latin enormis.
enormously		In an enormous degree.	
enormousness		The state of being enormous.	
enorthotrope		An optical toy; a card on which confused or imperfect figures are drawn, but which form to the eye regular figures when the card is rapidly revolved.	
enough		Satisfying desire; giving content; adequate to meet the want; sufficient; -- usually, and more elegantly, following the noun to which it belongs.	Middle English ynough, from Old English genog.
enounce		To announce; to declare; to state, as a proposition or argument.	
enouncement		Act of enouncing; that which is enounced.	
enow	Archaic	A form of Enough.	
enpatron	Obsolete	To act the part of a patron towards; to patronize.	
enpierce	Obsolete	To pierce.	
enquere	Obsolete	To inquire.	
enquicken	Obsolete	To quicken; to make alive.	
enquire		See Inquire — to ask a question; to seek for truth or information by putting queries.	Old French enquerre, from Latin inquirere.
enquirer		See Inquirer — one who inquires or examines; questioner; investigator.	
enquiry		See Inquiry — the act of inquiring; a seeking for information by asking questions; interrogation; a question or questioning.	
enrace	Obsolete	To enroot; to implant.	
enrage		To fill with rage; to provoke to frenzy or madness; to make furious.	Old French enrager.
enragement	Obsolete	Act of enraging or state of being enraged; excitement.	
enrange	Obsolete	To rove over; to range.	
enrank		To place in ranks or in order.	
enrapt		Thrown into ecstasy; transported; enraptured.	
enrapture		To transport with pleasure; to delight beyond measure; to enravish.	
enravish		To transport with delight; to enrapture; to fascinate.	
enravishingly		So as to throw into ecstasy.	
enravishment		The state of being enravished or enraptured; ecstasy; rapture.	
enregister		To register; to enroll or record; to inregister.	
enrheum	Obsolete	To contract a rheum.	
enrich		To make rich with any kind of wealth; to render opulent; to increase the possessions of; as, to enrich the understanding with knowledge.	
enricher		One who enriches.	
enrichment		The act of making rich, or that which enriches; increase of value by improvements, embellishment, etc.; decoration; embellishment.	
enridge		To form into ridges.	
enring		To encircle.	
enripen	Obsolete	To ripen.	
enrive	Obsolete	To rive; to cleave.	
enrobe		To invest or adorn with a robe; to attire.	
enrockment		A mass of large stones thrown into water at random to form bases of piers, breakwaters, etc.	
enroll		To insert in a roil; to register or enter in a list or catalogue or on rolls of court; hence, to record; to insert in records; to leave in writing; as, to enroll men for service; to enroll a decree or a law; also, reflexively…	
enroller		One who enrolls or registers.	
enrollment		The act of enrolling; registration.	
enroot		To fix by the root; to fix fast; to implant deep.	
enround	Obsolete	To surround.	
ens		(Metaph.) Entity, being, or existence; an actually existing being; also, God, as the Being of Beings.	
ensafe	Obsolete	To make safe.	
ensample	Obsolete	An example; a pattern or model for imitation.	
ensanguine		To stain or cover with blood; to make bloody, or of a blood-red color; as, an ensanguined hue.	
ensate		Having sword-shaped leaves, or appendages; ensiform.	
enscale		To cover with scales.	
enschedule		To insert in a schedule. See Schedule.	
ensconce		To cover or shelter, as with a sconce or fort; to place or hide securely; to conceal.	
enseal	Obsolete	To impress with a seal; to mark as with a seal; hence, to ratify.	
enseam	Obsolete	To sew up; to inclose by a seam; hence, to include; to contain.	
ensear	Obsolete	To sear; to dry up.	
ensearch	Obsolete	To make search; to try to find something. -- v. t.	Old French encerchier.
enseel	Obsolete	To close eyes of; to seel; -- said in reference to a hawk.	
enseint	Obsolete	With child; pregnant. See Enceinte.	
ensemble		The whole; all the parts taken together.	French ensemble, from Latin insimul.
enshelter	Obsolete	To shelter.	
enshield	Archaic	To defend, as with a shield; to shield.	
enshrine		To inclose in a shrine or chest; hence, to preserve or cherish as something sacred; as, to enshrine something in memory.	
enshroud		To cover with, or as with, a shroud; to shroud.	
ensiferous		Bearing a sword.	
ensiform		Having the form of a sword blade; sword-shaped; as, an ensiform leaf.	
ensign		A flag; a banner; a standard; esp., the national flag, or a banner indicating nationality, carried by a ship or a body of soldiers; -- as distinguished from flags indicating divisions of the army, rank of naval officers…	
ensigncy		The rank or office of an ensign.	
ensignship		The state or rank of an ensign.	
ensilage		The process of preserving fodder (such as cornstalks, rye, oats, millet, etc.) by compressing it while green and fresh in a pit or vat called a silo, where it is kept covered from the air; as the ensilage of fodder.	
ensile		To store (green fodder) in a silo; to prepare as silage. -- En"si*list (#), n.	French ensiler.
ensky		To place in the sky or in heaven.	
enslave		To reduce to slavery; to make a slave of; to subject to a dominant influence.	
enslavedness		State of being enslaved.	
enslavement		The act of reducing to slavery; state of being enslaved; bondage; servitude.	
enslaver		One who enslaves.	
ensnare		To catch in a snare. See Insnare.	
ensnarl	Obsolete	To entangle.	
ensober	Obsolete	To make sober.	
ensoul		To indue or imbue (a body) with soul.	
ensphere		To form into a sphere.	
enstamp		To stamp; to mark as It is the motive … which enstamps the character.	
enstate		See Instate — to set, place, or establish, as in a rank, office, or condition; to install; to invest; as, to instate a person in greatness or in favor.	
enstatite		A mineral of the pyroxene group, orthorhombic in crystallization; often fibrous and massive; color grayish white or greenish.	
enstatitic		Relating to enstatite.	
enstore	Obsolete	To restore.	
enstyle	Obsolete	To style; to name.	
ensuable		Ensuing; following.	
ensue	Obsolete	To follow; to pursue; to follow and overtake. 1 Pet. iii. 11.	
ensure		To make sure. See Insure.	Anglo-Norman enseurer, from Old French seur, from Latin super.
ensurer		See Insurer — one who, or that which, insures; the person or company that contracts to indemnify losses for a premium; an underwriter.	
enswathe		To swathe; to envelop, as in swaddling clothes.	
enswathement		The act of enswathing, or the state of being enswathed.	
ensweep		To sweep over or across; to pass over rapidly.	
ent-		A prefix signifying within. See Ento-.	
entablature		The superstructure which lies horizontally upon the columns. See Illust. of Column, Cornice.	
entablement		See Entablature — the superstructure which lies horizontally upon the columns. See Illust. of Column, Cornice.	French entablement.
entackle	Obsolete	To supply with tackle.	
entad		Toward the inside or central part; away from the surface; -- opposed to ectad.	
entail		That which is entailed. Hence: (Law) (a) An estate in fee entailed, or limited in descent to a particular class of issue.	Old English entaile, from Old French entaille.
entailment		The act of entailing or of giving, as an estate, and directing the mode of descent.	
ental		Pertaining to, or situated near, central or deep parts; inner; -- opposed to ectal.	
entame	Obsolete	To tame.	
entangle		To twist or interweave in such a manner as not to be easily separated; to make tangled, confused, and intricate; as, to entangle yarn or the hair.	
entanglement		State of being entangled; intricate and confused involution; that which entangles; intricacy; perplexity.	
entangler		One that entangles.	
entasia		Tonic spasm; -- applied generically to denote any disease characterized by tonic spasms, as tetanus, trismus, etc.	
entasis		(Arch.) A slight convex swelling of the shaft of a column.	
entassment		A heap; accumulation.	
entastic		Relating to any disease characterized by tonic spasms.	
entelechy		An actuality; a conception completely actualized, in distinction from mere potential existence.	Latin entelechia, from Greek ἐντελέχεια.
entellus		An East Indian long-tailed bearded monkey (Semnopithecus entellus) regarded as sacred by the natives.	
entend	Obsolete	To attend to; to apply one's self to.	French entendre.
entender		To make tender.	
ententive	Obsolete	Attentive; zealous.	
enter		To come or go into; to pass into the interior of; to pass within the outer cover or shell of; to penetrate; to pierce; as, to enter a house, a closet, a country, a door, etc.; the river enters the sea.	Middle English entren, from Old French entrer, from Latin intro.
enter-		A prefix signifying between, among, part.	French entre, from Latin inter.
enteradenography		A treatise upon, or description of, the intestinal glands.	
enteradenology		The science which treats of the glands of the alimentary canal.	
enteralgia		Pain in the intestines; colic.	
enterdeal	Obsolete	Mutual dealings; intercourse.	
enterer		One who makes an entrance or beginning.	
enteric		Of or pertaining to the enteron, or alimentary canal; intestinal.	
enteritis		An inflammation of the intestines.	
enterlace		See Interlace — to unite, as by lacing together; to insert or interpose one thing within another; to intertwine; to interweave.	
entermete	Obsolete	To interfere; to intermeddle.	
entermewer		A hawk gradually changing the color of its feathers, commonly in the second year.	
entermise	Obsolete	Mediation.	French entremise.
enterocele		A hernial tumor whose contents are intestine.	
enterocoele		A perivisceral cavity which arises as an outgrowth or outgrowths from the digestive tract; distinguished from a schizocoele, which arises by a splitting of the mesoblast of the embryo.	
enterography		A treatise upon, or description of, the intestines; enterology.	
enterolith		An intestinal concretion.	
enterology		The science which treats of the viscera of the body.	
enteron		The whole alimentary, or enteric, canal.	
enteropathy		Disease of the intestines.	
enteropneusta		A group of wormlike invertebrates having, along the sides of the body, branchial openings for the branchial sacs, which are formed by diverticula of the alimentary canal.	
enterorrhaphy		The operation of sewing up a rent in the intestinal canal.	
enterotome		A kind of scissors used for opening the intestinal canal, as in post-mortem examinations.	French entérotome.
enterotomy		Incision of the intestines, especially in reducing certain cases of hernia.	
enterparlance	Obsolete	Mutual talk or conversation; conference.	
enterplead		Same as Interplead.	
enterprise		That which is undertaken; something attempted to be performed; a work projected which involves activity, courage, energy, and the like; a bold, arduous, or hazardous attempt; an undertaking; as, a manly enterprise…	
enterpriser		One who undertakes enterprises.	
enterprising		Having a disposition for enterprise; characterized by enterprise; resolute, active or prompt to attempt; as, an enterprising man or firm. -- En"ter*pri`sing*ly, adv.	
entertain		To be at the charges of; to take or keep in one's service; to maintain; to support; to harbor; to keep.	Old French entretenir.
entertainer		One who entertains.	
entertaining		Affording entertainment; pleasing; amusing; diverting. -- En`ter*tain ing*ness, n.	
entertainment		The act of receiving as host, or of amusing, admitting, or cherishing; hospitable reception; also, reception or treatment, in general.	
entertake	Obsolete	To entertain.	
entertissued		Same as Intertissued.	
entheal	Obsolete	Divinely inspired; wrought up to enthusiasm.	
enthean	Obsolete	Divinely inspired; wrought up to enthusiasm.	
entheasm		Inspiration; enthusiasm.	
entheastic		Of godlike energy; inspired. -- En`the*as"tic*al*ly, adv.	
entheat	Obsolete	Divinely inspired.	
enthelmintha		Intestinal worms. See Helminthes.	
enthelminthes		Intestinal worms. See Helminthes.	
enthetic		Caused by a morbifie virus implanted in the system; as, an enthetic disease like syphilis.	
enthrall		To hold in thrall; to enslave. See Inthrall.	
enthrallment		The act of enthralling, or state of being enthralled. See Inthrallment.	
enthrill	Obsolete	To pierce; to thrill.	
enthrone		To seat on a throne; to exalt to the seat of royalty or of high authority; hence, to invest with sovereign authority or dignity.	
enthronement		The act of enthroning, or state of being enthroned.	
enthronization		The act of enthroning; hence, the admission of a bishop to his stall or throne in his cathedral.	
enthronize		To place on a throne; hence, to induct into office, as a bishop.	
enthuse	Slang	To make or become enthusiastic.	
enthusiasm		Inspiration as if by a divine or superhuman power; ecstasy; hence, a conceit of divine possession and revelation, or of being directly subject to some divine impulse.	
enthusiast		One moved or actuated by enthusiasm; as: (a) One who imagines himself divinely inspired, or possessed of some special revelation; a religious madman; a fanatic.	
enthusiastic	Obsolete	Filled with enthusiasm; characterized by enthusiasm; zealous; as, an enthusiastic lover of art. -- En*thu`si*as"tic*al*ly, adv.	
enthusiastical		Filled with enthusiasm; characterized by enthusiasm; zealous; as, an enthusiastic lover of art. -- En*thu`si*as"tic*al*ly, adv.	
enthymematic		Pertaining to, or of the form of, an enthymeme.	
enthymematical		Pertaining to, or of the form of, an enthymeme.	
enthymeme		An argument consisting of only two propositions, an antecedent and consequent deduced from it; a syllogism with one premise omitted; as, We are dependent; therefore we should be humble.	Greek ἐνθύμημα.
entice		To draw on, by exciting hope or desire; to allure; to attract; as, the bait enticed the fishes.	Old French enticier.
enticeable		Capable of being enticed.	
enticement		The act or practice of alluring or tempting; as, the enticements of evil companions.	
enticer		One who entices; one who incites or allures to evil.	
enticing		That entices; alluring.	
enticingly		In an enticing manner; charmingly.	
entierty	Obsolete	See Entirety — the state of being entire; completeness; as, entirely of interest.	
entire		Complete in all parts; undivided; undiminished; whole; full and perfect; not deficient; as, the entire control of a business; entire confidence, ignorance.	Middle English entere.
entire-wheat		Designating, made of, or relating to, flour including a considerable part of the bran.	
entirely		In an entire manner; wholly; completely; fully; as, the trace is entirely lost.	
entireness		The state or condition of being entire; completeness; fullness; totality; as, the entireness of an arch or a bridge.	
entirety		The state of being entire; completeness; as, entirely of interest.	
entitative		Considered as pure entity; abstracted from all circumstances.	
entitle		To give a title to; to affix to as a name or appellation; hence, also, to dignify by an honorary designation; to denominate; to call; as, to entitle a book to entitle a man That which … we entitle patience.	
entitule		To entitle.	
entity		A real being, whether in thought (as an ideal conception) or in fact; being; essence; existence.	
ento-		A combining form signifying within; as, entoblast.	
entoblast		The inner germ layer; endoderm. See Nucleolus.	
entobronchium		One of the main bronchi in the lungs of birds.	
entocuneiform		One of the bones of the tarsus. See Cuneiform.	
entocuniform		One of the bones of the tarsus. See Cuneiform.	
entoderm		See Endoderm, and Illust. of Blastoderm.	
entodermal		Relating to the entoderm.	
entodermic		Relating to the entoderm.	
entogastric		Pertaining to the interior of the stomach; -- applied to a mode of budding from the interior of the gastric cavity, in certain hydroids.	
entogenous		See Endogenous — (Bot.) Increasing by internal growth and elongation at the summit, instead of externally, and having no distinction of pith, wood, and bark, as the rattan, the palm, the cornstalk.	
entoglossal		Within the tongue; -- applied to the glossohyal bone.	
entoil		To take with toils or bring into toils; to insnare.	
entomb		To deposit in a tomb, as a dead body; to bury; to inter; to inhume.	
entombment		The act of entombing or burying, or state of being entombed; burial.	
entomere		The more granular cells, which finally become internal, in many segmenting ova, as those of mammals.	
entomic		Relating to insects; entomological.	
entomical		Relating to insects; entomological.	
entomoid		Resembling an insect. -- n.	
entomolin		See Chitin — a white amorphous horny substance forming the harder part of the outer integument of insects, crustacea, and various other invertebrates; entomolin.	
entomolite		A fossil insect.	
entomologic		Of or relating to entomology. -- En`to*mo*log"ic*al*ly, adv.	
entomological		Of or relating to entomology. -- En`to*mo*log"ic*al*ly, adv.	
entomologist		One versed in entomology.	
entomologize		To collect specimens in the study of entomology.	
entomology		That part of zoölogy which treats of insects.	French entomologie.
entomophaga		One of a group of hymenopterous insects whose larvæ feed parasitically upon living insects.	
entomophagan		Relating to the Entomophaga. -- n.	
entomophagous		Feeding on insects; insectivorous.	
entomophilous		Fertilized by the agency of insects; -- said of plants in which the pollen is carried to the stigma by insects.	
entomostraca		One of the subclasses of Crustacea, including a large number of species, many of them minute.	
entomostracan		Relating to the Entomostraca. -- n.	
entomostracous		Belonging to the Entomostracans.	
entomotomist		One who practices entomotomy.	
entomotomy		The science of the dissection of insects.	
entonic		Having great tension, or exaggerated action.	
entoperipheral		Being, or having its origin, within the external surface of the body; -- especially applied to feelings, such as hunger, produced by internal disturbances.	
entophyte		A vegetable parasite subsisting in the interior of the body.	
entophytic		Of or pertaining to entophytes; as, an entophytic disease.	
entoplasm		(a) The inner granular layer of protoplasm in a developing ovum. (b) Endosarc.	
entoplastic		Pertaining to, or composed of, entoplasm; as, the entoplastic products of some Protozoa, or the entoplastic modification of the cell protoplasm, by which a nucleus is produced.	
entoplastron		The median plate of the plastron of turtles; -- called also entosternum.	
entoprocta		A group of Bryozoa in which the anus is within the circle of tentacles.	
entoptic		Relating to objects situated within the eye; esp., relating to the perception of objects in one's own eye.	
entorganism		An internal parasitic organism.	
entortilation	Obsolete	A turning into a circle; round figures.	
entosternum		See Entoplastron. -- En`to*ster"nal, a.	
entosthoblast		The granule within the nucleolus or entoblast of a nucleated cell.	
entothorax		See Endothorax — an internal process of the sternal plates in the thorax of insects.	
entotic		Pertaining to the interior of the ear.	
entourage		Surroundings; specif., collectively, one's attendants or associates.	French entourage.
entozoa		A group of worms, including the tapeworms, flukes, roundworms, etc., most of which live parasitically in the interior of other animals; the Helminthes.	
entozoal		Pertaining to, or consisting of, the Entozoa.	
entozoic		Pertaining to, or consisting of, the Entozoa.	
entozooelogist		One versed in the science of the Entozoa.	
entozooen		The interval of time which occurs between the performance of any two acts of a drama.	
entozoologist		One versed in the science of the Entozoa.	
entozoon		The interval of time which occurs between the performance of any two acts of a drama.	
entrail	Obsolete	To interweave; to intertwine.	Middle English entraille, from Old French entraille, from Latin intralia.
entrails		The internal parts of animal bodies; the bowels; the guts; viscera; intestines.	Old French entrailles, from Latin intralia.
entrain		To draw along as a current does; as, water entrained by steam.	
entrammel		To trammel; to entangle.	
entrance		The act of entering or going into; ingress; as, the entrance of a person into a house or an apartment; hence, the act of taking possession, as of property, or of office; as, the entrance of an heir upon his inheritance…	Middle French entrance.
entrancement		The act of entrancing, or the state of trance or ecstasy.	
entrant		One who enters; a beginner.	
entrap		To catch in a trap; to insnare; hence, to catch, as in a trap, by artifices; to involve in difficulties or distresses; to catch or involve in contradictions; as, to be entrapped by the devices of evil men.	
entreat		To treat with, or in respect to, a thing desired; hence, to ask earnestly; to beseech; to petition or pray with urgency; to supplicate; to importune.	
entreatable		That may be entreated.	
entreatance	Obsolete	Entreaty.	
entreater		One who entreats; one who asks earnestly; a beseecher.	
entreatful		Full of entreaty. See Intreatful.	
entreatingly		In an entreating manner.	
entreative		Used in entreaty; pleading.	
entreatment	Obsolete	Entreaty; invitation.	
entreaty		The act of entreating or beseeching; urgent prayer; earnest petition; pressing solicitation.	
entree		A coming in, or entrance; hence, freedom of access; permission or right to enter; as, to have the entrée of a house.	
entremets		(Cookery) A side dish; a dainty or relishing dish usually eaten after the joints or principal dish; also, a sweetmeat, served with a dinner.	
entrench		See Intrench — to cut in; to furrow; to make trenches in or upon.	
entrepot		A warehouse; a magazine for depositing goods, stores, etc.; a mart or place where merchandise is deposited; as, an entrepôt for shipping goods in transit.	
entrepreneur		One who creates a product on his own account; whoever undertakes on his own account an industrial enterprise in which workmen are employed.	French entrepreneur.
entresol		A low story between two higher ones, usually between the ground floor and the first story; mezzanine.	
entrick	Obsolete	To trick, to perplex.	
entrochal		Pertaining to, or consisting of, entrochites, or the joints of encrinites; -- used of a kind of stone or marble.	
entrochite		A fossil joint of a crinoid stem.	
entropion		Same as Entropium.	
entropium		The inversion or turning in of the border of the eyelids.	
entropy		A certain property of a body, expressed as a measurable quantity, such that when there is no communication of heat the quantity remains constant, but when heat enters or leaves the body the quantity increases or diminishes.	
entrust		See Intrust — to deliver (something) to another in trust; to deliver to (another) something in trust; to commit or surrender (something) to another with a certain confidence regarding his care, use…	
entry		The act of entering or passing into or upon; entrance; ingress; hence, beginnings or first attempts; as, the entry of a person into a house or city; the entry of a river into the sea; the entry of air into the blood…	Old French entree.
entryng	Obsolete	Am entrance.	
entune		To tune; to intone.	
entwine		To twine, twist, or wreathe together or round.	
entwinement		A twining or twisting together or round; union.	
entwist		To twist or wreathe round; to intwine.	
enubilate		To clear from mist, clouds, or obscurity.	Latin enubilatus.
enubilous		Free from fog, mist, or clouds; clear.	
enucleate		To bring or peel out, as a kernel from its enveloping husks its enveloping husks or shell.	
enucleation		The act of enucleating; elucidation; exposition.	
enumerate		To count; to tell by numbers; to count over, or tell off one after another; to number; to reckon up; to mention one by one; to name over; to make a special and separate account of; to recount; as…	Middle French enumeration, from Latin enumerationem.
enumeration		The act of enumerating, making separate mention, or recounting.	
enumerative		Counting, or reckoning up, one by one.	
enumerator		One who enumerates.	
enunciable		Capable of being enunciated or expressed.	
enunciate		To make a formal statement of; to announce; to proclaim; to declare, as a truth.	Latin enuntiatus.
enunciation		The act of enunciating, announcing, proclaiming, or making known; open attestation; declaration; as, the enunciation of an important truth.	
enunciative		Pertaining to, or containing, enunciation; declarative.	
enunciator		One who enunciates or proclaims.	Latin enuntiator.
enunciatory		Pertaining to, or containing, enunciation or utterance.	
enure		See Inure — to apply in use; to train; to discipline; to use or accustom till use gives little or no pain or inconvenience; to harden; to habituate; to practice habitually.	
enuresis		An involuntary discharge of urine; incontinence of urine.	Latin enuresis.
envassal	Obsolete	To make a vassal of.	
envault		To inclose in a vault; to entomb.	
enveigle		To entice. See Inveigle.	
envelop		To put a covering about; to wrap up or in; to inclose within a case, wrapper, integument or the like; to surround entirely; as, to envelop goods or a letter; the fog envelops a ship.	Middle English envolupen, from Old French envoluper.
envelope		That which envelops, wraps up, encases, or surrounds; a wrapper; an inclosing cover; esp., the cover or wrapper of a document, as of a letter.	
envelopment		The act of enveloping or wrapping; an inclosing or covering on all sides.	
envenime	Obsolete	To envenom.	
envenom		To taint or impregnate with venom, or any substance noxious to life; to poison; to render dangerous or deadly by poison, as food, drink, a weapon; as, envenomed meat, wine, or arrow; also…	
envermeil	Obsolete	To color with, or as with, vermilion; to dye red.	
enviable		Fitted to excite envy; capable of awakening an ardent desire to posses or to resemble.	
envie	Obsolete	To vie; to emulate; to strive.	
envier		One who envies; one who desires inordinately what another possesses.	
envigor	Obsolete	To invigorate.	
envious		Feeling or exhibiting envy; actuated or directed by, or proceeding from, envy; -- said of a person, disposition, feeling, act, etc.; jealously pained by the excellence or good fortune of another; maliciously grudging…	
environ	Obsolete	To surround; to encompass; to encircle; to hem in; to be round about; to involve or envelop.	
environment		Act of environing; state of being environed.	
environs		The parts or places which surround another place, or lie in its neighborhood; suburbs; as, the environs of a city or town.	
envisage		To look in the face of; to apprehend; to regard.	French envisager.
envisagement		The act of envisaging.	
envolume		To form into, or incorporate with, a volume.	
envolup	Obsolete	To wrap up; to envelop.	
envoy		One dispatched upon an errand or mission; a messenger; esp., a person deputed by a sovereign or a government to negotiate a treaty, or transact other business, with a foreign sovereign or government…	
envoyship		The office or position of an envoy.	
envy		Chagrin, mortification, discontent, or uneasiness at the sight of another's excellence or good fortune, accompanied with some degree of hatred and a desire to possess equal advantages; malicious grudging…	Middle English envie, from Old French envie, from Latin invidia.
envyned	Obsolete	Stored or furnished with wine.	
enwall		See Inwall — to inclose or fortify as with a wall.	
enwallow		To plunge into, or roll in, flith; to wallow.	
enwheel		To encircle.	
enwiden	Obsolete	To widen.	
enwind		To wind about; to encircle.	
enwoman		To endow with the qualities of a woman.	
enwomb		To bury, as it were in a womb; to hide, as in a gulf, pit, or cavern.	
enwrap		To envelop. See Inwrap.	Middle English enwrappen.
enwrapment		Act of enwrapping; a wrapping or an envelope.	
enwreathe		See Inwreathe — to surround or encompass as with a wreath.	
enzooetic		Afflicting animals; -- used of a disease affecting the animals of a district.	
enzootic		Afflicting animals; -- used of a disease affecting the animals of a district.	
enzyme		An unorganized or unformed ferment, in distinction from an organized or living ferment; a soluble, or chemical, ferment.	German Enzym.
