ep-		See Epi- — a prefix, meaning upon, beside, among, on the outside, above, over.	
epacris		A genus of shrubs, natives of Australia, New Zealand, etc., having pretty white, red, or purple blossoms, and much resembling heaths.	
epact		The moon's age at the beginning of the calendar year, or the number of days by which the last new moon has preceded the beginning of the year.	
epagoge		The adducing of particular examples so as to lead to a universal conclusion; the argument by induction.	
epagogic		Inductive.	
epalate		Without palpi.	
epanadiplosis		A figure by which the same word is used both at the beginning and at the end of a sentence; as, iv. 4.	
epanalepsis		A figure by which the same word or clause is repeated after intervening matter.	
epanaphora		Same as Anaphora.	
epanastrophe		Same as Anadiplosis.	
epanodos		A figure of speech in which the parts of a sentence or clause are repeated in inverse order, as in the following: -- O more exceeding love, or law more just Just law, indeed, but more exceeding love!	
epanody		The abnormal change of an irregular flower to a regular form; - - considered by evolutionists to be a reversion to an ancestral condition.	
epanorthosis		A figure by which a speaker recalls a word or words, in order to substitute something else stronger or more significant; as, Most brave!	Greek ἐπανόρθωσις.
epanthous		Growing upon flowers; -- said of certain species of fungi.	
eparch		In ancient Greece, the governor or perfect of a province; in modern Greece, the ruler of an eparchy.	Greek ἔπαρχος.
eparchy		A province, prefecture, or territory, under the jurisdiction of an eparch or governor; esp., in modern Greece, one of the larger subdivisions of a monarchy or province of the kingdom; in Russia, a diocese or archdiocese.	Greek ἐπαρχία.
eparterial		Situated upon or above an artery; -- applied esp. to the branches of the bronchi given off above the point where the pulmonary artery crosses the bronchus.	
epaule		The shoulder of a bastion, or the place where its face and flank meet and form the angle, called the angle of the shoulder.	
epaulement		A side work, made of gabions, fascines, or bags, filled with earth, or of earth heaped up, to afford cover from the flanking fire of an enemy.	French épaulement.
epaulet		A shoulder ornament or badge worn by military and naval officers, differences of rank being marked by some peculiar form or device, as a star, eagle, etc.; a shoulder knot.	
epauleted		Wearing epaulets; decorated with epaulets.	
epaulette		A shoulder ornament or badge worn by military and naval officers, differences of rank being marked by some peculiar form or device, as a star, eagle, etc.; a shoulder knot.	French épaulette.
epauletted		Wearing epaulets; decorated with epaulets.	
epaxial		Above, or on the dorsal side of, the axis of the skeleton; episkeletal.	
epeira		A genus of spiders, including the common garden spider (E. diadema).	
epen		See Epencephalon — the segment of the brain next behind the midbrain, including the cerebellum and pons; the hindbrain.	
epencephalic		(a) Pertaining to the epencephalon. (b) Situated on or over the brain.	
epencephalon		The segment of the brain next behind the midbrain, including the cerebellum and pons; the hindbrain.	
ependyma		The epithelial lining of the ventricles of the brain and the canal of the spinal cord; endyma; ependymis.	Greek ἐπένδυμα.
ependymis		See Ependyma — the epithelial lining of the ventricles of the brain and the canal of the spinal cord; endyma; ependymis.	
epenetic	Obsolete	Bestowing praise; eulogistic; laudatory.	
epenthesis		The insertion of a letter or a sound in the body of a word; as, the b in from AS. nemol.	
epenthetic		Inserted in the body of a word; as, an epenthetic letter or sound.	
epergne		A centerpiece for table decoration, usually consisting of several dishes or receptacles of different sizes grouped together in an ornamental design.	
eperlan		The European smelt (Osmerus eperlanus).	
epexegesis		A full or additional explanation; exegesis.	Greek ἐπεξήγησις.
epexegetical		Relating to epexegesis; explanatory; exegetical.	
epha		A Hebrew dry measure, supposed to be equal to two pecks and five quarts. ten ephahs make one homer.	
ephah		A Hebrew dry measure, supposed to be equal to two pecks and five quarts. ten ephahs make one homer.	Hebrew איפה.
ephemera		(Med.) A fever of one day's continuance only.	
ephemeral		Beginning and ending in a day; existing only, or no longer than, a day; diurnal; as, an ephemeral flower.	Latin ephemerus, from Greek ἐφήμερος.
ephemeran		One of the ephemeral flies.	
ephemeric		Ephemeral.	
ephemeris		(Anat.) (a) A publication giving the computed places of the heavenly bodies for each day of the year, with other numerical data, for the use of the astronomer and navigator; an astronomical almanac; as…	
ephemerist		One who studies the daily motions and positions of the planets.	
ephemeron		One of the ephemeral flies.	
ephemerous		Ephemeral.	
ephesian		Of or pertaining to Ephesus, an ancient city of Ionia, in Asia Minor.	
ephialtes		The nightmare.	
ephippial		Saddle-shaped; occupying an ephippium.	
ephippium		(Anat.) A depression in the sphenoid bone; the pituitary fossa.	
ephod		A part of the sacerdotal habit among Jews, being a covering for the back and breast, held together on the shoulders by two clasps or brooches of onyx stones set in gold, and fastened by a girdle of the same stuff as the ephod.	
ephor		A magistrate; one of a body of five magistrates chosen by the people of ancient Sparta.	Greek ἔφορος.
ephoral		Pertaining to an ephor.	
ephoralty		The office of an ephor, or the body of ephors.	
ephraim		A hunter's name for the grizzly bear.	
ephyra		A stage in the development of discophorous medusæ, when they first begin to swim about after being detached from the strobila.	
epi-		A prefix, meaning upon, beside, among, on the outside, above, over.	Greek ἐπί.
epiblast		The outer layer of the blastoderm; the ectoderm. See Blastoderm, Delamination.	
epiblastic		Of or relating to, or consisting of, the epiblast.	
epiblema		The epidermal cells of rootlets, specially adapted to absorb liquids.	
epibolic		Growing or covering over; -- said of a kind of invagination. See under Invagination.	
epiboly		Epibolic invagination. See under Invagination.	Modern Greek (1453- ἐπιβολή.
epibranchial		Pertaining to the segment between the ceratobranchial and pharyngobranchial in a branchial arch. -- n.	
epic		Narrated in a grand style; pertaining to or designating a kind of narrative poem, usually called an heroic poem, in which real or fictitious events, usually the achievements of some hero, are narrated in an elevated style.	Latin epicus, from Greek ἐπικός.
epical		Epic. -- Ep"ic*al*ly, adv.	
epicardiac		Of or relating to the epicardium.	
epicardium		That of the pericardium which forms the outer surface of the heart; the cardiac pericardium.	
epicarican		An isopod crustacean, parasitic on shrimps.	
epicarp		The external or outermost layer of a fructified or ripened ovary. See Illust. under Endocarp.	
epicede		A funeral song or discourse; an elegy.	Latin epicedium, from Greek ἐπικήδειον.
epicedial		Elegiac; funereal.	
epicedian		Epicedial. -- n.	
epicedium		An epicede.	
epicele		A cavity formed by the invagination of the outer wall of the body, as the atrium of an amphioxus and possibly the body cavity of vertebrates.	
epicene		Common to both sexes; -- a term applied, in grammar, to such nouns as have but one form of gender, either the masculine or feminine, to indicate animals of both sexes; as bos, for the ox and cow…	
epicentral		Arising from the centrum of a vertebra.	
epicerastic	Obsolete	Lenient; assuaging.	
epichirema		A syllogism in which the proof of the major or minor premise, or both, is introduced with the premises themselves, and the conclusion is derived in the ordinary manner.	
epichordal		Upon or above the notochord; -- applied esp. to a vertebral column which develops upon the dorsal side of the notochord, as distinguished from a perichordal column, which develops around it.	
epichorial		In or of the country.	
epicleidium		A projection, formed by a separate ossification, at the scapular end of the clavicle of many birds.	
epiclinal		Situated on the receptacle or disk of a flower.	
epicoele		A cavity formed by the invagination of the outer wall of the body, as the atrium of an amphioxus and possibly the body cavity of vertebrates.	
epicoene		Epicene.	
epicolic		Situated upon or over the colon; -- applied to the region of the abdomen adjacent to the colon.	
epicondylar		Pertaining to, or resembling, an epicondyle.	
epicondyle		A projection on the inner side of the distal end of the numerus; the internal condyle.	
epicoracoid		A ventral cartilaginous or bony element of the coracoid in the shoulder girdle of some vertebrates.	
epicranial		Pertaining to the epicranium; as epicranial muscles.	
epicranium		(Anat.) The upper and superficial part of the head, including the scalp, muscles, etc.	
epictetain		Pertaining to Epictetus, the Roman Stoic philosopher, whose conception of life was to be passionless under whatever circumstances.	
epictetian		Pertaining to Epictetus, the Roman Stoic philosopher, whose conception of life was to be passionless under whatever circumstances.	
epicure		One devoted to dainty or luxurious sensual enjoyments, esp. to the luxuries of the table.	
epicurean		Pertaining to Epicurus, or following his philosophy.	
epicureanism		Attachment to the doctrines of Epicurus; the principles or belief of Epicurus.	
epicurely		Luxuriously.	
epicureous	Obsolete	Epicurean.	
epicurism		Epicurean habits of living; luxury.	
epicurize		To profess or tend towards the doctrines of Epicurus.	
epicycle		(Ptolemaic Astron.) A circle, whose center moves round in the circumference of a greater circle; or a small circle, whose center, being fixed in the deferent of a planet, is carried along with the deferent, and yet…	Latin epicyclus, from Greek ἐπίκυκλος.
epicyclic		Pertaining to, resembling, or having the motion of, an epicycle.	
epicycloid		A curve traced by a point in the circumference of a circle which rolls on the convex side of a fixed circle.	
epicycloidal		Pertaining to the epicycloid, or having its properties.	
epideictic		Serving to show forth, explain, or exhibit; -- applied by the Greeks to a kind of oratory, which, by full amplification, seeks to persuade.	
epidemic		(Med.) Common to, or affecting at the same time, a large number in a community; -- applied to a disease which, spreading widely, attacks many persons at the same time; as, an epidemic disease; an epidemic catarrh, fever…	French épidémique.
epidemical		(Med.) Common to, or affecting at the same time, a large number in a community; -- applied to a disease which, spreading widely, attacks many persons at the same time; as, an epidemic disease; an epidemic catarrh, fever…	
epidemically		In an epidemic manner.	
epidemiography		A treatise upon, or history of, epidemic diseases.	
epidemiological		Connected with, or pertaining to, epidemiology.	
epidemiologist		A person skilled in epidemiology.	
epidemiology		That branch of science which treats of epidemics.	
epidemy		An epidemic disease.	
epiderm		The epidermis.	
epidermal		Of or pertaining to the epidermis; epidermic; cuticular.	
epidermatic		Epidermal.	
epidermatoid		Epidermoid.	
epidermeous		Epidermal.	
epidermic		Epidermal; connected with the skin or the bark.	
epidermical		Epidermal.	
epidermidal		Epidermal.	
epidermis		(Anat.) The outer, nonsensitive layer of the skin; cuticle; scarfskin.	Latin epidermis, from Greek ἐπιδερμίς.
epidermoid		Like epidermis; pertaining to the epidermis.	
epidermose		Keratin.	
epidictic		Serving to explain; demonstrative.	
epidictical		Serving to explain; demonstrative.	
epididymis		An oblong vermiform mass on the dorsal side of the testicle, composed of numerous convolutions of the excretory duct of that organ. -- Ep`i*did"y*mal, a.	Greek ἐπιδιδυμίς.
epididymitis		Inflammation of the epididymis, one of the common results of gonorrhea.	
epidote		A mineral, commonly of a yellowish green (pistachio) color, occurring granular, massive, columnar, and in monoclinic crystals.	
epidotic		Related to, resembling, or containing epidote; as, an epidotic granite.	
epigaea		An American genus of plants, containing but a single species (E. repens), the trailing arbutus.	
epigaeous		Growing on, or close to, the ground.	
epigastrial		Epigastric.	
epigastric		(Anat.) Pertaining to the epigastrium, or to the epigastric region.	
epigastrium		The upper part of the abdomen.	
epigeal		Epigæous.	
epigee	Obsolete	See Perigee — that point in the orbit of the moon which is nearest to the earth; -- opposed to Ant: apogee.	
epigene		(Crystallog.) Foreign; unnatural; unusual; -- said of forms of crystals not natural to the substances in which they are found.	
epigenesis		The theory of generation which holds that the germ is created entirely new, not merely expanded, by the procreative power of the parents.	
epigenesist		One who believes in, or advocates the theory of, epigenesis.	
epigenetic		Of or pertaining to the epigenesis; produced according to the theory of epigenesis.	
epigeous		Same as Epigæous.	
epigeum	Obsolete	See Perigee — that point in the orbit of the moon which is nearest to the earth; -- opposed to Ant: apogee.	
epiglottic		Pertaining to, or connected with, the epiglottis.	
epiglottidean		Same as Epiglottic.	
epiglottis		A cartilaginous lidlike appendage which closes the glottis while food or drink is passing while food or drink is passing through the pharynx.	
epignathous		Hook-billed; having the upper mandible longer than the lower.	
epigram		A short poem treating concisely and pointedly of a single thought or event.	Latin epigramma, from Greek ἐπίγραμμα.
epigrammatic		Writing epigrams; dealing in epigrams; as, an epigrammatical poet.	
epigrammatical		Writing epigrams; dealing in epigrams; as, an epigrammatical poet.	
epigrammatically		In the way of epigram; in an epigrammatic style.	
epigrammatist		One who composes epigrams, or makes use of them.	
epigrammatize		To represent by epigrams; to express by epigrams.	
epigrammatizer		One who writes in an affectedly pointed style.	
epigrammist		An epigrammatist.	
epigraph		Any inscription set upon a building; especially, one which has to do with the building itself, its founding or dedication.	
epigraphic		Of or pertaining to epigraphs or to epigraphy; as, an epigraphic style; epigraphical works or studies.	
epigraphical		Of or pertaining to epigraphs or to epigraphy; as, an epigraphic style; epigraphical works or studies.	
epigraphics		The science or study of epigraphs.	
epigraphist		A student of, or one versed in, epigraphy.	
epigraphy		The science of inscriptions; the art of engraving inscriptions or of deciphering them.	
epigynous		Adnate to the surface of the ovary, so as to be apparently inserted upon the top of it; -- said of stamens, petals, sepals, and also of the disk.	
epihyal		A segment next above the ceratohyal in the hyoidean arch.	
epilepsy		The so called because the patient falls suddenly to the ground; a disease characterized by paroxysms (or fits) occurring at interval and attended by sudden loss of consciousness, and convulsive motions of the muscles.	
epileptic		Pertaining to, affected with, or of the nature of, epilepsy.	
epileptical		Epileptic.	
epileptiform		Resembling epilepsy.	
epileptogenous		Producing epilepsy or epileptoid convulsions; -- applied to areas of the body or of the nervous system, stimulation of which produces convulsions.	
epileptoid		Resembling epilepsy; as, epileptoid convulsions.	
epilogation	Obsolete	A summing up in a brief account.	Latin epilogatio.
epilogic		Of or pertaining to an epilogue.	Greek ἐπιλογικός.
epilogical		Of or pertaining to an epilogue.	
epilogism		Enumeration; computation.	
epilogistic		Of or pertaining to epilogue; of the nature of an epilogue.	
epilogize		To speak an epilogue to; to utter as an epilogue.	
epilogue		(Drama) A speech or short poem addressed to the spectators and recited by one of the actors, after the conclusion of the play.	French épilogue, from Latin epilogus, from Greek ἐπίλογος.
epiloguize		Same as Epilogize.	
epimachus		A genus of highly ornate and brilliantly colored birds of Australia, allied to the birds of Paradise.	
epimera		See Epimeron — (a) In crustaceans: The part of the side of a somite external to the basal joint of each appendage.	
epimeral		Pertaining to the epimera.	
epimere		One of the segments of the transverse axis, or the so called homonymous parts; as, for example, one of the several segments of the extremities in vertebrates, or one of the similar segments in plants…	
epimeron		(a) In crustaceans: The part of the side of a somite external to the basal joint of each appendage.	
epinastic		A term applied to that phase of vegetable growth in which an organ grows more rapidly on its upper than on its under surface.	
epineural		Arising from the neurapophysis of a vertebra.	
epineurium		The connective tissue framework and sheath of a nerve which bind together the nerve bundles, each of which has its own special sheath, or perineurium.	
epinglette		An iron needle for piercing the cartridge of a cannon before priming.	
epinicial		Relating to victory.	
epinicion	Obsolete	A song of triumph.	
epinikian		Epinicial.	
epiornis		One of the gigantic ostrichlike birds of the genus Æpiornis, only recently extinct.	
epiotic		The upper and outer element of periotic bone, -- in man forming a part of the temporal bone.	
epipedometry	Obsolete	The mensuration of figures standing on the same base.	
epiperipheral		Connected with, or having its origin upon, the external surface of the body; -- especially applied to the feelings which originate at the extremities of nerves distributed on the outer surface…	
epipetalous		Borne on the petals or corolla.	
epiphany		An appearance, or a becoming manifest.	Old French epyphanie, from Latin epiphania, from Greek ἐπιφάνεια.
epipharyngeal		Pertaining to the segments above the epibranchial in the branchial arches of fishes. -- n.	
epipharynx		A structure which overlaps the mouth of certain insects.	
epiphonema		An exclamatory sentence, or striking reflection, which sums up or concludes a discourse.	Latin epiphonema, from Greek ἐπιφώνημα.
epiphoneme		Epiphonema.	
epiphora		(Med.) The watery eye; a disease in which the tears accumulate in the eye, and trickle over the cheek.	
epiphragm		A membranaceous or calcareous septum with which some mollusks close the aperture of the shell during the time of hibernation, or æstivation.	
epiphyllospermous		Bearing fruit on the back of the leaves, as ferns.	
epiphyllous		Growing upon, or inserted into, the leaf.	
epiphyllum		A genus of cactaceous plants having flattened, jointed stems, and petals united in a tube.	
epiphyseal		Pertaining to, or having the nature of, an epiphysis.	
epiphysial		Pertaining to, or having the nature of, an epiphysis.	
epiphysis		(a) The end, or other superficial part, of a bone, which ossifies separately from the central portion, or diaphysis.	
epiphytal		Pertaining to an epiphyte.	
epiphyte		(Bot.) An air plant which grows on other plants, but does not derive its nourishment from them.	Greek ἐπιφύτον.
epiphytic		Pertaining to, or having the nature of, an epiphyte. -- Ep`i*phyt"ic*al*ly, adv.	
epiphytical		Pertaining to, or having the nature of, an epiphyte. -- Ep`i*phyt"ic*al*ly, adv.	
epiplastron		One of the first pair of lateral plates in the plastron of turtles.	
epipleural		Arising from the pleurapophysis of a vertebra.	
epiplexis		A figure by which a person seeks to convince and move by an elegant kind of upbraiding.	
epiploce		A figure by which one striking circumstance is added, in due gradation, to another; climax; e. g.,	
epiploic		Relating to the epiploön.	
epiplooen		See Omentum — a free fold of the peritoneum, or one serving to connect viscera, support blood vessels, etc.; an epiploön.	
epiploon		See Omentum — a free fold of the peritoneum, or one serving to connect viscera, support blood vessels, etc.; an epiploön.	
epipodial		(Anat.) Pertaining to the epipodialia or the parts of the limbs to which they belong.	
epipodiale		One of the bones of either the forearm or shank, the epipodialia being the radius, ulna, tibia, and fibula.	
epipodite		The outer branch of the legs in certain Crustacea. See Maxilliped.	
epipodium		One of the lateral lobes of the foot in certain gastropods.	
epipolic		Producing, or relating to, epipolism or fluorescence.	
epipolism		See Fluorescence — that property which some transparent bodies have of producing at their surface, or within their substance, light different in color from the mass of the material…	
epipolized		Changed to the epipolic condition, or that in which the phenomenon of fluorescence is presented; produced by fluorescence; as, epipolized light.	
epipteric		Pertaining to a small Wormian bone sometimes present in the human skull between the parietal and the great wing of the sphenoid. -- n.	
epipterygoid		Situated upon or above the pterygoid bone. -- n.	
epipubic		Relating to the epipubis.	
epipubis		A cartilage or bone in front of the pubis in some amphibians and other animals.	
episcopacy		Government of the church by bishops; church government by three distinct orders of ministers -- bishops, priests, and deacons -- of whom the bishops have an authority superior and of a different kind.	Latin episcopatus.
episcopal		Governed by bishops; as, an episcopal church.	Latin episcopus, from Greek επίσκοπος.
episcopalian		Pertaining to bishops, or government by bishops; episcopal; specifically, of or relating to the Protestant Episcopal Church.	
episcopalianism		The doctrine and usages of Episcopalians; episcopacy.	
episcopally		By episcopal authority; in an episcopal manner.	
episcopant	Obsolete	A bishop.	
episcoparian		Episcopal.	
episcopate		A bishopric; the office and dignity of a bishop.	
episcopicide		The killing of a bishop.	
episcopize		To make a bishop of by consecration.	
episcopy	Obsolete	Survey; superintendence.	
episepalous		Growing on the sepals or adnate to them.	
episkeletal		Above or outside of the endoskeleton; epaxial.	
episodal		Same as Episodic.	
episode		A separate incident, story, or action, introduced for the purpose of giving a greater variety to the events related; an incidental narrative, or digression, separable from the main subject, but naturally arising from it.	French épisode.
episodial		Pertaining to an episode; by way of episode; episodic.	
episodic		Of or pertaining to an episode; adventitious. -- Ep`i*so"dic*al*ly, adv.	
episodical		Of or pertaining to an episode; adventitious. -- Ep`i*so"dic*al*ly, adv.	
epispadias		A deformity in which the urethra opens upon the top of the penis, instead of at its extremity.	
epispastic		Attracting the humors to the skin; exciting action in the skin; blistering.	
episperm		The skin or coat of a seed, especially the outer coat. See Testa.	
epispermic		Pertaining, or belonging, to the episperm, or covering of a seed.	
epispore		The thickish outer coat of certain spores.	
epistaxis		Bleeding at the nose.	
epistemology		The theory or science of the method or grounds of knowledge.	Greek ἐπιστήμη.
episternal		Of or pertaining to the episternum.	
episternum		(Anat.) (a) A median bone connected with the sternum, in many vertebrates; the interclavicle.	
epistilbite		A crystallized, transparent mineral of the Zeolite family.	
epistle		A writing directed or sent to a person or persons; a written communication; a letter; -- applied usually to formal, didactic, or elegant letters.	Old French epistre, from Latin epistola, from Greek ἐπιστολή.
epistler		(Eccl.) The ecclesiastic who reads the epistle at the communion service.	
epistolar		Epistolary.	
epistolary		Pertaining to epistles or letters; suitable to letters and correspondence; as, an epistolary style.	
epistolean		One who writes epistles; a correspondent.	
epistoler		One of the clergy who reads the epistle at the communion service; an epistler.	
epistolet		A little epistle.	
epistolic		Pertaining to letters or epistles; in the form or style of letters; epistolary.	
epistolical		Pertaining to letters or epistles; in the form or style of letters; epistolary.	
epistolize		To write epistles.	
epistolizer		A writer of epistles.	
epistolographic		Pertaining to the writing of letters; used in writing letters; epistolary.	
epistolography		The art or practice of writing epistles.	
epistoma		(a) The region between the antennæ and the mouth, in Crustacea. (b) A liplike organ that covers the mouth, in most Bryozoa.	
epistome		(a) The region between the antennæ and the mouth, in Crustacea. (b) A liplike organ that covers the mouth, in most Bryozoa.	
epistrophe		A figure in which successive clauses end with the same word or affirmation; e. g., 2 Cor. xi. 22.	
epistyle		A massive piece of stone or wood laid immediately on the abacus of the capital of a column or pillar; -- now called architrave.	Latin epistylium.
episyllogism		A syllogism which assumes as one of its premises a proposition which was the conclusion of a preceding syllogism, called, in relation to this, the prosyllogism.	
epitaph		An inscription on, or at, a tomb, or a grave, in memory or commendation of the one buried there; a sepulchral inscription.	Old French epitafe, from Latin epitaphium, from Greek ἐπιτάφιον.
epitapher		A writer of epitaphs.	
epitaphial		Relating to, or of the nature of, an epitaph.	
epitaphian		Relating to, or of the nature of, an epitaph.	
epitaphic		Pertaining to an epitaph; epitaphian. -- n.	
epitaphist		An epitapher.	
epitasis		That part which embraces the main action of a play, poem, and the like, and leads on to the catastrophe; -- opposed to protasis.	Greek ἐπίτασις.
epithalamic		Belonging to, or designed for, an epithalamium.	
epithalamium		A nuptial song, or poem in honor of the bride and bridegroom.	Greek ἐπιθαλάμιον.
epithalamy		Epithalamium.	
epitheca		A continuous and, usually, structureless layer which covers more or less of the exterior of many corals.	
epithelial		Of or pertaining to epithelium; as, epithelial cells; epithelial cancer.	
epithelioid		Like epithelium; as, epithelioid cells.	
epithelioma		A malignant growth containing epithelial cells; -- called also epithelial cancer.	
epithelium		The superficial layer of cells lining the alimentary canal and all its appendages, all glands and their ducts, blood vessels and lymphatics, serous cavities, etc. It often includes the epidermis (i. e.…	
epitheloid		Epithelioid.	
epithem		Any external topical application to the body, except ointments and plasters, as a poultice, lotion, etc.	Greek ἐπίθεμα.
epithema		A horny excrescence upon the beak of birds.	
epithesis		The addition of a letter at the end of a word, without changing its sense; as, numb for num, whilst for whiles.	
epithet		An adjective expressing some quality, attribute, or relation, that is properly or specially appropriate to a person or thing; as, a just man; a verdant lawn.	
epithetic		Pertaining to, or abounding with, epithets.	
epithetical		Pertaining to, or abounding with, epithets.	
epithite	Obsolete	A lazy, worthless fellow; a vagrant.	
epithumetic	Obsolete	Epithumetical.	
epithumetical		Pertaining to sexual desire; sensual.	
epitithides		The uppermost member of the cornice of an entablature.	
epitomator		An epitomist.	
epitome		A work in which the contents of a former work are reduced within a smaller space by curtailment and condensation; a brief summary; an abridgement. epitome of the contents of a very large book.	
epitomist		One who makes an epitome; one who abridges; an epitomizer.	
epitomize		To make an epitome of; to shorten or abridge, as a writing or discourse; to reduce within a smaller space; as, to epitomize the works of Justin.	
epitomizer		An epitomist.	
epitrite		A foot consisting of three long syllables and one short syllable.	
epitrochlea		A projection on the outer side of the distal end of the humerus; the external condyle.	
epitrochlear		Relating to the epitrochlea.	
epitrochoid		A kind of curve. See Epicycloid, any Trochoid.	
epitrope		A figure by which permission is either seriously or ironically granted to some one, to do what he proposes to do; e. g.,	
epizeuxis		A figure by which a word is repeated with vehemence or emphasis, as in the following lines: - Alone, alone, all all alone, Alone on a wide wide sea.	
epizoan		An epizoön.	
epizoic		Living upon the exterior of another animal; ectozoic; -- said of external parasites.	
epizooen		One of the artificial group of invertebrates of various kinds, which live parasitically upon the exterior of other animals; an ectozoön.	
epizooetic		Of the nature of a disease which attacks many animals at the same time; -- corresponding to epidemic diseases among men.	
epizooety		An epizoötic disease; a murrain; an epidemic influenza among horses.	
epizoon		One of the artificial group of invertebrates of various kinds, which live parasitically upon the exterior of other animals; an ectozoön.	
epizootic		Of the nature of a disease which attacks many animals at the same time; -- corresponding to epidemic diseases among men.	
epizooty		An epizoötic disease; a murrain; an epidemic influenza among horses.	French épizootie.
epoch		A fixed point of time, established in history by the occurrence of some grand or remarkable event; a point of time marked by an event of great subsequent influence; as, the epoch of the creation…	Latin epocha, from Greek ἐποχή.
epocha		See Epoch — a fixed point of time, established in history by the occurrence of some grand or remarkable event; a point of time marked by an event of great subsequent influence; as…	
epochal		Belonging to an epoch; of the nature of an epoch.	
epode		(a) The after song; the part of a lyric ode which follows the strophe and antistrophe, -- the ancient ode being divided into strophe, antistrophe, and epode.	
epodic		Pertaining to, or resembling, an epode.	
eponym		The hypothetical individual who is assumed as the person from whom any race, city, etc., took its name; as, Hellen is an eponym of the Hellenes.	Greek ἐπώνυμος.
eponyme		The hypothetical individual who is assumed as the person from whom any race, city, etc., took its name; as, Hellen is an eponym of the Hellenes.	
eponymic		Same as Eponymous.	
eponymist		One from whom a race, tribe, city, or the like, took its name; an eponym.	
eponymous		Relating to an eponym; giving one's name to a tribe, people, country, and the like.	
eponymy		The derivation of the name of a race, tribe, etc., from that of a fabulous hero, progenitor, etc.	
epooephoron		See Parovarium — a group of tubules, a remnant of the Wolffian body, often found near the ovary or oviduct; the epoöphoron.	
epoophoron		See Parovarium — a group of tubules, a remnant of the Wolffian body, often found near the ovary or oviduct; the epoöphoron.	
epopee		An epic poem; epic poetry.	French épopée, from Greek ἐποποιία.
epopoeia		An epic poem; epic poetry.	
epopt		One instructed in the mysteries of a secret system.	Greek ἐπόπτης.
epos		An epic.	
epotation	Obsolete	A drinking up; a quaffing.	Latin epotare.
eprouvette		An apparatus for testing or proving the strength of gunpowder.	French éprouvette.
epsomite		Native sulphate of magnesia or Epsom salt.	
epulary	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to a feast or banquet.	
epulation	Obsolete	A feasting or feast; banquet.	Latin epulatio.
epulis		A hard tumor developed from the gums.	Greek ἐπουλίς.
epulose	Obsolete	Feasting to excess.	
epulosity	Obsolete	A feasting to excess.	
epulotic		Promoting the skinning over or healing of sores; as, an epulotic ointment. -- n.	
epuration		Purification.	French épuration.
epure		A draught or model from which to build; especially, one of the full size of the work to be done; a detailed drawing.	
