equability		The quality or condition of being equable; evenness or uniformity; as, equability of temperature; the equability of the mind.	Latin aequabilitas.
equable		Equal and uniform; continuing the same at different times; -- said of motion, and the like; uniform in surface; smooth; as, an equable plain or globe.	Latin aequabilis.
equableness		Quality or state of being equable.	
equably		In an equable manner.	
equal		Agreeing in quantity, size, quality, degree, value, etc.; having the same magnitude, the same value, the same degree, etc.; -- applied to number, degree, quantity, and intensity, and to any subject which admits of them…	Latin aequalis.
equalitarian		One who believes in equalizing the condition of men; a leveler.	
equality		The condition or quality of being equal; agreement in quantity or degree as compared; likeness in bulk, value, rank, properties, etc.; as, the equality of two bodies in length or thickness; an equality of rights.	Latin aequalitas.
equalization		The act of equalizing, or state of being equalized.	
equalize		To make equal; to cause to correspond, or be like, in amount or degree as compared; as, to equalize accounts, burdens, or taxes.	
equalizer		One who, or that which, equalizes anything.	
equally		In an equal manner or degree in equal shares or proportion; with equal and impartial justice; without difference; alike; evenly; justly; as, equally taxed, furnished, etc.	
equalness		Equality; evenness.	
equangular		Having equal angles; equiangular.	
equanimity		Evenness of mind; that calm temper or firmness of mind which is not easily elated or depressed; patience; calmness; composure; as, to bear misfortunes with equanimity.	Latin aequanimitas.
equanimous		Of an even, composed frame of mind; of a steady temper; not easily elated or depressed.	
equant		A circle around whose circumference a planet or the center of ann epicycle was conceived to move uniformly; -- called also eccentric equator.	
equate		To make equal; to reduce to an average; to make such an allowance or correction in as will reduce to a common standard of comparison; to reduce to mean time or motion; as, to equate payments…	Latin aequātus.
equation		A making equal; equal division; equality; equilibrium.	Latin aequatio.
equator		(Geog.) The imaginary great circle on the earth's surface, everywhere equally distant from the two poles, and dividing the earth's surface into two hemispheres.	
equatorial		Of or pertaining to the equator; as, equatorial climates; also, pertaining to an equatorial instrument.	
equatorially		So as to have motion or direction parallel to the equator.	
equerry		A large stable or lodge for horses.	
equery		Same as Equerry.	
equestrian		Of or pertaining to horses or horsemen, or to horsemanship; as, equestrian feats, or games.	
equestrianism		The art of riding on horseback; performance on horseback; horsemanship; as, feats equestrianism.	
equestrienne		A woman skilled in equestrianism; a horsewoman.	
equi-		A prefix, meaning equally; as, equidistant; equiangular.	
equiangled	Obsolete	Equiangular.	
equiangular		Having equal angles; as, an equiangular figure; a square is equiangular.	
equibalance		Equal weight; equiponderance.	
equicrescent		Increasing by equal increments; as, an equicrescent variable.	
equicrural		Having equal legs or sides; isosceles.	Latin aequicrurus.
equicrure	Obsolete	Equicrural.	
equidifferent		Having equal differences; as, the terms of arithmetical progression are equidifferent.	
equidistance		Equal distance.	
equidistant		Being at an equal distance from the same point or thing. -- E`qui*dis"tant*ly, adv.	
equidiurnal		Pertaining to the time of equal day and night; -- applied to the equinoctial line.	
equiform		Having the same form; uniform. -- E`qui*for"mi*ty, n.	
equilateral		Having all the sides equal; as, an equilateral triangle; an equilateral polygon.	
equilibrate		To balance two scales, sides, or ends; to keep even with equal weight on each side; to keep in equipoise.	
equilibration		Act of keeping a balance, or state of being balanced; equipoise.	
equilibrious		Evenly poised; balanced.	
equilibrist		One who balances himself in unnatural positions and hazardous movements; a balancer.	
equilibrity		The state of being balanced; equality of weight.	
equilibrium		Equality of weight or force; an equipoise or a state of rest produced by the mutual counteraction of two or more forces.	Latin aequilibrium.
equimomental		Having equal moments of inertia.	
equimultiple		Multiplied by the same number or quantity.	
equinal		See Equine — of, pertaining to, or resembling, a horse.	
equine		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a horse.	Latin equinus.
equinia		Glanders.	
equinoctial		Pertaining to an equinox, or the equinoxes, or to the time of equal day and night; as, the equinoctial line.	
equinoctially		Towards the equinox.	
equinox		The time when the sun enters one of the equinoctial points, that is, about March 21 and September 22.	Latin aequinoctium.
equinumerant	Obsolete	Equal as to number.	
equip		To furnish for service, or against a need or exigency; to fit out; to supply with whatever is necessary to efficient action in any way; to provide with arms or an armament, stores, munitions, rigging, etc.…	French équiper.
equipage		Furniture or outfit, whether useful or ornamental; especially, the furniture and supplies of a vessel, fitting her for a voyage or for warlike purposes, or the furniture and necessaries of an army, a body of troops…	Middle French equippage.
equipaged		Furnished with equipage.	
equiparable	Obsolete	Comparable.	
equiparate		To compare.	
equipedal		Equal-footed; having the pairs of feet equal.	
equipendency		The act or condition of hanging in equipoise; not inclined or determined either way.	
equipensate	Obsolete	To weigh equally; to esteem alike.	
equipment		The act of equipping, or the state of being equipped, as for a voyage or expedition.	
equipoise		Equality of weight or force; hence, equilibrium; a state in which the two ends or sides of a thing are balanced, and hence equal; state of being equally balanced; -- said of moral, political, or social interests or forces.	
equipollence		Equality of power, force, signification, or application.	
equipollency		Equality of power, force, signification, or application.	
equipollent		Having equal power or force; equivalent.	
equipollently		With equal power.	
equiponderance		Equality of weight; equipoise.	
equiponderancy		Equality of weight; equipoise.	
equiponderant		Being of the same weight.	
equiponderate		To be equal in weight; to weigh as much as another thing.	
equiponderous		Having equal weight.	
equipondious	Obsolete	Of equal weight on both sides; balanced.	
equipotential		Having the same potential.	
equiradical		Equally radical.	
equirotal		Having wheels of the same size or diameter; having equal rotation.	
equisetaceous		Belonging to the Equisetaceæ, or Horsetail family.	
equisetiform		Having the form of the equisetum.	
equisetum		A genus of vascular, cryptogamic, herbaceous plants; -- also called horsetails.	
equisonance		An equal sounding; the consonance of the unison and its octaves.	
equisonant		Of the same or like sound.	
equitable		Possessing or exhibiting equity; according to natural right or natural justice; marked by a due consideration for what is fair, unbiased, or impartial; just; as an equitable decision; an equitable distribution of an estate…	French équitable.
equitableness		The quality of being equitable, just, or impartial; as, the equitableness of a judge, a decision, or distribution of property.	
equitably		In an equitable manner; justly; as, the laws should be equitably administered.	
equitancy		Horsemanship.	
equitant		Mounted on, or sitting upon, a horse; riding on horseback.	Latin equitans.
equitation		A riding, or the act of riding, on horseback; horsemanship.	
equitemporaneous	Obsolete	Contemporaneous.	
equites		An order of knights holding a middle place between the senate and the commonalty; members of the Roman equestrian order.	
equity		Equality of rights; natural justice or right; the giving, or desiring to give, to each man his due, according to reason, and the law of God to man; fairness in determination of conflicting claims; impartiality.	
equivalence		The condition of being equivalent or equal; equality of worth, value, signification, or force; as, an equivalence of definitions.	
equivalency		Same as Equivalence.	
equivalent		Equal in wortir or value, force, power, effect, import, and the like; alike in significance and value; of the same import or meaning.	Latin aequivalentem.
equivalently		In an equal manner.	
equivalue		To put an equal value upon; to put (something) on a par with another thing.	
equivalve		Having the valves equal in size and from, as in most bivalve shells.	
equivalved		Having the valves equal in size and from, as in most bivalve shells.	
equivalvular		Same as Equivalve or Equivalved.	
equivocacy		Equivocalness.	
equivocal		(Literally, called equally one thing or the other; hence:) Having two significations equally applicable; capable of double interpretation; of doubtful meaning; ambiguous; uncertain; as, equivocal words; an equivocal sentence.	
equivocally		In an equivocal manner.	
equivocalness		The state of being equivocal.	
equivocate		To use words of equivocal or doubtful signification; to express one's opinions in terms which admit of different senses, with intent to deceive; to use ambiguous expressions with a view to mislead; as…	Latin aequivocatus.
equivocation		The use of expressions susceptible of a double signification, with a purpose to mislead.	
equivocator		One who equivocates.	
equivocatory		Indicating, or characterized by, equivocation.	
equivoke		An ambiguous term; a word susceptible of different significations.	
equivoque		An ambiguous term; a word susceptible of different significations.	Latin aequivocus.
equivorous		Feeding on horseflesh; as, equivorous Tartars.	
equus		A genus of mammals, including the horse, ass, etc.	
