era		A fixed point of time, usually an epoch, from which a series of years is reckoned.	Latin aera.
eradiate		To shoot forth, as rays of light; to beam; to radiate.	
eradiation		Emission of radiance.	
eradicable		Capable of being eradicated.	
eradicate		To pluck up by the roots; to root up; as, an oak tree eradicated.	Latin eradicatus.
eradication		The act of plucking up by the roots; a rooting out; extirpation; utter destruction.	
eradicative		Tending or serving to eradicate; curing or destroying thoroughly, as a disease or any evil.	
erasable		Capable of being erased.	
erase		To rub or scrape out, as letters or characters written, engraved, or painted; to efface; to expunge; to cross out; as, to erase a word or a name.	Latin erasus.
erased		Rubbed or scraped out; effaced; obliterated.	
erasement		The act of erasing; a rubbing out; expunction; obliteration.	
eraser		One who, or that which, erases; esp., a sharp instrument or a piece of rubber used to erase writings, drawings, etc.	
erasion		The act of erasing; a rubbing out; obliteration.	
erastian		One of the followers of Thomas Erastus, a German physician and theologian of the 16th century.	
erastianism		The principles of the Erastains.	
erasure		The act of erasing; a scratching out; obliteration.	
erative		Pertaining to the Muse Erato who presided over amatory poetry.	
erato		The Muse who presided over lyric and amatory poetry.	
erbium		A rare metallic element associated with several other rare elements in the mineral gadolinite from Ytterby in Sweden.	Swedish Ytterby.
ercedeken	Obsolete	An archdeacon.	
erd	English dialect	The earth.	Middle English erd, from Old English eard.
ere	Archaic or poetic	Before; sooner than.	
erebus		(Greek Myth.) A place of nether darkness, being the gloomy space through which the souls passed to Hades.	
erect		Upright, or having a vertical position; not inverted; not leaning or bent; not prone; as, to stand erect.	
erectable		Capable of being erected; as, an erectable feather.	
erecter		An erector; one who raises or builds.	
erectile		Capable of being erected; susceptible of being erected of dilated.	
erectility		The quality or state of being erectile.	
erection		The act of erecting, or raising upright; the act of constructing, as a building or a wall, or of fitting together the parts of, as a machine; the act of founding or establishing, as a commonwealth or an office; also…	Latin erectio.
erective		Making erect or upright; raising; tending to erect.	
erectly		In an erect manner or posture.	
erectness		Uprightness of posture or form.	
erecto-patent		(Bot.) Having a position intermediate between erect and patent, or spreading.	
erector		One who, or that which, erects.	
erelong		Before the ere long.	
eremacausis		A gradual oxidation from exposure to air and moisture, as in the decay of old trees or of dead animals.	
eremitage		See Hermitage — the habitation of a hermit; a secluded residence.	
eremite		A hermit.	Latin eremita, from Greek ἐρημίτης.
eremitic		Of or pertaining to an eremite; hermitical; living in solitude.	
eremitical		Of or pertaining to an eremite; hermitical; living in solitude.	
eremitish		Eremitic.	
eremitism		The state of a hermit; a living in seclusion from social life.	
ereptation	Obsolete	A creeping forth.	
ereption	Obsolete	A snatching away.	
erethism		A morbid degree of excitement or irritation in an organ.	French éréthisme, from Greek ἐρεθισμός.
erethistic		Relating to erethism.	
erewhile	Archaic	Some time ago; a little while before; heretofore.	
erewhiles	Archaic	Some time ago; a little while before; heretofore.	
erf		A garden plot, usually about half an acre.	Middle English erfe.
erg		The unit of work or energy in the C.	French erg, from Greek ἔργον.
ergal		Potential energy; negative value of the force function.	
ergat	Obsolete	To deduce logically, as conclusions.	
ergmeter		An instrument for measuring energy in ergs.	
ergo		Therefore; consequently; -- often used in a jocular way.	Latin ergo.
ergograph		An instrument for measuring and recording the work done by a single muscle or set of muscles, the rate of fatigue, etc. -- Er`go*graph"ic (#), a.	
ergometer		A device for measuring, or an instrument for indicating, energy expended or work done; a dynamometer. -- Er`go*met"ric (#), a.	
ergon		(a) Work, measured in terms of the quantity of heat to which it is equivalent.	
ergot		A diseased condition of rye and other cereals, in which the grains become black, and often spur-shaped.	French ergot, from Old French argot.
ergotic		Pertaining to, or derived from, ergot; as, ergotic acid.	
ergotin		An extract made from ergot.	
ergotine		A powerful astringent alkaloid extracted from ergot as a brown, amorphous, bitter substance.	
ergotism	Obsolete	A logical deduction.	
ergotized		Affected with the ergot fungus; as, ergotized rye.	
eriach		A recompense formerly given by a murderer to the relatives of the murdered person.	
eric		A recompense formerly given by a murderer to the relatives of the murdered person.	Irish eiric.
erica		A genus of shrubby plants, including the heaths, many of them producing beautiful flowers.	
ericaceous		Belonging to the Heath family, or resembling plants of that family; consisting of heats.	
ericinol		A colorless oil (quickly becoming brown), with a pleasant odor, obtained by the decomposition of ericolin.	
ericius		The Vulgate rendering of the Hebrew word qipod, which in the is translated bittern, and in the Revised Version, porcupine.	
ericolin		A glucoside found in the bearberry (and others of the Ericaceæ), and extracted as a bitter, yellow, amorphous mass.	
eridanus		A long, winding constellation extending southward from Taurus and containing the bright star Achernar.	
erigible	Obsolete	Capable of being erected.	
erin		An early, and now a poetic, name of Ireland.	
erinaceous		Of the Hedgehog family; like, or characteristic of, a hedgehog.	Latin erinaceus.
eringo		The sea holly. See Eryngo.	
erinite		A hydrous arseniate of copper, of an emerald-green color; -- so called from Erin, or Ireland, where it occurs.	
erinys		An avenging deity; one of the Furies; sometimes, conscience personified.	
eriometer		An instrument for measuring the diameters of minute particles or fibers, from the size of the colored rings produced by the diffraction of the light in which the objects are viewed.	
eristalis		A genus of dipterous insects whose young (called rat-tailed larvæ) are remarkable for their long tapering tail, which spiracles at the tip, and for their ability to live in very impure and salt waters; -- also called drone fly.	
eristic	Archaic	Controversial.	
eristical	Archaic	Controversial.	
erke	Obsolete	ASlothful.	
erlking		A personification, in German and Scandinavian mythology, of a spirit natural power supposed to work mischief and ruin, esp. to children.	
erme	Obsolete	To grieve; to feel sad.	
ermelin		See Ermine — (Zoöl.) A valuable fur-bearing animal of the genus Mustela (M. erminea), allied to the weasel; the stoat.	German Hermelin, from Middle High German (ca. 1050-1500 hermelin, from Old High German harmili.
ermilin		See Ermine — (Zoöl.) A valuable fur-bearing animal of the genus Mustela (M. erminea), allied to the weasel; the stoat.	
ermin	Obsolete	An Armenian.	
ermine		(Zoöl.) A valuable fur-bearing animal of the genus Mustela (M. erminea), allied to the weasel; the stoat.	Middle English ermine.
ermined		Clothed or adorned with the fur of the ermine.	
ermines		See Note under Ermine, n., 4.	
erminois		See Note under Ermine, n., 4.	
ermit	Obsolete	A hermit.	
ern	Obsolete	A sea eagle, esp. the European white-tailed sea eagle (Haliæetus albicilla).	Middle English ernen, from Old English irnan.
erne		A sea eagle, esp. the European white-tailed sea eagle (Haliæetus albicilla).	Middle English ern.
ernest	Obsolete	See Earnest — seriousness; reality; fixed determination; eagerness; intentness.	
ernestful	Obsolete	Serious.	
erode		To eat into or away; to corrode; as, canker erodes the flesh.	
eroded		Eaten away; gnawed; irregular, as if eaten or worn away.	
erodent		A medicine which eats away extraneous growths; a caustic.	
erogate	Obsolete	To lay out, as money; to deal out; to expend.	
erogation	Obsolete	The act of giving out or bestowing.	Latin erogatio.
eros		Love; the god of love; -- by earlier writers represented as one of the first and creative gods, by later writers as the son of Aphrodite, equivalent to the Latin god Cupid.	Greek ἔρως.
erose		Irregular or uneven as if eaten or worn away.	
erosion		The act or operation of eroding or eating away.	Latin erosio.
erosive		That erodes or gradually eats away; tending to erode; corrosive.	
erostrate		Without a beak.	
eroteme		A mark indicating a question; a note of interrogation.	
erotesis		A figure o Must I give way and room to your rash choler Shall I be frighted when a madman stares Shak.	Latin erotesis, from Greek ἐρώτησις.
erotic		Of or pertaining to the passion of love; treating of love; amatory.	French érotique, from Greek ἐρωτικός.
erotical		Of or pertaining to the passion of love; treating of love; amatory.	
eroticism		Erotic quality.	
erpetologist		Herpetologist.	
erpetology		Herpetology.	
err		To deviate from the true course; to miss the thing aimed at.	Middle English erren, from Old French errer, from Latin erro.
errable		Liable to error; fallible.	
errableness		Liability to error.	
errabund		Erratic.	Latin errabundus.
errancy		A wandering; state of being in error.	
errand		A special business intrusted to a messenger; something to be told or done by one sent somewhere for the purpose; often, a verbal message; a commission; as, the servant was sent on an errand; to do an errand.	Middle English erande.
errant		Wandering; deviating from an appointed course, or from a direct path; roving.	
errantia		A group of chætopod annelids, including those that are not confined to tubes.	
errantry		A wandering; a roving; esp., a roving in quest of adventures.	
errata		See Erratum — an error or mistake in writing or printing.	
erratic		Having no certain course; roving about without a fixed destination; wandering; moving; -- hence, applied to the planets as distinguished from the fixed stars.	Old French erratique, from Latin erraticus.
erratical		Erratic. -- Er*rat ic*al*ness, n.	
erration	Obsolete	A wandering; a roving about.	Latin erratio.
erratum		An error or mistake in writing or printing.	
errhine		A medicine designed to be snuffed up the nose, to promote discharges of mucus; a sternutatory.	Latin errhinum, from Greek ἔρρῖνον.
erroneous		Containing error; not conformed to truth or justice; incorrect; false; mistaken; as, an erroneous doctrine; erroneous opinion, observation, deduction, view, etc. -- Er*ro ne*ous*ness, n.	
error		A wandering or deviation from the right course or standard; irregularity; mistake; inaccuracy; something made wrong or left wrong; as, an error in writing or in printing; a clerical error.	Middle English errour, from Latin error.
errorful		Full of error; wrong.	
errorist		One who encourages and propagates error; one who holds to error.	
ers		The bitter vetch (Ervum Ervilia).	
erse		A name sometimes given to that dialect of the Celtic which is spoken in the Highlands of Scotland; -- called, by the Highlanders, Gaelic.	
ersh		See Arrish — the stubble of wheat or grass; a stubble field; eddish.	
erst		Previously; before; formerly; heretofore.	Middle English erste, from Old English æresta.
erstwhile	Archaic	Till then or now; heretofore; formerly.	
erubescence		The act of becoming red; redness of the skin or surface of anything; a blushing.	
erubescency		The act of becoming red; redness of the skin or surface of anything; a blushing.	
erubescent		Red, or reddish; blushing.	
erubescite		See Bornite — a valuable ore of copper, containing copper, iron, and sulphur; -- also called purple copper ore (or erubescite), in allusion to the colors shown upon the slightly tarnished surface.	
eruca		An insect in the larval state; a caterpillar; a larva.	
erucic		Pertaining to, or derived from, a genus of cruciferous Mediterranean herbs (Eruca or Brassica); as, erucic acid, a fatty acid resembling oleic acid, and found in colza oil, mustard oil, etc.	
erucifrom		Having the form of a caterpillar; -- said of insect larvæ.	
eruct		To eject, as wind, from the stomach; to belch.	Latin eructo.
eructate		To eject, as wind, from the stomach; to belch.	Latin eructatus.
eructation		The act of belching wind from the stomach; a belch.	
erudiate	Obsolete	To instruct; to educate; to teach.	
erudite		Characterized by extensive reading or knowledge; well instructed; learned. -- Er u*dite`ness, n.	Latin eruditus.
erudition		The act of instructing; the result of thorough instruction; the state of being erudite or learned; the acquisitions gained by extensive reading or study; particularly, learning in literature or criticism…	Latin eruditio.
erugate		Freed from wrinkles; smooth.	
eruginous		Partaking of the substance or nature of copper, or of the rust copper; resembling the trust of copper or verdigris; æruginous.	Middle French erugineux, from Latin aeruginosus.
erumpent		Breaking out; -- said of certain fungi which burst through the texture of leaves.	Latin erumpens.
erupt		To cause to burst forth; to eject; as, to erupt lava.	Latin eruptus.
eruption		The act of breaking out or bursting forth; as: (a) A violent throwing out of flames, lava, etc., as from a volcano of a fissure in the earth's crust.	
eruptional		Eruptive.	
eruptive		Breaking out or bursting forth.	
eryngium		A genus of umbelliferous plants somewhat like thistles in appearance.	
eryngo		A plant of the genus Eryngium.	
erysipelas		St. Anthony's fire; a febrile disease accompanied with a diffused inflammation of the skin, which, starting usually from a single point, spreads gradually over its surface.	Greek ἐρυσίπελας.
erysipelatoid		Resembling erysipelas.	
erysipelatous		Resembling erysipelas, or partaking of its nature.	
erysipelous		Erysipelatous.	
erythema		A disease of the skin, in which a diffused inflammation forms rose-colored patches of variable size.	
erythematic		Characterized by, or causing, a morbid redness of the skin; relating to erythema.	
erythematous		Relating to, or causing, erythema.	
erythraean		Red in color.	
erythrean		Red in color.	
erythric		Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, erythrin.	
erythrin		(Chem.) A colorless crystalline substance, C20H22O10, extracted from certain lichens, as the various species of Rocella.	Greek ἐρυθρός.
erythrina		A genus of leguminous plants growing in the tropics; coral tree; -- so called from its red flowers.	
erythrine		(Chem.) A colorless crystalline substance, C20H22O10, extracted from certain lichens, as the various species of Rocella.	
erythrism		A condition of excessive redness. See Erythrochroism.	
erythrite		(Chem.) A colorless crystalline substance, C4H6.(OH)4, of a sweet, cooling taste, extracted from certain lichens, and obtained by the decomposition of erythrin; -- called also erythrol, erythroglucin, erythromannite, pseudorcin…	
erythrochroic		Having, or subject to, erythrochroism.	
erythrochroism		An unusual redness, esp. in the plumage of birds, or hair of mammals, independently of age, sex, or season.	
erythrodextrin		A dextrin which gives a red color with iodine. See Dextrin.	
erythrogen		(a) Carbon disulphide; -- so called from certain red compounds which it produces in combination with other substances.	
erythrogranulose		A term applied by Brücke to a substance present in small amount in starch granules, colored red by iodine.	
erythroid		Of a red color; reddish; as, the erythroid tunic (the cremaster muscle).	
erythroleic		Having a red color and oily appearance; -- applied to a purple semifluid substance said to be obtained from archil.	
erythrolein		A red substance obtained from litmus.	
erythrolitmin		Erythrolein.	
erythronium		A name originally given (from its red acid) to the metal vanadium.	Greek ἐρυθρός.
erythrophleine		A white crystalline alkaloid, extracted from sassy bark (Erythrophleum Guineense).	
erythrophyll		The red coloring matter of leaves, fruits, flowers, etc., in distinction from chlorophyll.	
erythrophyllin		The red coloring matter of leaves, fruits, flowers, etc., in distinction from chlorophyll.	
erythrosin		(a) A red substance formed by the oxidation of tyrosin. (b) A red dyestuff obtained from fluoresceïn by the action of iodine.	
erythroxylon		A genus of shrubs or small trees of the Flax family, growing in tropical countries.	
erythrozyme		A ferment extracted from madder root, possessing the power of inducing alcoholic fermentation in solutions of sugar.	
