escalade		A furious attack made by troops on a fortified place, in which ladders are used to pass a ditch or mount a rampart.	
escalator		A stairway or incline arranged like an endless belt so that the steps or treads ascend or descend continuously, and one stepping upon it is carried up or down; -- a trade term.	
escallop		See Escalop — (Zoöl.) A bivalve shell of the genus Pecten. See Scallop.	
escalloped		See Escaloped — cut or marked in the form of an escalop; scalloped.	
escalop		(Zoöl.) A bivalve shell of the genus Pecten. See Scallop.	Old French escalope.
escaloped		Cut or marked in the form of an escalop; scalloped.	
escambio		A license formerly required for the making over a bill of exchange to another over sea.	Latin escambium.
escapable		Avoidable.	
escapade		The fling of a horse, or ordinary kicking back of his heels; a gambol.	French escapade, from Old Spanish escapada.
escape		To flee from and avoid; to be saved or exempt from; to shun; to obtain security from; as, to escape danger.	
escapement		The act of escaping; escape.	
escaper		One who escapes.	
escarbuncle		See Carbuncle, 3.	French escarbuncle.
escargatoire	Obsolete	A nursery of snails.	
escarp		The side of the ditch next the parapet; -- same as scarp, and opposed to counterscarp.	
escarpment		A steep descent or declivity; steep face or edge of a ridge; ground about a fortified place, cut away nearly vertically to prevent hostile approach.	French escarpement.
eschalot		See Shallot — a small kind of onion (Allium Ascalonicum) growing in clusters, and ready for gathering in spring; a scallion, or eschalot.	
eschar		A dry slough, crust, or scab, which separates from the healthy part of the body, as that produced by a burn, or the application of caustics.	
eschara		A genus of Bryozoa which produce delicate corals, often incrusting like lichens, but sometimes branched.	
escharine		Like, or pertaining to, the genus Eschara, or family Escharidæ.	
escharotic		Serving or tending to form an eschar;; producing a scar; caustic.	
eschatological		Pertaining to the last or final things.	
eschatology		The doctrine of the last or final things, as death, judgment, and the events therewith connected.	
eschaunge	Obsolete	Exchange.	
escheat		(Law) (a) (Feud. & Eng. Law) The falling back or reversion of lands, by some casualty or accident, to the lord of the fee, in consequence of the extinction of the blood of the tenant, which may happen by his dying without heirs…	Old French escheoit.
escheatable		Liable to escheat.	
escheatage		The right of succeeding to an escheat.	
escheator		An officer whose duty it is to observe what escheats have taken place, and to take charge of them.	
eschevin	Obsolete	The alderman or chief officer of an ancient guild.	Old French eschevin.
eschew		To shun; to avoid, as something wrong, or from a feeling of distaste; to keep one's self clear of.	Middle English eschewen, from Anglo-Norman eschiver.
eschewer		One who eschews.	
eschewment		The act of eschewing.	
eschscholtzia		A genus of papaveraceous plants, found in California and upon the west coast of North America, some species of which produce beautiful yellow, orange, rose-colored, or white flowers; the California poppy.	
eschynite		A rare mineral, containing chiefly niobium, titanium, thorium, and cerium.	
escocheon	Obsolete	Escutcheon.	
escopet		A kind of firearm; a carbine.	Spanish escopeta, from Italian schioppetto.
escopette		A kind of firearm; a carbine.	
escorial		See Escurial — a palace and mausoleum of the kinds of Spain, being a vast and wonderful structure about twenty-five miles northwest of Madrid.	
escort		A body of armed men to attend a person of distinction for the sake of affording safety when on a journey; one who conducts some one as an attendant; a guard, as of prisoners on a march; also, a body of persons…	French escorte.
escot	Obsolete	See Scot, a tax.	
escouade		See Squad,	
escout	Obsolete	See Scout — a person sent out to gain and bring in tidings; especially, one employed in war to gain information of the movements and condition of an enemy.	
escribed		Drawn outside of; -- used to designate a circle that touches one of the sides of a given triangle, and also the other two sides produced.	
escript	Obsolete	A writing.	
escritoire		A piece of furniture used as a writing table, commonly with drawers, pigeonholes, and the like; a secretary or writing desk.	
escritorial		Of or pertaining to an escritoire.	
escrod		See Scrod, a young cod.	
escrol		(Her.) (a) A long strip or scroll resembling a ribbon or a band of parchment, or the like, anciently placed above the shield, and supporting the crest.	
escroll		(Her.) (a) A long strip or scroll resembling a ribbon or a band of parchment, or the like, anciently placed above the shield, and supporting the crest.	
escrow		A deed, bond, or other written engagement, delivered to a third person, to be held by him till some act is done or some condition is performed, and then to be by him delivered to the grantee.	Middle English escrowl, from Old French escroue.
escuage		Service of the shield, a species of knight service by which a tenant was bound to follow his lord to war, at his own charge.	Old French escuage.
esculapian		Æsculapian.	
esculapius		Same as Æsculapius.	
esculent		Suitable to be used by man for food; eatable; edible; as, esculent plants; esculent fish.	Latin esculentus.
esculic		Pertaining to, or obtained from, the horse-chestnut; as, esculic acid.	
esculin		A glucoside obtained from the Æsculus hippocastanum, or horse- chestnut, and characterized by its fine blue fluorescent solutions.	
escurial		A palace and mausoleum of the kinds of Spain, being a vast and wonderful structure about twenty-five miles northwest of Madrid.	
escutcheon		(Her.) The surface, usually a shield, upon which bearings are marshaled and displayed.	Anglo-Norman escuchon.
escutcheoned		Having an escutcheon; furnished with a coat of arms or ensign.	
ese	Obsolete	Ease; pleasure.	
esemplastic		Shaped into one; tending to, or formative into, unity.	
eserine		An alkaloid found in the Calabar bean, and the seed of Physostigma venenosum; physostigmine.	
esexual		Sexless; asexual.	
eskar		See Eschar — a dry slough, crust, or scab, which separates from the healthy part of the body, as that produced by a burn, or the application of caustics.	
esker		See Eschar — a dry slough, crust, or scab, which separates from the healthy part of the body, as that produced by a burn, or the application of caustics.	Irish eiscir.
eskimo		One of a peculiar race inhabiting Arctic America and Greenland.	
esloin	Obsolete	To remove; to banish; to withdraw; to avoid; to eloign.	
esnecy		A prerogative given to the eldest coparcener to choose first after an inheritance is divide.	
esodic		Conveying impressions from the surface of the body to the spinal cord; -- said of certain nerves.	
esophagal		Esophageal.	
esophageal		Pertaining to the esophagus.	
esophagean		Esophageal.	
esophagotomy		The operation of making an incision into the esophagus, for the purpose of removing any foreign substance that obstructs the passage.	
esophagus		That part of the alimentary canal between the pharynx and the stomach; the gullet.	
esopian		Of or pertaining to Æsop, or in his manner.	
esopic		Same as Æsopian.	
esoteric		Designed for, and understood by, the specially initiated alone; not communicated, or not intelligible, to the general body of followers; private; interior; acroamatic…	Greek ἐσωτερικός.
esoterical		Esoteric.	
esoterically		In an esoteric manner.	
esotericism		Esoteric doctrine or principles.	
esoterics		Mysterious or hidden doctrines; secret science.	
esotery		Mystery; esoterics; -- opposed to exotery.	
esox		A genus of fresh-water fishes, including pike and pickerel.	
espadon		A long, heavy, two-handed and two-edged sword, formerly used by Spanish foot soldiers and by executioners.	French espadon, from Spanish espadon.
espalier		A railing or trellis upon which fruit trees or shrubs are trained, as upon a wall; a tree or row of trees so trained.	French espalier, from Italian spalliera.
esparcet		The common sainfoin (Onobrychis sativa), an Old World leguminous forage plant.	French esparcet.
esparto		A species of Spanish grass (Macrochloa tenacissima), of which cordage, shoes, baskets, etc., are made.	Spanish esparto, from Latin spartum.
espauliere		A defense for the shoulder, composed of flexible overlapping plates of metal, used in the 15th century; -- the origin of the modern epaulette.	
especial		Distinguished among others of the same class or kind; special; concerning a species or a single object; principal; particular; as, in an especial manner or degree.	
especially		In an especial manner; chiefly; particularly; peculiarly; in an uncommon degree.	
especialness		The state of being especial.	
esperanto		An artificial language, intended to be universal, devised by Dr. Zamenhof, a Russian, who adopted the pseudonym in publishing his first pamphlet regarding it in 1887.	
espial		The act of espying; notice; discovery.	
espier		One who espies.	
espinel		A kind of ruby. See Spinel.	
espionage		The practice or employment of spies; the practice of watching the words and conduct of others, to make discoveries, as spies or secret emissaries; secret watching.	
esplanade		(Fort.) (a) A clear space between a citadel and the nearest houses of the town.	
esplees		The full profits or products which ground or land yields, as the hay of the meadows, the feed of the pasture, the grain of arable fields, the rents, services, and the like.	Latin expletia.
espousage	Obsolete	Espousal.	
espousal		The act of espousing or betrothing; especially, in the plural, betrothal; plighting of the troths; a contract of marriage; sometimes, the marriage ceremony.	
espouse		To take to one's self with a view to maintain; to make one's own; to take up the cause of; to adopt; to embrace.	Old English espousen, from Old French espouser, from Latin sponsare.
espousement		The act of espousing, or the state of being espoused.	
espouser		One who espouses; one who embraces the cause of another or makes it his own.	
espressivo		With expression.	
espringal		An engine of war used for throwing viretons, large stones, and other missiles; a springal.	
esprit		Spirit. Esprit de corps (, a French phrase much used by English writers to denote the common spirit pervading the members of a body or association of persons.	
espy		To catch sight of; to perceive with the eyes; to discover, as a distant object partly concealed, or not obvious to notice; to see at a glance; to discern unexpectedly; to spy; as, to espy land; to espy a man in a crowd.	
esquimau		Same as Eskimo.	
esquire	Colloquial	Originally, a shield-bearer or armor-bearer, an attendant on a knight; in modern times, a title of dignity next in degree below knight and above gentleman; also, a title of office and courtesy; -- often shortened to squire.	Old French esquiere.
esquisse		The first sketch of a picture or model of a statue.	
essay		An effort made, or exertion of body or mind, for the performance of anything; a trial; attempt; as, to make an essay to benefit a friend.	Middle French essai.
essayer		One who essays.	
essayist		A writer of an essay, or of essays.	
essence		The constituent elementary notions which constitute a complex notion, and must be enumerated to define it; sometimes called the nominal essence.	French essence, from Latin essentia.
essene		One of a sect among the Jews in the time of our Savior, remarkable for their strictness and abstinence.	
essenism		The doctrine or the practices of the Essenes.	
essential		Belonging to the essence, or that which makes an object, or class of objects, what it is.	Latin essentialis.
essentiality		The quality of being essential; the essential part.	
essentially		In an essential manner or degree; in an indispensable degree; really; as, essentially different.	
essentialness		Essentiality.	
essentiate	Obsolete	To form or constitute the essence or being of.	
essoign		(Eng. Law) An excuse for not appearing in court at the return of process; the allegation of an excuse to the court.	
essoin		(Eng. Law) An excuse for not appearing in court at the return of process; the allegation of an excuse to the court.	Old French essoinier.
essoiner		An attorney who sufficiently excuses the absence of another.	
essonite		Cinnamon stone, a variety of garnet. See Garnet.	
essorant		Standing, but with the wings spread, as if about to fly; -- said of a bird borne as a charge on an escutcheon.	
establish		To make stable or firm; to fix immovably or firmly; to set (a thing) in a place and make it stable there; to settle; to confirm.	Middle English establissen.
establisher		One who establishes.	
establishment		The act of establishing; a ratifying or ordaining; settlement; confirmation.	Old French establissement.
establishmentarian		One who regards the Church primarily as an establishment formed by the State, and overlooks its intrinsic spiritual character.	
estacade		A dike of piles in the sea, a river, etc., to check the approach of an enemy.	
estafet		A courier who conveys messages to another courier; a military courier sent from one part of an army to another.	
estafette		A courier who conveys messages to another courier; a military courier sent from one part of an army to another.	French estafette, from Italian staffetta.
estaminet		A café, or room in a café, in which smoking is allowed.	French estaminet.
estancia		A grazing; a country house.	
estate		Settled condition or form of existence; state; condition or circumstances of life or of any person; situation.	Anglo-Norman astat, from Old French estat, from Latin status.
estatlich	Obsolete	Stately; dignified.	
estatly	Obsolete	Stately; dignified.	
esteem		To set a value on; to appreciate the worth of; to estimate; to value; to reckon.	
esteemable		Worthy of esteem; estimable.	
esteemer		One who esteems; one who sets a high value on any thing.	
ester		An ethereal salt, or compound ether, consisting of an organic radical united with the residue of any oxygen acid, organic or inorganic; thus the natural fats are esters of glycerin and the fatty acids, oleic, etc.	
esthesiometer		An instrument to measure the degree of sensation, by determining at how short a distance two impressions upon the skin can be distinguished, and thus to determine whether the condition of tactile sensibility is normal or altered.	
esthete		Same as Æsthete, Æsthetic, Æsthetical, Æsthetics, etc.	
esthetic		Same as Æsthete, Æsthetic, Æsthetical, Æsthetics, etc.	
esthetical		Same as Æsthete, Æsthetic, Æsthetical, Æsthetics, etc.	
esthetics		The theory or philosophy of taste; the science of the beautiful in nature and art; esp. that which treats of the expression and embodiment of beauty by art.	
estiferous		Producing heat.	
estimable		Capable of being estimated or valued; as, estimable damage.	
estimableness		The quality of deserving esteem or regard.	
estimably		In an estimable manner.	
estimate		To judge and form an opinion of the value of, from imperfect data, -- either the extrinsic (money), or intrinsic (moral), value; to fix the worth of roughly or in a general way; as, to estimate the value of goods or land…	Latin aestimatus.
estimation		An opinion or judgment of the worth, extent, or quantity of anything, formed without using precise data; valuation; as, estimations of distance, magnitude, amount, or moral qualities.	
estimative		Inclined, or able, to estimate; serving for, or capable of being used in, estimating.	
estimator		One who estimates or values; a valuer.	
estival		Same as Æstival, Æstivate, etc.	Latin aestivalis.
estivate		Same as Æstival, Æstivate, etc.	
estivation		Same as Æstival, Æstivate, etc.	
estoile		A six-pointed star whose rays are wavy, instead of straight like those of a mullet.	
estop		To impede or bar by estoppel.	
estoppel		(a) A stop; an obstruction or bar to one's alleging or denying a fact contrary to his own previous action, allegation, or denial; an admission, by words or conduct, which induces another to purchase rights…	
estovers		Necessaries or supples; an allowance to a person out of an estate or other thing for support; as of wood to a tenant for life, etc., of sustenance to a man confined for felony of his estate…	
estrade		A portion of the floor of a room raised above the general level, as a place for a bed or a throne; a platform; a dais.	French estrade, from Spanish estrado, from Latin stratum.
estramacon		A straight, heavy sword with two edges, used in the 16th and 17th centuries.	
estrange		To withdraw; to withhold; hence, reflexively, to keep at a distance; to cease to be familiar and friendly with.	Old French estranger, from Latin extraneus.
estrangedness		State of being estranged; estrangement.	
estrangement		The act of estranging, or the state of being estranged; alienation.	Old French estrangement.
estranger		One who estranges.	
estrangle	Obsolete	To strangle.	
estrapade		The action of a horse, when, to get rid of his rider, he rears, plunges, and kicks furiously.	
estray	Obsolete	To stray.	Anglo-Norman astrai.
estre	Obsolete	The inward part of a building; the interior.	
estreat		A true copy, duplicate, or extract of an original writing or record, esp. of amercements or penalties set down in the rolls of court to be levied by the bailiff, or other officer.	
estrepe		To strip or lay bare, as land of wood, houses, etc.; to commit waste.	
estrepement		A destructive kind of waste, committed by a tenant for life, in lands, woods, or houses.	
estrich		(Com.) The down of the ostrich.	
estuarine		Pertaining to an estuary; estuary.	
estuary		A passage, as the mouth of a river or lake, where the tide meets the current; an arm of the sea; a frith. it to the sea was often by long and wide estuaries.	Latin aestuarium.
estuate		To boil up; to swell and rage; to be agitated.	
estuation		The act of estuating; commotion, as of a fluid; agitation.	Latin aestuatio.
estufa		An assembly room in dwelling of the Pueblo Indians.	
esture	Obsolete	Commotion.	
esurient		Inclined to eat; hungry; voracious.	Latin esurire.
esurine	Obsolete	Causing hunger; eating; corroding.	
