etaac		The blue buck.
etacism		The pronunciation of the Greek ê (eta) like the Italian e long, that is like a in the English word ate.
etacist		One who favors etacism.
etagere		A piece of furniture having a number of uninclosed shelves or stages, one above another, for receiving articles of elegance or use.
etamine		A light textile fabric, like a fine bunting.
etape		A public storehouse.
etch		To produce, as figures or designs, on mental, glass, or the like, by means of lines or strokes eaten in or corroded by means of some strong acid.
etcher		One who etches.
etching		The act, art, or practice of engraving by means of acid which eats away lines or surfaces left unprotected in metal, glass, or the like.
eteostic		A kind of chronogram.
eterminable	Obsolete	Interminable.
etern	Poetic	Eternal.
eternal		Without beginning or end of existence; always existing.
eternalist		One who holds the existence of matter to be from eternity.
eternalize		To make eternal.
eternally		In an eternal manner.
eterne	Poetic	Eternal.
eternify	Obsolete	To make eternal.
eternity		Infinite duration, without beginning in the past or end in the future; also, duration without end in the future; endless time.
eternization		The act of eternizing; the act of rendering immortal or famous.
eternize		To make eternal or endless.
etesian		Periodical; annual; -- applied to winds which annually blow from the north over the Mediterranean, esp. the eastern part, for an irregular period during July and August.
ethal		A white waxy solid, C16H33.OH; -- called also cetylic alcohol. See Cetylic alcohol, under Cetylic.
ethane		A gaseous hydrocarbon, C2H6, forming a constituent of ordinary illuminating gas.
ethene		Ethylene; olefiant gas.
ethenic		Pertaining to, derived from. or resembling, ethene or ethylene; as, ethenic ether.
ethenyl		(a) A trivalent hydrocarbon radical, CH3.C. (b) A univalent hydrocarbon radical of the ethylene series, CH2:CH; - - called also vinyl.
etheostomoid		Pertaining to, or like, the genus Etheostoma. -- n.
ether		(Physics) A medium of great elasticity and extreme tenuity, supposed to pervade all space, the interior of solid bodies not excepted, and to be the medium of transmission of light and heat; hence often called luminiferous ether.
ethereal		Pertaining to the hypothetical upper, purer air, or to the higher regions beyond the earth or beyond the atmosphere; celestial; as, ethereal space; ethereal regions.
etherealism		Ethereality.
ethereality		The state of being ethereal; etherealness.
etherealization		An ethereal or spiritlike state.
etherealize		To convert into ether, or into subtile fluid; to saturate with ether.
ethereally		In an ethereal manner.
etherealness		Ethereality.
ethereous		(Chem.) Pertaining to, or resembling, either.
etherification		The act or process of making ether; specifically, the process by which a large quantity of alcohol is transformed into ether by the agency of a small amount of sulphuric, or ethyl sulphuric, acid.
etheriform		Having the form of ether.
etherin		A white, crystalline hydrocarbon, regarded as a polymeric variety of ethylene, obtained in heavy oil of wine, the residue left after making ether; -- formerly called also concrete oil of wine.
etherization		(a) The administration of ether to produce insensibility. (b) The state of the system under the influence of ether.
etherize		To convert into ether.
etherol		An oily hydrocarbon regarded as a polymeric variety of ethylene, produced with etherin.
ethic		Of, or belonging to, morals; treating of the moral feelings or duties; containing percepts of morality; moral; as, ethic discourses or epistles; an ethical system; ethical philosophy.
ethical		Of, or belonging to, morals; treating of the moral feelings or duties; containing percepts of morality; moral; as, ethic discourses or epistles; an ethical system; ethical philosophy.
ethically		According to, in harmony with, moral principles or character.
ethicist		One who is versed in ethics, or has written on ethics.
ethics		The science of human duty; the body of rules of duty drawn from this science; a particular system of principles and rules concerting duty, whether true or false; rules of practice in respect to a single class of human actions…
ethide		Any compound of ethyl of a binary type; as, potassium ethide.
ethidene	Obsolete	Ethylidene.
ethine		Acetylene.
ethionic		Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid so called.
ethiop		A native or inhabitant of Ethiopia; also, in a general sense, a negro or black man.
ethiopian		A native or inhabitant of Ethiopia; also, in a general sense, a negro or black man.
ethiopic		Of or relating to Ethiopia or the Ethiopians.
ethiops	Obsolete	A black substance; -- formerly applied to various preparations of a black or very dark color.
ethmoid		(a) Like a sieve; cribriform. (b) Pertaining to, or in the region of, the ethmoid bone.
ethmoidal		(a) Like a sieve; cribriform. (b) Pertaining to, or in the region of, the ethmoid bone.
ethmotrubinal		See Turbinal. -- n.
ethmovomerine		Pertaining to the region of the vomer and the base of the ethmoid in the skull.
ethnarch		The governor of a province or people.
ethnarchy		The dominion of an ethnarch; principality and rule.
ethnic		Belonging to races or nations; based on distinctions of race; ethnological.
ethnical		Belonging to races or nations; based on distinctions of race; ethnological.
ethnically		In an ethnical manner.
ethnicism	Obsolete	Heathenism; paganism; idolatry.
ethnographer		One who investigates ethnography.
ethnographic		pertaining to ethnography.
ethnographical		pertaining to ethnography.
ethnographically		In an ethnographical manner.
ethnography		That branch of knowledge which has for its subject the characteristics of the human family, developing the details with which ethnology as a comparative science deals; descriptive ethnology.
ethnologic		Of or pertaining to ethnology.
ethnological		Of or pertaining to ethnology.
ethnologically		In an ethnological manner; by ethnological classification; as, one belonging ethnologically to an African race.
ethnologist		One versed in ethnology; a student of ethnology.
ethnology		The science which treats of the division of mankind into races, their origin, distribution, and relations, and the peculiarities which characterize them.
ethologic		treating of, or pertaining to, ethnic or morality, or the science of character.
ethological		treating of, or pertaining to, ethnic or morality, or the science of character.
ethologist		One who studies or writes upon ethology.
ethology		A treatise on morality; ethics.
ethopoetic	Obsolete	Expressing character.
ethos		The character, sentiment, or disposition of a community or people, considered as a natural endowment; the spirit which actuates manners and customs; also, the characteristic tone or genius of an institution or social organization.
ethyl		A monatomic, hydrocarbon radical, C2H5 of the paraffin series, forming the essential radical of ethane, and of common alcohol and ether.
ethylamine		A colorless, mobile, inflammable liquid, C2H5.NH2, very volatile and with an ammoniacal odor.
ethylate		A compound derived from ethyl alcohol by the replacement of the hydroxyl hydrogen, after the manner of a hydrate; an ethyl alcoholate; as, potassium ethylate, C2H5.O.K.
ethylene		A colorless, gaseous hydrocarbon, C2H4, forming an important ingredient of illuminating gas, and also obtained by the action of concentrated sulphuric acid in alcohol.
ethylic		Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, ethyl; as, ethylic alcohol.
ethylidene		An unsymmetrical, divalent, hydrocarbon radical, C2H4 metameric with ethylene but written thus, CH3.CH to distinguish it from the symmetrical ethylene, CH2.CH2.
ethylin		Any one of the several complex ethers of ethyl and glycerin.
ethylsulphuric		Pertaining to, or containing, ethyl and sulphuric acid.
etiolate		To become white or whiter; to be whitened or blanched by excluding the light of the sun, as, plants.
etiolated		Having a blanched or faded appearance, as birds inhabiting desert regions.
etiolation		The operation of blanching plants, by excluding the light of the sun; the condition of a blanched plant.
etiolin		A yellowish coloring matter found in plants grown in darkness, which is supposed to be an antecedent condition of chlorophyll.
etiological		Pertaining to, or inquiring into, causes; ætiological.
etiology		The science of causes.
etiquette		The forms required by good breeding, or prescribed by authority, to be observed in social or official life; observance of the proprieties of rank and occasion; conventional decorum; ceremonial code of polite society.
etna		A kind of small, portable, cooking apparatus for which heat is furnished by a spirit lamp.
etnean		Pertaining to Etna, a volcanic mountain in Sicily.
etoile		See Estoile — a six-pointed star whose rays are wavy, instead of straight like those of a mullet.
etrurian		Of or relating to ancient Etruria, in Italy.
etruscan		Of or relating to Etruria. -- n.
ettin	Obsolete	A giant.
ettle	Obsolete	To earn. See Addle, to earn.
etude		A composition in the fine arts which is intended, or may serve, for a study.
etui		A case for one several small articles; esp., a box in which scissors, tweezers, and other articles of toilet or of daily use are carried.
etym		See Etymon — an original form; primitive word; root.
etymic		Relating to the etymon; as, an etymic word.
etymologer		An etymologist.
etymological		Pertaining to etymology, or the derivation of words. -- Et`y*mo*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
etymologicon		an etymological dictionary or manual.
etymologist		One who investigates the derivation of words.
etymologize		To give the etymology of; to trace to the root or primitive, as a word.
etymology		That branch of philological science which treats of the history of words, tracing out their origin, primitive significance, and changes of from and meaning.
etymon		An original form; primitive word; root.
etypical		Diverging from, or lacking conformity to, a type.
