eu		A prefix used frequently in composition, signifying well, good, advantageous; -- the opposite of dys-.	
eucairite		A metallic mineral, a selenide of copper and silver; -- so called by Berzelius on account of its being found soon after the discovery of the metal selenium.	
eucalyn		An unfermentable sugar, obtained as an uncrystallizable sirup by the decomposition of melitose; also obtained from a Tasmanian eucalyptus, -- whence its name.	
eucalyptol		A volatile, terpenelike oil extracted from the eucalyptus, and consisting largely of cymene.	
eucalyptus		A myrtaceous genus of trees, mostly Australian.	French eucalyptus.
eucharis		A genus of South American amaryllidaceous plants with large and beautiful white blossoms.	
eucharist		(Eccl.) The sacrament of the Lord's Supper; the solemn act of ceremony of commemorating the death of Christ, in the use of bread and wine, as the appointed emblems; the communion. -- See Sacrament.	
eucharistic	Obsolete	Giving thanks; expressing thankfulness; rejoicing.	
eucharistical	Obsolete	Giving thanks; expressing thankfulness; rejoicing.	
euchite	Obsolete	One who resolves religion into prayer.	
euchloric		Relating to, or consisting of, euchlorine; as, euchloric.	
euchlorine		A yellow or greenish yellow gas, first prepared by Davy, evolved from potassium chlorate and hydrochloric acid.	
euchologion		A formulary of prayers; the book of offices in the Greek Church, containing the liturgy, sacraments, and forms of prayers.	
euchologue		Euchology.	French euchologe.
euchology		A formulary of prayers; the book of offices in the Greek Church, containing the liturgy, sacraments, and forms of prayers.	
euchre		A game at cards, that may be played by two, three, or four persons, the highest card (except when an extra card called the Joker is used) being the knave of the same suit as the trump, and called right bower…	
euchroic		Having a fine color.	
euchroite		A mineral occurring in transparent emerald green crystals.	
euchrone		A substance obtained from euchroic acid. See Eychroic.	
euchymy		A good state of he blood and other fluids of the body.	
euclase		A brittle gem occurring in light green, transparent crystals, affording a brilliant clinodiagonal cleavage.	
euclid		A Greek geometer of the 3d century	
euclidian		Related to Euclid, or to the geometry of Euclid.	
eucopepoda		A group which includes the typical copepods and the lerneans.	
eucrasy		Such a due mixture of qualities in bodies as constitutes health or soundness.	
euctical		Expecting a wish; supplicatory.	
eudaemon		A good angel.	
eudaemonics		That part of moral philosophy which treats of happiness; the science of happiness; -- contrasted with aretaics.	
eudaemonism		That system of ethics which defines and enforces moral obligation by its relation to happiness or personal well-being.	Greek εὐδαίμων.
eudaemonist		One who believes in eudemonism.	
eudaemonistic		Of or pertaining to eudemonism.	
eudaemonistical		Eudemonistic.	
eudemon		A good angel.	
eudemonics		That part of moral philosophy which treats of happiness; the science of happiness; -- contrasted with aretaics.	
eudemonism		That system of ethics which defines and enforces moral obligation by its relation to happiness or personal well-being.	
eudemonist		One who believes in eudemonism.	
eudemonistic		Of or pertaining to eudemonism.	
eudemonistical		Eudemonistic.	
eudialyte		A mineral of a brownish red color and vitreous luster, consisting chiefly of the silicates of iron, zirconia, and lime.	
eudiometer		An instrument for the volumetric measurement of gases; -- so named because frequently used to determine the purity of the air.	
eudiometric		Of or pertaining to a eudiometer; as, eudiometrical experiments or results.	
eudiometrical		Of or pertaining to a eudiometer; as, eudiometrical experiments or results.	
eudiometry		The art or process of determining he constituents of a gaseous mixture by means of the eudiometer, or for ascertaining the purity of the air or the amount of oxygen in it.	
eudipleura		The fundamental forms of organic life, that are composed of two equal and symmetrical halves.	
eudoxian		A follower of Eudoxius, patriarch of Antioch and Constantinople in the 4th century, and a celebrated defender of the doctrines of Arius.	
euganoidei		A group which includes the bony ganoids, as the gar pikes.	
euge	Obsolete	Applause.	
eugenesis		The quality or condition of having strong reproductive powers; generation with full fertility between different species or races, specif. between hybrids of the first generation.	
eugenia		A genus of mytraceous plants, mostly of tropical countries, and including several aromatic trees and shrubs, among which are the trees which produce allspice and cloves of commerce.	
eugenic		Pertaining to, or derived from, cloves; as, eugenic acid.	
eugenics		The science of improving stock, whether human or animal.	
eugenin		A colorless, crystalline substance extracted from oil of cloves; -- called also clove camphor.	
eugenol		A colorless, aromatic, liquid hydrocarbon, C10H12O2 resembling the phenols, and hence also called eugenic acid.	
eugeny	Obsolete	Nobleness of birth.	
eugetic		Pertaining to, or derived from, eugenol; as, eugetic acid.	
eugetinic		Pertaining to, or derived from, eugenol; as, eugetic acid.	
eugh	Obsolete	The yew.	
eugubian		Of or pertaining to the ancient town of Eugubium (now Gubbio); as, the Eugubine tablets, or tables, or inscriptions.	
eugubine		Of or pertaining to the ancient town of Eugubium (now Gubbio); as, the Eugubine tablets, or tables, or inscriptions.	
euharmonic		Producing mathematically perfect harmony or concord; sweetly or perfectly harmonious.	
euhemerism		The theory, held by Euhemerus, that the gods of mythology were but deified mortals, and their deeds only the amplification in imagination of human acts.	
euhemerist		One who advocates euhemerism.	
euhemeristic		Of or pertaining to euhemerism.	
euhemerize		To interpret (mythology) on the theory of euhemerism.	
euisopoda		A group which includes the typical Isopoda.	
eulachon		The candlefish. See Candlefish.	Chinook jargon ulakan.
eulerian		Pertaining Euler, a German mathematician of the 18th century.	
eulogic		Bestowing praise of eulogy; commendatory; eulogistic. -- Eu*log"ic*al*ly, adv.	
eulogical		Bestowing praise of eulogy; commendatory; eulogistic. -- Eu*log"ic*al*ly, adv.	
eulogist		One who eulogizes or praises; panegyrist; encomiast.	
eulogistic		Of or pertaining to eulogy; characterized by eulogy; bestowing praise; panegyrical; commendatory; laudatory; as, eulogistic speech or discourse. -- Eu tic*al*ly, adv.	
eulogistical		Of or pertaining to eulogy; characterized by eulogy; bestowing praise; panegyrical; commendatory; laudatory; as, eulogistic speech or discourse. -- Eu tic*al*ly, adv.	
eulogium		A formal eulogy.	
eulogize		To speak or write in commendation of (another); to extol in speech or writing; to praise.	
eulogy		A speech or writing in commendation of the character or services of a person; as, a fitting eulogy to worth.	Greek εὐλογία.
eulytite		a mineral, consisting chiefly of the silicate of bismuth, found at Freiberg; -- called also culytine.	
eumenides		A euphemistic name for the Furies of Erinyes.	
eumolpus		A genus of small beetles, one species of which (E. viti) is very injurious to the vines in the wine countries of Europe.	
eunomian		A follower of Eunomius, bishop of Cyzicus (4th century A.	
eunomy		Equal law, or a well-adjusted constitution of government.	
eunuch		A male of the human species castrated; commonly, one of a class of such persons, in Oriental countries, having charge of the women's apartments.	
eunuchate		To make a eunuch of; to castrate. as a man.	Latin eunuchatus.
eunuchism		The state of being eunuch.	
euonymin		A principle or mixture of principles derived from Euonymus atropurpureus, or spindle tree.	
euonymus		A genus of small European and American trees; the spindle tree.	
euornithes		The division of Aves which includes all the typical birds, or all living birds except the penguins and birds of ostrichlike form.	
euosmitte		A fossil resin, so called from its strong, peculiar, pleasant odor.	
eupathy		Right feeling.	
eupatorin		A principle or mixture of principles extracted from various species of Eupatorium.	
eupatorine		A principle or mixture of principles extracted from various species of Eupatorium.	
eupatorium		A genus of perennial, composite herbs including hemp agrimony, boneset, throughwort, etc.	
eupatrid		One well born, or of noble birth.	
eupepsia		Soundness of the nutritive or digestive organs; good concoction or digestion; -- opposed to dyspepsia.	Greek εὔπεπτος.
eupepsy		Soundness of the nutritive or digestive organs; good concoction or digestion; -- opposed to dyspepsia.	
eupeptic		Of or pertaining to good digestion; easy of digestion; having a good digestion; as, eupeptic food; an eupeptic man.	
euphemism		A figure in which a harts or indelicate word or expression is softened; a way of describing an offensive thing by an inoffensive expression; a mild name for something disagreeable.	
euphemistic		Pertaining to euphemism; containing a euphemism; softened in expression. -- Eu`phe*mis"tic*al*ly, adv.	
euphemistical		Pertaining to euphemism; containing a euphemism; softened in expression. -- Eu`phe*mis"tic*al*ly, adv.	
euphemize		To express by a euphemism, or in delicate language; to make use of euphemistic expressions.	
euphoniad		An instrument in which are combined the characteristic tones of the organ and various other instruments.	
euphonic		Pertaining to, or exhibiting, euphony; agreeable in sound; pleasing to the ear; euphonious; as, a euphonic expression; euphonical orthography.	
euphonical		Pertaining to, or exhibiting, euphony; agreeable in sound; pleasing to the ear; euphonious; as, a euphonic expression; euphonical orthography.	
euphonicon		A kind of uptight piano.	
euphonious		Pleasing or sweet in sound; euphonic; smooth-sounding.	
euphonism		An agreeable combination of sounds; euphony.	
euphonium		A bass instrument of the saxhorn family.	Greek εὔφωνος.
euphonize		To make euphonic.	
euphonon		An instrument resembling the organ in tine and the upright piano in form.	
euphonous		Euphonious.	
euphony		A pleasing or sweet sound; an easy, smooth enunciation of sounds; a pronunciation of letters and syllables which is pleasing to the ear.	Greek εὐφωνία.
euphorbia		Spurge, or bastard spurge, a genus of plants of many species, mostly shrubby, herbaceous succulents, affording an acrid, milky juice.	
euphorbiaceous		Of, relating to, or resembling, the Euphorbia family.	
euphorbial		Of, relating to, or resembling, the Euphorbia family.	
euphorbin		A principle, or mixture of principles, derived from various species of Euphorbia.	
euphorbine		A principle, or mixture of principles, derived from various species of Euphorbia.	
euphorbium		An inodorous exudation, usually in the form of yellow tears, produced chiefly by the African Euphorbia resinifrea.	
euphotide		A rock occurring in the Alps, consisting of saussurite and smaragdite; -- sometimes called gabbro.	
euphrasy		The plant eyesight (euphrasia officionalis), formerly regarded as beneficial in disorders of the eyes.	
euphroe		A block or long slat of wood, perforated for the passage of the crowfoot, or cords by which an awning is held up.	
euphuism		An affectation of excessive elegance and refinement of language; high-flown diction.	
euphuist		One who affects excessive refinement and elegance of language; -- applied esp. to a class of writers, in the age of Elizabeth, whose productions are marked by affected conceits and high-flown diction.	
euphuistic		Belonging to the euphuists, or euphuism; affectedly refined.	
euphuize		To affect excessive refinement in language; to be overnice in expression.	
eupione		A limpid, oily liquid obtained by the destructive distillation of various vegetable and animal substances; -- specifically, an oil consisting largely of the higher hydrocarbons of the paraffin series.	
eupittone		A yellow, crystalline substance, resembling aurin, and obtained by the oxidation of pittacal; -- called also eupittonic acid.	
eupittonic		Pertaining to, or derived from, eupittone.	
euplastic		Having the capacity of becoming organizable in a high degree, as the matter forming the false membranes which sometimes result from acute inflammation in a healthy person.	
euplectella		A genus of elegant, glassy sponges, consisting of interwoven siliceous fibers, and growing in the form of a cornucopia; -- called also Venus's flower-basket.	
euplexoptera		An order of insects, including the earwig.	
eupnaea		Normal breathing where arterialization of the blood is normal, in distinction from dyspnæa, in which the blood is insufficiently arterialized.	
eupryion		A contrivance for obtaining a light instantaneous, as a lucifer match.	
eupyrion		A contrivance for obtaining a light instantaneous, as a lucifer match.	
eurafric		(Geog.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, the continents of Europe and Africa combined.	
eurafrican		(Geog.) Of, pertaining to, or designating, the continents of Europe and Africa combined.	
eurasian		A child of a European parent on the one side and an Asiatic on the other.	
eurasiatio		Of or pertaining to the continents of Europe and Asia combined.	
eureka		The exclamation attributed to Archimedes, who is said to have cried out (I have found it!	Greek εὕρηκα.
eurhipidurous		Having a fanlike tail; belonging to the Eurhipiduræ, a division of Aves which includes all living birds.	
euripize	Obsolete	To whirl hither and thither.	
euripus		A strait; a narrow tract of water, where the tide, or a current, flows and reflows with violence, as the ancient fright of this name between Eubæa and Bæotia.	
eurite		A compact feldspathic rock; felsite. See Felsite.	
euritic		Of or pelating to eurite.	
euroclydon		A tempestuous northeast wind which blows in the Mediterranean. See Levanter.	
european		Of or pertaining to Europe, or to its inhabitants.	
europeanize		To cause to become like the Europeans in manners or character; to habituate or accustom to European usages.	
europium		A metallic element of the rare-earth group, discovered spectroscopically by Demarcay in 1896.	
eurus		The east wind.	
euryale		(Bot.) A genus of water lilies, growing in India and China.	
euryalida		A tribe of Ophiuroidea, including the genera Euryale, Astrophyton, etc. They generally have the arms branched.	
eurycerous		Having broad horns.	
eurypteroid		Like, or pertaining to, the genus Euryperus.	
eurypteroidea		An extinct order of Merostomata, of which the genus Eurypterus is the type.	
eurypterus		A genus of extinct Merostomata, found in Silurian rocks.	
eurythmy		(Fine Arts) Just or harmonious proportion or movement, as in the composition of a poem, an edifice, a painting, or a statue.	Greek εὐρυθμία.
eusebian		A follower of Eusebius, bishop of Cæsarea, who was a friend and protector of Arius.	
eustachian		(a) Discovered by Eustachius. (b) Pertaining to the Eustachian tube; as, Eustachian catheter.	
eustyle		See Intercolumnlation.	
eutaxy		Good or established order or arrangement.	
eutectic		Of maximum fusibility; -- said of an alloy or mixture which has the lowest melting point which it is possible to obtain by the combination of the given components.	Greek εὔτηκτος.
euterpe		(Bot.) A genus of palms, some species of which are elegant trees.	
euterpean		Of or pertaining to Euterpe or to music.	
eutexia		The principle or process of forming from given components the eutectic alloy, or alloy of maximum fusibility.	
euthanasia		An easy death; a mode of dying to be desired.	
euthanasy		Same as Euthanasia.	
euthiochroic		Pertaining to, or denoting, an acid so called.	
euthyneura		A large division of gastropod molluske, including the Pulmonifera and Opisthobranchiata.	
eutrophy		Healthy nutrition; soundless as regards the nutritive functions.	
eutychian		A follower of Eutyches, who held that the divine and the human in the person of Christ were blended together as to constitute but one nature; a monophysite; -- opposed to Nestorian.	
eutychianism		The doctrine of Eutyches and his followers.	
euxanthic		Having a yellow color; pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, euxanthin.	
euxanthin		A yellow pigment imported from India and China.	
euxenite		A brownish black mineral with a metallic luster, found in Norway.	Greek εὔξενος.
