evacate	Obsolete	To empty.
evacuant		Emptying; evacuative; purgative; cathartic. -- n. (Med.) A purgative or cathartic.
evacuate		To make empty; to empty out; to remove the contents of; as, to evacuate a vessel or dish.
evacuation		The act of emptying, clearing of the contents, or discharging. Specifically: (a) (Mil.) Withdrawal of troops from a town, fortress…
evacuative		Serving of tending to evacuate; cathartic; purgative.
evacuator		One who evacuates; a nullifier.
evacuatory		A purgative.
evade		To get away from by artifice; to avoid by dexterity, subterfuge, address, or ingenuity; to elude; to escape from cleverly; as, to evade a blow, a pursuer, a punishment; to evade the force of an argument.
evadible		Capable of being evaded.
evagation		A wandering about; excursion; a roving.
evaginate		Protruded, or grown out, as an evagination; turned inside out; unsheathed; evaginated; as, an evaginate membrane.
evagination		The act of unsheathing.
eval	Obsolete	Relating to time or duration.
evaluate		To fix the value of; to rate; to appraise.
evaluation		Valuation; appraisement.
evanesce		To vanish away; to because dissipated and disappear, like vapor.
evanescence		The act or state of vanishing away; disappearance; as, the evanescence of vapor, of a dream, of earthly plants or hopes.
evanescent		Liable to vanish or pass away like vapor; vanishing; fleeting; as, evanescent joys.
evanescently		; imperceptibly.
evangel		Good news; announcement of glad tidings; especially, the gospel, or a gospel.
evangelian		Rendering thanks for favors.
evangelic		Belonging to, or contained in, the gospel; evangelical.
evangelical		Contained in, or relating to, the four Gospels; as, the evangelical history.
evangelicalism		Adherence to evangelical doctrines; evangelism.
evangelically		In an evangelical manner.
evangelicalness		State of being evangelical.
evangelicism		Evangelical principles; evangelism.
evangelicity		Evangelicism.
evangelism		The preaching or promulgation of the gospel.
evangelist		A bringer of the glad tidings of Church and his doctrines.
evangelistary		A selection of passages from the Gospels, as a lesson in divine service.
evangelistic		Pertaining to the four evangelists; designed or fitted to evangelize; evangelical; as, evangelistic efforts.
evangelization		The act of evangelizing; the state of being evangelized.
evangelize		To instruct in the gospel; to preach the gospel to; to convert to Christianity; as, to evangelize the world.
evangely	Obsolete	Evangel.
evangile		Good tidings; evangel.
evanid	Obsolete	Liable to vanish or disappear; faint; weak; evanescent; as, evanid color.
evanish		To vanish.
evanishment		A vanishing; disappearance.
evaporable		Capable of being converted into vapor, or dissipated by evaporation.
evaporate		To pass off in vapor, as a fluid; to escape and be dissipated, either in visible vapor, or in practice too minute to be visible.
evaporation		The process by which any substance is converted from a liquid state into, and carried off in, vapor; as, the evaporation of water, of ether, of camphor.
evaporative		Pertaining to, or producing, evaporation; as, the evaporative process.
evaporator		An apparatus for condensing vegetable juices, or for drying fruit by heat.
evaporometer		An instrument for ascertaining the quantity of a fluid evaporated in a given time; an atmometer.
evasible		That may be evaded.
evasion		The act of eluding or avoiding, particularly the pressure of an argument, accusation, charge, or interrogation; artful means of eluding.
evasive		Tending to evade, or marked by evasion; elusive; shuffling; avoiding by artifice.
eve		The evening before a holiday, -- from the Jewish mode of reckoning the day as beginning at sunset. not at midnight; as, Christians eve is the evening before Christmas; also, the period immediately preceding some important event.
evectics	Obsolete	The branch of medical science which teaches the method of acquiring a good habit of body.
evection		(Astron.) (a) An inequality of the moon's motion is its orbit to the attraction of the sun, by which the equation of the center is diminished at the syzygies, and increased at the quadratures by about 1º 20'.
even		Level, smooth, or equal in surface; not rough; free from irregularities; hence uniform in rate of motion of action; as, even ground; an even speed; an even course of conduct.
evene	Obsolete	To happen.
evener		One who, or that which makes even.
evenfall		Beginning of evening.
evenhand	Obsolete	Equality.
evenhanded		Fair or impartial; unbiased. -- E ven*hand`ed*ness, n.
evening		The latter part and close of the day, and the beginning of darkness or night; properly, the decline of the day, or of the sum.
evenly		With an even, level, or smooth surface; without roughness, elevations, or depression; uniformly; equally; comfortably; impartially; serenely.
evenminded		Having equanimity.
evenness		The state of being ven, level, or disturbed; smoothness; horizontal position; uniformity; impartiality; calmness; equanimity; appropriate place or level; as, evenness of surface, of a fluid at rest, of motion, of dealings…
evensong		A song for the evening; the evening service or form of worship (in the Church of England including vespers and compline); also, the time of evensong.
event	Obsolete	That which comes, arrives, or happens; that which falls out; any incident, good or bad.
eventerate	Obsolete	To rip open; todisembowel.
eventful		Full of, or rich in, events or incidents; as, an eventful journey; an eventful period of history; an eventful period of life.
eventide	Poetic	The time of evening; evening.
eventilate	Obsolete	To winnow out; to fan.
eventilation	Obsolete	The act of eventilating; discussion.
eventless		Without events; tame; monotomous; marked by nothing unusual; uneventful.
eventognathi		An order of fishes including a vast number of freshwater species such as the carp, loach, chub, etc.
eventration		(a) A tumor containing a large portion of the abdominal viscera, occasioned by relaxation of the walls of the abdomen.
eventual		Coming or happening as a consequence or result; consequential.
eventuality		The coming as a consequence; contingency; also, an event which comes as a consequence.
eventually		In an eventual manner; finally; ultimately.
eventuate		To come out finally or in conclusion; to result; to come to pass.
eventuation		The act of eventuating or happening as a result; the outcome.
ever		At any time; at any period or point of time.
everduring		Everlasting.
everglade		A swamp or low tract of land inundated with water and interspersed with hummocks, or small islands, and patches of high grass; as, the everglades of Florida.
evergreen		Remaining unwithered through the winter, or retaining unwithered leaves until the leaves of the next year are expanded, as pines cedars, hemlocks, and the like.
everich	Obsolete	each one; every one; each of two. See Every.
everichon	Obsolete	Every one.
everlasting		Lasting or enduring forever; exsisting or continuing without end; immoral; eternal. xx1. 33.
everlastingly		In an everlasting manner.
everlastingness		The state of being everlasting; endless duration; indefinite duration.
everliving		Living always; immoral; eternal; as, the everliving God.
evermore		During eternity; always; forever; for an indefinite period; at all times; -- often used substantively with for.
evernic		Pertaining to Evernia, a genus of lichens; as, evernic acid.
everse	Obsolete	To overthrow or subvert.
eversion		The act of eversing; destruction.
eversive		Tending to evert or overthrow; subversive; with of.
evert		To turn outwards, or inside out, as an intestine.
every		All the parts which compose a whole collection or aggregate number, considered in their individuality, all taken separately one by one, out of an indefinite bumber.
everybody		Every person.
everych	Obsolete	each one; every one; each of two. See Every.
everychon	Obsolete	Every one.
everyday		Used or fit for every day; common; usual; as, an everyday suit or clothes.
everyone		Everybody; -- commonly separated, every one.
everything		Whatever pertains to the subject under consideration; all things.
everywhen		At any or all times; every instant.
everywhere		In every place; in all places; hence, in every part; throughly; altogether.
everywhereness		Ubiquity; omnipresence.
evesdrop		See Eavesdrop — to stand under the eaves, near a window or at the door, of a house, to listen and learn what is said within doors; hence, to listen secretly to what is said in private.
evesdropper		See Eavesdropper — one who stands under the eaves, or near the window or door of a house, to listen; hence, a secret listener.
evestigate	Obsolete	To investigate.
evet		The common newt or eft.
evibrate	Obsolete	To vibrate.
evict		(Law) To dispossess by a judicial process; to dispossess by paramount right or claim of such right; to eject; to oust.
eviction		The act or process of evicting; or state of being evicted; the recovery of lands, tenements, etc., from another's possession by due course of law; dispossession by paramount title or claim of such title; ejectment; ouster.
evidence		That which makes evident or manifest; that which furnishes, or tends to furnish, proof; any mode of proof; the ground of belief or judgement; as, the evidence of our senses; evidence of the truth or falsehood of a statement.
evidencer		One whi gives evidence.
evident		Clear to the vision; especially, clear to the understanding, and satisfactory to the judgment; as, the figure or color of a body is evident to the senses; the guilt of an offender can not always be made evident.
evidential		Relating to, or affording, evidence; indicative; especially, relating to the evidences of Christianity.
evidentiary		Furnishing evidence; asserting; proving; evidential.
evidently		In an evident manner; clearly; plainly.
evidentness		State of being evident.
evigilation	Obsolete	A waking up or awakening.
evil		Having qualities tending to injury and mischief; having a nature or properties which tend to badness; mischievous; not good; worthless or deleterious; poor; as, an evil beast; and evil plant; an evil crop.
evil-eyed		Possessed of the supposed evil eye; also, looking with envy, jealousy, or bad design; malicious.
evil-favored		Having a bad countenance or appearance; ill-favored; blemished; deformed.
evil-minded		Having evil dispositions or intentions; disposed to mischief or sin; malicious; malignant; wicked. -- E"vil-mind`ed*ness, n.
evilly	Obsolete	In an evil manner; not well; ill.
evilness		The condition or quality of being evil; badness; viciousness; malignity; vileness; as, evilness of heart; the evilness of sin.
evince		To show in a clear manner; to prove beyond any reasonable doubt; to manifest; to make evident; to bring to light; to evidence.
evincement		The act of evincing or proving, or the state of being evinced.
evincible		Capable of being proved or clearly brought to light; demonstrable.
evincive		Tending to prove; having the power to demonstrate; demonstrative; indicative.
evirate	Obsolete	To emasculate; to dispossess of manhood.
eviration	Obsolete	Castration.
eviscerate		To take out the entrails of; to disembowel; to gut.
evisceration		A disemboweling.
evitable		A voidable.
evitate	Obsolete	To shun; to avoid.
evitation	Obsolete	A shunning; avoidance.
evite	Obsolete	To shun.
eviternal	Obsolete	Eternal; everlasting. -- Ev`i*ter"nal*ly, adv.
eviternity	Obsolete	Eternity.
evocate		To call out or forth; to summon; to evoke.
evocation		The act of calling out or forth.
evocative		Calling forth; serving to evoke; developing.
evocator		One who calls forth.
evoke		To call out; to summon forth.
evolatic	Obsolete	Apt to fly away.
evolatical	Obsolete	Apt to fly away.
evolation	Obsolete	A flying out or up.
evolute		A curve from which another curve, called the involute or evolvent, is described by the end of a thread gradually wound upon the former, or unwound from it.
evolutility		The faculty possessed by all substances capable of self- nourishment of manifesting the nutritive acts by changes of form, of volume, or of structure.
evolution		The act of unfolding or unrolling; hence, in the process of growth; development; as, the evolution of a flower from a bud, or an animal from the egg.
evolutional		Relating to evolution.
evolutionary		Relating to evolution; as, evolutionary discussions.
evolutionism		The theory of, or belief in, evolution. See Evolution, 6 and 7.
evolutionist		one who holds the doctrine of evolution, either in biology or in metaphysics.
evolve		To unfold or unroll; to open and expand; to disentangle and exhibit clearly and satisfactorily; to develop; to derive; to educe.
evolvement		The act of evolving, or the state of being evolved; evolution.
evolvent		The involute of a curve. See Involute, and Evolute.
evomit	Obsolete	To vomit.
evomition	Obsolete	The act of vomiting.
evulgate	Obsolete	To publish abroad.
evulgation	Obsolete	A divulging.
evulsion		The act of plucking out; a rooting out.
