ex-official		Proceeding from office or authority.	
ex-voto		An offering to a church in fulfillment of a vow.	
exacerbate		To render more violent or bitter; to irriate; to exasperate; to imbitter, as passions or disease.	
exacerbation		The act rendering more violent or bitter; the state of being exacerbated or intensified in violence or malignity; as, exacerbation of passion.	
exacerbescence		Increase of irritation or violence, particularly the increase of a fever or disease.	Latin exacerbescens.
exacervation	Obsolete	The act of heaping up.	
exacinate		To remove the kernel form.	
exacination		Removal of the kernel.	
exact		Precisely agreeing with a standard, a fact, or the truth; perfectly conforming; neither exceeding nor falling short in any respect; true; correct; precise; as, the clock keeps exact time; he paid the exact debt…	
exacter		An exactor.	
exacting		Oppressive or unreasonably severe in making demands or requiring the exact fulfillment of obligations; harsh; severe.	
exaction		The act of demanding with authority, and compelling to pay or yield; compulsion to give or furnish; a levying by force; a driving to compliance; as, the exaction to tribute or of obedience; hence, extortion.	
exactitude		The quality of being exact; exactness.	French exactitude, from Latin exactus.
exactly		In an exact manner; precisely according to a rule, standard, or fact; accurately; strictly; correctly; nicely.	
exactness		The condition of being exact; accuracy; nicety; precision; regularity; as, exactness of jurgement or deportment.	
exactor		One who exacts or demands by authority or right; hence, an extortioner; also, one unreasonably severe in injunctions or demands.	
exactress		A woman who is an exactor.	
exacuate	Obsolete	To whet or sharpen.	
exaeresis		In old writers, the operations concerned in the removal of parts of the body.	
exaggerate		To amplify; to magnify; to enlarge beyond bounds or the truth; to delineate extravagantly; to overstate the truth concerning.	Latin exaggeratus.
exaggerated		Enlarged beyond bounds or the truth. -- Ex*ag"ger*a`ted*ly, adv.	
exaggerating		That exaggerates; enlarging beyond bounds. -- Ex*ag"ger*a`ting*ly, adv.	
exaggeration		The act of exaggerating; the act of doing or representing in an excessive manner; a going beyond the bounds of truth reason, or justice; a hyperbolical representation; hyperbole; overstatement.	Latin exaggeratio.
exaggerative		Tending to exaggerate; involving exaggeration. -- Ex*ag"ger*a*tive*ly, adv.	
exaggerator		One who exaggerates; one addicted to exaggeration.	
exaggeratory		Containing, or tending to, exaggeration; exaggerative.	
exagitate	Obsolete	To satirize; to censure severely.	
exagitation	Obsolete	Agitation.	
exalbuminous		Having no albumen about the embryo; -- said of certain seeds.	
exalt		To raise high; to elevate; to lift up.	Latin exaltare.
exaltate	Obsolete	Exercising its highest influence; -- said of a planet.	
exaltation		The act of exalting or raising high; also, the state of being exalted; elevation.	French exaltation, from Latin exaltatio.
exalted		Raised to lofty height; elevated; extolled; refined; dignified; sublime.	
exalter		One who exalts or raises to dignity.	
exaltment	Obsolete	Exaltation.	
examen		Examination; inquiry.	
exametron	Obsolete	An hexameter.	
examinable		Capable of being examined or inquired into.	
examinant		One who examines; an examiner.	
examinate	Obsolete	A person subjected to examination.	
examination		The act of examining, or state of being examined; a careful search, investigation, or inquiry; scrutiny by study or experiment.	
examinator		An examiner.	
examine		To test by any appropriate method; to inspect carefully with a view to discover the real character or state of…	Old French examiner, from Latin examinare.
examinee		A person examined.	
examiner		One who examines, tries, or inspects; one who interrogates; an officer or person charged with the duty of making an examination; as, an examiner of students for a degree; an examiner in chancery, in the patent office, etc.	
examinership		The office or rank of an examiner.	
examining		Having power to examine; appointed to examine; as, an examining committee.	
examplary	Obsolete	Serving for example or pattern; exemplary.	
example		One or a portion taken to show the character or quality of the whole; a sample; a specimen.	Middle English example, from Old French essample, from Latin exemplum.
exampleless		Without or above example.	
exampler	Obsolete	A pattern; an exemplar.	
exampless		Exampleless.	
exanguious	Obsolete	Bloodless. See Exsanguious.	
exangulous		Having no corners; without angles.	
exanimate		Lifeless; dead.	
exanimation		Deprivation of life or of spirits.	Latin exanimatio.
exanimous	Obsolete	Lifeless; dead.	Latin exanimus.
exannulate		Having the sporangium destitute of a ring; -- said of certain genera of ferns.	
exanthem		Same as Exanthema.	
exanthema		An efflorescence or discoloration of the skin; an eruption or breaking out, as in measles, smallpox, scarlatina, and the like diseases; -- sometimes limited to eruptions attended with fever.	
exanthematic		Of, relating to, or characterized by, exanthema; efflorescent; as, an exanthematous eruption.	
exanthematous		Of, relating to, or characterized by, exanthema; efflorescent; as, an exanthematous eruption.	
exanthesis		An eruption of the skin; cutaneous efflorescence.	
exantlate	Obsolete	To exhaust or wear out.	Latin exantlatus.
exantlation	Obsolete	Act of drawing out; exhaustion.	
exarate	Obsolete	To plow up; also, to engrave; to write.	
exaration	Obsolete	Act of plowing; also, act of writing.	Latin exaratio.
exarch		A viceroy; in Ravenna, the title of the viceroys of the Byzantine emperors; in the Eastern Church, the superior over several monasteries; in the modern Greek Church, a deputy of the patriarch, who visits the clergy…	
exarchate		The office or the province of an exarch.	
exarillate		Having no aril; -- said of certain seeds, or of the plants producing them.	
exarticulate		Having but one joint; -- said of certain insects.	
exarticulation		Luxation; the dislocation of a joint.	
exasperate		To irritate in a high degree; to provoke; to enrage; to exscite or to inflame the anger of; as, to exasperate a person or his feelings.	
exasperater		One who exasperates or inflames anger, enmity, or violence.	
exasperation		The act of exasperating or the state of being exasperated; irritation; keen or bitter anger.	
exaspidean		Having the anterior scute	
exauctorate	Obsolete	See Exauthorate — to deprive of authority or office; to depose; to discharge.	
exauctoration		See Exauthoration — deprivation of authority or dignity; degration.	
exaugurate	Obsolete	To annul the consecration of; to secularize; to unhellow.	Latin exauguratus.
exauguration	Obsolete	The act of exaugurating; desecration.	
exauthorate	Obsolete	To deprive of authority or office; to depose; to discharge.	Latin exauctoratus.
exauthoration	Obsolete	Deprivation of authority or dignity; degration.	
exauthorize	Obsolete	To deprive of uthority.	
excalceate	Obsolete	To deprive of shoes.	
excalceation	Obsolete	The act of depriving or divesting of shoes.	
excalfaction	Obsolete	A heating or warming; calefaction.	
excalfactive	Obsolete	Serving to heat; warming.	
excalfactory	Obsolete	Heating; warming.	
excalibur		The name of King Arthur's mythical sword.	
excamb		To exchange; -- used with reference to transfers of land.	
excambie		To exchange; -- used with reference to transfers of land.	
excambion		Exchange; barter; -- used commonly of lands.	
excambium		Exchange; barter; -- used commonly of lands.	
excandescence		A growing hot; a white or glowing heat; incandescence.	
excandescent		White or glowing with heat.	
excantation	Obsolete	Disenchantment by a countercharm.	
excarnate		To deprive or clear of flesh.	
excarnation		The act of depriving or divesting of flesh; excarnification; -- opposed to incarnation.	
excarnificate		To clear of flesh; to excarnate.	
excarnification		The act of excarnificating or of depriving of flesh; excarnation.	
excavate		To hollow out; to form cavity or hole in; to make hollow by cutting, scooping, or digging; as, to excavate a ball; to excavate the earth.	
excavation		The act of excavating, or of making hollow, by cutting, scooping, or digging out a part of a solid mass.	Latin excavatio.
excavator		One who, or that which, excavates or hollows out; a machine, as a dredging machine, or a tool, for excavating.	
excave	Obsolete	To excavate.	
excecate	Obsolete	To blind.	Latin excaecatus.
excecation	Obsolete	The act of making blind.	
exceed		To go beyond; to proceed beyond the given or supposed limit or measure of; to outgo; to surpass; -- used both in a good and a bad sense; as, one man exceeds another in bulk, stature, weight, power, skill, etc.…	Middle English exceden, from Old French exceder, from Latin excedere.
exceedable	Obsolete	Capable of exceeding or surpassing.	
exceeder		One who exceeds.	
exceeding	Obsolete	More than usual; extraordinary; more than sufficient; measureless. ii. 7. -- Ex*ceed The voice exceeding loud." Keble.	
exceedingly		To a very great degree; beyond what is usual; surpassingly.	
excel		To go beyond or surpass in good qualities or laudable deeds; to outdo or outgo, in a good sense.	Latin excellere.
excellence		The quality of being excellent; state of possessing good qualities in an eminent degree; exalted merit; superiority in virtue.	Latin excellentia.
excellency		Excellence; virtue; dignity; worth; superiority.	
excellent		Excelling; surpassing others in some good quality or the sum of qualities; of great worth; eminent, in a good sense; superior; as, an excellent man, artist, citizen, husband, discourse, book, song, etc.; excellent breeding…	Latin excellens.
excellently		In an excellent manner; well in a high degree.	
excelsior		More lofty; still higher; ever upward.	Latin excelsior.
excentral		Out of the center.	
excentric		(Bot.) One-sided; having the normally central portion not in the true center.	
excentrical		(Bot.) One-sided; having the normally central portion not in the true center.	
excentricity		. (Math.) Same as Eccentricity.	
except		To take or leave out (anything) from a number or a whole as not belonging to it; to exclude; to omit.	Latin exceptus.
exceptant		Making exception.	
excepting		, but properly a participle.	
exception		The act of excepting or excluding; exclusion; restriction by taking out something which would otherwise be included, as in a class, statement, rule.	
exceptionable		Liable to exception or objection; objectionable. -- Ex*cep"tion*a*ble*ness, n.	
exceptional		Forming an exception; not ordinary; uncommon; rare; hence, better than the average; superior.	
exceptioner	Obsolete	One who takes exceptions or makes objections.	
exceptionless		Without exception.	
exceptious	Obsolete	Disposed or apt to take exceptions, or to object; captious.	
exceptive		That excepts; including an exception; as, an exceptive proposition.	
exceptless	Obsolete	Not exceptional; usual.	
exceptor		One who takes exceptions.	
excerebration		The act of removing or beating out the brains.	
excerebrose		Brainless.	
excern		To excrete; to throw off through the pores; as, fluids are excerned in perspiration.	
excernent		Connected with, or pertaining to, excretion.	
excerp	Obsolete	To pick out.	Latin excerpere.
excerpt		To select; to extract; to cite; to quote.	Latin excerptus.
excerption		That which is selected or gleaned; an extract.	Latin excerptio.
excerptive		That excerpts, selects, or chooses.	
excerptor		One who makes excerpts; a picker; a culler.	
excess		The state of surpassing or going beyond limits; the being of a measure beyond sufficiency, necessity, or duty; that which exceeds what is usual or prover; immoderateness; superfluity; superabundance; extravagance; as…	Middle English exces, from Latin excessus.
excessive		Characterized by, or exhibiting, excess; overmuch.	
exchange		The act of giving or taking one thing in return for another which is regarded as an equivalent; as, an exchange of cattle for grain.	Middle English eschaungen, from Anglo-Norman eschaungier.
exchangeability		The quality or state of being exchangeable.	
exchangeable		Capable of being exchanged; fit or proper to be exchanged.	
exchangeably		By way of exchange.	
exchanger		One who exchanges; one who practices exchange.	
excheat	Obsolete	See Escheat — (Law) (a) (Feud. & Eng. Law) The falling back or reversion of lands, by some casualty or accident, to the lord of the fee, in consequence of the extinction of the blood of the tenant…	
excheator	Obsolete	See Escheator — an officer whose duty it is to observe what escheats have taken place, and to take charge of them.	
exchequer		One of the superior courts of law; -- so called from a checkered cloth, which covers, or formerly covered, the table.	
excide		To cut off.	
excipient		(Med.) An inert or slightly active substance used in preparing remedies as a vehicle or medium of administration for the medicinal agents.	
exciple		The outer part of the fructification of most lichens.	
excipulum		The outer part of the fructification of most lichens.	
excisable		Liable or subject to excise; as, tobacco in an excisable commodity.	
excise		In inland duty or impost operating as an indirect tax on the consumer, levied upon certain specified articles, as, tobacco, ale, spirits, etc., grown or manufactured in the country.	Latin excisus.
exciseman		An officer who inspects and rates articles liable to excise duty.	
excision		The act of excising or cutting out or off; extirpation; destruction.	
excitability		The quality of being readily excited; proneness to be affected by exciting causes.	
excitable		Capable of being excited, or roused into action; susceptible of excitement; easily stirred up, or stimulated.	
excitant		Tending to excite; exciting.	
excitate	Obsolete	To excite.	
excitation		The act of exciting or putting in motion; the act of rousing up or awakening.	
excitative		Having power to excite; tending or serving to excite; excitatory.	
excitator		A kind of discarder.	
excitatory		Tending to excite; containing excitement; excitative.	
excite		To call to activity in any way; to rouse to feeling; to kindle to passionate emotion; to stir up to combined or general activity; as, to excite a person, the spirits, the passions; to excite a mutiny or insurrection…	Middle English exciten.
exciteful		Full of exciting qualities; as, an exciteful story; exciteful players.	
excitement		The act of exciting, or the state of being roused into action, or of having increased action; impulsion; agitation; as, an excitement of the people.	
exciter		One who, or that which, excites.	
exciting		Calling or rousing into action; producing excitement; as, exciting events; an exciting story. -- Ex*cit"ing*ly, adv.	
excitive		Serving or tending to excite; excitative.	
excito-motion		Motion excited by reflex nerves. See Excito-motory.	
excito-motor		Excitomotory; as, excito-motor power or causes.	
excito-motory		Exciting motion; -- said of that portion of the nervous system concerned in reflex action…	
excito-nutrient		Exciting nutrition; said of the reflex influence by which the nutritional processes are either excited or modified.	
excito-secretory		Exciting secretion; -- said of the influence exerted by reflex action on the function of secretion, by which the various glands are excited to action.	
exclaim	Archaic	To cry out from earnestness or passion; to utter with vehemence; to call out or declare loudly; to protest vehemently; to vociferate; to shout; as, to exclaim against oppression with wonder or astonishment; he exclaimed.	Middle French exclamer, from Latin exclamare.
exclaimer		One who exclaims.	
exclamation		A loud calling or crying out; outcry; loud or emphatic utterance; vehement vociferation; clamor; that which is cried out, as an expression of feeling; sudden expression of sound or words indicative of emotion, as in surprise…	
exclamative		Exclamatory.	
exclamatory		Containing, expressing, or using exclamation; as, an exclamatory phrase or speaker.	
exclave		A portion of a country which is separated from the main part and surrounded by politically alien territory.	
exclude		To shut out; to hinder from entrance or admission; to debar from participation or enjoyment; to deprive of; to except; -- the opposite to admit; as, to exclude a crowd from a room or house; to exclude the light…	Latin excludere.
exclusion		The act of excluding, or of shutting out, whether by thrusting out or by preventing admission; a debarring; rejection; prohibition; the state of being excluded.	Latin exclusionem.
exclusionary		Tending to exclude; causing exclusion; exclusive.	
exclusionism		The character, manner, or principles of an exclusionist.	
exclusionist		One who would exclude another from some right or privilege; esp., one of the anti-popish politicians of the time of Charles	
exclusive		Having the power of preventing entrance; debarring from participation or enjoyment; possessed and enjoyed to the exclusion of others; as, exclusive bars; exclusive privilege; exclusive circles of society.	Latin exclusivus.
exclusiveness		Quality of being exclusive.	
exclusivism		The act or practice of excluding being exclusive; exclusiveness.	
exclusivist		One who favor or practices any from of exclusiveness or exclusivism.	
exclusory		Able to exclude; excluding; serving to exclude.	
excoct	Obsolete	To boil out; to produce by boiling.	
excoction	Obsolete	The act of excocting or boiling out.	Latin excoctio.
excogitate		To think out; to find out or discover by thinking; to devise; to contrive.	Latin excōgitāre.
excogitation		The act of excogitating; a devising in the thoughts; invention; contrivance.	
excommune	Obsolete	To exclude from participation in; to excommunicate.	
excommunicable		Liable or deserving to be excommunicated; making excommunication possible or proper.	
excommunicant		One who has been excommunicated.	
excommunicate		Excommunicated; interdicted from the rites of the church. -- n.	Latin excommunicatus.
excommunication		The act of communicating or ejecting; esp., an ecclesiastical censure whereby the person against whom it is pronounced is, for the time, cast out of the communication of the church; exclusion from fellowship in things spiritual.	
excommunicator		One who excommunicates.	
excoriate		To strip or wear off the skin of; to abrade; to gall; to break and remove the cuticle of, in any manner, as by rubbing, beating, or by the action of acrid substances.	Latin excoriatus.
excoriation		The act of excoriating or flaying, or state of being excoriated, or stripped of the skin; abrasion.	
excorticate	Obsolete	To strip of bark or skin; to decorticate.	
excortication		The act of stripping off bark, or the state of being thus stripped; decortication.	
excreable	Obsolete	Capable of being discharged by spitting.	
excreate	Obsolete	To spit out; to discharge from the throat by hawking and spitting.	Latin excreare.
excreation	Obsolete	Act of spitting out.	Latin excreatio.
excrement	Obsolete	Matter excreted and ejected; that which is excreted or cast out of the animal body by any of the natural emunctories; especially, alvine, discharges; dung; ordure.	Latin excrementum.
excremental		Of or pertaining to excrement.	
excrementitial		Pertaining to, or consisting of, excrement; of the nature of excrement.	
excrementitious		Pertaining to, or consisting of, excrement; of the nature of excrement.	
excrementive		Serving to excrete; connected with excretion or excrement.	
excrementize		To void excrement.	
excrescence		An excrescent appendage, as, a wart or tumor; anything growing out unnaturally from anything else; a preternatural or morbid development; hence, a troublesome superfluity; an incumbrance; as, an excrescence on the body…	
excrescency	Obsolete	Excrescence.	
excrescent		Growing out in an abnormal or morbid manner or as a superfluity.	Latin excrēscēns.
excrescential		Pertaining to, or resembling, an excrescence.	
excreta		Matters to be excreted.	
excrete		To separate and throw off; to excrete urine.	Latin excretum.
excretin		A nonnitrogenous, crystalline body, present in small quantity in human fæces.	
excretion		That which is excreted; excrement.	
excretive		Having the power of excreting, or promoting excretion.	
excretory		Having the quality of excreting, or throwing off excrementitious matter.	
excruciable		Liable to torment.	Latin excruciabilis.
excruciate		Excruciated; tortured.	Latin excruciatus.
excruciation		The act of inflicting agonizing pain, or the state of being thus afflicted; that which excruciates; torture.	
excubation	Obsolete	A keeping watch.	Latin excubatio.
excubitorium		A gallery in a church, where persons watched all night.	
exculpate		To clear from alleged fault or guilt; to prove to be guiltless; to relieve of blame; to acquit.	
exculpation		The act of exculpating from alleged fault or crime; that which exculpates; excuse.	
excur	Obsolete	To run out or forth; to extend.	
excurrent		Running or flowing out; as: (Bot.) Running or extending out; as, an excurrent midrib, one which projects beyond the apex of a leaf; an excurrent steam or trunk, one which continues to the top.	
excurse		To journey or pass thought.	
excursion		A running or going out or forth; an expedition; a sally.	Latin excursio.
excursionist		One who goes on an excursion, or pleasure trip.	
excursive		Prone to make excursions; wandering; roving; exploring; as, an excursive fancy.	
excursus		A dissertation or digression appended to a work, and containing a more extended exposition of some important point or topic.	
excusable		That may be excused, forgiven, justified, or acquitted of blame; pardonable; as, the man is excusable; an excusable action. -- Ex*cus a*bly, adv.	
excusation	Obsolete	Excuse; apology.	French excusation, from Latin excusationem.
excusator	Obsolete	One who makes, or is authorized to make, an excuse; an apologist.	
excusatory		Making or containing excuse or apology; apologetical; as, an excusatory plea.	
excuse		To free from accusation, or the imputation of fault or blame; to clear from guilt; to release from a charge; to justify by extenuating a fault; to exculpate; to absolve; to acquit.	Middle English excusen, from Old French escuser, from Latin excuso.
excuseless		Having no excuse; not admitting of excuse or apology.	
excuser		One who offers excuses or pleads in extenuation of the fault of another.	
excuss		To shake off; to discard.	
excussion	Obsolete	The act of excusing; seizure by law.	Latin excussus.
exeat		A license for absence from a college or a religious house.	
execrable		Deserving to be execrated; accursed; damnable; detestable; abominable; as, an execrable wretch. -- Ex e*cra*bly, adv.	Latin exsecratus.
execrate		To denounce evil against, or to imprecate evil upon; to curse; to protest against as unholy or detestable; hence, to detest utterly; to abhor; to abominate.	Latin exsecrari.
execration		The act of cursing; a curse dictated by violent feelings of hatred; imprecation; utter detestation expressed.	Latin exsecratus.
execrative		Cursing; imprecatory; vilifying.	
execratory		Of the nature of execration; imprecatory; denunciatory.	
exect	Obsolete	To cut off or out. See Exsect.	
exection		See Exsection.	
executable		Capable of being executed; feasible; as, an executable project.	
executant		One who executes or performs; esp., a performer on a musical instrument.	
execute		To follow out or through to the end; to carry out into complete effect; to complete; to finish; to effect; to perform; Why delays His hand to execute what his decree Fixed on this day Milton.	Latin exsecutus.
executer		One who performs or carries into effect. See Executor.	
execution		The act of executing; a carrying into effect or to completion; performance; achievement; consummation; as, the execution of a plan, a work, etc. The excellence of the subject contributed much to the happiness of the execution.	Old French execution, from Latin executio.
executioner		One who executes; an executer.	
executive		Designed or fitted for execution, or carrying into effect; as, executive talent; qualifying for, concerned with, or pertaining to, the execution of the laws or the conduct of affairs; as, executive power or authority…	Middle French executif.
executively		In the way of executing or performing.	
executor		One who executes or performs; a doer; as, an executor of baseness.	
executorial		Of or pertaining to an executive.	Latin executorialis.
executorship		The office of an executor.	
executory		Pertaining to administration, or putting the laws in force; executive.	
executress		An executrix.	
executrix		A woman exercising the functions of an executor.	
exedent		Eating out; consuming.	
exedra		(Arch.) (a) The projection of any part of a building in a rounded form.	
exegesis		Exposition; explanation; especially, a critical explanation of a text or portion of Scripture.	Greek ἐξήγησις.
exegete		An exegetist.	Greek ἐξηγητής.
exegetic		Pertaining to exegesis; tending to unfold or illustrate; explanatory; expository.	
exegetical		Pertaining to exegesis; tending to unfold or illustrate; explanatory; expository.	
exegetics		The science of interpretation or exegesis.	
exegetist		One versed in the science of exegesis or interpretation; -- also called exegete.	
exemplar		A model, original, or pattern, to be copied or imitated; a specimen; sometimes; an ideal model or type, as that which an artist conceives.	French exemplaire.
exemplarily		In a manner fitted or designed to be an example for imitation or for warning; by way of example.	
exemplariness		The state or quality of being exemplary; fitness to be an example.	
exemplarity		Exemplariness.	
exemplary		Serving as a pattern; deserving to be proposed for imitation; commendable; as, an exemplary person; exemplary conduct. lives and doctrines ought to be exemplary.	
exemplifiable		That can be exemplified.	
exemplification		That which exemplifies; a case in point; example.	
exemplifier		One who exemplifies by following a pattern.	
exemplify		To copy; to transcribe; to make an attested copy or transcript of, under seal, as of a record.	
exempt		Free, or released, from some liability to which others are subject; excepted from the operation or burden of some law; released; free; clear; privileged; -- (with from): not subject to; not liable to; as…	Latin exemptus.
exemptible		That may be exempted.	
exemption		The act of exempting; the state of being exempt; freedom from any charge, burden, evil, etc., to which others are subject; immunity; privilege; as, exemption of certain articles from seizure; exemption from military service…	
exemptitious	Obsolete	Separable.	
exenterate		To take out the bowels or entrails of; to disembowel; to eviscerate; as, exenterated fishes.	
exenteration		Act of exenterating.	Latin exenterare.
exequatur		A written official recognition of a consul or commercial agent, issued by the government to which he is accredited, and authorizing him to exercise his powers in the place to which he is assigned.	Latin exequatur.
exequial		Of or pertaining to funerals; funereal.	Latin exequialis.
exequious	Obsolete	Funereal.	
exequy		A funeral rite (usually in the plural); the ceremonies of burial; obsequies; funeral procession.	
exercent	Obsolete	Practicing; professional.	
exercisable		That may be exercised, used, or exerted.	
exercise		The act of exercising; a setting in action or practicing; employment in the proper mode of activity; exertion; application; use; habitual activity; occupation, in general…	Latin exercitium.
exerciser		One who exercises.	
exercisible		Capable of being exercised, employed, or enforced; as, the authority of a magistrate is exercisible within his jurisdiction.	
exercitation		exercise; practice; use.	Latin exercitatio.
exergue		The small space beneath the base line of a subject engraved on a coin or medal.	
exert		To put force, ability, or anything of the nature of an active faculty; to put in vigorous action; to bring into active operation; as, to exert the strength of the body, limbs, faculties, or imagination…	Latin exsertus.
exertion		The act of exerting, or putting into motion or action; the active exercise of any power or faculty; an effort, esp. a laborious or perceptible effort; as, an exertion of strength or power; an exertion of the limbs or of the mind…	
exertive		Having power or a tendency to exert; using exertion.	
exertment		Exertion.	
exesion	Obsolete	The act of eating out or through.	Latin exedere.
exestuate	Obsolete	To be agitated; to boil up; to effervesce.	Latin exaestuatus.
exestuation	Obsolete	A boiling up; effervescence.	Latin exaestuatio.
exeunt		They go out, or retire from the scene; as, exeunt all except Hamlet. See 1st Exit.	Latin exeunt.
exfetation		Imperfect fetation in some organ exterior to the uterus; extra- uterine fetation.	
exfoliate		To separate and come off in scales or laminæ, as pieces of carious bone or of bark.	
exfoliation		The scaling off of a bone, a rock, or a mineral, etc.; the state of being exfoliated.	
exfoliative		Having the power of causing exfoliation. -- n.	
exhalable		Capable of being exhaled or evaporated.	
exhalant		Having the quality of exhaling or evaporating.	
exhalation		The act or process of exhaling, or sending forth in the form of steam or vapor; evaporation.	
exhale		To breathe out. Hence: To emit, as vapor; to send out, as an odor; to evaporate; as, the earth exhales vapor; marshes exhale noxious effluvia.	French exhaler, from Latin exhalare.
exhalement	Obsolete	Exhalation.	
exhalence		Exhalation.	
exhaust		To draw or let out wholly; to drain off completely; as, to exhaust the water of a well; the moisture of the earth is exhausted by evaporation.	Latin exhaustus.
exhauster		One who, or that which, exhausts or draws out.	
exhaustibility		Capability of being exhausted.	
exhaustible		Capable of being exhausted, drained off, or expended.	
exhausting		Producing exhaustion; as, exhausting labors. -- Ex*haust"ing, adv.	
exhaustion		The act of draining out or draining off; the act of emptying completely of the contents.	
exhaustive		Serving or tending to exhaust; exhibiting all the facts or arguments; as, an exhaustive method.	
exhaustless		Not be exhausted; inexhaustible; as, an exhaustless fund or store.	
exhaustment	Obsolete	Exhaustion; drain.	
exhausture		Exhaustion.	
exhedra		See Exedra — (Arch.) (a) The projection of any part of a building in a rounded form.	
exheredate		To disinherit.	
exheredation		A disinheriting; disherisor.	
exhereditation		A disinheriting; disherison.	Latin exhereditare.
exhibit		To hold forth or present to view; to produce publicly, for inspection; to show, especially in order to attract notice to what is interesting; to display; as, to exhibit commodities in a warehouse, a picture in a gallery.	Latin exhibitus.
exhibiter		One who exhibits; one who presents a petition, charge or bill.	
exhibition		The act of exhibiting for inspection, or of holding forth to view; manifestation; display.	Old French exhibicion, from Latin exhibitio.
exhibitioner		One who has a pension or allowance granted for support.	
exhibitive		Serving for exhibition; representative; exhibitory.	
exhibitor		One who exhibits.	
exhibitory		Exhibiting; publicly showing.	
exhilarant		Exciting joy, mirth, or pleasure. -- n.	
exhilarate		To make merry or jolly; to enliven; to animate; to gladden greatly; to cheer; as, good news exhilarates the mind; wine exhilarates a man.	Latin exhilarare.
exhilarating		That exhilarates; cheering; gladdening. -- Ex*hil"a*ra`ting*ly, adv.	
exhilaration		The act of enlivening the spirits; the act of making glad or cheerful; a gladdening.	
exhort	Obsolete	To incite by words or advice; to animate or urge by arguments, as to a good deed or laudable conduct; to address exhortation to; to urge strongly; hence, to advise, warn, or caution.	Latin exhortor.
exhortation		The act of practice of exhorting; the act of inciting to laudable deeds; incitement to that which is good or commendable.	Latin exhortationem.
exhortative		Serving to exhort; exhortatory; hortative.	Latin exhortativus.
exhortatory		Of or pertaining to exhortation; hortatory.	
exhorter		One who exhorts or incites.	
exhumated	Obsolete	Disinterred.	
exhumation		The act of exhuming that which has been buried; as, the exhumation of a body.	
exhume		To dig out of the ground; to take out of a place of burial; to disinter.	
exiccate	Obsolete	See Exsiccate — to exhaust or evaporate moisture from; to dry up.	
exiccation	Obsolete	See Exsiccation — the act of operation of drying; evaporation or expulsion of moisture; state of being dried up; dryness.	
exigence		Exigency.	
exigency		The state of being exigent; urgent or exacting want; pressing necessity or distress; need; a case demanding immediate action, supply, or remedy; as, an unforeseen exigency. -- Demand; urgency; distress; pressure; emergency…	
exigendary		See Exigenter — an officer in the Court of King's Bench and Common Pleas whose duty it was make out exigents.	
exigent		Exacting or requiring immediate aid or action; pressing; critical.	Latin exigens.
exigenter		An officer in the Court of King's Bench and Common Pleas whose duty it was make out exigents.	
exigible		That may be exacted; repairable.	
exiguity		Scantiness; smallness; thinness.	
exiguous		Scanty; small; slender; diminutive. -- Ex*ig"uous*ness, n.	Latin exiguus.
exile		Forced separation from one's native country; expulsion from one's home by the civil authority; banishment; sometimes, voluntary separation from one's native country.	Middle English exil.
exilement		Banishment.	
exilic		Pertaining to exile or banishment, esp. to that of the Jews in Babylon.	
exilition	Obsolete	A sudden springing or leaping out.	
exility		Smallness; meagerness; slenderness; fineness, thinness.	Latin exilitatem.
eximious	Obsolete	Select; choice; hence, extraordinary, excellent.	Latin eximius.
exinanite	Obsolete	To make empty; to render of no effect; to humble.	
exist		To be as a fact and not as a mode; to have an actual or real being, whether material or spiritual.	Latin existo.
existence		The state of existing or being; actual possession of being; continuance in being; as, the existence of body and of soul in union; the separate existence of the soul; immortal existence.	Old French existence, from Latin existentia.
existency		Existence.	
existent		Having being or existence; existing; being; occurring now; taking place.	Latin existens.
existential	Archaic	Having existence.	Old French existence, from Latin existentia.
exister		One who exists.	
existible		Capable of existence.	
existimation	Obsolete	Esteem; opinion; reputation.	
exit		He (or she ) goes out, or retires from view; as, exit Macbeth.	
exitial	Obsolete	Destructive; fatal.	
exitious	Obsolete	Destructive; fatal.	
exmoor		One of a breed of horned sheep of Devonshire, England, having white legs and face and black nostrils.	
exo		A prefix signifying out of, outside; as in exocarp, exogen, exoskeleton.	
exo-		A prefix signifying out of, outside; as in exocarp, exogen, exoskeleton.	Greek ἔξω.
exocardiac		Situated or arising outside of the heat; as, exocardial murmurs; -- opposed to endocardiac.	
exocardial		Situated or arising outside of the heat; as, exocardial murmurs; -- opposed to endocardiac.	
exocarp		The outer portion of a fruit, as the flesh of a peach or the rind of an orange.	
exoccipital		Pertaining to a bone or region on each side of the great foremen of the skull. -- n.	
exocetus		A genus of fishes, including the common flying fishes. See Flying fish.	
exocoetus		A genus of fishes, including the common flying fishes. See Flying fish.	
exoculate		To deprive of eyes.	
exode		(Gr. Drama) The final chorus; the catastrophe.	
exodic		Conducting influences from the spinal cord outward; -- said of the motor or efferent nerves.	
exodium		See Exode — (Gr. Drama) The final chorus; the catastrophe.	
exodus		A going out; particularly (the Exodus), the going out or journey of the Israelites from Egypt under the conduct of Moses; and hence, any large migration from a place.	
exody	Obsolete	Exodus; withdrawal.	
exogamous		Relating to exogamy; marrying outside of the limits of one's own tribe; -- opposed to endogenous.	
exogamy		The custom, or tribal law, which prohibits marriage between members of the same tribe; marriage outside of the tribe; -- opposed to endogamy.	
exogen		A plant belonging to one of the greater part of the vegetable kingdom, and which the plants are characterized by having c wood bark, and pith, the wood forming a layer between the other two, and increasing, if at all…	
exogenetic		Arising or growing from without; exogenous.	
exogenous		(Bot.) Pertaining to, or having the character of, an exogen; -- the opposite of endogenous.	
exogyra		A genus of Cretaceous fossil shells allied to oysters.	
exolete	Obsolete	Obsolete; out of use; state; insipid.	
exolution	Obsolete	See Exsolution — relaxation.	
exolve	Obsolete	To loose; to pay.	Latin exolvere.
exon		A native or inhabitant of Exeter, in England.	
exonerate		To relieve, in a moral sense, as of a charge, obligation, or load of blame resting on one; to clear of something that lies upon oppresses one, as an accusation or imputation; as, to exonerate one's self from blame…	
exoneration		The act of disburdening, discharging, or freeing morally from a charge or imputation; also, the state of being disburdened or freed from a charge.	
exonerative		Freeing from a burden or obligation; tending to exonerate.	
exonerator		One who exonerates or frees from obligation.	
exophthalmia		The protrusion of the eyeball so that the eyelids will not cover it, in consequence of disease.	
exophthalmic		Of or pertaining to, or characterized by, exophthalmia.	
exophthalmos		Same as Exophthalmia.	
exophthalmus		Same as Exophthalmia.	
exophthalmy		Exophthalmia.	
exophyllous		Not sheathed in another leaf.	
exoplasm		See Ectosarc, and Ectoplasm.	
exopodite		The external branch of the appendages of Crustacea.	
exoptable	Obsolete	Very desirable.	Latin exoptabilis.
exoptile		A name given by Lestiboudois to dicotyledons; -- so called because the plumule is naked.	
exorable		Capable of being moved by entreaty; pitiful; tender.	
exorate	Obsolete	To persuade, or to gain, by entreaty.	
exoration		Entreaty.	
exorbitance		A going out of or beyond the usual or due limit; hence, enormity; extravagance; gross deviation from rule, right, or propriety; as, the exorbitances of the tongue or of deportment; exorbitance of demands.	
exorbitancy		A going out of or beyond the usual or due limit; hence, enormity; extravagance; gross deviation from rule, right, or propriety; as, the exorbitances of the tongue or of deportment; exorbitance of demands.	
exorbitant		Departing from an orbit or usual track; hence, deviating from the usual or due course; going beyond the appointed rules or established limits of right or propriety; excessive; extravagant; enormous; inordinate; as…	
exorbitantly		In an exorbitant, excessive, or irregular manner; enormously.	
exorbitate	Obsolete	To go out of the track; to deviate.	Latin exorbitatus.
exorcise		To cast out, as a devil, evil spirits, etc., by conjuration or summoning by a holy name, or by certain ceremonies; to expel (a demon) or to conjure (a demon) to depart out of a person possessed by one.	Old French exorciser.
exorciser		An exorcist.	
exorcism		The act of exorcising; the driving out of evil spirits from persons or places by conjuration; also, the form of conjuration used.	
exorcist		One who expels evil spirits by conjuration or exorcism.	
exordial		Pertaining to the exordium of a discourse: introductory.	
exordium		A beginning; an introduction; especially, the introductory part of a discourse or written composition, which prepares the audience for the main subject; the opening part of an oration.	Latin exordium.
exorhiza		A plant Whose radicle is not inclosed or sheathed by the cotyledons or plumule.	
exorhizal		Having a radicle which is not inclosed by the cotyledons or plumule; of or relating to an exorhiza.	
exorhizous		Having a radicle which is not inclosed by the cotyledons or plumule; of or relating to an exorhiza.	
exornation	Obsolete	Ornament; decoration; embellishment.	Latin exornatio.
exortive		Rising; relating to the east.	
exosculate	Obsolete	To kiss; especially, to kiss repeatedly or fondly.	
exoskeletal		Pertaining to the exoskeleton; as exoskeletal muscles.	
exoskeleton		The hardened parts of the external integument of an animal, including hair, feathers, nails, horns, scales, etc.,as well as the armor of armadillos and many reptiles…	
exosmose		The passage of gases, vapors, or liquids thought membranes or porous media from within outward, in the phenomena of osmose; -- opposed to endosmose.	
exosmosis		See Exosmose — the passage of gases, vapors, or liquids thought membranes or porous media from within outward, in the phenomena of osmose; -- opposed to endosmose.	
exosmotic		Pertaining to exosmose.	
exospore		The extreme outer wall of a spore; the epispore.	
exossate	Obsolete	To deprive of bones; to take out the bones of; to bone.	
exossation	Obsolete	A depriving of bone or of fruit stones.	
exosseous		Boneless.	
exostome		The small aperture or foremen in the outer coat of the ovule of a plant.	
exostosis		(Med.) Any protuberance of a bone which is not natural; an excrescence or morbid enlargement of a bone.	
exoteric		External; public; suitable to be imparted to the public; hence, capable of being readily or fully comprehended; -- opposed to esoteric, or secret.	Latin exotericus, from Greek ἐξωτερικός.
exoterical		External; public; suitable to be imparted to the public; hence, capable of being readily or fully comprehended; -- opposed to esoteric, or secret.	
exoterics		The public lectures or published writings of Aristotle. See Esoterics.	
exotery		That which is obvious, public, or common.	
exotheca		The tissue which fills the interspaces between the costæ of many madreporarian corals, usually consisting of small transverse or oblique septa.	
exothecium		The outer coat of the anther.	
exothermic		Characterized by, or formed with, evolution of heat; as, an exothermic reaction; -- opposed to endothermic.	
exotic		Introduced from a foreign country; not native; extraneous; foreign; as, an exotic plant; an exotic term or word.	Latin exoticus, from Greek ἐξωτικός.
exotical		Foreign; not native; exotic. -- Ex*ot"ic*al*ness, n.	
exoticism		The state of being exotic; also, anything foreign, as a word or idiom; an exotic.	
expand		To lay open by extending; to open wide; to spread out; to diffuse; as, a flower expands its leaves.	
expander		Anything which causes expansion esp. (Mech.) a tool for stretching open or expanding a tube, etc.	
expanding		That expands, or may be expanded; extending; spreading; enlarging.	
expanse	Obsolete	That which is expanded or spread out; a wide extent of space or body; especially, the arch of the sky.	Latin expando.
expansibility		The capacity of being expanded; as, the expansibility of air.	
expansible		Capable of being expanded or spread out widely.	
expansile		Expansible.	
expansion		The act of expanding or spreading out; the condition of being expanded; dilation; enlargement.	
expansive		Having a capacity or tendency to expand or dilate; diffusive; of much expanse; wide-extending; as, the expansive force of heat; the expansive quality of air.	
expansure	Obsolete	Expanse.	
expatiate		To range at large, or without restraint.	
expatiation		Act of expatiating.	
expatiatory		Expansive; diffusive.	
expatriate		To banish; to drive or force (a person) from his own country; to make an exile of.	
expatriation		The act of banishing, or the state of banishment; especially, the forsaking of one's own country with a renunciation of allegiance.	
expect	Obsolete	To wait for; to await.	Latin expectare.
expectable		That may be expected or looked for.	
expectance		The act of expecting; expectation.	
expectancy		The act of expecting; expectation.	
expectant		Waiting in expectation; looking for; (Med.) waiting for the efforts of nature, with little active treatment.	
expectation		The act or state of expecting or looking forward to an event as about to happen.	Latin expectationem.
expectative		Constituting an object of expectation; contingent.	
expectedly		In conformity with expectation.	
expecter		One who expects.	
expectingly		In state of expectation.	
expective		Expectative.	
expectorant		Tending to facilitate expectoration or to promote discharges of mucus, etc., from the lungs or throat. -- n.	
expectorate		To eject from the trachea or lungs; to discharge, as phlegm or other matter, by coughing, hawking, and spitting; to spit forth.	Latin expectoratus.
expectoration		The act of ejecting phlegm or mucus from the throat or lungs, by coughing, hawking, and spitting.	
expectorative		Same as Expectorant.	
expede	Obsolete	To expedite; to hasten.	
expediate	Obsolete	To hasten; to expedite.	Latin expedio.
expedience		The quality of being expedient or advantageous; fitness or suitableness to effect a purpose intended; adaptedness to self- interest; desirableness; advantage; advisability; -- sometimes contradistinguished from moral rectitude.	
expediency		The quality of being expedient or advantageous; fitness or suitableness to effect a purpose intended; adaptedness to self- interest; desirableness; advantage; advisability; -- sometimes contradistinguished from moral rectitude.	
expedient		Hastening or forward; hence, tending to further or promote a proposed object; fit or proper under the circumstances; conducive to self-interest; desirable; advisable; advantageous; -- sometimes contradistinguished from right.	
expediently		In an expedient manner; fitly; suitably; conveniently.	
expediment	Obsolete	An expedient.	
expeditate		To deprive of the claws or the balls of the fore feet; as, to expeditate a dog that he may not chase deer.	Latin expeditatus.
expedite		Free of impediment; unimpeded.	Latin expeditus.
expeditely		In expedite manner; expeditiously.	
expediteness		Quality of being expedite.	
expedition		The quality of being expedite; efficient promptness; haste; dispatch; speed; quickness; as to carry the mail with expedition.	Latin expeditio.
expeditionary		Of or pertaining to an expedition; as, an expeditionary force.	
expeditionist		One who goes upon an expedition..	
expeditious		Possessed of, or characterized by, expedition, or efficiency and rapidity in action; performed with, or acting with, expedition; quick; having celerity; speedily; as, an expeditious march or messenger. -- Ex`pe*di tious*ness, n.	
expeditive	Obsolete	Performing with speed.	
expel		To drive or force out from that within which anything is contained, inclosed, or situated; to eject; as to expel air from a bellows.	
expellable		Capable of being expelled or driven out.	
expeller		One who. or that which, expels.	
expend		To lay out, apply, or employ in any way; to consume by use; to use up or distribute, either in payment or in donations; to spend; as, they expend money for food or in charity; to expend time labor, and thought…	
expenditor		A disburser; especially, one of the disbursers of taxes for the repair of sewers.	
expenditure		The act of expending; a laying out, as of money; disbursement. our expenditure purchased commerce and conquest.	
expense		A spending or consuming; disbursement; expenditure.	Latin expensa.
expensefull		Full of expense; costly; chargeable.	
expenseless		Without cost or expense.	
expensive		Occasioning expense; calling for liberal outlay; costly; dear; liberal; as, expensive dress; an expensive house or family.	Latin expensivus.
experience		The effect upon the judgment or feelings produced by any event, whether witnessed or participated in; personal and direct impressions as contrasted with description or fancies; personal acquaintance; actual enjoyment or suffering.	
experienced		Taught by practice or by repeated observations; skillful or wise by means of trials, use, or observation; as, an experienced physician, workman, soldier; an experienced eye.	
experiencer		One who experiences.	
experient	Obsolete	Experienced.	Latin experiri.
experiential		Derived from, or pertaining to, experience.	
experientialism		The doctrine that experience, either that ourselves or of others, is the test or criterion of general knowledge; -- opposed to intuitionists.	
experientialist		One who accepts the doctrine of experientialism.	
experiment		Atrial or special observation, made to confirm or disprove something doubtful; esp., one under conditions determined by the experimenter; an act or operation undertaken in order to discover some unknown principle or effect…	
experimental		Pertaining to experiment; founded on, or derived from, experiment or trial; as, experimental science; given to, or skilled in, experiment; as, an experimental philosopher.	
experimentalist		One who makes experiments; an experimenter.	
experimentalize		To make experiments (upon); to experiment.	
experimentally		By experiment; by experience or trial.	
experimentarian	Obsolete	Relying on experiment or experience. -- n.	
experimentation		The act of experimenting; practice by experiment.	
experimentative		Experimental; of the nature of experiment.	
experimentator		An experimenter.	
experimenter		One who makes experiments; one skilled in experiments.	
experimentist		An experimenter.	
experrection	Obsolete	A waking up or arousing.	
expert		Taught by use, practice, or experience, experienced; having facility of operation or performance from practice; knowing and ready from much practice; clever; skillful; as, an expert surgeon; expert in chess or archery.	Latin expertus.
expertly		In a skillful or dexterous manner; adroitly; with readiness and accuracy.	
expertness		Skill derived from practice; readiness; as, expertness in seamanship, or in reasoning.	
expetible	Obsolete	Worthy of being wished for; desirable.	
expiable		Capable of being expiated or atoned for; as, an expiable offense; expiable guilt.	
expiate		To extinguish the guilt of by sufferance of penalty or some equivalent; to make complete satisfaction for; to atone for; to make amends for; to make expiation for; as, to expiate a crime, a guilt, or sin.	Latin expiatum.
expiation		The act of making satisfaction or atonement for any crime or fault; the extinguishing of guilt by suffering or penalty.	
expiatist		An expiator.	
expiator		One who makes expiation or atonement.	
expiatorious		Of an expiatory nature; expiatory.	
expiatory		Having power, or intended, to make expiation; atoning; as, an expiatory sacrifice.	
expilation	Obsolete	The act of expilating or stripping off; plunder; pillage.	
expilator	Obsolete	One who pillages; a plunderer; a pillager.	Latin expilator.
expirable		That may expire; capable of being brought to an end.	
expirant		One who expires or is expiring.	
expiration		The act of expiring; as: (a)(Physiol.) The act or process of breathing out, or forcing air from the lungs through the nose or mouth; as, respiration consists of inspiration and expiration; -- opposed to Ant: inspiration.	
expiratory		Pertaining to, or employed in, the expiration or emission of air from the lungs; as, the expiratory muscles.	
expire		To breathe out; to emit from the lungs; to throw out from the mouth or nostrils in the process of respiration; -- opposed to inspire.	
expiring		Breathing out air from the lungs; emitting fluid or volatile matter; exhaling; breathing the last breath; dying; ending; terminating.	
expiry		Expiration.	
expiscate		To fish out; to find out by skill or laborious investigation; to search out.	
expiscation		The act of expiscating; a fishing.	
expiscatory		Tending to fish out; searching out Carlyle.	
explain		To make plain, manifest, or intelligible; to clear of obscurity; to expound; to unfold and illustrate the meaning of; as, to explain a chapter of the Bible.	Middle English explanen, from Old French explaner, from Latin explanō.
explainable		Capable of being explained or made plain to the understanding; capable of being interpreted.	
explainer		One who explains; an expounder or expositor; a commentator; an interpreter.	
explanate		Spreading or extending outwardly in a flat form.	
explanation		The act of explaining, expounding, or interpreting; the act of clearing from obscurity and making intelligible; as, the explanation of a passage in Scripture, or of a contract or treaty.	Latin explanatio.
explanative		Explanatory.	
explanatoriness		The quality of being explanatory.	
explanatory		Serving to explain; containing explanation; as explanatory notes.	
explat	Obsolete	To explain; to unfold.	
explate	Obsolete	To explain; to unfold.	
expletion	Obsolete	Accomplishment; fulfillment.	
expletive		Filling up; hence, added merely for the purpose of filling up; superfluous.	Latin expletivus.
expletively		In the manner of an expletive.	
expletory		Serving to fill up; expletive; superfluous; as, an expletory word.	
explicable		Capable of being explicated; that may be explained or accounted for; admitting explanation.	
explicableness		Quality of being explicable.	
explicate		Evolved; unfolded.	Latin explicare.
explication		The act of opening, unfolding, or explaining; explanation; exposition; interpretation.	
explicative		Serving to unfold or explain; tending to lay open to the understanding; explanatory.	Latin explico.
explicator		One who unfolds or explains; an expounder; an explainer.	
explicatory		Explicative.	Latin explico.
explicit		A word formerly used (as finis is now) at the conclusion of a book to indicate the end.	
explicitly		In an explicit manner; clearly; plainly; without disguise or reservation of meaning; not by inference or implication; as, he explicitly avows his intention.	
explicitness		The quality of being explicit; clearness; directness.	
explode		To become suddenly expanded into a great volume of gas or vapor; to burst violently into flame; as gunpowder explodes.	
explodent		An instrument or agent causing explosion; an exploder; also, an explosive.	
exploder		One who or that which explodes.	
exploit		A deed or act; especially, a heroic act; a deed of renown; an adventurous or noble achievement; as, the exploits of Alexander the Great.	
exploitation		The act of exploiting or utilizing.	French exploitation.
exploiture	Obsolete	The act of exploiting or accomplishing; achievement.	
explorable		That may be explored; as, an explorable region.	
explorate	Obsolete	To explore.	
exploration		The act of exploring, penetrating, or ranging over for purposes of discovery, especially of geographical discovery; examination; as, the exploration of unknown countries; (Med.) physical examination.	
explorative		Exploratory.	
explorator		One who explores; one who examines closely; a searcher.	
exploratory		Serving or intended to explore; searching; examining; explorative.	
explore		To search through or into; to penetrate or range over for discovery; to examine thoroughly; as, to explore new countries or seas; to explore the depths of science.	
explorement		The act of exploring; exploration.	
explorer		One who explores; also, an apparatus with which one explores, as a diving bell.	
exploring		Employed in, or designed for, exploration.	
explosion		The act of exploding; detonation; a chemical action which causes the sudden formation of a great volume of expanded gas; as, the explosion of gunpowder, of fire damp,etc.	Latin explosionis.
explosive		Driving or bursting out with violence and noise; causing explosion; as, the explosive force of gunpowder.	
explosively		In an explosive manner.	
expoliation	Obsolete	See Exspoliation — spoliation.	
expolish	Obsolete	To polish thoroughly.	
expone		To expound; to explain; also, to expose; to imperil.	
exponent		(Alg.) A number, letter, or any quantity written on the right hand of and above another quantity, and denoting how many times the latter is repeated as a factor to produce the power indicated;	
exponential		Pertaining to exponents; involving variable exponents; as, an exponential expression; exponential calculus; an exponential function.	
export		To carry or send abroad, or out of a country, especially to foreign countries, as merchandise or commodities in the way of commerce; -- the opposite of import; as, to export grain, cotton, cattle, goods, etc.	Latin exportare.
exportability		The quality or state of being suitable for exportation.	
exportable		Suitable for exportation; as, exportable products.	
exportation		The act of exporting; the act of conveying or sending commodities abroad or to another country, in the course of commerce.	
exporter		One who exports; the person who sends goods or commodities to a foreign country, in the way of commerce; -- opposed to importer.	
exposal		Exposure.	
expose		To set forth; to set out to public view; to exhibit; to show; to display; as, to expose goods for sale; to expose pictures to public inspection.	Middle French exposer, from Latin expono.
exposedness		The state of being exposed, laid open, or unprotected; as, an exposedness to sin or temptation.	
exposer		One who exposes or discloses.	
exposition		The act of exposing or laying open; a setting out or displaying to public view.	
expositive		Serving to explain; expository.	
expositor		One who, or that which, expounds or explains; an expounder; a commentator.	
expository		Pertaining to, or containing, exposition; serving to explain; explanatory; illustrative; exegetical.	
expostfacto		From or by an after act, or thing done afterward; in consequence of a subsequent act; retrospective.	
expostulate	Obsolete	To reason earnestly with a person on some impropriety of his conduct, representing the wrong he has done or intends, and urging him to make redress or to desist; to remonstrate; -- followed by with.	
expostulation		The act of expostulating or reasoning with a person in opposition to some impropriety of conduct; remonstrance; earnest and kindly protest; dissuasion.	Latin expostulationem.
expostulator		One who expostulates.	
expostulatory		Containing expostulation or remonstrance; as, an expostulatory discourse or letter.	
exposture	Obsolete	Exposure.	
exposure		The act of exposing or laying open, setting forth, laying bare of protection, depriving of care or concealment, or setting out to reprobation or contempt.	
expound		To lay open the meaning of; to explain; to clear of obscurity; to interpret; as, to expound a text of Scripture, a law, a word, a meaning, or a riddle.	
expounder		One who expounds or explains; an interpreter.	
express		Exactly representing; exact.	Latin expressare.
expressage		The charge for carrying a parcel by express.	
expressible		Capable of being expressed, squeezed out, shown, represented, or uttered. -- Express"i*bly,adv.	
expression		The act of expressing; the act of forcing out by pressure; as, the expression of juices or oils; also, of extorting or eliciting; as, a forcible expression of truth.	
expressional		Of, or relating to, expression; phraseological; also, vividly representing or suggesting an idea sentiment.	
expressionless		Destitute of expression.	
expressive		Serving to express, utter, or represent; indicative; communicative; -- followed by of; as, words expressive of his gratitude.	
expressly		In an express manner; in direct terms; with distinct purpose; particularly; as, a book written expressly for the young.	
expressman		A person employed in the express business; also, the driver of a job wagon.	
expressness	Obsolete	The state or quality of being express; definiteness.	
expressure	Obsolete	The act of expressing; expression; utterance; representation.	
exprobrate		To charge upon with reproach; to upbraid.	
exprobration	Obsolete	Reproachful accusation; upbraiding.	
exprobrative		Expressing reproach; upbraiding; reproachful.	
exprobratory		Expressing reproach; upbraiding; reproachful.	
expropriate		To put out of one's possession; to surrender the ownership of; also, to deprive of possession or proprietary rights.	
expropriation		The act of expropriating; the surrender of a claim to exclusive property; the act of depriving of ownership or proprietary rights.	
expugn		To take by assault; to storm; to overcome; to vanquish; as, to expugn cities; to expugn a person by arguments.	French expugner, from Latin expugnare.
expugnable		Capable of being expugnded.	Latin expugnabilis.
expugnation		The act of taking by assault; conquest.	Latin expugnatio.
expugner		One who expugns.	
expulse	Obsolete	To drive out; to expel.	
expulser	Obsolete	An expeller.	
expulsion		The act of expelling; a driving or forcing out; summary removal from membership, association, etc. The expulsion of the Tarquins.	
expulsive		Having the power of driving out or away; serving to expel.	
expunction		The act of expunging or erasing; the condition of being expunged.	
expunge		To blot out, as with pen; to rub out; to efface designedly; to obliterate; to strike out wholly; as, to expunge words, lines, or sentences.	Latin expungere.
expurgate		To purify; to clear from anything noxious, offensive, or erroneous; to cleanse; to purge; as, to expurgate a book.	Latin expurgatus.
expurgation		The act of expurgating, purging, or cleansing; purification from anything noxious, offensive, sinful, or erroneous.	
expurgator		One who expurgates or purifies.	
expurgatorial		Tending or serving to expurgate; expurgatory.	
expurgatorious	Obsolete	Expurgatory.	
expurgatory		Serving to purify from anything noxious or erroneous; cleansing; purifying.	
expurge	Obsolete	To purge away.	
exquire	Obsolete	To search into or out.	
exquisite		Carefully selected or sought out; hence, of distinguishing and surpassing quality; exceedingly nice; delightfully excellent; giving rare satisfaction; as, exquisite workmanship.	Latin exquisitus.
exquisitely		In an exquisite manner or degree; as, lace exquisitely wrought.	
exquisiteness		Quality of being exquisite.	
exquisitive	Obsolete	Eager to discover or learn; curious.	
exsanguine		Bloodless.	
exsanguineous		Destitute of blood; anæmic; exsanguious.	
exsanguinity		Privation or destitution of blood; -- opposed to plethora.	
exsanguinous		See Exsanguious — (Zoöl.) Destitute of true, or red, blood, as insects.	
exsanguious		(Zoöl.) Destitute of true, or red, blood, as insects.	
exscind		To cut off; to separate or expel from union; to extirpate.	Latin exscindo.
exscribe	Obsolete	To copy; to transcribe.	
exscript	Obsolete	A copy; a transcript.	Latin exscriptus.
exscriptural		Not in accordance with the doctrines of Scripture; unscriptural.	
exscutellate		Without, or apparently without, a scutellum; -- said of certain insects.	
exsect		A cutting out or away.	
exsert		Standing out; projecting beyond some other part; as, exsert stamens.	
exserted		Standing out; projecting beyond some other part; as, exsert stamens.	
exsertile		Capable of being thrust out or protruded.	
exsiccant		Having the quality of drying up; causing a drying up. -- n. (Med.) An exsiccant medicine.	
exsiccate		To exhaust or evaporate moisture from; to dry up.	
exsiccation		The act of operation of drying; evaporation or expulsion of moisture; state of being dried up; dryness.	
exsiccative		Tending to make dry; having the power of drying.	
exsiccator		An apparatus for drying substances or preserving them from moisture; a desiccator; also, less frequently, an agent employed to absorb moisture, as calcium chloride, or concentrated sulphuric acid.	
exsiliency		A leaping out.	
exsolution		Relaxation.	
exspoliation	Obsolete	Spoliation.	Latin exspoliatio.
exspuition		A discharge of saliva by spitting.	
exsputory		Spit out, or as if spit out.	
exstipulate		Having no stipules.	
exstrophy		The eversion or turning out of any organ, or of its inner surface; as, exstrophy of the eyelid or of the bladder.	
exsuccous		Destitute of juice; dry; sapless.	Latin exsuccus.
exsuction		The act of sucking out.	Latin exsugere.
exsudation		Exudation.	
exsufflate		To exorcise or renounce by blowing.	
exsufflation		(Eccles.) A kind of exorcism by blowing with the breath.	
exsufflicate		Empty; frivolous.	
exsuscitate	Obsolete	To rouse; to excite.	
exsuscitation	Obsolete	A stirring up; a rousing.	Latin exsuscitatio.
extacy	Obsolete	See Ecstasy — the state of being beside one's self or rapt out of one's self; a state in which the mind is elevated above the reach of ordinary impressions…	
extance	Obsolete	Outward existence.	
extancy		The state of rising above others; a projection.	Latin extantia.
extant		Standing out or above any surface; protruded.	
extasy		See Ecstasy, n. & v. t.	
extatic		See Ecstatic, a.	
extemporal	Obsolete	Extemporaneous; unpremeditated.	Latin extemporalis.
extemporanean	Obsolete	Extemporaneous.	
extemporaneous		Composed, performed, or uttered on the spur of the moment, or without previous study; unpremeditated; off-hand; extempore; extemporary; as, an extemporaneous address or production. -- Ex*tem`po*ra ne*ous*ness,n.	Latin extemporaneus.
extemporarily		Extemporaneously.	
extemporary	Obsolete	Made for the occasion; for the time being.	
extempore	Obsolete	Without previous study or meditation; without preparation; on the spur of the moment; suddenly; extemporaneously; as, to write or speak extempore.	
extemporiness	Obsolete	The quality of being done or devised extempore Johnson.	
extemporization		The act of extemporizing; the act of doing anything extempore.	
extemporize		To speak extempore; especially, to discourse without special preparation; to make an offhand address.	
extemporizer		One who extemporizes.	
extend		To stretch out; to prolong in space; to carry forward or continue in length; as, to extend a line in surveying; to extend a cord across the street.	Latin extendo.
extendant		Displaced.	
extendedly		In an extended manner.	
extender		One who, or that which, extends or stretches anything.	
extendible		Capable of being extended, susceptible of being stretched, extended, enlarged, widened, or expanded.	
extendlessness	Obsolete	Unlimited extension.	
extense		Outreaching; expansive; extended, superficially or otherwise.	Latin extensus.
extensibility		The quality of being extensible; the capacity of being extended; as, the extensibility of a fiber, or of a plate of metal.	
extensible		Capable of being extended, whether in length or breadth; susceptible of enlargement; extensible; extendible; -- the opposite of contractible or compressible.	
extensibleness		Extensibility.	
extensile		Suited for, or capable of, extension; extensible.	
extension		The act of extending or the state of being extended; a stretching out; enlargement in breadth or continuation of length; increase; augmentation; expansion.	
extensional		Having great extent.	
extensionist		One who favors or advocates extension.	
extensive		Having wide extent; of much superficial extent; expanded; large; broad; wide; comprehensive; as, an extensive farm; an extensive lake; an extensive sphere of operations; extensive benevolence; extensive greatness.	
extensively		To a great extent; widely; largely; as, a story is extensively circulated.	
extensiveness		The state of being extensive; wideness; largeness; extent; diffusiveness.	
extensometer		An instrument for measuring the extension of a body, especially for measuring the elongation of bars of iron, steel, or other material, when subjected to a tensile force.	
extensor		A muscle which serves to extend or straighten any part of the body, as an arm or a finger; -- opposed to flexor.	
extensure		Extension.	
extent		Space or degree to which a thing is extended; hence, superficies; compass; bulk; size; length; as, an extent of country or of line; extent of information or of charity.	Anglo-Norman extente, from Old French estente.
extenuate		To make thin or slender; to draw out so as to lessen the thickness.	Latin extenuatus.
extenuation		The act of axtenuating or the state of being extenuated; the act of making thin, slender, or lean, or of palliating; diminishing, or lessening; palliation, as of a crime; mitigation, as of punishment.	
extenuator		One who extenuates.	
extenuatory		Tending to extenuate or palliate.	
exterior		External; outward; pertaining to that which is external; -- opposed to interior; as, the exterior part of a sphere.	
exteriority		Surface; superficies; externality.	
exteriorly		Outwardly; externally; on the exterior.	
exterminate		To drive out or away; to expel.	Latin exterminatus.
extermination		The act of exterminating; total destruction; eradication; excision; as, the extermination of inhabitants or tribes, of error or vice, or of weeds from a field.	
exterminator		One who, or that which, exterminates.	
exterminatory		Of or pertaining to extermination; tending to exterminate.	
extermine	Obsolete	To exterminate; to destroy.	French exterminer.
extern		A pupil in a seminary who lives without its walls; a day scholar.	Latin externus.
external		Outward; exterior; relating to the outside, as of a body; being without; acting from without; -- opposed to internal; as, the external form or surface of a body.	Latin externus.
externalism		The quality of being manifest to the senses; external acts or appearances; regard for externals.	
externalistic		Pertaining to externalism North Am.	
externality		State of being external; exteriority; (Metaph.) separation from the perceiving mind.	
externalize		To make external; to manifest by outward form.	
externally		In an external manner; outwardly; on the outside; in appearance; visibly.	
externe		An officer in attendance upon a hospital, but not residing in it; esp., one who cares for the out-patients.	
exterraneous		Foreign; belonging to, or coming from, abroad.	
exterritorial		Beyond the territorial limits; foreign to, or exempt from, the territorial jurisdiction. -- Ex*ter`ri*to"ri*al*ly(#),adv.	
exterritoriality		The state of being beyond the limits of a country.	
extersion	Obsolete	The act of wiping or rubbing out.	Latin extergere.
extill	Obsolete	To drop or distill.	Latin extillare.
extillation	Obsolete	Distillation.	
extimulate	Obsolete	To stimulate.	Latin extimulatus.
extimulation	Obsolete	Stimulation.	
extinct		Extinguished; put out; quenched; as, a fire, a light, or a lamp, is extinct; an extinct volcano.	
extinction		The act of extinguishing or making extinct; a putting an end to; the act of putting out or destroying light, fire, life, activity, influence, etc.	French extinction, from Latin extinctio.
extine		The outer membrane of the grains of pollen of flowering plants.	
extinguish		To quench; to put out, as a light or fire; to stifle; to cause to die out; to put an end to; to destroy; as, to extinguish a flame, or life, or love, or hope, a pretense or a right.	Latin extinguo.
extinguishable		Capable of being quenched, destroyed, or suppressed.	
extinguisher		One who, or that which, extinguishes; esp., a hollow cone or other device for extinguishing a flame, as of a torch or candle.	
extinguishment		The act of extinguishing, putting out, or quenching, or the state of being extinguished; extinction; suppression; destruction; nullification; as, the extinguishment of fire or flame, of discord, enmity, or jealousy…	
extirp	Obsolete	To extirpate.	
extirpable		Capable of being extirpated or eradicated; as, an extirpable plant.	
extirpate		To pluck up by the stem or root; to root out; to eradicate, literally or figuratively; to destroy wholly; as, to extirpate weeds; to extirpate a tumor; to extirpate a sect; to extirpate error or heresy.	Latin exstirpo.
extirpation		The act of extirpating or rooting out, or the state of being extirpated; eradication; excision; total destruction; as, the extirpation of weeds from land, of evil from the heart, of a race of men, of heresy.	
extirpative		Capable of rooting out, or tending to root out.	
extirpator		One who extirpates or roots out; a destroyer.	
extirpatory		Extirpative.	
extirper	Obsolete	Extirpator.	
extispicious	Obsolete	Relating to the inspection of entrails for prognostication.	
extogenous		Exogenous.	
extol		To elevate by praise; to eulogize; to praise; to magnify; as, to extol virtue; to extol an act or a person.	
extoller		One who extols; one who praises.	
extorsive		Serving or tending to extort.	
extort		To wrest from an unwilling person by physical force, menace, duress, torture, or any undue or illegal exercise of power or ingenuity; to wrench away (from); to tear away; to wring (from); to exact; as…	Latin extortus.
extorter		One who practices extortion.	
extortion		The act of extorting; the act or practice of wresting anything from a person by force, by threats, or by any undue exercise of power; undue exaction; overcharge.	
extortionary		Extortionate.	
extortionate		Characterized by extortion; oppressive; hard.	
extortioner		, One who practices extortion.	
extortious	Obsolete	Extortionate.	
extra	Colloquial	Beyond what is due, usual, expected, or necessary; additional; supernumerary; also, extraordinarily good; superior; as, extra work; extra pay.	
extra-		A Latin preposition, denoting beyond, outside of; -- often used in composition as a prefix signifying outside of, beyond, besides, or in addition to what is denoted by the word to which it is prefixed.	Latin extra.
extra-ocular		Inserted exterior to the eyes; -- said of the antennæ of certain insects.	
extra-official		Not prescribed by official duty.	
extra-uterine		Outside of the uterus, or womb.	
extraarticular		Situated outside of a joint.	
extraaxillar		Growing outside of the axils; as, an extra-axillary bud.	
extraaxillary		Growing outside of the axils; as, an extra-axillary bud.	
extrabranchial		Outside of the branchial arches; -- said of the cartilages thus placed in some fishes.	
extracapsular		Situated outside of a capsule, esp. outside the capsular ligament of a joint.	
extract		To draw out or forth; to pull out; to remove forcibly from a fixed position, as by traction or suction, etc.; as, to extract a tooth from its socket, a stump from the earth, a splinter from the finger.	Latin extractum.
extractable		Capable of being extracted.	
extractible		Capable of being extracted.	
extractiform		Having the form, appearance, or nature, of an extract.	
extraction		The act of extracting, or drawing out; as, the extraction of a tooth, of a bone or an arrow from the body, of a stump from earth, of a passage from a book, of an essence or tincture.	
extractive		Capable of being extracted.	
extractor		One who, or that which, extracts; as: (a) (Surg.) A forceps or instrument for extracting substances.	
extradictionary	Obsolete	Consisting not in words, but in realities.	
extraditable		Subject, or liable, to extradition, as a fugitive from justice.	
extradite		To deliver up by one government to another, as a fugitive from justice.	
extradition		The surrender or delivery of an alleged criminal by one State or sovereignty to another having jurisdiction to try charge.	
extrados		The exterior curve of an arch; esp., the upper curved face of the whole body of voussoirs.	
extradotal		Forming no part of the dowry; as, extradotal property.	
extrafoliaceous		Away from the leaves, or inserted in a different place from them; as, extrafoliaceous prickles.	
extraforaneous		Pertaining to that which is out of doors.	
extrageneous		Belonging to another race or kind.	
extrajudicial		Out of or beyond the proper authority of a court or judge; beyond jurisdiction; not legally required. -- Ex`tra*ju*di"cial*ly, adv.	
extralimitary		Being beyond the limit or bounds; as, extraliminary land.	
extralogical		Lying outside of the domain of logic. -- Ex`tra*log"ic*al*ly, adv.	
extramission	Obsolete	A sending out; emission.	
extramundane		Beyond the material world.	
extramural		Outside of the walls, as of a fortified or walled city.	
extraneity	Obsolete	State of being without or beyond a thing; foreignness.	
extraneous		Not belonging to, or dependent upon, a thing; without or beyond a thing; not essential or intrinsic; foreign; as, to separate gold from extraneous matter.	Latin extraneus.
extraordinarily		In an extraordinary manner or degree.	
extraordinariness		The quality of being extraordinary.	
extraordinary		Beyond or out of the common order or method; not usual, customary, regular, or ordinary; as, extraordinary evils; extraordinary remedies.	Latin extraordinarius.
extraparochial		Beyond the limits of a parish. -- Ex`tra*pa*ro"chi*al*ly, adv.	
extraphysical		Not subject to physical laws or methods.	
extraprofessional		Foreign to a profession; not within the ordinary limits of professional duty or business.	
extraprovincial		Not within of pertaining to the same province or jurisdiction.	
extraregular		Not comprehended within a rule or rules.	
extrastapedial		Pertaining to a part of the columella of the ear, which, in many animals, projects beyond the connection with the stapes. -- n.	
extraterritorial		Beyond the limits of a territory or particular jurisdiction; exterritorial. -- Ex`tra*ter`ri*to"ri*al*ly(#), adv.	
extraterritoriality		The state of being beyond the limits of a particular territory; esp. (Internat.	
extratropical		Beyond or outside of the tropics.	
extraught	Obsolete	Extracted; descended.	
extravagance		A wandering beyond proper limits; an excursion or sally from the usual way, course, or limit.	
extravagancy		Extravagance.	
extravagant		Exceeding due bounds; wild; excessive; unrestrained; as, extravagant acts, wishes, praise, abuse.	
extravagantly		In an extravagant manner; wildly; excessively; profusely.	
extravagantness		The state of being extravagant or in excess; excess; extravagance.	
extravaganza		A composition, as in music, or in the drama, designed to produce effect by its wild irregularity; esp., a musical caricature.	
extravagate		To rove.	
extravagation	Obsolete	A wandering beyond limits; excess.	
extravasate		To force or let out of the proper vessels or arteries, as blood.	
extravasation		The act of forcing or letting out of its proper vessels or ducts, as a fluid; effusion; as, an extravasation of blood after a rupture of the vessels.	
extravascular		(a) Outside the vessels; -- said of the substance of all the tissues. (b) Destitute of vessels; non-vascular.	
extravenate	Obsolete	Let out of the veins.	
extraversion	Obsolete	The act of throwing out; the state of being turned or thrown out.	
extreat	Obsolete	Extraction.	
extreme		At the utmost point, edge, or border; outermost; utmost; farthest; most remote; at the widest limit.	Latin extremus.
extremeless		Having no extremes; infinite.	
extremely		In an extreme manner or state; in the utmost degree; to the utmost point; exceedingly; as, extremely hot or cold.	
extremist		A supporter of extreme doctrines or practice; one who holds extreme opinions.	
extremity		The extreme part; the utmost limit; the farthest or remotest point or part; as, the extremities of a country.	Middle English extremite, from Old French extremite, from Latin extremitas.
extricable		Capable of being extricated.	
extricate		To free, as from difficulties or perplexities; to disentangle; to disembarrass; as, to extricate a person from debt, peril, etc. We had now extricated ourselves from the various labyrinths and defiles.	Latin extricatus.
extrication		The act or process of extricating or disentangling; a freeing from perplexities; disentanglement.	
extrinsic		Not contained in or belonging to a body; external; outward; unessential; -- opposed to intrinsic.	Latin extrinsecus.
extrinsical		Extrinsic. -- Ex*trin"sic*al*ly(#), adv.	
extrinsicality		The state or quality of being extrinsic.	
extrinsicalness		The state or quality of being extrinsic.	
extroitive		Seeking or going out after external objects.	
extrorsal		Extrorse.	
extrorse		Facing outwards, or away from the axis of growth; -- said esp. of anthers occupying the outer side of the filament.	
extroversion		The condition of being turned wrong side out; as, extroversion of the bladder.	
extruct	Obsolete	To construct.	Latin extructus.
extruction	Obsolete	A building up; construction.	Latin exstructio.
extructive	Obsolete	Constructive.	
extructor	Obsolete	A builder.	
extrude		To thrust out; to force, press, or push out; to expel; to drive off or away.	
extrusion		The act of thrusting or pushing out; a driving out; expulsion.	
extrusive		Forced out at the surface; as, extrusive rocks; -- contrasted with intrusive.	
extuberance		A swelling or rising; protuberance.	
extuberancy		Extuberance.	
extuberant		Swollen out; protuberant.	Latin extuberare.
extuberate	Obsolete	To swell out.	Latin extuberatus.
extuberation	Obsolete	Protuberance.	Latin extuberatio.
extumescence		A swelling or rising.	
exuberance		The state of being exuberant; an overflowing quantity; a copious or excessive production or supply; superabundance; richness; as, an exuberance of joy, of fancy, or of foliage.	
exuberant		Characterized by abundance or superabundance; plenteous; rich; overflowing; copious or excessive in production; as, exuberant goodness; an exuberant intellect; exuberant foliage. -- Ex*u"ber*ant*ly, adv.	Latin exuberans.
exuberate	Obsolete	To abound; to be in great abundance.	
exuccous	Obsolete	See Exsuccous — destitute of juice; dry; sapless.	
exudate	Obsolete	To exude.	
exudation		The act of exuding; sweating; a discharge of humors, moisture, juice, or gum, as through pores or incisions; also, the substance exuded.	
exude		To discharge through pores or incisions, as moisture or other liquid matter; to give out.	
exulcerate	Obsolete	To ulcerate.	
exulceration		A fretting; a festering; soreness.	
exulcerative		Tending to cause ulcers; exulceratory.	
exulceratory		Having a tendency to form ulcers; rendering ulcerous.	
exult		To be in high spirits; figuratively, to leap for joy; to rejoice in triumph or exceedingly; to triumph; as, an exulting heart.	Latin exsultare.
exultance	Obsolete	Exultation.	
exultancy	Obsolete	Exultation.	
exultant		Inclined to exult; characterized by, or expressing, exultation; rejoicing triumphantly.	
exultation		The act of exulting; lively joy at success or victory, or at any advantage gained; rapturous delight; triumph.	
exulting		Rejoicing triumphantly or exceedingly; exultant. -- Ex*ult"ing*ly, adv.	
exundate	Obsolete	To overflow; to inundate.	Latin exundatus.
exundation		An overflow, or overflowing abundance.	Latin exundatio.
exungulate		To pare off, as nails, the hoof, etc.	
exuperable	Obsolete	Surmountable; superable.	Latin exuperabilis.
exuperance	Obsolete	Superiority; superfluity.	Latin exuperantia.
exuperant	Obsolete	Surpassing; exceeding; surmounting.	
exuperate	Obsolete	To excel; to surmount.	
exuperation	Obsolete	The act of rising or coming into view.	
exurgent	Obsolete	Arising; coming to light.	
exuscitate	Obsolete	See Exsuscitate T.	
exustion		The act or operation of burning up.	Latin exustio.
exutory		An issue.	
exuvia		n. sing. of Exuviæ.	Latin exuvia.
exuviability		Capability of shedding the skin periodically.	
exuviable		Capable of being cast off in the form of exuviæ.	
exuviae		(Zoöl) Cast skins, shells, or coverings of animals; any parts of animals which are shed or cast off, as the skins of snakes, the shells of lobsters, etc.	Latin exuo.
exuvial		Of or pertaining to exuviæ.	Latin exuviae.
exuviate		To shed an old covering or condition preliminary to taking on a new one; to molt.	Latin exuviae.
exuviation		The rejecting or casting off of some part, more particularly, the outer cuticular layer, as the shells of crustaceans, skins of snakes, etc.; molting; ecdysis.	
