ey	Obsolete	An island. See Egg.
eyalet		Formerly, one of the administrative divisions or provinces of the Ottoman Empire; -- now called a vilayet.
eyas	Obsolete	A nesting or unfledged Lird; in falconry, a young hawk from the nest, not able to pr Shak J.
eyasmusket	Obsolete	An unfledged or young male sparrow hawk.
eye		The faculty of seeing; power or range of vision; hence, judgment or taste in the use of the eye, and in judging of objects; as, to have the eye of sailor; an eye for the beautiful or picturesque.
eye-minded		Having one's mental imagery prevailingly of the visual type; having one's thoughts and memories mainly in the form of visual images. -- Eye"-mind`ed*ness, n.
eye-saint	Obsolete	An object of interest to the eye; one wirehaired with the eyes.
eye-splice		A splice formed by bending a rope's and back, and fastening it into the rope, forming a loop or eye.
eye-spot		(a) A simple visual organ found in many invertebrates, consisting of pigment cells covering a sensory nerve termination.
eye-spotted		Marked with spots like eyes.
eyeball		The ball or globe of the eye.
eyebar		A bar with an eye at one or both ends.
eyebeam		A glance of the eye.
eyebolt		A bolt which a looped head, or an opening in the head.
eyebright		A small annual plant (Euphrasia officinalis), formerly much used as a remedy for diseases of the eye.
eyebrow		The brow or hairy arch above the eye.
eyecup		A small oval porcelain or glass cup, having a rim curved to fit the orbit of the eye. it is used in the application of liquid remedies to eyes; -- called also eyeglass.
eyed		Heaving (such or so many) eyes; -- used in composition; as sharp-eyed; dull-eyed; sad-eyed; ox-eyed Juno; myriad-eyed.
eyeflap		A blinder on a horse's bridle.
eyeful	Obsolete	Filling or satisfying the eye; visible; remarkable.
eyeglance		A glance of eye.
eyeglass		A lens of glass to assist the sight.
eyehole		A circular opening to recive a hook, cord, ring, or rope; an eyelet.
eyelash		The fringe of hair that edges the eyelid; -- usually in the pl.
eyeless		Without eyes; blind.
eyelet		A small hole or perforation to receive a cord or fastener, as in garments, sails, etc.
eyeleteer		A small, sharp-pointed instrument used in piercing eyelet holes; a stiletto.
eyelid		The cover of the eye; that portion of movable skin with which an animal covers or uncovers the eyeball at pleasure.
eyepiece		The lens, or combination of lenses, at the eye end of a telescope or other optical instrument, through which the image formed by the mirror or object glass is viewed.
eyer		One who eyes another.
eyereach		The range or reach of the eye; eyeshot.
eyesaint	Obsolete	An object of interest to the eye; one wirehaired with the eyes.
eyesalve		Ointment for the eye.
eyeservant		A servant who attends faithfully to his duty only when watched.
eyeservice		Service performed only under inspection, or the eye of an employer.
eyeshot		Range, reach, or glance of the eye; view; sight; as, to be out of eyeshot.
eyesight		Sight of the eye; the sense of seeing; view; observation.
eyesore		Something offensive to the eye or sight; a blemish.
eyesplice		A splice formed by bending a rope's and back, and fastening it into the rope, forming a loop or eye.
eyespot		(a) A simple visual organ found in many invertebrates, consisting of pigment cells covering a sensory nerve termination.
eyespotted		Marked with spots like eyes.
eyestalk		One of the movable peduncles which, in the decapod Crustacea, bear the eyes at the tip.
eyestone		A small, lenticular, calcareous body, esp. an operculum of a small shell of the family Tubinid, used to remove a foreign sub stance from the eye.
eyestring		The tendon by which the eye is moved.
eyet		An island. See Eyot.
eyetooth	Colloquial	A canine tooth of the upper jaw. See Teeth.
eyewash		See Eyewater — a wash or lotion for application to the eyes.
eyewater		A wash or lotion for application to the eyes.
eyewink		A wink; a token.
eyewinker		An eyelash.
eyewitness		One who sees a thing done; one who has ocular view anything.
eyght		An island. See Eyot.
eyliad		See Eiliad.
eyne		Plural of eye; obsolete, or used only in poetry.
eyot		A little island in a river or lake. See Ait.
eyra		A wild cat (Felis eyra) ranging from southern Brazil to Texas.
eyre		A journey in circuit of certain judges called justices in eyre (or in itinere).
eyren		See Ey, an egg.
eyrie		The nest of a bird of prey or other large bird that builds in a lofty place; aerie.
eyry		The nest of a bird of prey or other large bird that builds in a lofty place; aerie.
eysell	Obsolete	Same as Eisel.
