fa		(a) A syllable applied to the fourth tone of the diatonic scale in solmization.
fabaceous		Having the nature of a bean; like a bean.
fabella		One of the small sesamoid bones situated behind the condyles of the femur, in some mammals.
fabian		Of, pertaining to, or in the manner of, the Roman general, Quintus Fabius Maximus Verrucosus; cautious; dilatory; avoiding a decisive contest.
fable		A Feigned story or tale, intended to instruct or amuse; a fictitious narration intended to enforce some useful truth or precept; an apologue.
fabler		A writer of fables; a fabulist; a dealer in untruths or falsehoods.
fabliau		One of the metrical tales of the Trouvères, or early poets of the north of France.
fabric		The structure of anything; the manner in which the parts of a thing are united; workmanship; texture; make; as cloth of a beautiful fabric.
fabricant		One who fabricates; a manufacturer.
fabricate		To form into a whole by uniting its parts; to frame; to construct; to build; as, to fabricate a bridge or ship.
fabrication		The act of fabricating, framing, or constructing; construction; manufacture; as, the fabrication of a bridge, a church, or a government.
fabricator		One who fabricates; one who constructs or makes.
fabricatress		A woman who fabricates.
fabrile		Pertaining to a workman, or to work in stone, metal, wood etc.; as, fabrile skill.
fabulist		One who invents or writes fables.
fabulize		To invent, compose, or relate fables or fictions.
fabulosity		A fabulous or fictitious story.
fabulous		Feigned, as a story or fable; related in fable; devised; invented; not real; fictitious; as, a fabulous description; a fabulous hero.
faburden	Obsolete	(Mus.) (a) A species of counterpoint with a drone bass. (b) A succession of chords of the sixth.
fac		A large ornamental letter used, esp. by the early printers, at the commencement of the chapters and other divisions of a book.
facade		The front of a building; esp., the principal front, having some architectural pretensions.
face		The exterior form or appearance of anything; that part which presents itself to the view; especially, the front or upper part or surface; that which particularly offers itself to the view of a spectator.
faced		Having (such) a face, or (so many) faces; as, smooth-faced, two-faced.
facer		A blow in the face, as in boxing; hence, any severe or stunning check or defeat, as in controversy.
facet		A little face; a small, plane surface; as, the facets of a diamond.
facete	Archaic	Facetious; witty; humorous. with a small, smart remark, sentiment facete, or unctuous anecdote.
faceted		Having facets.
facetiae		Witty or humorous writings or saying; witticisms; merry conceits.
facetious		Given to wit and good humor; merry; sportive; jocular; as, a facetious companion.
facette		See Facet, n.
facework		The material of the outside or front side, as of a wall or building; facing.
facia		See Fascia — a band, sash, or fillet; especially, in surgery, a bandage or roller.
facial		Of or pertaining to the face; as, the facial artery, vein, or nerve. -- Fa"cial*ly, adv.
faciend		The multiplicand. See Facient, 2.
facient		(Mach.) (a) One of the variables of a quantic as distinguished from a coefficient.
facies		The anterior part of the head; the face.
facile		Easy to be done or performed: not difficult; performable or attainable with little labor.
facilitate		To make easy or less difficult; to free from difficulty or impediment; to lessen the labor of; as, to facilitate the execution of a task.
facilitation		The act of facilitating or making easy.
facility		The quality of being easily performed; freedom from difficulty; ease; as, the facility of an operation.
facing		A covering in front, for ornament or other purpose; an exterior covering or sheathing; as, the facing of an earthen slope, sea wall, etc., to strengthen it or to protect or adorn the exposed surface.
facingly		In a facing manner or position.
facinorous	Obsolete	Atrociously wicked.
facound	Obsolete	Speech; eloquence.
facsimile		A copy of anything made, either so as to be deceptive or so as to give every part and detail of the original; an exact copy or likeness.
fact		An effect produced or achieved; anything done or that comes to pass; an act; an event; a circumstance.
faction		A party, in political society, combined or acting in union, in opposition to the government, or state; -- usually applied to a minority, but it may be applied to a majority; a combination or clique of partisans of any kind…
factionary	Obsolete	Belonging to a faction; being a partisan; taking sides.
factioner		One of a faction.
factionist		One who promotes faction.
factious		Given to faction; addicted to form parties and raise dissensions, in opposition to government or the common good; turbulent; seditious; prone to clamor against public measures or men; -- said of persons.
factitious		Made by art, in distinction from what is produced by nature; artificial; sham; formed by, or adapted to, an artificial or conventional, in distinction from a natural, standard or rule; not natural; as…
factitive		Causing; causative.
factive	Obsolete	Making; having power to make.
facto		In fact; by the act or fact.
factor		(Law) One who transacts business for another; an agent; a substitute; especially, a mercantile agent who buys and sells goods and transacts business for others in commission; a commission merchant or consignee.
factorage		The allowance given to a factor, as a compensation for his services; -- called also a commission.
factoress		A factor who is a woman.
factorial		Of or pertaining to a factory.
factoring		The act of resolving into factors.
factorize		(a) To give warning to; -- said of a person in whose hands the effects of another are attached, the warning being to the effect that he shall not pay the money or deliver the property of the defendant in his hands to him…
factorship		The business of a factor.
factory		A house or place where factors, or commercial agents, reside, to transact business for their employers.
factotum		A person employed to do all kinds of work or business.
factual		Relating to, or containing, facts.
factum		(Law) A man's own act and deed; particularly: (a) (Civil Law) Anything stated and made certain.
facture		The act or manner of making or doing anything; -- now used of a literary, musical, or pictorial production.
faculae		Groups of small shining spots on the surface of the sun which are brighter than the other parts of the photosphere.
facular		Of or pertaining to the faculæ.
facultative		Having relation to the grant or exercise faculty, or authority, privilege, license, or the like hence, optional; as, facultative enactments, or those which convey a faculty, or permission…
faculty		Ability to act or perform, whether inborn or cultivated; capacity for any natural function; especially, an original mental power or capacity for any of the well-known classes of mental activity; psychical or soul capacity…
facund	Archaic	Eloquent.
facundious	Archaic	Eloquement; full of words.
facundity	Archaic	Eloquence; readiness of speech.
fad		A hobby; freak; whim. -- Fad"dist, n.
fadaise		A vapid or meaningless remark; a commonplace; nonsense.
faddle	English dialect	To trifle; to toy. -- v. t.
fade		Weak; insipid; tasteless; commonplace.
faded		That has lost freshness, color, or brightness; grown dim.
fadedly		In a faded manner.
fadeless		Not liable to fade; unfading.
fadge	English dialect	To fit; to suit; to agree.
fading	Obsolete	Losing freshness, color, brightness, or vigor. -- n.
fadme	Obsolete	A fathom.
faecal		See Fecal — relating to, or containing, dregs, feces, or ordeure; fæcal.
faeces		Excrement; ordure; also, settlings; sediment after infusion or distillation.
faecula		See Fecula — any pulverulent matter obtained from plants by simply breaking down the texture, washing with water, and subsidence.
faffle	English dialect	To stammer.
fag		To become weary; to tire.
fag-end		An end of poorer quality, or in a spoiled condition, as the coarser end of a web of cloth, the untwisted end of a rope, ect.
fagend		An end of poorer quality, or in a spoiled condition, as the coarser end of a web of cloth, the untwisted end of a rope, ect.
fagging		Laborious drudgery; esp., the acting as a drudge for another at an English school.
fagot		A bundle of sticks, twigs, or small branches of trees, used for fuel, for raising batteries, filling ditches, or other purposes in fortification; a fascine.
fagotto		The bassoon; -- so called from being divided into parts for ease of carriage, making, as it were, a small fagot.
faham		The leaves of an orchid (Angraecum fragrans), of the islands of Bourbon and Mauritius, used (in France) as a substitute for Chinese tea.
fahlband		A stratum in crystalline rock, containing metallic sulphides.
fahlerz		Same as Tetrahedrite.
fahlunite		A hydration of iolite.
fahrenheit		Conforming to the scale used by Gabriel Daniel Fahrenheit in the graduation of his thermometer; of or relating to Fahrenheit's thermometric scale. -- n.
faience		Glazed earthenware; esp., that which is decorated in color.
fail		To be wanting; to fall short; to be or become deficient in any measure or degree up to total absence; to cease to be furnished in the usual or expected manner, or to be altogether cut off from supply; to be lacking; as…
failance	Obsolete	Fault; failure; omission.
failing		A failing short; a becoming deficient; failure; deficiency; imperfection; weakness; lapse; fault; infirmity; as, a mental failing.
faille		A soft silk, heavier than a foulard and not glossy.
failure		Cessation of supply, or total defect; a failing; deficiency; as, failure of rain; failure of crops.
fain		Well-pleased; glad; apt; wont; fond; inclined.
faineance		Do-nothingness; inactivity; indolence.
faineancy		Do-nothingness; inactivity; indolence.
faineant		Doing nothing; shiftless. -- n.
faint		Lacking strength; weak; languid; inclined to swoon; as, faint with fatigue, hunger, or thirst.
faint-hearted		Wanting in courage; depressed by fear; easily discouraged or frightened; cowardly; timorous; dejected.
fainthearted		Wanting in courage; depressed by fear; easily discouraged or frightened; cowardly; timorous; dejected.
fainting	Colloquial	Syncope, or loss of consciousness owing to a sudden arrest of the blood supply to the brain, the face becoming pallid, the respiration feeble, and the heat's beat weak.
faintish		Slightly faint; somewhat faint. -- Faint"ish*ness, n.
faintling	Obsolete	Timorous; feeble-minded.
faintly		In a faint, weak, or timidmanner.
faintness		The state of being faint; loss of strength, or of consciousness, and self-control.
faints		The impure spirit which comes over first and last in the distillation of whisky; -- the former being called the strong faints, and the latter, which is much more abundant, the weak faints.
fainty		Feeble; languid.
fair		Free from spots, specks, dirt, or imperfection; unblemished; clean; pure.
fair-haired		Having fair or light-colored hair.
fair-leader		A block, or ring, serving as a guide for the running rigging or for any rope.
fair-minded		Unprejudiced; just; judicial; honest. -- Fair"*mind`ed*ness, n.
fair-natured		Well-disposed.
fair-spoken		Using fair speech, or uttered with fairness; bland; civil; courteous; plausible.
fair-weather		Made or done in pleasant weather, or in circumstances involving but little exposure or sacrifice; as, a fair-weather voyage.
fair-world	Obsolete	State of prosperity.
fairhood	Obsolete	Fairness; beauty.
fairily		In the manner of a fairy.
fairing		A present; originally, one given or purchased at a fair.
fairish	Colloquial	Tolerably fair.
fairly		In a fairmanner; clearly; openly; plainly; fully; distinctly; frankly.
fairness		The state of being fair, or free form spots or stains, as of the skin; honesty, as of dealing; candor, as of an argument, etc.
fairway		The navigable part of a river, bay, etc., through which vessels enter or depart; the part of a harbor or channel ehich is kept open and unobstructed for the passage of vessels.
fairy		Given by fairies; as, fairy money.
fairyland		The imaginary land or abode of fairies.
fairylike		Resembling a fairy, or what is made or done be fairies; as, fairylike music.
faith		Belief; the assent of the mind to the truth of what is declared by another, resting solely and implicitly on his authority and veracity; reliance on testimony.
faithed	Obsolete	Having faith or a faith; honest; sincere.
faithful		Full of faith, or having faith; disposed to believe, especially in the declarations and promises of God.
faithless		Not believing; not giving credit.
faitour	Obsolete	A doer or actor; particularly, an evil doer; a scoundrel.
fake		One of the circles or windings of a cable or hawser, as it lies in a coil; a single turn or coil.
faker	Slang	One who fakes something, as a thief, a peddler of petty things, a workman who dresses things up, etc.
fakir		An Oriental religious ascetic or begging monk.
fal-lals	Colloquial	Gay ornaments; frippery; gewgaws.
falanaka		A viverrine mammal of Madagascar (Eupleres Goudotii), allied to the civet; -- called also Falanouc.
falcade		The action of a horse, when he throws himself on his haunches two or three times, bending himself, as it were, in very quick curvets.
falcate		Hooked or bent like a sickle; as, a falcate leaf; a falcate claw; -- said also of the moon, or a planet, when horned or crescent- formed.
falcated		Hooked or bent like a sickle; as, a falcate leaf; a falcate claw; -- said also of the moon, or a planet, when horned or crescent- formed.
falcation		The state of being falcate; a bend in the form of a sickle.
falcer		One of the mandibles of a spider.
falchion		A broad-bladed sword, slightly curved, shorter and lighter than the ordinary sword; -- used in the Middle Ages.
falcidian		Of or pertaining to Publius Falcidius, a Roman tribune.
falciform		Having the shape of a scithe or sickle; resembling a reaping hook; as, the falciform ligatment of the liver.
falcon		(Zoöl.) (a) One of a family (Falconidæ) of raptorial birds, characterized by a short, hooked beak, strong claws, and powerful flight.
falconer		A person who breeds or trains hawks for taking birds or game; one who follows the sport of fowling with hawks.
falconet		One of the smaller cannon used in the 15th century and later.
falcongentil		The female or young of the goshawk (Astur palumbarius).
falconine		Like a falcon or hawk; belonging to the Falconidæ
falconry		The art of training falcons or hawks to pursue and attack wild fowl or game.
falcula		A curved and sharp-pointed claw.
falculate		Curved and sharppointed, like a falcula, or claw of a falcon.
faldage		A privilege of setting up, and moving about, folds for sheep, in any fields within manors, in order to manure them; -- often reserved to himself by the lord of the manor.
faldfee		A fee or rent paid by a tenant for the privilege of faldage on his own ground.
falding	Obsolete	A frieze or rough-napped cloth.
faldistory	Obsolete	The throne or seat of a bishop within the chancel.
faldstool		A folding stool, or portable seat, made to fold up in the manner of a camo stool.
falernian		Of or pertaining to Mount Falernus, in Italy; as, Falernianwine.
falk	English dialect	The razorbill.
fall		To Descend, either suddenly or gradually; particularly, to descend by the force of gravity; to drop; to sink; as, the apple falls; the tide falls; the mercury falls in the barometer.
fallacious		Embodying or pertaining to a fallacy; illogical; fitted to deceive; misleading; delusive; as, fallacious arguments or reasoning. -- Fal*la cious*ness, n.
fallacy		Deceptive or false appearance; deceitfulness; that which misleads the eye or the mind; deception.
fallals	Colloquial	Gay ornaments; frippery; gewgaws.
fallax	Obsolete	Cavillation; a caviling.
fallen		Dropped; prostrate; degraded; ruined; decreased; dead.
fallency	Obsolete	An exception.
faller		One who, or that which, falls.
fallfish		A fresh-water fish of the United States (Semotilus bullaris); - - called also silver chub, and Shiner.
fallibility		The state of being fallible; liability to deceive or to be deceived; as, the fallibity of an argument or of an adviser.
fallible		Liable to fail, mistake, or err; liable to deceive or to be deceived; as, all men are fallible; our opinions and hopes are fallible.
fallibly		In a fallible manner.
falling	Colloquial	from Fall, v. i.
fallopian		Pertaining to, or discovered by, Fallopius; as, the Fallopian tubes or oviducts, the ducts or canals which conduct the ova from the ovaries to the uterus.
fallow		Pale red or pale yellow; as, a fallow deer or greyhound.
fallowist		One who favors the practice of fallowing land.
fallowness		A well or opening, through the successive floors of a warehouse or manufactory, through which goods are raised or lowered.
falsary	Obsolete	A falsifier of evidence.
false		Uttering falsehood; unveracious; given to deceit; dishnest; as, a false witness.
false-faced		Hypocritical.
false-heart		False-hearted.
false-hearted		Hollow or unsound at the core; treacherous; deceitful; perfidious.
falsehood		Want of truth or accuracy; an untrue assertion or representation; error; misrepresentation; falsity.
falsely		In a false manner; erroneously; not truly; perfidiously or treacherously.
falseness		The state of being false; contrariety to the fact; inaccuracy; want of integrity or uprightness; double dealing; unfaithfulness; treachery; perfidy; as, the falseness of a report, a drawing, or a singer's notes…
falser	Obsolete	A deceiver.
falsetto		A false or artificial voice; that voice in a man which lies above his natural voice; the male counter tenor or alto voice.
falsicrimen		The crime of falsifying.
falsifiable		Capable of being falsified, counterfeited, or corrupted.
falsification		The act of falsifying, or making false; a counterfeiting; the giving to a thing an appearance of something which it is not.
falsificator		A falsifier.
falsifier		One who falsifies, or gives to a thing a deceptive appearance; a liar.
falsify		To make false; to represent falsely.
falsism		That which is evidently false; an assertion or statement the falsity of which is plainly apparent; -- opposed to truism.
falsity		The quality of being false; coutrariety or want of conformity to truth.
falter	English dialect	To thrash in the chaff; also, to cleanse or sift, as barley.
faltering		Hesitating; trembling. -- n.
faluns		A series of strata, of the Middle Tertiary period, of France, abounding in shells, and used by Lyell as the type of his Miocene subdivision.
falx		A curved fold or process of the dura mater or the peritoneum; esp., one of the partitionlike folds of the dura mater which extend into the great fissures of the brain.
famble	Obsolete	To stammer.
fame		Public report or rumor.
fameless		Without fame or renown. -- Fame"less*ly, adv.
familiar		Of or pertaining to a family; domestic.
familiarity		The state of being familiar; intimate and frequent converse, or association; unconstrained intercourse; freedom from ceremony and constraint; intimacy; as, to live in remarkable familiarity.
familiarization		The act or process of making familiar; the result of becoming familiar; as, familiarization with scenes of blood.
familiarize		To make familiar or intimate; to habituate; to accustom; to make well known by practice or converse; as, to familiarize one's self with scenes of distress.
familiarly		In a familiar manner.
familiarness		Familiarity.
familiary	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to a family or household; domestic.
familism		The tenets of the Familists.
familist		One of afanatical Antinomian sect originating in Holland, and existing in England about 1580, called the Family of Love, who held that religion consists wholly in love.
familistery		A community in which many persons unite as in one family, and are regulated by certain communistic laws and customs.
familistic		Pertaining to Familists.
familistical		Pertaining to Familists.
family		The collective body of persons who live in one house, and under one head or manager; a household, including parents, children, and servants, and, as the case may be, lodgers or boarders.
famine		General scarcity of food; dearth; a want of provisions; destitution.
famish		To starve, kill, or destroy with hunger.
famishment		State of being famished.
famosity	Obsolete	The state or quality of being famous.
famous		Celebrated in fame or public report; renowned; mach talked of; distinguished in story; -- used in either a good or a bad sense, chiefly the former; often followed by for; as, famous for erudition, for eloquence…
famoused	Obsolete	Renowned.
famously		In a famous manner; in a distinguished degree; greatly; splendidly.
famousness		The state of being famous.
famular	Obsolete	Domestic; familiar.
famulate	Obsolete	To serve.
famulist		A collegian of inferior rank or position, corresponding to the sizar at Cambridge.
fan		An instrument used for producing artificial currents of air, by the wafting or revolving motion of a broad surface; as: (a) An instrument for cooling the person, made of feathers, paper, silk, etc.…
fan-nerved		Having the nerves or veins arranged in a radiating manner; -- said of certain leaves, and of the winfs of some insects.
fan-tailed		Having an expanded, or fan-shaped, tail; as, the fan-tailed pigeon.
fan-tan		A Chinese gambling game in which coins or other small objects are placed upon a table, usually under a cup, and the players bet as to what remainder will be left when the sum of the counters is divided by four.
fanal		A lighthouse, or the apparatus placed in it for giving light.
fanatic		Pertaining to, or indicating, fanaticism; extravagant in opinions; ultra; unreasonable; excessively enthusiastic, especially on religious subjects; as, fanatic zeal; fanatic notions.
fanatical		Characteristic of, or relating to, fanaticism; fanatic. - Fa*nat ic*al*ness, n.
fanaticism		Excessive enthusiasm, unreasoning zeal, or wild and extravagant notions, on any subject, especially religion; religious frenzy.
fanaticize		To cause to become a fanatic.
fanatism		Fanaticism.
fancied		Formed or conceived by the fancy; unreal; as, a fancied wrong.
fancier		One who fancies or has a special liking for, or interest in, a particular object or class or objects; hence, one who breeds and keeps for sale birds and animals; as, bird fancier, dog fancier, etc.
fanciful		Full of fancy; guided by fancy, rather than by reason and experience; whimsical; as, a fanciful man forms visionary projects.
fanciless		Having no fancy; without ideas or imagination.
fancy		The faculty by which the mind forms an image or a representation of anything perceived before; the power of combining and modifying such objects into new pictures or images…
fancy-free		Free from the power of love.
fancy-sick		Love-sick.
fancymonger	Obsolete	A lovemonger; a whimsical lover.
fancywork		Ornamental work with a needle or hook, as embroidery, crocheting, netting, etc.
fand		imp. of Find — to meet with, or light upon, accidentally; to gain the first sight or knowledge of, as of something new, or unknown; hence, to fall in with, as a person.
fandango		A lively dance, in 3-8 or 6-8 time, much practiced in Spain and Spanish America.
fane	Obsolete	A temple; a place consecrated to religion; a church.
fanega		A dry measure in Spain and Spanish America, varying from 1 De Colange.
fanfare		A flourish of trumpets, as in coming into the lists, etc.; also, a short and lively air performed on hunting horns during the chase.
fanfaron		A bully; a hector; a swaggerer; an empty boaster.
fanfaronade		A swaggering; vain boasting; ostentation; a bluster.
fanfoot		(a) A species of gecko having the toes expanded into large lobes for adhesion.
fang		To enable to catch or tear; to furnish with fangs.
fanged		Having fangs or tusks; as, a fanged adder.
fangle	Obsolete	Something new-fashioned; a foolish innovation; a gewgaw; a trifling ornament.
fangled	Obsolete	New made; hence, gaudy; showy; vainly decorated. See Newfangled.
fangleness	Obsolete	Quality of being fangled.
fangless		Destitute of fangs or tusks.
fangot		A quantity of wares, as raw silk, etc., from one hundred weight.
fanion		A small flag for marking the stations in surveying.
fanlike		Resembling a fan; -- specifically (Bot.), folded up like a fan, as certain leaves; plicate.
fannel		Same as Fanon.
fanner		One who fans.
fanon		A term applied to various articles, as: (a) A peculiar striped scarf worn by the pope at mass, and by eastern bishops.
fantad	Slang	State of worry or excitement; fidget; fuss; also, indisposition; pet; sulks.
fantail		(a) A variety of the domestic pigeon, so called from the shape of the tail.
fantasia		A continuous composition, not divided into what are called movements, or governed by the ordinary rules of musical design, but in which the author's fancy roves unrestricted by set form.
fantasied	Obsolete	Filled with fancies or imaginations.
fantasm		Same as Phantasm.
fantast		One whose manners or ideas are fantastic.
fantastic		Existing only in imagination; fanciful; imaginary; not real; chimerical.
fantastic-alness		The quality of being fantastic.
fantastical		Fanciful; unreal; whimsical; capricious; fantastic.
fantasticality	Obsolete	Fantastically.
fantastically		In a fantastic manner. the letter A, in scarlet, fantastically embroidered with gold thread, upon her bosom.
fantasticism		The quality of being fantastical; fancifulness; whimsicality.
fantasticly	Obsolete	Fantastically.
fantasticness	Obsolete	Fantasticalness.
fantastico	Obsolete	A fantastic.
fantasy		Fancy; imagination; especially, a whimsical or fanciful conception; a vagary of the imagination; whim; caprice; humor.
fantigue	English dialect	State of worry or excitment; fidget; ill humor.
fantique	English dialect	State of worry or excitment; fidget; ill humor.
fantoccini		Puppets caused to perform evolutions or dramatic scenes by means of machinery; also, the representations in which they are used.
fantod	Slang	State of worry or excitement; fidget; fuss; also, indisposition; pet; sulks.
fantom		See Phantom — that which has only an apparent existence; an apparition; a specter; a phantasm; a sprite; an airy spirit; an ideal image.
fap	Obsolete	Fuddled.
faquir		See Fakir — an oriental religious ascetic or begging monk.
far		A young pig, or a litter of pigs.
far-about	Obsolete	A going out of the way; a digression.
far-off		Remote; as, the far-off distance.
far-stretched		Stretched beyond ordinary limits.
farad		The standard unit of electrical capacity; the capacity of a condenser whose charge, having an electro-motive force of one volt, is equal to the amount of electricity which, with the same electromotive force…
faradic		Of or pertaining to Michael Faraday, the distinguished electrician; -- applied especially to induced currents of electricity, as produced by certain forms of inductive apparatus…
faradism		The treatment with faradic or induced currents of electricity for remedial purposes.
faradization		The treatment with faradic or induced currents of electricity for remedial purposes.
faradize		To stimulate with, or subject to, faradic, or inducted, electric currents. --Far"a*diz`er (#), n.
farand		See Farrand, n.
farandams		A fabrik made of silk and wool or hair.
farandole		A rapid dance in six-eight time in which a large number join hands and dance in various figures, sometimes moving from room to room.
farantly	Obsolete	Orderly; comely; respectable.
farce		(Cookery) Stuffing, or mixture of viands, like that used on dressing a fowl; forcemeat.
farcement	Obsolete	Stuffing; forcemeat.
farcical		Pertaining to farce; appropriated to farce; ludicrous; unnatural; unreal.
farcilite	Obsolete	Pudding stone.
farcimen		Same as Farcy.
farcin		Same as Farcy.
farcing		Stuffing; forcemeat.
farctate	Obsolete	Stuffed; filled solid; as, a farctate leaf, stem, or pericarp; -- opposed to tubular or hollow.
farcy		A contagious disease of horses, associated with painful ulcerating enlargements, esp. upon the head and limbs.
fard	Obsolete	Paint used on the face.
fardage		See Dunnage — fagots, boughs, or loose materials of any kind, laid on the bottom of the hold for the cargo to rest upon to prevent injury by water…
fardel	Obsolete	A bundle or little pack; hence, a burden.
farding-bag		The upper stomach of a cow, or other ruminant animal; the rumen.
fardingdale	Obsolete	A farthingale.
fardingdeal	Obsolete	The fourth part of an acre of land.
fare		To be in any state, or pass through any experience, good or bad; to be attended with any circummstances or train of events, fortunate or unfortunate; as, he fared well, or ill.
faren		p. p. of Fare, v. i.
farewell		Go well; good-by; adieu; -- originally applied to a person departing, but by custom now applied both to those who depart and those who remain.
farfet	Obsolete	Farfetched.
farfetch	Obsolete	To bring from far; to seek out studiously.
farfetched		Brought from far, or from a remote place.
farina		A fine flour or meal made from cereal grains or from the starch or fecula of vegetables, extracted by various processes, and used in cookery.
farinaceous		Consisting or made of meal or flour; as, a farinaceous diet.
farinose		Yielding farinaa; as, farinose substances.
farl	Obsolete	Same as Furl.
farlie	Obsolete	An unusual or unexpected thing; a wonder. See Fearly.
farm		The land held under lease and by payment of rent for the purpose of cultivation.
farmable		Capable of being farmed.
farmer		One who farms; as: (a) One who hires and cultivates a farm; a cultivator of leased ground; a tenant.
farmeress		A woman who farms.
farmership		Skill in farming.
farmery		The buildings and yards necessary for the business of a farm; a homestead.
farmhouse		A dwelling house on a farm; a farmer's residence.
farming		Pertaining to agriculture; devoted to, adapted to, or engaged in, farming; as, farming tools; farming land; a farming community.
farmost		Most distant; farthest.
farmstead		A farm with the building upon it; a homestead on a farm.
farmsteading	Scots	A farmstead.
farmyard		The yard or inclosure attached to a barn, or the space inclosed by the farm buildings.
farness		The state of being far off; distance; remoteness.
faro		A gambling game at cardds, in whiich all the other players play against the dealer or banker, staking their money upon the order in which the cards will lie and be dealt from the pack.
faroese		An inhabitant, or, collectively, inhabitants, of the Faroe islands.
farraginous		Formed of various materials; mixed; as, a farraginous mountain.
farrago		A mass ccomposed of various materials confusedly mixed; a medley; a mixture.
farrand	English dialect	Manner; custom; fashion; humor.
farreation		Same as Confarreation.
farrier	Obsolete	a veterinary surgeon.
farriery		The art of shoeing horses.
farrow		A little of pigs.
farry	Obsolete	A farrow.
farse		An addition to, or a paraphrase of, some part of the Latin service in the vernacular; -- common in English before the Reformation.
farseeing		Able to see to a great distance; farsighted.
farsighted		Seeing to great distance; hence, of good judgment regarding the remote effects of actions; sagacious.
farsightedness		Quality of bbeing farsighted.
farstretched		Stretched beyond ordinary limits.
farther		More remote; more distant than something else.
fartherance		See Furtherence.
farthermore		See Furthermore — or conj.
farthermost		Most distant or remote; as, the farthest degree. See Furthest.
farthest		Most distant or remote; as, the farthest degree. See Furthest.
farthing		The fourth of a penny; a small copper coin of Great Britain, being a cent in United States currency.
farthingale		A hoop skirt or hoop petticoat, or other light, elastic material, used to extend the petticoat.
fasces		A bundle of rods, having among them an ax with the blade projecting, borne before the Roman magistrates as a badge of their authority.
fascet		A wire basket on the end of a rod to carry glass bottles, etc., to the annealing furnace; also, an iron rod to be thrust into the mouths of bottles, and used for the same purpose; -- calles also pontee and punty.
fascia		A band, sash, or fillet; especially, in surgery, a bandage or roller.
fascial		Pertaining to the fasces.
fasciate		Bound with a fillet, sash, or bandage.
fasciated		Bound with a fillet, sash, or bandage.
fasciation		The act or manner of binding up; bandage; also, the condition of being fasciated.
fascicle		A small bundle or collection; a compact cluster; as, a fascicle of fibers; a fascicle of flowers or roots.
fascicled		Growing in a bundle, tuft, or close cluster; as, the fascicled leaves of the pine or larch; the fascicled roots of the dahlia; fascicled muscle fibers; fascicled tufts of hair.
fascicular		Pertaining to a fascicle; fascicled; as, a fascicular root.
fascicularly		In a fascicled manner.
fasciculate		Grouped in a fascicle; fascicled.
fasciculated		Grouped in a fascicle; fascicled.
fascicule		A small bunch or bundle; a fascicle; as, a fascicule of fibers, hairs, or spines.
fasciculus		A little bundle; a fascicle.
fascinate		To influence in an uncontrollable manner; to operate on by some powerful or irresistible charm; to bewitch; to enchant.
fascination		The act of fascinating, bewhiching, or enchanting; enchantment; witchcraft; the exercise of a powerful or irresistible influence on the affections or passions; unseen, inexplicable influence.
fascine		A cylindrical bundle of small sticks of wood, bound together, used in raising batteries, filling ditches, strengthening ramparts, and making parapets; also in revetments for river banks, and in mats for dams, jetties, etc.
fascinous	Obsolete	Caused or acting by witchcraft.
fasciola		A band of gray matter bordering the fimbria in the brain; the dentate convolution.
fasciole		A band of minute tubercles, bearing modified spines, on the shells of spatangoid sea urchins.
fash	Scots	To vex; to tease; to trouble.
fashion		The make or form of anything; the style, shape, appearance, or mode of structure; pattern, model; as, the fashion of the ark, of a coat, of a house, of an altar, etc.; workmanship; execution.
fashion-monger		One who studies the fashions; a fop; a dandy.
fashion-mongering		Behaving like a fashion-monger.
fashionable		Conforming to the fashion or established mode; according with the prevailing form or style; as, a fashionable dress.
fashionableness		State of being fashionable.
fashionably		In a fashionable manner.
fashioned		Having a certain style or fashion; as old-fashioned; new- fashioned.
fashioner		One who fashions, forms, ar gives shape to anything.
fashionist		An obsequious follower of the modes and fashions.
fashionless		Having no fashion.
fassaite		A variety of pyroxene, from the valley of Fassa, in the Tyrol.
fast		To abstain from food; to omit to take nourishment in whole or in part; to go hungry.
fast-handed	Obsolete	Close-handed; close-fisted; covetous; avaricious.
fasten		To fix firmly; to make fast; to secure, as by a knot, lock, bolt, etc.; as, to fasten a chain to the feet; to fasten a door or window.
fastener		One who, or that which, makes fast or firm.
fastening		Anything that binds and makes fast, as a lock, catch, bolt, bar, buckle, etc.
faster		One who abstains from food.
fasti		The Roman calendar, which gave the days for festivals, courts, etc., corresponding to a modern almanac.
fastidiosity	Obsolete	Fastidiousness; squeamishness.
fastidious		Difficult to please; delicate to fault; suited with difficulty; squeamish; as, a fastidious mind or ear; a fastidious appetite.
fastigiate		Narrowing towards the top.
fastigiated		Narrowing towards the top.
fastish	Colloquial	Rather fast; also, somewhat dissipated.
fastly		Firmly; surely.
fastness		The state of being fast and firm; firmness; fixedness; security; faithfulness.
fastuous	Obsolete	Proud; haughty; disdainful.
fat		Abounding with fat; as: (a) Fleshy; characterized by fatness; plump; corpulent; not lean; as, a fat man; a fat ox.
fat-brained		Dull of apprehension.
fat-kidneyed		Gross; lubberly.
fat-witted		Dull; stupid.
fatal		Proceeding from, or appointed by, fate or destiny; necessary; inevitable.
fatalism		The doctrine that all things are subject to fate, or that they take place by inevitable necessity.
fatalist		One who maintains that all things happen by inevitable necessity.
fatalistic		Implying, or partaking of the nature of, fatalism.
fatality		The state of being fatal, or proceeding from destiny; invincible necessity, superior to, and independent of, free and rational control.
fatally		In a manner proceeding from, or determined by, fate.
fatback		The menhaden.
fate		A fixed decree by which the order of things is prescribed; the immutable law of the universe; inevitable necessity; the force by which all existence is determined and conditioned.
fated		Decreed by fate; destined; doomed; as, he was fated to rule a factious people.
fateful		Having the power of serving or accomplishing fate.
fathead		(a) A cyprinoid fish of the Mississippi valley (Pimephales promelas); -- called also black-headed minnow.
father		One who has begotten a child, whether son or daughter; a generator; a male parent.
father-in-law		The father of one's husband or wife; -- correlative to son-in- law and daughter-in-law.
father-lasher		A European marine fish (Cottus bubalis), allied to the sculpin; -- called also lucky proach.
fatherhood		The state of being a father; the character or authority of a father; paternity.
fatherland		One's native land; the native land of one's fathers or ancestors.
fatherless		Destitute of a living father; as, a fatherless child.
fatherlessness		The state of being without a father.
fatherliness		The qualities of a father; parantal kindness, care, etc.
fatherly		Like a father in affection and care; paternal; tender; protecting; careful.
fathership		The state of being a father; fatherhood; paternity.
fathom		A measure of length, containing six feet; the space to which a man can extend his arms; -- used chiefly in measuring cables, cordage, and the depth of navigable water by soundings.
fathomable		Capable of being fathomed.
fathomer		One who fathoms.
fathomless		Incapable of being fathomed; immeasurable; that can not be sounded.
fatidical		Having power to foretell future events; prophetic; fatiloquent; as, the fatidical oak.
fatiferous		Fate-bringing; deadly; mortal; destructive.
fatigable	Obsolete	Easily tired.
fatigate	Obsolete	Wearied; tired; fatigued.
fatigation	Obsolete	Weariness.
fatigue		Weariness from bodily labor or mental exertion; lassitude or exhaustion of strength.
fatiloquent	Obsolete	Prophetic; fatidical.
fatiloquist		A fortune teller.
fatimide		Descended from Fatima, the daughter and only child of Mohammed. -- n.
fatimite		Descended from Fatima, the daughter and only child of Mohammed. -- n.
fatiscence		A gaping or opening; state of being chinky, or having apertures.
fatling		A calf, lamb, kid, or other young animal fattened for slaughter; a fat animal; -- said of such animals as are used for food.
fatly		Grossly; greasily.
fatner		One who fattens. See Fattener.
fatness		The quality or state of being fat, plump, or full-fed; corpulency; fullness of flesh.
fatten		To make fat; to feed for slaughter; to make fleshy or plump with fat; to fill full; to fat.
fattener		One who, or that which, fattens; that which gives fatness or fertility.
fattiness		State or quality of being fatty.
fattish		Somewhat fat; inclined to fatness.
fatty		Containing fat, or having the qualities of fat; greasy; gross; as, a fatty substance.
fatuitous		Stupid; fatuous.
fatuity		Weakness or imbecility of mind; stupidity.
fatuous		Feeble in mind; weak; silly; stupid; foolish; fatuitous.
faubourg		A suburb of French city; also, a district now within a city, but formerly without its walls.
faucal		Pertaining to the fauces, or opening of the throat; faucial; esp., (Phon.) produced in the fauces, as certain deep guttural sounds found in the Semitic and some other languages.
fauces		(Anat.) The narrow passage from the mouth to the pharynx, situated between the soft palate and the base of the tongue; -- called also the isthmus of the fauces.
faucet		A fixture for drawing a liquid, as water, molasses, oil, etc., from a pipe, cask, or other vessel, in such quantities as may be desired; -- called also tap, and cock.
fauchion	Obsolete	See Falchion — a broad-bladed sword, slightly curved, shorter and lighter than the ordinary sword; -- used in the Middle Ages.
faucial		Pertaining to the fauces; pharyngeal.
faugh		An exclamation of contempt, disgust, or abhorrence.
faulchion		See Falchion — a broad-bladed sword, slightly curved, shorter and lighter than the ordinary sword; -- used in the Middle Ages.
faulcon		See Falcon — (Zoöl.) (a) One of a family (Falconidæ) of raptorial birds, characterized by a short, hooked beak, strong claws, and powerful flight.
fauld		The arch over the dam of a blast furnace; the tymp arch.
faule	Obsolete	A fall or falling band.
fault		Defect; want; lack; default.
fault-finder		One who makes a practice off discovering others' faults and censuring them; a scold.
fault-finding		The act of finding fault or blaming; -- used derogatively.
faulter	Obsolete	One who commits a fault.
faultful		Full of faults or sins.
faultily		In a faulty manner.
faultiness		Quality or state of being faulty.
faulting		The state or condition of being faulted; the process by which a fault is produced.
faultless		Without fault; not defective or imperfect; free from blemish; free from incorrectness, vice, or offense; perfect; as, a faultless poem.
faulty		Containing faults, blemishes, or defects; imperfect; not fit for the use intended.
faun		A god of fields and shipherds, diddering little from the satyr.
fauna		The animals of any given area or epoch; as, the fauna of America; fossil fauna; recent fauna.
faunal		Relating to fauna.
faunist		One who describes the fauna of country; a naturalist.
faunus		See Faun — a god of fields and shipherds, diddering little from the satyr.
fausen	English dialect	A young eel.
fausse-braye		A second raampart, exterior to, and parallel to, the main rampart, and considerably below its level.
fauteuil		An armchair; hence (because the members sit in fauteuils or armchairs), membership in the French Academy.
fautor	Obsolete	A favorer; a patron; one who gives countenance or support; an abettor.
fautress	Obsolete	A patroness.
fauvette		A small singing bird, as the nightingale and warblers.
faux		See Fauces — (Anat.) The narrow passage from the mouth to the pharynx, situated between the soft palate and the base of the tongue; -- called also the isthmus of the fauces.
favaginous		Formed like, or resembling, a honeycomb.
favas		See Favus, n.,
favel	Obsolete	Yellow; fal Wright.
favella		A group of spores arranged without order and covered with a thin gelatinous envelope, as in certain delicate red algæ.
faveolate		Honeycomb; having cavities or cells, somewhat resembling those of a honeycomb; alveolate; favose.
favillous	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to ashes.
favonian		Pertaining to the west wind; soft; mild; gentle.
favor		Kind regard; propitious aspect; countenance; friendly disposition; kindness; good will.
favorable		Full of favor; favoring; manifesting partiality; kind; propitious; friendly.
favored		Countenanced; aided; regarded with kidness; as, a favored friend.
favoredly	Obsolete	In a favored or a favorable manner; favorably.
favoredness	Obsolete	Appearance.
favorer		One who favors; one who regards with kindness or friendship; a well-wisher; one who assists or promotes success or prosperity.
favoress		A woman who favors or gives countenance.
favoring		That favors. -- Fa"vor*ing*ly, adv.
favorite		A person or thing regarded with peculiar favor; one treated with partiality; one preferred above others; especially, one unduly loved, trusted, and enriched with favors by a person of high rank or authority.
favoritism		The disposition to favor and promote the interest of one person or family, or of one class of men, to the neglect of others having equal claims; partiality.
favorless		Unfavored; not regarded with favor; having no countenance or support.
favose		(Med.) Of or pertaining to the disease called favus.
favosite		Like or pertaining to the genus Favosites.
favosites		A genus of fossil corals abundant in the Silurian and Devonian rocks, having polygonal cells with perforated walls.
favus		(Med.) A disease of the scalp, produced by a vegetable parasite.
fawe	Obsolete	Fain; glad; delighted.
fawkner	Obsolete	A falconer.
fawn		(Zoöl.) A young deer; a buck or doe of the first year. See Buck.
fawn-colored		Of the color of a fawn; light yellowish brown.
fawner		One who fawns; a sycophant.
fawningly		In a fawning manner.
faxed	Obsolete	Hairy. amden.
fay	Obsolete	A fairy; an elf.
fayalite		A black, greenish, or brownish mineral of the chrysolite group.
fayence		See Fa — (a) A syllable applied to the fourth tone of the diatonic scale in solmization.
faytour	Obsolete	See Faitour — a doer or actor; particularly, an evil doer; a scoundrel.
faze		See Feeze — to turn, as a screw.
fazzolet		A handkerchief. percival.
