feaberry	English dialect	A gooseberry.	
feague	Obsolete	To beat or whip; to drive.	Dutch vegen, from Middle Dutch veghen.
feal	Obsolete	Faithful; loyal.	Middle English felen, from Old English felan.
fealty		Fidelity to one's lord; the feudal obligation by which the tenant or vassal was bound to be faithful to his lord; the special oath by which this obligation was assumed; fidelity to a superior power, or to a government; loyality.	Anglo-Norman fealté, from Latin fidelitas.
fear		A painful emotion or passion excited by the expectation of evil, or the apprehension of impending danger; apprehension; anxiety; solicitude; alarm; dread.	Middle English feren, from Old English færan.
fearer		One who fars.	
fearful		Full of fera, apprehension, or alarm; afraid; frightened.	
fearfully		In a fearful manner.	
fearfulness		The state of being fearful.	
fearless		Free from fear.	
fearnaught		A fearless person.	
fearsome	Scotch	Frightful; causing fear Scott 2.	
feasibility		The quality of being feasible; practicability; also, that which is feasible; as, before we adopt a plan, let us consider its feasibility.	Middle English faisible, from Anglo-Norman faisable.
feasible		Capable of being done, executed, or effected; practicable.	Old French faisable.
feast		A festival; a holiday; a solemn, or more commonly, a joyous, anniversary.	Middle English feesten.
feaster		One who fares deliciously.	
feastful		Festive; festal; joyful; sumptuous; luxurious. -- Feast"ful*ly, adv.	
feat	Obsolete	A striking act of strength, skill, or cunning; a trick; as, feats of horsemanship, or of dexterity.	
feat-bodied	Obsolete	Having a feat or trim body.	
feateous	Obsolete	Dexterous; neat.	
feather		One of the peculiar dermal appendages, of several kinds, belonging to birds, as contour feathers, quills, and down.	Middle English fether, from Old English feþer.
feather-brained	Colloquial	Giddy; frivolous; feather-headed.	
feather-edge		(Zoöl.) The thin, new growth around the edge of a shell, of an oyster.	
feather-edged		Having a feather-edge; also, having one edge thinner than the other, as a board; -- in the United States, said only of stuff one edge of which is made as thin as practicable.	
feather-few		Feverfew.	
feather-foil		An aquatic plant (Hottonia palustris), having finely divided leaves.	
feather-head	Colloquial	A frivolous or featherbrained person.	
feather-headed	Colloquial	Giddy; frivolous; foolish.	
feather-heeled	Colloquial	Light-heeled; gay; frisky; frolicsome.	
feather-pated	Colloquial	Feather-headed; frivolous.	
feather-veined		Having the veins (of a leaf) diverging from the two sides of a midrib.	
featherbone		A substitute for whalebone, made from the quills of geese and turkeys.	
feathered		Clothed, covered, or fitted with (or as with) feathers or wings; as, a feathered animal; a feathered arrow.	
featheriness		The state or condition of being feathery.	
feathering		The act of turning the blade of the oar, as it rises from the water in rowing, from a vertical to a horizontal position.	
featherless		Destitute of feathers.	
featherly	Obsolete	Like feathers.	
featherness		The state or condition of being feathery.	
featherstitch		A kind of embroidery stitch producing a branching zigzag line.	
feathery		Pertaining to, or resembling, feathers; covered with, or as with, feathers; as, feathery spray or snow.	
featly	Archaic	Neatly; dexterously; nimbly.	Middle English fetly.
featness	Archaic	Skill; adroitness.	
feature		The make, form, or outward appearance of a person; the whole turn or style of the body; esp., good appearance.	Anglo-Norman feture, from Old French faiture, from Latin factura.
featured		Shaped; fashioned.	
featureless		Having no distinct or distinctive features.	
featurely		Having features; showing marked peculiarities; handsome.	
feaze	Obsolete	To untwist; to unravel, as the end of a rope.	
feazings		The unlaid or ragged end of a rope.	
febricitate	Obsolete	To have a fever.	
febriculose	Obsolete	Somewhat feverish.	
febrifacient		Febrific.	
febriferous		Causing fever; as, a febriferous locality.	
febrific		Producing fever.	
febrifugal		Having the quality of mitigating or curing fever.	
febrifuge		A medicine serving to mitigate or remove fever. -- a.	French fébrifuge.
febrile		Pertaining to fever; indicating fever, or derived from it; as, febrile symptoms; febrile action.	Latin febrilis.
february		The second month in the year, said to have been introduced into the Roman calendar by Numa.	
februation	Obsolete	Purification; a sacrifice.	Latin februatio.
fecal		relating to, or containing, dregs, feces, or ordeure; fæcal.	
fecche	Obsolete	To fetch.	
feces		dregs; sediment; excrement. See FÆces.	Latin faeces.
fecial		Pertaining to heralds, declarations of war, and treaties of peace; as, fecial law.	
fecifork		The anal fork on which the larvæ of certain insects carry their fæces.	
feck	Scots	Efficacy; force; value.	
feckless	Scots	Spiritless; weak; worthless.	
fecklessness		absence of merit.	
fecks		A corruption of the word faith.	
fecula		Any pulverulent matter obtained from plants by simply breaking down the texture, washing with water, and subsidence.	Latin faecula.
feculence		The state or quality of being feculent; muddiness; foulness.	
feculency		Feculence.	
feculent		Foul with extraneous or impure substances; abounding with sediment or excrementitious matter; muddy; thick; turbid.	Latin faeculentus.
fecund		Fruitful in children; prolific.	Latin fecundus.
fecundate		To make fruitful or prolific.	
fecundation		The act by which, either in animals or plants, material prepared by the generative organs the female organism is brought in contact with matter from the organs of the male, so that a new organism results; impregnation…	
fecundify		To make fruitful; to fecundate.	
fecundity		The quality or power of producing fruit; fruitfulness; especially (Biol.), the quality in female organisms of reproducing rapidly and in great numbers.	Latin fecunditas.
fed		imp. & p. p. of Feed.	
fedary	Obsolete	A feodary.	
federal		Pertaining to a league or treaty; derived from an agreement or covenant between parties, especially between nations; constituted by a compact between parties, usually governments or their representatives.	French fédéral.
federalism		the principles of Federalists or of federal union.	
federalist		An advocate of confederation; specifically (Amer.	
federalize		To unite in compact, as different States; to confederate for political purposes; to unite by or under the Federal Constitution.	
federary	Obsolete	A partner; a confederate; an accomplice. hak.	
federate		United by compact, as sovereignties, states, or nations; joined in confederacy; leagued; confederate; as, federate nations.	
federation		The act of uniting in a league; confederation.	French fédération, from Latin foederatio.
federative		Uniting in a league; forming a confederacy; federal.	
fedity	Obsolete	Turpitude; vileness.	Latin foeditas.
fee		property; possession; tenure.	Middle English fee.
fee-faw-fum		A nonsensical exclamation attributed to giants and ogres; hence, any expression calculated to impose upon the timid and ignorant.	
feeble		Deficient in physical strenght; weak; infirm; debilitated.	Middle English feble, from Old French feble.
feeble-minded		Weak in intellectual power; wanting firmness or constancy; irresolute; vacilating; imbecile. 1 Thess. v. 14. -- Fee ed*ness, n.	
feebleness		The quality or condition of being feeble; debility; infirmity.	
feebly		In a feeble manner.	
feed		To give food to; to supply with nourishment; to satisfy the physical huger of.	Middle English feden, from Old English fedan.
feeder		One who, or that which, gives food or supplies nourishment; steward.	
feeding		the act of eating, or of supplying with food; the process of fattening.	
feejee		See Fijian — of or pertaining to the Fiji islands or their inhabitants. -- n.	
feel		To perceive by the touch; to take cognizance of by means of the nerves of sensation distributed all over the body, especially by those of the skin; to have sensation excited by contact of (a thing) with the body or limbs.	Middle English feele.
feeler		One who, or that which, feels.	
feeling		Possessing great sensibility; easily affected or moved; as, a feeling heart.	
feelingly		In a feeling manner; pathetically; sympathetically.	
feere	Obsolete	A consort, husband or wife; a companion; a fere.	
feese	Obsolete	the short run before a leap.	
feet	Obsolete	See Foot — (Anat.) The terminal part of the leg of man or an animal; esp., the part below the ankle or wrist; that part of an animal upon which it rests when standing, or moves.	
feetless		Destitute of feet; as, feetless birds.	
feeze	Scots	To turn, as a screw.	Old English fesian.
fehling		See Fehling's solution, under Solution.	
fehm		Same as Vehm, Vehmgericht.	
fehmgericht		Same as Vehm, Vehmgericht.	
fehmic		See Vehmic — of, pertaining to, or designating, certain secret tribunals flourished in Germany from the end of the 12th century to the middle of the 16th…	
feign		To give a mental existence to, as to something not real or actual; to imagine; to invent; hence, to pretend; to form and relate as if true.	Old French feindre, from Latin fingere.
feigned		Not real or genuine; pretended; counterfeit; insincere; false.	
feigner		One who feigns or pretends.	
feigning		That feigns; insincere; not genuine; false. -- Feign"ing*ly, adv.	
feine	Obsolete	To feign.	
feint		That which is feigned; an assumed or false appearance; a pretense; a stratagem; a fetch.	French feint, from Old French feindre, from Latin fingere.
feitsui		The Chinese name for a highly prized variety of pale green jade. See Jade.	
feize		See Feeze, v. t.	
felanders		See Filanders — a disease in hawks, characterized by the presence of small threadlike worms, also of filaments of coagulated blood, from the rupture of a vein; -- called also backworm.	
feldspar		A name given to a group of minerals, closely related in crystalline form, and all silicates of alumina with either potash, soda, lime, or, in one case, baryta.	
feldspath		A name given to a group of minerals, closely related in crystalline form, and all silicates of alumina with either potash, soda, lime, or, in one case, baryta.	
feldspathic		Pertaining to, or consisting of, feldspar.	
feldspathose		Pertaining to, or consisting of, feldspar.	
felicify	Obsolete	To make happy; to felicitate.	
felicitate		To make very happy; to delight.	
felicitation		The act of felicitating; a wishing of joy or happiness; congratulation.	
felicitous		Characterized by felicity; happy; prosperous; delightful; skilful; successful; happily applied or expressed; appropriate.	Latin felicitas.
felicity		The state of being happy; blessedness; blissfulness; enjoyment of good.	Latin felicitas.
feline		(Zoöl.) Catlike; of or pertaining to the genus Felis, or family Felidæ; as, the feline race; feline voracity.	Latin felinus.
felis		A genus of carnivorous mammals, including the domestic cat, the lion, tiger, panther, and similar animals.	
fell		imp. of Fall — to descend, either suddenly or gradually; particularly, to descend by the force of gravity; to drop; to sink; as, the apple falls; the tide falls; the mercury falls in the barometer.	Middle English fellen, from Old English fellan.
fellable		Fit to be felled.	
fellah		A peasant or cultivator of the soil among the Egyptians, Syrians, etc. W.	
feller		One who, or that which, fells, knocks or cuts down; a machine for felling trees.	
fellfare		The fieldfare.	
fellifluous		Flowing with gall.	
fellinic		Of, relating to, or derived from, bile or gall; as, fellinic acid.	Latin fel.
fellmonger		A dealer in fells or sheepskins, who separates the wool from the pelts.	
fellness		The quality or state of being fell or cruel; fierce barbarity.	
felloe		See Felly.	Middle English felwe.
fellon	Obsolete	Variant of Felon.	
fellow		A man without good breeding or worth; an ignoble or mean man.	Old Norse fēlagi.
fellow-commoner		A student at Cambridge University, England, who commons, or dines, at the Fellow's table.	
fellow-creature		One of the same race or kind; one made by the same Creator.	
fellow-feeling		Sympathy; a like feeling.	
fellowfeel		To share through sympathy; to participate in.	
fellowless		Without fellow or equal; peerless.	
fellowlike	Obsolete	Like a companion; companionable; on equal terms; sympathetic.	
fellowly	Obsolete	Fellowlike.	Middle English felawlich.
fellowship		Companionship of persons on equal and friendly terms; frequent and familiar intercourse.	
felo-de-se		One who deliberately puts an end to his own existence, or loses his life while engaged in the commission of an unlawful or malicious act; a suicide.	Latin felo.
felon		(Law) A person who has committed a felony.	Middle English felun.
felonious		Having the quality of felony; malignant; malicious; villainous; traitorous; perfidious; in a legal sense, done with intent to commit a crime; as, felonious homicide.	
felonous	Obsolete	Wicked; felonious.	
felonry		A body of felons; specifically, the convict population of a penal colony.	
felonwort		The bittersweet nightshade (Solanum Dulcamara). See Bittersweet.	
felony		(Feudal Law) An act on the part of the vassal which cost him his fee by forfeiture.	Old French felonie.
felsite		A finegrained rock, flintlike in fracture, consisting essentially of orthoclase feldspar with occasional grains of quartz.	
felsitic		relating to, composed of, or containing, felsite.	
felspar		See Feldspar — a name given to a group of minerals, closely related in crystalline form, and all silicates of alumina with either potash, soda, lime, or, in one case, baryta.	
felspath		See Feldspar — a name given to a group of minerals, closely related in crystalline form, and all silicates of alumina with either potash, soda, lime, or, in one case, baryta.	
felspathic		See Feldspathic — pertaining to, or consisting of, feldspar.	
felstone		See Felsite — a finegrained rock, flintlike in fracture, consisting essentially of orthoclase feldspar with occasional grains of quartz.	German Feldstein.
felt		A cloth or stuff made of matted fibers of wool, or wool and fur, fulled or wrought into a compact substance by rolling and pressure, with lees or size, without spinning or weaving.	Old English feled.
felter		To clot or mat together like felt.	
felting		The material of which felt is made; also, felted cloth; also, the process by which it is made.	
feltry	Obsolete	See Felt, n.	Old French feltre.
felucca		A small, swift-sailing vessel, propelled by oars and lateen sails, -- once common in the Mediterranean.	Italian feluca, from Arabic فلوكة.
felwort		A European herb (Swertia perennis) of the Gentian family.	
female		An individual of the sex which conceives and brings forth young, or (in a wider sense) which has an ovary and produces ova.	Old French femele, from Latin femella.
femalist	Obsolete	A gallant.	
femalize		To make, or to describe as, female or feminine.	
feme		A woman.	
femeral		See Femerell — a lantern, or louver covering, placed on a roof, for ventilation or escape of smoke.	
femerell		A lantern, or louver covering, placed on a roof, for ventilation or escape of smoke.	
feminal	Obsolete	Feminine.	
feminality		Feminity.	
feminate	Obsolete	Feminine.	
femineity		Womanliness; femininity.	
feminine		Of or pertaining to a woman, or to women; characteristic of a woman; womanish; womanly.	Latin féminin.
femininely		In a feminine manner.	
feminineness		The quality of being feminine; womanliness; womanishness.	
femininity		The quality or nature of the female sex; womanliness.	Latin femina.
feminity	Obsolete	Womanliness; femininity.	Old French feminité.
feminization		The act of feminizing, or the state of being feminized.	
feminize		To make womanish or effeminate.	
feminye	Obsolete	The people called Amazons.	Old French femenie.
femme		A woman. See Feme, n.	
femoral		Pertaining to the femur or thigh; as, the femoral artery.	
femur		(a) The thigh bone. (b) The proximal segment of the hind limb containing the thigh bone; the thigh.	Latin femur.
fen	English dialect	Low land overflowed, or covered wholly or partially with water, but producing sedge, coarse grasses, or other aquatic plants; boggy land; moor; marsh.	Old English fenn.
fen-sucked		Sucked out of marches.	
fence		That which fends off attack or danger; a defense; a protection; a cover; security; shield.	
fenceful	Obsolete	Affording defense; defensive.	
fenceless		Without a fence; uninclosed; open; unguarded; defenseless.	
fencer		One who fences; one who teaches or practices the art of fencing with sword or foil.	
fenci-ble	Obsolete	Capable of being defended, or of making or affording defense.	
fencible		A soldier enlisted for home service only; -- usually in the pl.	
fencing		The art or practice of attack and defense with the sword, esp. with the s,allword.	
fend	Obsolete	A fiend.	Middle English fenden.
fender		One who or that which defends or protects by warding off harm; as: (a) A screen to prevent coals or sparks of an open fire from escaping to the floor.	
fendliche	Obsolete	Fiendlike.	
fenerate	Obsolete	To put money to usury; to lend on interest.	Latin feneratus.
feneration	Obsolete	The act of fenerating; interest.	Latin faenerationem.
fenes-tella		Any small windowlike opening or recess, esp. one to show the relics within an altar, or the like.	
fenestra		A small opening; esp., one of the apertures, closed by membranes, between the tympanum and internal ear.	
fenestral		(Arch.) Pertaining to a window or to windows.	
fenestrate		Having numerous openings; irregularly reticulated; as, fenestrate membranes; fenestrate fronds.	Latin fenestro.
fenestrated		(Arch.) Having windows; characterized by windows.	Latin fenestro.
fenestration		(Arch.) The arrangement and proportioning of windows; -- used by modern writers for the decorating of an architectural composition by means of the window (and door) openings, their ornaments, and proportions.	Latin fenestratio.
fenestrule		One of the openings in a fenestrated structure.	
feng-hwang		A pheasantlike bird of rich plumage and graceful form and movement, fabled to appear in the land on the accession of a sage to the throne, or when right principles are about to prevail.	
feng-shui		A system of spirit influences for good and evil believed by the Chinese to attend the natural features of landscape; also, a kind of geomancy dealing with these influences, used in determining sites for graves, houses, etc.	
fengite		A kind of marble or alabaster, sometimes used for windows on account of its transparency.	
fenian		A member of a secret organization, consisting mainly of Irishment, having for its aim the overthrow of English rule in ireland.	
fenianism		The principles, purposes, and methods of the Fenians.	
fenks		The refuse whale blubber, used as a manure, and in the manufacture of Prussian blue.	
fennec		A small, African, foxlike animal (Vulpes zerda) of a pale fawn color, remarkable for the large size of its ears.	Arabic فنك.
fennel		A perennial plant of the genus Fæniculum (F.vulgare), having very finely divided leaves.	
fennish		Abounding in fens; fenny.	
fenny		Pertaining to, or inhabiting, a fen; abounding in fens; swampy; boggy.	Old English fennig.
fenowed	Obsolete	Corrupted; decayed; moldy. See Vinnewed.	Middle English fenowed.
fensi-ble	Obsolete	Fencible.	
fenugreek		A plant (trigonella Foenum Græcum) cultivated for its strong- smelling seeds, which are Smith (Pop.	
feod		A feud. See 2d Feud.	
feodal		Feudal. See Feudal.	
feodality		Feudal tenure; the feudal system. See Feudality.	
feodary		(Eng. Law) An ancient officer of the court of wards.	
feodatory		See Feudatory — a tenant or vassal who held his lands of a superior on condition of feudal service; the tenant of a feud or fief.	
feoffee		The person to whom a feoffment is made; the person enfeoffed.	
feoffer		One who enfeoffs or grants a fee.	
feoffment	Obsolete	(a) The grant of a feud or fee. (b) (Eng. Law) A gift or conveyance in fee of land or other corporeal hereditaments, accompanied by actual delivery of possession.	Old French feoffement.
feofor		One who enfeoffs or grants a fee.	
fer-de-lance		A large, venomous serpent (Trigonocephalus lanceolatus) of Brazil and the West Indies.	
feracious		Fruitful; producing abudantly.	Latin ferax.
feracity	Obsolete	The state of being feracious or fruitful.	Latin feracitas.
ferae		A group of mammals which formerly included the Carnivora, Insectivora, Marsupialia, and lemurs, but is now often restricted to the Carnivora.	
feral		Wild; untamed; ferine; not domesticated; -- said of beasts, birds, and plants. feral child, not raised by humans Funereal; deadly; fatal; dangerous.	Latin ferus.
ferde		imp. of Fare — to be in any state, or pass through any experience, good or bad; to be attended with any circummstances or train of events, fortunate or unfortunate; as, he fared well, or ill.	
ferding	Obsolete	A measure of land mentioned in Domesday Book.	
ferdness	Obsolete	Fearfulness.	
fere	Obsolete	A mate or companion; -- often used of a wife.	
feretory		A portable bier or shrine, variously adorned, used for containing relics of saints.	
ferforth	Obsolete	Far forth.	
ferforthly	Obsolete	Ferforth.	
fergusonite		A mineral of a brownish black color, essentially a tantalo- niobate of yttrium, erbium, and cerium; -- so called after Robert Ferguson.	
feria		A week day, esp. a day which is neither a festival nor a fast.	
ferial		Belonging to any week day, esp. to a day that is neither a festival nor a fast.	
feriation	Obsolete	The act of keeping holiday; cessation from work.	
ferie	Obsolete	A holiday.	Old French ferie.
ferier	Obsolete	, compar. of Fere, fierce.	
ferine		Wild; untamed; savage; as, lions, tigers, wolves, and bears are ferine beasts.	Latin ferinus.
feringee		The name given to Europeans by the Hindos.	
ferity	Obsolete	Wildness; savageness; fierceness.	Latin feritatem.
ferly	Obsolete	Singular; wonderful; extraordinary. -- n.	Middle English ferli.
ferm	Obsolete	Rent for a farm; a farm; also, an abode; a place of residence; as, he let his land to ferm.	
fermacy	Obsolete	Medicine; pharmacy.	
ferme	Obsolete	Rent for a farm; a farm; also, an abode; a place of residence; as, he let his land to ferm.	
ferment		That which causes fermentation, as yeast, barm, or fermenting beer.	Latin fermentare.
fermentability		Capability of fermentation.	
fermentable		Capable of fermentation; as, cider and other vegetable liquors are fermentable.	
fermental	Obsolete	Fermentative.	
fermentation		The process of undergoing an effervescent change, as by the action of yeast; in a wider sense (Physiol. Chem.), the transformation of an organic substance into new compounds by the action of a ferment…	
fermentative		Causing, or having power to cause, fermentation; produced by fermentation; fermenting; as, a fermentative process. -- Fer*ment a*tive*ness, n.	
fermerere	Obsolete	The officer in a religious house who had the care of the infirmary.	Old French enfermerier.
fermeture		The mechanism for closing the breech of a breech-loading firearm, in artillery consisting principally of the breechblock, obturator, and carrier ring.	
fermillet	Obsolete	A buckle or clasp.	
fern	Obsolete	Long ago.	Old English fearn.
fernery		A place for rearing ferns.	
fernticle	English dialect	A freckle on the skin, resembling the seed of fern.	
ferny		Abounding in ferns.	
ferocious		Fierce; savage; wild; indicating cruelty; ravenous; rapacious; as, ferocious look or features; a ferocious lion.	Latin ferox.
ferocity		Savage wildness or fierceness; fury; cruelty; as, ferocity of countenance.	Latin ferox.
feroher		A symbol of the solar deity, found on monuments exhumed in Babylon, Nineveh, etc.	
ferous		Wild; savage.	Latin ferus.
ferrandine		A stuff made of silk and wool.	
ferrara		A sword bearing the mark of one of the Ferrara family of Italy.	
ferrarese		Pertaining to Ferrara, in Italy. -- n., sing. & pl. A citizen of Ferrara; collectively, the inhabitants of Ferrara.	
ferrary	Obsolete	The art of working in iron.	
ferrate		A salt of ferric acid.	
ferre		compar. of Fer.	
ferreous	Obsolete	Partaking of, made of, or pertaining to, iron; like iron.	
ferrer		compar. of Fer.	
ferrest		superl. of Fer.	
ferret		An animal of the Weasel family (Mustela or Putorius furo), about fourteen inches in length, of a pale yellow or white color, with red eyes.	Middle English furet.
ferret-eye		The spur-winged goose; -- so called from the red circle around the eyes.	
ferreter		One who ferrets.	
ferretto		Copper sulphide, used to color glass.	Italian ferretto di Spagna.
ferri-		A combining form indicating ferric iron as an ingredient; as, ferricyanide.	
ferriage		The price or fare to be paid for passage at a ferry.	
ferric		Pertaining to, derived from, or containing iron. Specifically (Chem.), denoting those compounds in which iron has a higher valence than in the ferrous compounds; as, ferric oxide; ferric acid.	Latin ferricus.
ferricyanate		A salt of ferricyanic acid; a ferricyanide.	
ferricyanic		Pertaining to, or derived from, a ferricyanide.	
ferricyanide		One of a complex series of double cyanides of ferric iron and some other base.	
ferrier		A ferryman.	
ferriferous		Producing or yielding iron.	
ferriprussiate		A ferricyanate; a ferricyanide.	
ferriprussic		Ferricyanic.	
ferro-		A prefix, or combining form, indicating ferrous iron as an ingredient; as, ferrocyanide.	Latin ferrum.
ferro-concrete		Concrete strengthened by a core or foundation skeleton of iron or steel bars, strips, etc. Floors, columns, piles, water pipes, etc., have been successfully made of it.	
ferrocalcite		Limestone containing a large percentage of iron carbonate, and hence turning brown on exposure.	
ferrocyanate		A salt of ferrocyanic acid; a ferrocyanide.	
ferrocyanic		Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, a ferrocyanide. ferrocyanic acid (Chem.), a white crystalline substance, H4(CN)6Fe, of strong acid properties, obtained from potassium ferrocyanide…	
ferrocyanide		One of a series of complex double cyanides of ferrous iron and some other base.	
ferroprussiate		A ferrocyanate; a ferocyanide.	
ferroprussic		Ferrocyanic.	
ferroso-		See Ferro- — a prefix, or combining form, indicating ferrous iron as an ingredient; as, ferrocyanide.	
ferrotype		A photographic picture taken on an iron plate by a collodion process; -- familiarly called tintype.	
ferrous		Pertaining to, or derived from, iron; -- especially used of compounds of iron in which the iron has its lower valence; as, ferrous sulphate.	Latin ferrum.
ferruginated		Having the color or properties of the rust of iron.	
ferrugineous		Ferruginous.	
ferruginous		Partaking of iron; containing particles of iron.	
ferrugo		A disease of plants caused by fungi, commonly called the rust, from its resemblance to iron rust in color.	
ferrule		A ring or cap of metal put round a cane, tool, handle, or other similar object, to strengthen it, or prevent splitting and wearing.	
ferruminate		To solder or unite, as metals.	Latin ferruminatus.
ferrumination		The soldering ir uniting of me Coleridge.	
ferry		To carry or transport over a river, strait, or other narrow water, in a boat.	Middle English ferien, from Old English ferian.
ferryboat		A vessel for conveying passengers, merchandise, etc., across streams and other narrow waters.	
ferryman		One who maintains or attends a ferry.	
fertile		Producing fruit or vegetation in abundance; fruitful; able to produce abundantly; prolific; fecund; productive; rich; inventive; as, fertile land or fields; a fertile mind or imagination.	
fertilely		In a fertile or fruitful manner.	
fertileness		Fertility.	
fertilitate		To fertilize; to fecundate.	
fertility		The state or quality of being fertile or fruitful; fruitfulness; productiveness; fecundity; richness; abundance of resources; fertile invention; quickness; readiness; as, the fertility of soil, or of imagination.	
fertilization		The act or process of rendering fertile.	
fertilize		To make fertile or enrich; to supply with nourishment for plants; to make fruitful or productive; as, to fertilize land, soil, ground, and meadows.	
fertilizer		One who fertilizes; the agent that carries the fertilizing principle, as a moth to an orchid.	
ferula		The imperial scepter in the Byzantine or Eastern Empire.	
ferulaceous		Pertaining to reeds and canes; having a stalk like a reed; as, ferulaceous plants.	Latin ferulaceus.
ferular	Obsolete	A ferule.	
ferule		A flat piece of wood, used for striking, children, esp. on the hand, in punishment.	
ferulic		Pertaining to, or derived from, asafetida (Ferula asafoetida); as, ferulic acid.	
fervence	Obsolete	Heat; fervency.	
fervency		The state of being fervent or warm; ardor; warmth of feeling or devotion; eagerness.	
fervent		Hot; glowing; boiling; burning; as, a fervent summer.	
fervescent		Growing hot.	
fervid		Very hot; burning; boiling.	Latin fervidus.
fervor		Heat; excessive warmth.	
fescennine		Pertaining to, or resembling, the Fescennines. -- n.	Latin Fescenninus.
fescue		A straw, wire, stick, etc., used chiefly to point out letters to children when learning to read.	
fesels	Obsolete	See Phasel — the french bean, or kidney bean.	
fess		A band drawn horizontally across the center of an escutcheon, and containing in breadth the third part of it; one of the nine honorable ordinaries.	Old French fesse.
fesse		A band drawn horizontally across the center of an escutcheon, and containing in breadth the third part of it; one of the nine honorable ordinaries.	
fessitude	Obsolete	Weariness.	
fesswise		In the manner of fess.	
fest	Obsolete	The fist.	German Festival.
festal		Of or pertaining to a holiday or a feast; joyous; festive.	
festally		Joyously; festively; mirthfully.	
feste	Obsolete	A feast.	
festennine		A fescennine.	
fester		To generate pus; to become imflamed and suppurate; as, a sore or a wound festers.	French festre, from Latin fistula.
festerment		A festering.	
festeye	Obsolete	To feast; to entertain.	
festi-val		A time of feasting or celebration; an anniversary day of joy, civil or religious.	
festinate	Obsolete	Hasty; hurried. -- Fes"ti*nate*ly, adv.	Latin festinatus.
festination	Obsolete	Haste; hurry.	
festival		Pertaining to a fest; festive; festal; appropriate to a festival; joyous; mirthful.	Latin festivalis.
festive		Pertaining to, or becoming, a feast; festal; joyous; gay; mirthful; sportive. -- Fes"tive*ly, adv.	
festivity		The condition of being festive; social joy or exhilaration of spirits at an entertaintment; joyfulness; gayety.	
festivous		Pertaining to a feast; festive.	
festlich	Obsolete	Festive; fond of festive occasions.	
festoon		A garland or wreath hanging in a depending curve, used in decoration for festivals, etc.; anything arranged in this way.	French feston, from Italian festone.
festoony		Pertaining to, consisting of, or resembling, festoons.	
festucine	Obsolete	Of a straw color; greenish yellow.	
festucous	Obsolete	Formed or consisting of straw.	
festue	Obsolete	A straw; a fescue.	
fet	Obsolete	A piece.	Old English fetian.
fetal		Pertaining to, or connected with, a fetus; as, fetal circulation; fetal membranes.	
fetation		The formation of a fetus in the womb; pregnancy.	
fetch		To bear toward the person speaking, or the person or thing from whose point of view the action is contemplated; to go and bring; to get.	Middle English fecchen, from Old English feccan.
fetcher		One wo fetches or brings.	
fetich		A material object supposed among certain African tribes to represent in such a way, or to be so connected with, a supernatural being, that the possession of it gives to the possessor power to control that being.	
fetichism		Excessive devotion to one object or one idea; abject superstition; blind adoration.	
fetichist		A believer in fetiches.	
fetichistic		Pertaining to, or involving, fetichism.	
feticide		The act of killing the fetus in the womb; the offense of procuring an abortion.	
feticism		See Fetichism — excessive devotion to one object or one idea; abject superstition; blind adoration.	
fetid		Having an offensive smell; stinking.	
fetidity		Fetidness.	
fetidness		The quality or state of being fetid.	
fetiferous		Producing young, as animals.	
fetis	Obsolete	Neat; pretty; well made; graceful.	Old French fetis.
fetisely	Obsolete	Neatly; gracefully; properly.	
fetish		A material object supposed among certain African tribes to represent in such a way, or to be so connected with, a supernatural being, that the possession of it gives to the possessor power to control that being.	French fétiche, from Portuguese feitiço, from Latin facticius.
fetishism		Excessive devotion to one object or one idea; abject superstition; blind adoration.	
fetishist		A believer in fetiches.	
fetishistic		Pertaining to, or involving, fetichism.	
fetlock		The cushionlike projection, bearing a tuft of long hair, on the back side of the leg above the hoof of the horse and similar animals.	
fetor		A strong, offensive smell; stench; fetidness.	
fette	Obsolete	To fetch.	
fetter		A chain or shackle for the feet; a chain by which an animal is confined by the foot, either made fast or disabled from free and rapid motion; a bond; a shackle. bound him with fetters of brass.	Old English feter.
fettered		Seeming as if fettered, as the feet pf certain animals which bend backward, and appear unfit for walking.	
fetterer		One who fetters.	
fetterless		Free from fetters.	
fettle	English dialect	(Metal.) To cover or line with a mixture of ore, cinders, etc., as the hearth of a puddling furnace.	Old English fetel.
fettling		(Metal.) A mixture of ore, cinders, etc., used to line the hearth of a puddling furnace.	
fetuous	Obsolete	Neat; feat.	
fetus		The young or embryo of an animal in the womb, or in the egg; often restricted to the later stages in the development of viviparous and oviparous animals, embryo being applied to the earlier stages.	Latin fetus.
fetwah		A written decision of a Turkish mufti on some point of law.	
feu		A free and gratuitous right to lands made to one for service to be performed by him; a tenure where the vassal, in place of military services, makes a return in grain or in money.	
feuar		One who holds a feu.	
feud		A combination of kindred to avenge injuries or affronts, done or offered to any of their blood, on the offender and all his race.	Latin feodum.
feudal		Of or pertaining to feuds, fiefs, or feels; as, feudal rights or services; feudal tenures.	Latin feudalis.
feudalism		The feudal system; a system by which the holding of estates in land is made dependent upon an obligation to render military service to the kind or feudal superior; feudal principles and usages.	
feudalist		An upholder of feudalism.	
feudality		The state or quality of being feudal; feudal form or constitution.	
feudalization		The act of reducing to feudal tenure.	
feudalize		To reduce toa feudal tenure; to conform to feudalism.	
feudally		In a feudal manner.	
feudary		Held by, or pertaining to, feudal tenure.	
feudatary		See Feudatory — a tenant or vassal who held his lands of a superior on condition of feudal service; the tenant of a feud or fief.	
feudatory		A tenant or vassal who held his lands of a superior on condition of feudal service; the tenant of a feud or fief.	
feudist		A writer on feuds; a person versed in feudal law.	
feuillants		A reformed branch of the Bernardines, founded in 1577 at Feuillans, near Toulouse, in France.	
feuillemort		Having the color of a faded leaf.	
feuilleton		A part of a French newspaper (usually the bottom of the page), devoted to light literature, criticism, etc.; also, the article or tale itself, thus printed.	
feuilltonist		A writer of feuilletons.	
feuter		To set close; to fix in rest, as a spear.	
feuterer	Obsolete	A dog keeper.	
fever		(Med.) A diseased state of the system, marked by increased heat, acceleration of the pulse, and a general derangement of the functions, including usually, thirst and loss of appetite.	
feveret	Obsolete	A slight fever.	
feverfew		A perennial plant (Pyrethrum, or Chrysanthemum, Parthenium) allied to camomile, having finely divided leaves and white blossoms; -- so named from its supposed febrifugal qualities.	
feverish		Having a fever; suffering from, or affected with, a moderate degree of fever; showing increased heat and thirst; as, the patient is feverish.	
feverous		Affected with fever or ague; feverish.	
feverously	Obsolete	Feverishly.	
feverwort		See Fever root, under Fever.	
fevery	Obsolete	Feverish.	
few		Not many; small, limited, or confined in number; -- indicating a small portion of units or individuals constituing a whole; often, by ellipsis of a noun, a few people.	Middle English fewe, from Old English feaw.
fewmet	Obsolete	See Fumet — the dung of deer.	
fewness		The state of being few; smallness of number; paucity.	
fey	Obsolete	Fated; doomed.	Middle English fey, from Old English fæge.
feyne	Obsolete	To feign.	
feyre	Obsolete	A fair or market.	
fez		A felt or cloth cap, usually red and having a tassel, -- a variety of the tarboosh.	Turkish fes.
