fiacre		A kind of French hackney coach.	French fiacre.
fiance	Obsolete	To betroth; to affiance.	
fiancee		A betrothed woman.	
fiants		The dung of the fox, wolf, boar, or badger.	
fiar		(Scots Law) One in whom the property of an estate is vested, subject to the estate of a life renter.	
fiasco		A complete or ridiculous failure, esp. of a musical performance, or of any pretentious undertaking.	Italian fiasco, from Latin flasca.
fiat		An authoritative command or order to do something; an effectual decree.	Latin fiat.
fiaunt	Obsolete	Commission; fiat; order; decree.	
fib	Colloquial	A falsehood; a lie; -- used euphemistically.	
fibber		One who tells fibs.	
fiber		One of the delicate, threadlike portions of which the tissues of plants and animals are in part constituted; as, the fiber of flax or of muscle.	French fibre, from Old French fibre, from Latin fibra.
fiber-faced		Having a visible fiber embodied in the surface of; -- applied esp. to a kind of paper for checks, drafts, etc.	
fibered		Having fibers; made up of fibers.	
fiberless		Having no fibers; destitute of fibers or fiber.	
fibre		One of the delicate, threadlike portions of which the tissues of plants and animals are in part constituted; as, the fiber of flax or of muscle.	French fibre, from Old French fibre, from Latin fibra.
fibre-faced		Having a visible fiber embodied in the surface of; -- applied esp. to a kind of paper for checks, drafts, etc.	
fibred		Having fibers; made up of fibers.	
fibreless		Having no fibers; destitute of fibers or fiber.	
fibriform		Having the form of a fiber or fibers; resembling a fiber.	
fibril		A small fiber; the branch of a fiber; a very slender thread; a fibrilla.	
fibrilla		A minute thread of fiber, as one of the fibrous elements of a muscular fiber; a fibril.	
fibrillar		Of or pertaining to fibrils or fibers; as, fibrillar twitchings.	
fibrillary		Of of pertaining to fibrils.	
fibrillated		Furnished with fibrils; fringed.	
fibrillation		The state of being reduced to fibers.	Latin fibrilla.
fibrillose		Covered with hairlike appendages, as the under surface of some lichens; also, composed of little strings or fibers; as, fibrillose appendages.	
fibrillous		Pertaining to, or composed of, fibers.	
fibrin		A white, albuminous, fibrous substance, formed in the coagulation of the blood either by decomposition of fibrinogen, or from the union of fibrinogen and paraglobulin which exist separately in the blood.	
fibrination		The state of acquiring or having an excess of fibrin.	
fibrine		Belonging to the fibers of plants.	
fibrinogen		An albuminous substance existing in the blood, and in other animal fluids, which either alone or with fibrinoplastin or paraglobulin forms fibrin, and thus causes coagulation.	
fibrinogenous		Possessed of properties similar to fibrinogen; capable of forming fibrin.	
fibrinoplastic		Like fibrinoplastin; capable of forming fibrin when brought in contact with fibrinogen.	
fibrinoplastin		An albuminous substance, existing in the blood, which in combination with fibrinogen forms fibrin; -- called also paraglobulin.	
fibrinous		Having, or partaking of the properties of, fibrin; as, fibrious exudation.	
fibrocartilage		A kind of cartilage with a fibrous matrix and approaching fibrous connective tissue in structure. -- Fi`bro*car`ti*lag"i*nous, a.	
fibrochondrosteal		Partly fibrous, partly cartilaginous, and partly osseous.	
fibroid		Resembling or forming fibrous tissue; made up of fibers; as, fibroid tumors. -- n.	
fibroin		A variety of gelatin; the chief ingredient of raw silk, extracted as a white amorphous mass.	
fibrolite		A silicate of alumina, of fibrous or columnar structure.	
fibroma		A tumor consisting mainly of fibrous tissue, or of same modification of such tissue.	
fibrospongiae		An order of sponges having a fibrous skeleton, including the commercial sponges.	
fibrous		Containing, or consisting of, fibers; as, the fibrous coat of the cocoanut; the fibrous roots of grasses. -- Fi"brous*ness, n.	
fibrovascular		Containing woody fiber and ducts, as the stems of all flowering plants and ferns; -- opposed to cellular.	
fibster		One who tells fibs.	
fibu-lar		Pertaining to the fibula.	
fibula		A brooch, clasp, or buckle.	Latin fibula.
fibulare		The bone or cartilage of the tarsus, which articulates with the fibula, and corresponds to the calcaneum in man and most mammals.	
fice		A small dog; -- written also fise, fyce, fiste, etc.	
fiche		See FitchÉ.	
fichtelite		A white crystallized mineral resin from the Fichtelgebirge, Bavaria.	
fichu		A light cape, usually of lace, worn by women, to cover the neck and throat, and extending to the shoulders.	French fichu.
fickle		Not fixed or firm; liable to change; unstable; of a changeable mind; not firm in opinion or purpose; inconstant; capricious; as, Fortune's fickle wheel.	Middle English fikelen.
fickleness		The quality of being fickle; instability; inconsonancy.	
fickly	Obsolete	In a fickle manner.	
fico		A fig; an insignificant trifle, no more than the snap of one's thumb; a sign of contempt made by the fingers, expressing.	
fictile		Molded, or capable of being molded, into form by art; relating to pottery or to molding in any soft material.	Latin fictilus.
fiction		The act of feigning, inventing, or imagining; as, by a mere fiction of the mind.	Latin fictionem.
fictional		Pertaining to, or characterized by, fiction; fictitious; romantic.	
fictionist		A writer of fiction.	
fictious		Fictitious.	
fictitious		Feigned; imaginary; not real; fabulous; counterfeit; false; not genuine; as, fictitious fame.	
fictive		Feigned; counterfeit.	
fictor		An artist who models or forms statues and reliefs in any plastic material.	
ficus		A genus of trees or shrubs, one species of which (F.	Latin ficus.
fid		(Naut.) A square bar of wood or iron, used to support the topmast, being passed through a hole or mortise at its heel, and resting on the trestle trees.	
fidalgo		The lowest title of nobility in Portugal, corresponding to that of Hidalgo in Spain.	
fiddle		(Mus.) A stringed instrument of music played with a bow; a violin; a kit.	Middle English fithele, from Old English fiðele.
fiddle-faddle	Colloquial	A trifle; trifling talk; nonsense.	
fiddle-shaped		Inversely ovate, with a deep hollow on each side.	
fiddledeedee	Colloquial	An exclamatory word or phrase, equivalent to nonsense!	
fiddler		One who plays on a fiddle or violin.	
fiddlestick		The bow, strung with horsehair, used in playing the fiddle; a fiddle bow.	
fiddlestring		One of the catgut strings of a fiddle.	
fiddlewood		The wood of several West Indian trees, mostly of the genus Citharexylum.	
fidejussion		The act or state of being bound as surety for another; suretyship.	Latin fidejussio.
fidejussor		A surety; one bound for another, conjointly with him; a guarantor.	
fidelity		Faithfulness; adherence to right; careful and exact observance of duty, or discharge of obligations.	
fides		Faith personified as a goddess; the goddess of faith.	
fidge		See Fidget — to move uneasily one way and the other; to move irregularly, or by fits and starts.	
fidget		To move uneasily one way and the other; to move irregularly, or by fits and starts.	
fidgetiness		Quality of being fidgety.	
fidgety		Restless; uneasy.	
fidia		A genus of small beetles, of which one species (the grapevine Fidia, F. longipes) is very injurious to vines in America.	
fidicinal		Of or pertaining to a stringed instrument.	Latin fidicinus.
fiducial		Having faith or trust; confident; undoubting; firm.	Latin fiducialis.
fiducially		With confidence.	
fiduciary		Involving confidence or trust; confident; undoubting; faithful; firm; as, in a fiduciary capacity.	Latin fiduciarius.
fie		An exclamation denoting contempt or dislike. See Fy.	Latin fi.
fief		An estate held of a superior on condition of military service; a fee; a feud.	Old French fief.
field		Cleared land; land suitable for tillage or pasture; cultivated ground; the open country.	Middle English field.
fielded	Obsolete	Engaged in the field; encamped.	
fielden	Obsolete	Consisting of fields.	
fielder		A ball payer who stands out in the field to catch or stop balls.	
fieldfare		a small thrush (Turdus pilaris) which breeds in northern Europe and winters in Great Britain.	
fielding		The act of playing as a fielder.	
fieldpiece		A cannon mounted on wheels, for the use of a marching army; a piece of field artillery; -- called also field gun.	
fieldwork		Any temporary fortification thrown up by an army in the field; -- commonly in the plural.	
fieldy	Obsolete	Open, like a field.	
fiend		An implacable or malicious foe; one who is diabolically wicked or cruel; an infernal being; -- applied specifically to the devil or a demon.	Middle English feend, from Old English feond.
fiendful		Full of fiendish spirit or arts.	
fiendish		Like a fiend; diabolically wicked or cruel; infernal; malignant; devilish; hellish. -- Fiend ish*ness, n.	
fiendlike		Fiendish; diabolical.	
fiendly	Obsolete	Fiendlike; monstrous; devilish.	Old English feondlic.
fierasfer		A genus of small, slender fishes, remarkable for their habit of living as commensals in other animals.	
fierce		Furious; violent; unrestrained; impetuous; as, a fierce wind.	
fieriness		The quality of being fiery; heat; acrimony; irritability; as, a fieriness of temper.	
fiery		Consisting of, containing, or resembling, fire; as, the fiery gulf of Etna; a fiery appearance.	Middle English firi.
fiesta		Among Spanish, a religious festival; a saint's day or holiday; also, a holiday or festivity.	Spanish fiesta, from Latin festa.
fife		A small shrill pipe, resembling the piccolo flute, used chiefly to accompany the drum in military music.	
fifer		One who plays on a fife.	
fifteen		Five and ten; one more than fourteen.	
fifteenth		Next in order after the fourteenth; -- the ordinal of fifteen.	
fifth		Next in order after the fourth; -- the ordinal of five.	Middle English fifthe.
fifthly		In the fifth place; as the fifth in order.	
fiftieth		Next in order after the forty-ninth; -- the ordinal of fifty.	
fifty		Five times ten; as, fifty men.	Old English fiftig.
fig		(Bot.) A small fruit tree (Ficus Carica) with large leaves, known from the remotest antiquity.	Middle English fige.
fig-shell		A marine univalve shell of the genus Pyrula, or Ficula, resembling a fig in form.	
figaro		An adroi	
figary	Obsolete	A frolic; a vagary; a whim.	
figeater		(a) A large beetle (Allorhina nitida) which in the Southern United States destroys figs.	
figent	Obsolete	Fidgety; restless.	
figgum	Obsolete	A juggler's trick; conjuring.	
fight		To strive or contened for victory, with armies or in single combat; to attempt to defeat, subdue, or destroy an enemy, either by blows or weapons; to contend in arms; -- followed by with or against.	Middle English fighten, from Old English feohtan.
fighter		One who fights; a combatant; a warrior.	
fighting		Qualified for war; fit for battle.	
fightingly		Pugnaciously.	
fightwite		A mulct or fine imposed on a person for making a fight or quarrel to the disturbance of the peace.	
figment		An invention; a fiction; something feigned or imagined.	Latin figmentum.
figpecker		The European garden warbler (Sylvia, or Currica, hortensis); -- called also beccafico and greater pettychaps.	
figulate		Made of potter's clay; molded; shaped.	Latin figulatus.
figulated		Made of potter's clay; molded; shaped.	
figuline		A piece of pottery ornamented with representations of natural objects.	
figurability		The quality of being figurable.	
figurable		Capable of being brought to a fixed form or shape.	
figural		Represented by figure or delineation; consisting of figures; as, figural ornaments.	Old French figural.
figurant		One who dances at the opera, not singly, but in groups or figures; an accessory character on the stage, who figures in its scenes, but has nothing to say; hence, one who figures in any scene, without taking a prominent part.	
figurante		A female figurant; esp., a ballet girl.	
figurate		Of a definite form or figure.	
figurated		Having a determinate form.	
figurately		In a figurate manner.	
figuration		The act of giving figure or determinate form; determination to a certain form.	
figurative		Representing by a figure, or by resemblance; typical; representative.	
figure		The form of anything; shape; outline; appearance.	Middle English figure, from Old French figure.
figured		Adorned with figures; marked with figures; as, figured muslin.	
figurehead		(Naut.) The figure, statue, or bust, on the prow of a ship.	
figurial		Represented by figure or delineation.	
figurine		A very small figure, whether human or of an animal; especially, one in terra cotta or the like; -- distinguished from statuette, which is applied to small figures in bronze, marble, etc.	
figurist		One who uses or interprets figurative expressions.	
figwort		A genus of herbaceous plants (Scrophularia), mostly found in the north temperate zones.	
fijian		Of or pertaining to the Fiji islands or their inhabitants. -- n.	
fike		See Fyke — a long bag net distended by hoops, into which fish can pass easily, without being able to return; -- called also fyke net.	Middle English fiken, from Old English fician.
fil		imp. of Fall, v. i.	
filaceous		Composed of threads.	
filacer	Obsolete	A former officer in the English Court of Common Pleas; -- so called because he filed the writs on which he made out process.	
filament		A thread or threadlike object or appendage; a fiber; esp. (Bot.), the threadlike part of the stamen supporting the anther.	Latin filamentum.
filamentary		Having the character of, or formed by, a filament.	
filamentoid		Like a filament.	
filamentous		Like a thread; consisting of threads or filaments.	
filander		A species of kangaroo (Macropus Brunii), inhabiting New Guinea.	
filanders		A disease in hawks, characterized by the presence of small threadlike worms, also of filaments of coagulated blood, from the rupture of a vein; -- called also backworm.	French filandres.
filar		Of or pertaining to a thread or line; characterized by threads stretched across the field of view; as, a filar microscope; a filar micrometer.	
filaria		A genus of slender, nematode worms of many species, parasitic in various animals.	
filarial		(Zoöl. & Med.) Of, pertaining to, or caused by, filariæ and allied parasitic worms.	
filariasis		The presence of filariæ in the blood; infection with filariæ.	
filasse		Vegetable fiber, as jute or ramie, prepared for manufacture.	
filatory	Obsolete	A machine for forming threads.	
filature		A drawing out into threads; hence, the reeling of silk from cocoons.	
filbert		The fruit of the Corylus Avellana or hazel.	
filch		To steal or take privily (commonly, that which is of little value); to pilfer.	Middle English filchen.
filcher		One who filches; a thief.	
filchingly		By pilfering or petty stealing.	
file		An orderly succession; a line; a row; as: (a) (Mil) A row of soldiers ranged one behind another; -- in contradistinction to rank, which designates a row of soldiers standing abreast…	Middle English filen, from Old English fylan.
filefish		Any plectognath fish of the genera Monacanthus, Alutera, balistes, and allied genera; -- so called on account of the roughly granulated skin, which is sometimes used in place of sandpaper.	
filemot		See Feullemort.	
filer		One who works with a file.	
filial		Of or pertaining to a son or daughter; becoming to a child in relation to his parents; as, filial obedience.	Middle English filial, from Latin filialis.
filially		In a filial manner.	
filiate		To adopt as son or daughter; to establish filiation between.	
filiation		The relationship of a son or child to a parent, esp. to a father.	
filibeg		Same as Kilt.	
filibuster		A lawless military adventurer, especially one in quest of plunder; a freebooter; -- originally applied to buccaneers infesting the Spanish American coasts…	Spanish filibustero, from French flibustier, from Dutch vrijbuiter.
filibusterism		The characteristics or practices of a filibuster.	
filical		Belonging to the Filices, r ferns.	
filicic		Pertaining to, or derived from, ferns; as, filicic acid.	Latin filix.
filicide		The act of murdering a son or a daughter; also, parent who commits such a murder.	
filiciform		Shaped like a fern or like the parts of a fern leaf.	Latin filix.
filicoid		Fernlike, either in form or in the nature of the method of reproduction.	
filiety		The relation of a son to a father; sonship; -- the correlative of paternity.	Latin filietatem.
filiferous		Producing threads.	
filiform		Having the shape of a thread or filament; as, the filiform papillæ of the tongue; a filiform style or peduncle.	
filigrain	Archaic	Filigree.	
filigrane	Archaic	Filigree.	
filigraned	Archaic	See Filigreed — adorned with filigree.	
filigree		Ornamental work, formerly with grains or breads, but now composed of fine wire and used chiefly in decorating gold and silver to which the wire is soldered…	
filigreed		Adorned with filigree.	
filing		A fragment or particle rubbed off by the act of filing; as, iron filings.	
filioque		The Latin for, equivalent to et filio, inserted by the third council of Toledo (a. d. 589) in the clause qui ex Patre procedit (who proceedeth from the Father) of the Niceno- Constantinopolitan Creed (a. d. 381)…	Latin filioque.
filipendulous		Suspended by, or strung upon, a thread; -- said of tuberous swellings in the middle or at the extremities of slender, threadlike rootlets.	
filipino		A native of the Philippine Islands, specif. one of Spanish descent or of mixed blood.	
fill		One of the thills or shafts of a carriage.	Middle English fillen.
filler	English dialect	One who, or that which, fills; something used for filling.	
fillet		A little band, especially one intended to encircle the hair of the head.	Middle French filet.
filleting		(Arch.) The protecting of a joint, as between roof and parapet wall, with mortar, or cement, where flashing is employed in better work.	
fillibeg		A kilt. See Filibeg.	
fillibuster		See Filibuster — a lawless military adventurer, especially one in quest of plunder; a freebooter; -- originally applied to buccaneers infesting the Spanish American coasts…	
filling		That which is used to fill a cavity or any empty space, or to supply a deficiency; as, filling for a cavity in a tooth, a depression in a roadbed, the space between exterior and interior walls of masonry…	
fillip		To strike with the nail of the finger, first placed against the ball of the thumb, and forced from that position with a sudden spring; to snap with the finger.	Middle English philippe.
fillipeen		See Philopena — a present or gift which is made as a forfeit in a social game that is played in various ways; also, the game itself.	
fillister		The rabbet on the outer edge of a sash bar to hold the glass and the putty.	
filly		(Zoöl.) A female foal or colt; a young mare.	Old Norse fylja.
film		A thin skin; a pellicle; a membranous covering, causing opacity; hence, any thin, slight covering.	Middle English filme, from Old English filmen.
filminess		State of being filmy.	
filmy		Composed of film or films.	
filoplumaceous		Having the structure of a filoplume.	
filoplume		A hairlike feather; a father with a slender scape and without a web in most or all of its length.	
filose		Terminating in a threadlike process.	
filoselle		A kind of silk thread less glossy than floss, and spun from coarser material.	
fils		Son; -- sometimes used after a French proper name to distinguish a son from his father, as, Alexandre Dumas, fils.	French fils, from Latin filius.
filter		Any porous substance, as cloth, paper, sand, or charcoal, through which water or other liquid may passed to cleanse it from the solid or impure matter held in suspension; a chamber or device containing such substance; a strainer…	
filth		Foul matter; anything that soils or defiles; dirt; nastiness.	Middle English filth, from Old English fylþ.
filthily		In a filthy manner; foully.	
filthiness		The state of being filthy.	
filthy		Defiled with filth, whether material or moral; nasty; dirty; polluted; foul; impure; obscene.	
filtrate		To filter; to defecate; as liquid, by straining or percolation.	
filtration		The act or process of filtering; the mechanical separation of a liquid from the undissolved particles floating in it.	
fimble		Light summer hemp, that bears no seed.	
fimbria		(a) pl. A fringe, or fringed border. (b) A band of white matter bordering the hippocampus in the brain. -- Fim"bri*al, a.	
fimbriate		Having the edge or extremity bordered by filiform processes thicker than hairs; fringed; as, the fimbriate petals of the pink; the fimbriate end of the Fallopian tube.	
fimbriated		Having a fringed border; fimbriate.	
fimbricate		Fringed; jagged; fimbriate.	
fin		(Zoöl.) An organ of a fish, consisting of a membrane supported by rays, or little bony or cartilaginous ossicles, and serving to balance and propel it in the water.	Yiddish פֿינף, from Old High German fimf.
fin-footed		(a) Having palmate feet. (b) Having lobate toes, as the coot and grebe.	
fin-toed		Having toes connected by a membrane; palmiped; palmated; also, lobate.	
finable		Liable or subject to a fine; as, a finable person or offense.	
final		Pertaining to the end or conclusion; last; terminating; ultimate; as, the final day of a school term.	
finale		Close; termination; as: (a) (Mus.) The last movement of a symphony, sonata, concerto, or any instrumental composition.	Italian finale, from Latin finalis.
finalist		Any of the players who meet in the final round of a tournament in which the losers in any round do not play again.	
finality		The state of being final, finished, or complete; a final or conclusive arrangement; a settlement.	
finally		At the end or conclusion; ultimately; lastly; as, the contest was long, but the Romans finally conquered.	
finance		The income of a ruler or of a state; revennue; public money; sometimes, the income of an individual; often used in the plural for funds; available money; resources.	Middle English finaunce.
financial		Pertaining to finance.	
financialist		A financier.	
financially		In a dfinancial manner.	
financier		One charged with the administration of finance; an officer who administers the public revenue; a treasurer.	French financier.
finary		See Finery — ornament; decoration; especially, excecially decoration; showy clothes; jewels.	
finative	Obsolete	Conclusive; decisive; definitive; final.	
finback		Any whale of the genera Sibbaldius, Balænoptera, and allied genera, of the family Balænopteridæ, characterized by a prominent fin on the back.	
finch	Obsolete	A small singing bird of many genera and species, belonging to the family Fringillidæ.	Old English finċ.
finchbacked		Streaked or spotted on the back; -- said of cattle.	
finched		Same as Finchbacked.	
find		To meet with, or light upon, accidentally; to gain the first sight or knowledge of, as of something new, or unknown; hence, to fall in with, as a person.	Old English findan.
findable		Capable of beong found; discoverable.	
finder		One who, or that which, finds; specifically (Astron.), a small telescope of low power and large field of view, attached to a larger telescope, for the purpose of finding an object more readily.	
findfault	Obsolete	A censurer or caviler.	
findfaulting	Obsolete	Apt to censure or cavil; faultfinding; captious.	
finding		That which is found, come upon, or provided; esp. (pl.), that which a journeyman artisan finds or provides for himself; as tools, trimmings, etc. When a man hath been laboring … in the deep mines of knowledge…	
findy	Obsolete	Full; heavy; firm; solid; substemtial.	
fine		Finished; brought to perfection; refined; hence, free from impurity; excellent; superior; elegant; worthy of admiration; accomplished; beautiful.	Old French finer, from Latin finire.
finedraw		To sew up, so nicely that the seam is not perceived; to renter.	
finedrawer		One who finedraws.	
finedrawn		Drawn out with too much subtilty; overnice; as, finedrawn speculations.	
fineer		To run in dept by getting goods made up in a way unsuitable for the use of others, and then threatening not to take them except on credit.	
fineless	Obsolete	Endless; boundless.	
finely		In a fine or finished manner.	
fineness		The quality or condition of being fine.	
finer		One who fines or purifies.	
finery		Ornament; decoration; especially, excecially decoration; showy clothes; jewels.	
finespun		Spun so as to be fine; drawn to a fine thread; attenuated; hence, unsubstantial; visionary; as, finespun theories.	
finesse		Subtilty of contrivance to gain a point; artifice; stratagem.	
finestill		To distill, as spirit from molasses or some saccharine preparation.	
finestiller		One who finestills.	
finew		Moldiness.	Middle English finew, from Old English fyne.
finfish		(a) A finback whale. (b) (pl.) True fish, as distinguished from shellfish.	
finfoot		A South American bird (heliornis fulica) allied to the grebes.	
finger		One of the five terminating members of the hand; a digit; esp., one of the four extermities of the hand, other than the thumb.	Old English finger.
fingered		Having fingers.	
fingerer		One who fingers; a pilferer.	
fingering		The act or process of handling or touching with the fingers.	
fingerling		A young salmon. See Parr.	
fingle-fangle	Low	A trifle.	
fingrigo		A prickly, climbing shrub of the genus Pisonia.	
finial		The knot or bunch of foliage, or foliated ornament, that forms the upper extremity of a pinnacle in Gothic architecture; sometimes, the pinnacle itself.	
finical		Affectedly fine; overnice; unduly particular; fastidious.	
finicality		The quality of being finical; finicalness.	
finicking	Colloquial	Finical; unduly particular.	
finicky	Colloquial	Finical; unduly particular.	
finific		A limiting element or quality.	
finify	Obsolete	To make fine; to dress finically.	
finikin	Colloquial	Precise in trifles; idly busy.	
fining		The process of fining or refining; clarification; also (Metal.), the conversion of cast iron into suitable for puddling, in a hearth or charcoal fire.	
finis		An end; conclusion.	
finish		To arrive at the end of; to bring to an end; to put an end to; to make an end of; to terminate.	
finished		Polished to the highest degree of excellence; complete; perfect; as, a finished poem; a finished education.	
finisher		One who finishes, puts an end to, completes, or perfects; esp. used in the trades, as in hatting, weaving, etc., for the workman who gives a finishing touch to the work, or any part of it, and brings it to perfection.	
finishing		The act or process of completing or perfecting; the final work upon or ornamentation of a thing.	
finite		Having a limit; limited in quantity, degree, or capacity; bounded; -- opposed to infinite; as, finite number; finite existence; a finite being; a finite mind; finite duration.	
finiteless	Obsolete	Infinite.	
finitely		In a finite manner or degree.	
finiteness		The state of being finite.	
finitude		Limitation.	
finjan		In the Levant, a small coffee cup without a handle, such as is held in a cup or stand called a zarf.	
finlander		A native or inhabitant of Finland.	
finless		destitute of fins.	
finlet		A little fin; one of the parts of a divided fin.	
finlike		Resembling a fin.	
finn		A native of Finland; one of the FinnFinns.	
finned		Having a fin, or fins, or anything resembling a fin.	
finner		A finback whale.	
finnic		Of or pertaining to the Finns.	
finnikin		A variety of pigeon, with a crest somewhat resembling the mane of a horse.	
finnish		Of or pertaining to Finland, to the Finns, or to their language. -- n.	
finns		(a) Natives of Finland; Finlanders. (b) A branch of the Mongolian race, inhabiting Northern and Eastern Europe, including the Magyars, Bulgarians, Permians, Lapps, and Finlanders.	
finny		(Zoöl.) Having, or abounding in, fins, as fishes; pertaining to fishes.	
finochio		An umbelliferous plant (Foeniculum dulce) having a somewhat tuberous stem; sweet fennel.	
finos		Second best wool from Merino sheep.	
finpike		The bichir. See Crossopterygii.	
fint	Obsolete	3d pers. sing. pr. of Find, for findeth.	
fiord		A narrow inlet of the sea, penetrating between high banks or rocks, as on the coasts of Norway and Alaska.	Norwegian fjord, from Old Norse fjǫrðr.
fiorin		A species of creeping bent grass (Agrostis alba); -- called also fiorin grass.	
fiorite		A variety of opal occuring in the cavities of volcanic tufa, in smooth and shining globular and botryoidal masses, having a pearly luster; -- so called from Fiora, in Ischia.	
fioriture		Little flowers of ornament introduced into a melody by a singer or player.	
fipple	Obsolete	A stopper, as in a wind instrument of music.	
fir		A genus (Abies) of coniferous trees, often of large size and elegant shape, some of them valued for their timber and others for their resin.	Middle English firre.
fire		The evolution of light and heat in the combustion of bodies; combustion; state of ignition.	Middle English fier, from Old English fyr.
fire-fanged		Injured as by fire; burned; -- said of manure which has lost its goodness and acquired an ashy hue in consequence of heat generated by decomposition.	
fire-new		Fresh from the forge; bright; quite new; brand-new.	
fire-set		A set of fire irons, including, commonly, tongs, shovel, and poker.	
firearm		A gun, pistol, or any weapon from a shot is discharged by the force of an explosive substance, as gunpowder.	
fireback		One of several species of pheasants of the genus Euplocamus, having the lower back a bright, fiery red.	
fireball		(a) (Mil.) A ball filled with powder or other combustibles, intended to be thrown among enemies, and to injure by explosion; also, to set fire to their works and light them up, so that movements may be seen.	
firebare	Obsolete	A beacon.	
firebird		The Baltimore oriole.	
fireboard		A chimney board or screen to close a fireplace when not in use.	
firebote		An allowance of fuel. See Bote.	
firebrand		A piece of burning wood.	
firecracker		See Cracker., n., 3.	
firecrest		A small European kinglet (Regulus ignicapillus), having a bright red crest; -- called also fire-crested wren.	
firedog		A support for wood in a fireplace; an andiron.	
firedrake		A fiery dragon.	Old English fyrdraca.
firefish		A singular marine fish of the genus Pterois, family Scorpænidæ, of several species, inhabiting the Indo-Pacific region.	
fireflaire		A European sting ray of the genus Trygon (T. pastinaca); -- called also fireflare and fiery flaw.	
fireflame		The European band fish (Cepola rubescens).	
firefly		Any luminous winged insect, esp. luminous beetles of the family Lampyridæ.	
fireless		Destitute of fire.	
firelock		An old form of gunlock, as the flintlock, which ignites the priming by a spark; perhaps originally, a matchlock.	
fireman		A man whose business is to extinguish fires in towns; a member of a fire company.	
fireplace		The part a chimney appropriated to the fire; a hearth; -- usually an open recess in a wall, in which a fire may be built.	
fireproof		Proof against fire; incombustible.	
fireproofing		The act or process of rendering anything incombustible; also, the materials used in the process.	
firer		One who fires or sets fire to anything; an incendiary.	
fireroom		Same as Stokehold, below.	
fireside		A place near the fire or hearth; home; domestic life or retirement.	
firestone		Iron pyrites, formerly used for striking fire; also, a flint.	
firetail	English dialect	The European redstart; -- called also fireflirt.	
firewarden		An officer who has authority to direct in the extinguishing of fires, or to order what precautions shall be taken against fires; -- called also fireward.	
fireweed		(a) An American plant (Erechthites hiercifolia), very troublesome in spots where brushwood has been burned.	
firewood		Wood for fuel.	
firework		A device for producing a striking display of light, or a figure or figures in plain or colored fire, by the combustion of materials that burn in some peculiar manner, as gunpowder, sulphur, metallic filings, and various salts.	
fireworm		The larva of a small tortricid moth which eats the leaves of the cranberry, so that the vines look as if burned; -- called also cranberry worm.	
firing		The act of disharging firearms.	
firk	Obsolete	To beat; to strike; to chastise.	Middle English firken.
firkin		A varying measure of capacity, usually being the fourth part of a barrel; specifically, a measure equal to nine imperial gallons.	
firlot		A dry measure formerly used in Scotland; the fourth part of a boll of grain or meal.	
firm		Fixed; hence, closely compressed; compact; substantial; hard; solid; -- applied to the matter of bodies; as, firm flesh; firm muscles, firm wood.	German Firma, from Italian firma.
firmament		The region of the air; the sky or heavens.	
firmamental		Pertaining to the firmament; celestial; being of the upper regions.	
firman		In Turkey and some other Oriental countries, a decree or mandate issued by the sovereign; a royal order or grant; -- generally given for special objects, as to a traveler to insure him protection and assistance.	Turkish ferman.
firmer-chisel		A chisel, thin in proportion to its width.	
firmitude	Obsolete	Strength; stability.	Latin firmitudo.
firmity	Obsolete	Strength; firmness; stability.	Latin firmitas.
firmless		Infirm; unstable.	
firmly		In a firm manner.	
firmness		The state or quality of being firm.	
firms	Obsolete	The principal rafters of a roof, especially a pair of rafters taken together.	
firring		See Furring — (Carp.) (a) The leveling of a surface, or the preparing of an air space, by means of strips of board or of larger pieces.	
firry		Made of fir; abounding in firs.	
first		Preceding all others of a series or kind; the ordinal of one; earliest; as, the first day of a month; the first year of a reign.	Middle English first.
first-class		Of the best class; of the highest rank; in the first division; of the best quality; first-rate; as, a first-class telescope.	
first-hand		Obtained directly from the first or original source; hence, without the intervention of an agent.	
first-rate		Of the highest excellence; preëminent in quality, size, or estimation.	
firstborn		First brought forth; first in the order of nativity; eldest; hence, most excellent; most distinguished or exalted.	
firstling		The first produce or offspring; -- said of animals, especially domestic animals; as, the firstlings of his flock.	
firstly		In the first place; before anything else; -- sometimes improperly used for first.	
firth		An arm of the sea; a frith.	
fisc		A public or state treasury.	
fiscal		Pertaining to the public treasury or revenue.	
fisetic		Pertaining to fustet or fisetin.	
fisetin		A yellow crystalline substance extracted from fustet, and regarded as its essential coloring principle; -- called also fisetic acid.	
fish		A counter, used in various games.	Old English fiscian.
fish-bellied		Bellying or swelling out on the under side; as, a fish-bellied rail.	
fish-block		See Fish-tackle — a tackle or purchase used to raise the flukes of the anchor up to the gunwale.	
fish-tackle		A tackle or purchase used to raise the flukes of the anchor up to the gunwale.	
fish-tail		Like the of a fish; acting, or producing something, like the tail of a fish.	
fisher		One who fishes.	
fisherman		One whose occupation is to catch fish.	
fishery		The business or practice of catching fish; fishing.	
fishful		Abounding with fish.	
fishgig		A spear with barbed prongs used for harpooning fish.	
fishhawk		The osprey (Pandion haliaëtus), found both in Europe and America; -- so called because it plunges into the water and seizes fishes in its talons.	
fishhook		A hook for catching fish.	Middle English fisch-hook.
fishify		To change to fish.	
fishiness		The state or quality of being fishy or fishlike.	
fishing		The act, practice, or art of one who fishes.	
fishlike		Like fish; suggestive of fish; having some of the qualities of fish.	
fishmonger		A dealer in fish.	
fishskin		The skin of a fish (dog fish, shark, etc.)	
fishwife		A fishwoman.	
fishwoman		A woman who retails fish.	
fishy		Consisting of fish; fishlike; having the qualities or taste of fish; abounding in fish.	
fisk	Obsolete	To run about; to frisk; to whisk.	
fissigemmation		A process of reproduction intermediate between fission and gemmation.	
fissile		Capable of being split, cleft, or divided in the direction of the grain, like wood, or along natural planes of cleavage, like crystals.	
fissilingual		Having the tongue forked.	
fissilinguia		A group of Lacertilia having the tongue forked, including the common lizards.	
fissility		Quality of being fissile.	
fission		A cleaving, splitting, or breaking up into parts.	Latin fissionem.
fissipalmate		Semipalmate and loboped, as a grebe's foot. See Illust. under Aves.	
fissipara		Animals which reproduce by fission.	
fissiparism		Reproduction by spontaneous fission.	
fissiparity		Quality of being fissiparous; fissiparism.	
fissiparous		Reproducing by spontaneous fission. See Fission. -- Fis*sip"a*rous*ly, adv.	
fissipation		Reproduction by fission; fissiparism.	
fissiped		Having the toes separated to the base.	
fissipedal		Having the toes separated to the base.	
fissipedia		A division of the Carnivora, including the dogs, cats, and bears, in which the feet are not webbed; -- opposed to Pinnipedia.	
fissirostral		Having the bill cleft beyond the horny part, as in the case of swallows and goatsuckers.	
fissirostres		A group of birds having the bill deeply cleft.	
fissural		Pertaining to a fissure or fissures; as, the fissural pattern of a brain.	
fissuration		The act of dividing or opening; the state of being fissured.	
fissure		A narrow opening, made by the parting of any substance; a cleft; as, the fissure of a rock.	
fissurella		A genus of marine gastropod mollusks, having a conical or limpetlike shell, with an opening at the apex; -- called also keyhole limpet.	
fist		The hand with the fingers doubled into the palm; the closed hand, especially as clinched tightly for the purpose of striking a blow.	Middle English fisten.
fistic	Colloquial	Pertaining to boxing, or to encounters with the fists; puglistic; as, fistic exploits; fistic heroes.	
fisticuff		A cuff or blow with the fist or hand; (pl.) a fight with the fists; boxing.	
fistinut	Obsolete	A pistachio nut.	
fistuca		An instrument used by the ancients in driving piles.	
fistula		(Med.) A permanent abnormal opening into the soft parts with a constant discharge; a deep, narrow, chronic abscess; an abnormal opening between an internal cavity and another cavity or the surface; as, a salivary fistula…	Latin fistula.
fistular		Hollow and cylindrical, like a pipe or reed.	
fistularia		A genus of fishes, having the head prolonged into a tube, with the mouth at the extremity.	
fistularioid		Like or pertaining to the genus Fistularia.	
fistulate	Obsolete	To make hollow or become hollow like a fistula, or pipe.	
fistule		A fistula.	
fistuliform		Of a fistular form; tubular; pipe-shaped.	
fistulose		Formed like a fistula; hollow; reedlike.	Latin fistulosus.
fistulous		Having the form or nature of a fistula; as, a fistulous ulcer.	
fit		Adapted to an end, object, or design; suitable by nature or by art; suited by character, qualitties, circumstances, education, etc.; qualified; competent; worthy.	
fitch		pl. (Bot.) A word found in the Authorized Version of the Bible, representing different Hebrew originals.	
fitche		Sharpened to a point; pointed.	
fitchet		The European polecat (Putorius foetidus). See Polecat.	
fitchew		The European polecat (Putorius foetidus). See Polecat.	
fitchy		Having fitches or vetches.	
fitful		Full of fits; irregularly variable; impulsive and unstable.	
fithel	Obsolete	A fiddle Chaucer.	
fithul	Obsolete	A fiddle Chaucer.	
fitly		In a fit manner; suitably; properly; conveniently; as, a maxim fitly applied.	
fitment	Obsolete	The act of fitting; that which is proper or becoming; equipment.	
fitness		The state or quality of being fit; as, the fitness of measures or laws; a person's fitness for office.	
fitt		See 2d Fit.	
fittable	Obsolete	Suitable; fit.	
fittedness	Obsolete	The state or quality of being fitted; adaptation.	
fitter		One who fits or makes to fit; esp.: (a) One who tries on, and adjusts, articles of dress.	
fitting		Anything used in fitting up; especially (pl.), necessary fixtures or apparatus; as, the fittings of a church or study; gas fittings.	
fitweed		A plant (Eryngium foetidum) supposed to be a remedy for fits.	
fitz		A son; -- used in compound names, to indicate paternity, esp. of the illegitimate sons of kings and princes of the blood; as, Fitzroy, the son of the king; Fitzclarence, the son of the duke of Clarence.	
five		Four and one added; one more than four.	
five-finger		(Zoöl.) A starfish with five rays, esp. Asterias rubens.	
five-leaf		Cinquefoil; five-finger.	
five-leafed		Having five leaflets, as the Virginia creeper.	
five-leaved		Having five leaflets, as the Virginia creeper.	
five-twenties		Five-twenty bonds of the United States (bearing six per cent interest), issued in 1862, '64, and '65, redeemable after five and payable in twenty years.	
fivefold		In fives; consisting of five in one; five repeated; quintuple.	
fiveling		A compound or twin crystal consisting of five individuals.	
fives		A kind of play with a ball against a wall, resembling tennis; - - so named because three fives, or fifteen, are counted to the game.	
fix		To make firm, stable, or fast; to set or place permanently; to fasten immovably; to establish; to implant; to secure; to make efinite.	Old French fixer.
fixable		Capable of being fixed.	
fixation		The act of fixing, or the state of being fixed.	Old French fixation.
fixative		That which serves to set or fix colors or drawings, as a mordant.	
fixed		Securely placed or fastened; settled; established; firm; imovable; unalterable.	
fixedly		In a fixed, stable, or constant manner.	
fixedness		The state or quality of being fixed; stability; steadfastness.	
fixidity	Obsolete	Fixedness.	
fixing		The act or process of making fixed.	
fixity		Fixedness; as, fixity of tenure; also, that which is fixed.	
fixture		That which is fixed or attached to something as a permanent appendage; as, the fixtures of a pump; the fixtures of a farm or of a dwelling, that is, the articles which a tenant may not take away.	
fixure	Obsolete	Fixed position; stable condition; firmness.	
fizgig	Obsolete	A fishing spear.	
fizz		To make a hissing sound, as a burning fuse.	
fizzle		To make a hissing sound.	
