flabbergast		To astonish; to strike with wonder, esp. by extraordinary statements.	
flabbergastation		The state of being flabbergasted.	
flabbily		In a flabby manner.	
flabbiness		Quality or state of being flabby.	
flabby		Yielding to the touch, and easily moved or shaken; hanging loose by its own weight; wanting firmness; flaccid; as, flabby flesh.	
flabellate		Flabelliform.	
flabellation		The act of keeping fractured limbs cool by the use of a fan or some other contrivance.	
flabelliform		Having the form of a fan; fan-shaped; flabellate.	
flabellinerved		Having many nerves diverging radiately from the base; -- said of a leaf.	
flabellum		A fan; especially, the fan carried before the pope on state occasions, made in ostrich and peacock feathers.	
flabile		Liable to be blown about.	Latin flabilis.
flaccid		Yielding to pressure for want of firmness and stiffness; soft and weak; limber; lax; drooping; flabby; as, a flaccid muscle; flaccid flesh.	Latin flaccidus.
flaccidity		The state of being flaccid.	
flacherie		A bacterial disease of silkworms, supposed to be due to eating contaminated mulberry leaves.	
flacker	English dialect	To flutter, as a bird.	Middle English flakeren.
flacket		A barrel-shaped bottle; a flagon.	
flacon		A small glass bottle; as, a flacon for perfume.	
flag		To hang loose without stiffness; to bend down, as flexible bodies; to be loose, yielding, limp.	Middle English flag.
flagellant		One of a fanatical sect which flourished in Europe in the 13th and 14th centuries, and maintained that flagellation was of equal virtue with baptism and the sacrament; -- called also disciplinant.	
flagellata		An order of Infusoria, having one or two long, whiplike cilia, at the anterior end.	
flagellate		To whip; to scourge; to flog.	Latin flagellum.
flagellation		A beating or flogging; a whipping; a scourging.	
flagellator		One who practices flagellation; one who whips or scourges.	
flagelliform		Shaped like a whiplash; long, slender, round, flexible, and (comming) tapering.	
flagellum		(Bot.) A young, flexible shoot of a plant; esp., the long trailing branch of a vine, or a slender branch in certain mosses.	Latin flagellum.
flageolet		A small wooden pipe, having six or more holes, and a mouthpiece inserted at one end.	French flageolet, from Italian fagiolo, from Latin phaseolus.
flagginess		The condition of being flaggy; laxity; limberness.	
flagging		A pavement or sidewalk of flagstones; flagstones, collectively.	
flaggy		Weak; flexible; limber.	
flagitate	Archaic	To importune; to demand fiercely or with passion.	
flagitation	Archaic	Importunity; urgent demand.	Latin flagitatio.
flagitious		Disgracefully or shamefully criminal; grossly wicked; scandalous; shameful; -- said of acts, crimes, etc. Debauched principles and flagitious practices.	
flagman		One who makes signals with a flag.	
flagon		A vessel with a narrow mouth, used for holding and conveying liquors.	Middle English flagon.
flagrance		Flagrancy.	
flagrancy		The condition or quality of being flagrant; atrocity; heiniousness; enormity; excess.	
flagrant		Flaming; inflamed; glowing; burning; ardent.	Latin flagrantem.
flagrantly		In a flagrant manner.	
flagrate	Obsolete	To burn.	
flagration	Obsolete	A conflagration.	
flagship		The vessel which carries the commanding officer of a fleet or squadron and flies his distinctive flag or pennant.	
flagstaff		A staff on which a flag is hoisted.	
flagstone		A flat stone used in paving, or any rock which will split into such stones.	
flagworm		A worm or grub found among flags and sedge.	
flail		An instrument for threshing or beating grain from the ear by hand, consisting of a wooden staff or handle, at the end of which a stouter and shorter pole or club, called a swipe, is so hung as to swing freely.	Middle English flaile.
flaily	Obsolete	Acting like a flail.	
flain		p. p. of Flay — to skin; to strip off the skin or surface of; as, to flay an ox; to flay the green earth.	
flair		Sense of smell; scent; fig., discriminating sense.	
flake		A platform of hurdles, or small sticks made fast or interwoven, supported by stanchions, for drying codfish and other things.	Middle English flake.
flakiness		The state of being flaky.	
flaky		Consisting of flakes or of small, loose masses; lying, or cleaving off, in flakes or layers; flakelike.	
flam	Obsolete	A freak or whim; also, a falsehood; a lie; an illusory pretext; deception; delusion.	
flambe		Decorated by glaze splashed or irregularly spread upon the surface, or apparently applied at the top and allowed to run down the sides; -- said of pieces of Chinese porcelain.	
flambeau		A flaming torch, esp. one made by combining together a number of thick wicks invested with a quick-burning substance (anciently, perhaps, wax; in modern times, pitch or the like); hence, any torch.	French flambeau.
flamboyant		Characterized by waving or flamelike curves, as in the tracery of windows, etc.; -- said of the later (15th century) French Gothic style.	French flamboyant.
flamboyer		A name given in the East and West Indies to certain trees with brilliant blossoms, probably species of Cæsalpinia.	
flame		A stream of burning vapor or gas, emitting light and heat; darting or streaming fire; a blaze; a fire.	Middle English flaume.
flame-colored		Of the color of flame; of a bright orange yellow color.	
flameless		Destitute of flame.	
flamelet		A small flame.	
flamen		A priest devoted to the service of a particular god, from whom he received a distinguishing epithet.	
flamineous		Pertaining to a flamen; flaminical.	
flaming		Emitting flames; afire; blazing; consuming; illuminating.	
flamingly		In a flaming manner.	
flamingo		Any bird of the genus Phoenicopterus.	Portuguese flamingo, from Spanish flamengo, from Occitan (post 1500 flama.
flaminical		Pertaining to a flamen.	
flammability	Obsolete	The quality of being flammable; inflammability.	
flammable	Obsolete	Inflammable.	
flammation	Obsolete	The act of setting in a flame or blaze.	
flammeous	Obsolete	Pertaining to, consisting of, or resembling, flame.	Latin flammeus.
flammiferous		Producing flame.	
flammivomous		Vomiting flames, as a volcano.	
flammulated		Of a reddish color.	
flamy		Flaming; blazing; flamelike; flame-colored; composed of flame.	
flanch		A flange.. (Her.) A bearing consisting of a segment of a circle encroaching on the field from the side.	
flanched		Having flanches; -- said of an escutcheon with those bearings.	
flanconade		A thrust in the side.	
flanerie		Lit., strolling; sauntering; hence, aimless; idleness; as, intellectual flânerie.	
flaneur		One who strolls about aimlessly; a lounger; a loafer.	French flâneur.
flang		A miner's two-pointed pick.	
flange		An external or internal rib, or rim, for strength, as the flange of an iron beam; or for a guide, as the flange of a car wheel (see Car wheel.); or for attachment to another object, as the flange on the end of a pipe…	
flanged		Having a flange or flanges; as, a flanged wheel.	
flank		The fleshy or muscular part of the side of an animal, between the rids and the hip.	
flanker		One who, or that which, flanks, as a skirmisher or a body of troops sent out upon the flanks of an army toguard a line of march, or a fort projecting so as to command the side of an assailing body.	
flannel		A soft, nappy, woolen cloth, of loose texture.	Middle English flaunneol, from Anglo-Norman flanelle.
flanneled		Covered or wrapped in flannel.	
flannen	Obsolete	Made or consisting of flannel.	
flap		Anything broad and limber that hangs loose, or that is attached by one side or end and is easily moved; as, the flap of a garment.	Middle English flappe.
flap-eared		Having broad, loose, dependent ears.	
flap-mouthed		Having broad, hangling lips.	
flapdragon		A game in which the players catch raisins out burning brandy, and swallow them blazing.	
flapjack		A fklat cake turned on the griddle while cooking; a griddlecake or pacake.	
flapper		One who, or that which, flaps.	
flare		To burn with an unsteady or waving flame; as, the candle flares.	
flare-up	Colloquial	A sudden burst of anger or passion; an angry dispute.	
flaring		That flares; flaming or blazing unsteadily; shining out with a dazzling light.	
flaringly		In a flaring manner.	
flash		To burst or break forth with a sudden and transient flood of flame and light; as, the lighting flashes vividly; the powder flashed.	
flashboard		A board placed temporarily upon a milldam, to raise the water in the pond above its usual level; a flushboard.	
flasher		One who, or that which, flashes.	
flashily		In a flashy manner; with empty show.	
flashiness		The quality of being flashy.	
flashing		(Engineering) The creation of an artifical flood by the sudden letting in of a body of water; -- called also flushing.	
flashy		Dazzling for a moment; making a momentary show of brilliancy; transitorily bright.	
flask		A small bottle-shaped vessel for holding fluids; as, a flask of oil or wine.	Middle English flask.
flasket		A long, shallow basket, with two handles.	
flat		Having an even and horizontal surface, or nearly so, without prominences or depressions; level without inclination; plane.	
flat-bottomed		Having an even lower surface or bottom; as, a flat-bottomed boat.	
flat-cap		A kind of low-crowned cap formerly worn by all classes in England, and continued in London after disuse elsewhere; -- hence, a citizen of London.	
flat-footed		Having a flat foot, with little or no arch of the instep.	
flat-headed		Having a head with a flattened top; as, a flat-headed nail.	
flatbill		Any bird of the genus Flatyrynchus.	
flatboat		A boat with a flat bottom and square ends; -- used for the transportation of bulky freight, especially in shallow waters.	
flatfish		Any fish of the family Pleuronectidæ; esp., the winter flounder (Pleuronectes Americanus).	
flathead		Characterized by flatness of head, especially that produced by artificial means, as a certain tribe of American Indians.	
flatiron		An iron with a flat, smooth surface for ironing clothes.	
flative	Obsolete	Producing wind; flatulent.	Latin flare.
flatling	Obsolete	With the flat side, as of a sword; flatlong; in a prostrate position.	
flatlong		; 115), adv.	
flatly		In a flat manner; evenly; horizontally; without spirit; dully; frigidly; peremptori;y; positively, plainly.	
flatness		The quality or state of being flat.	
flatour	Obsolete	A flatterer.	Old French flatour.
flatten		To reduce to an even surface or one approaching evenness; to make flat; to level; to make plane.	
flatter		One who, or that which, makes flat or flattens.	Middle English flatteren.
flatterer		One who flatters.	
flattering		That flatters (in the various senses of the verb); as, a flattering speech.	
flatteringly		With flattery.	
flattery		The act or practice of flattering; the act of pleasing by artiful commendation or compliments; adulation; false, insincere, or excessive praise.	
flatting		The process or operation of making flat, as a cylinder of glass by opening it out.	
flattish		Somewhat flat.	
flatulence		The state or quality of being flatulent.	
flatulency		The state or quality of being flatulent.	
flatulent		Affected with flatus or gases generated in the alimentary canal; windy.	
flatulently		In a flatulent manner; with flatulence.	
flatuosity	Obsolete	Flatulence.	
flatuous	Obsolete	Windy; generating wind.	
flatus		Wind or gas generated in the stomach or other cavities of the body.	
flatware		Articles for the table, as china or silverware, that are more or less flat, as distinguished from hollow ware.	
flatwise		With the flat side downward, or next to another object; not edgewise.	
flatworm		Any worm belonging to the Plathelminthes; also, sometimes applied to the planarians.	
flaundrish	Obsolete	Flemish.	
flaunt	Obsolete	To throw or spread out; to flutter; to move ostentatiously; as, a flaunting show.	
flauntingly		In a flaunting way.	
flautist		A player on the flute; a flutist.	
flauto		A flute.	
flavaniline		A yellow, crystalline, organic dyestuff, C16H14N2, of artifical production.	
flavescent		Turning yellow; yellowish.	Latin flavescens.
flavicomous		Having yellow hair.	
flavin		A yellow, vegetable dyestuff, resembling quercitron.	
flavine		A yellow, crystalline, organic base, C13H12N2O, obtained artificially.	
flavol		A yellow, crystalline substance, obtained from anthraquinone, and regarded as a hydroxyl derivative of it.	
flavor		That quality of anything which affects the smell; odor; fragrances; as, the flavor of a rose.	
flavored		Having a distinct flavor; as, high-flavored wine.	
flavorless		Without flavor; tasteless.	
flavorous		Imparting flavor; pleasant to the taste or smell; sapid.	
flaw		A sudden burst or gust of wind of short duration.	
flawless		Free from flaws.	
flawn	Obsolete	A sort of flat custard or pie.	
flawter	Obsolete	To scrape o Johnson.	
flawy		Full of flaws or cracks; broken; defective; faulty.	
flax		(Bot.) A plant of the genus Linum, esp. the L. usitatissimum, which has a single, slender stalk, about a foot and a half high, with blue flowers.	Old English fleax.
flax-plant		A plant in new Zealand (Phormium tenax), allied to the lilies and aloes.	
flaxen		Made of flax; resembling flax or its fibers; of the color of flax; of a light soft straw color; fair and flowing, like flax or tow; as, flaxen thread; flaxen hair.	
flaxseed		The seed of the flax; linseed.	
flaxweed		See Toadflax — an herb (Linaria vulgaris) of the Figwort family, having narrow leaves and showy orange and yellow flowers; -- called also butter and eggs, flaxweed, and ramsted.	
flaxy		Like flax; flaxen.	
flay		To skin; to strip off the skin or surface of; as, to flay an ox; to flay the green earth.	Middle English flayen.
flayer		One who strips off the skin.	
flea	Obsolete	To flay.	
flea-beetle		A small beetle of the family Halticidæ, of many species.	
flea-bite		The bite of a flea, or the red spot caused by the bite.	
flea-bitten		Bitten by a flea; as, a flea-bitten face.	
flea-louse		A jumping plant louse of the family Psyllidæ, of many species.	
fleabane		One of various plants, supposed to have efficacy in driving away fleas.	
fleagh		imp. of Fly — to move in or pass thorugh the air with wings, as a bird.	
fleak	Obsolete	A flake; a thread or twist.	
fleaking	English dialect	A light covering of reeds, over which the main covering is laid, in thatching houses.	
fleam		A sharp instrument used for opening veins, lancing gums, etc.; a kind of lancet.	Old French flieme, from Latin phlebotomus, from Greek φλεβοτόμον.
fleamy	Obsolete	Bloody; clotted.	
flear		See Fleer — to make a wry face in contempt, or to grin in scorn; to deride; to sneer; to mock; to gibe; as, to fleer and flout.	
fleawort		An herb used in medicine (Plantago Psyllium), named from the shape of its seeds.	
fleche		A simple fieldwork, consisting of two faces forming a salient angle pointing outward and open at the gorge.	
fleck	Obsolete	A flake; also, a lock, as of wool.	Middle English flekked, from Old Norse flekka.
flecker		To fleck.	
fleckless		Without spot or blame.	
flection		The act of bending, or state of being bent.	
flectional		Capable of, or pertaining to, flection or inflection.	
flector		A flexor.	
fled		imp. & p. p. of Flee.	
fledge		Feathered; furnished with feathers or wings; able to fly.	
fledgeling		A young bird just fledged.	
flee		To run away, as from danger or evil; to avoid in an alarmed or cowardly manner; to hasten off; -- usually with from.	Old English fleon.
fleece		The entire coat of wood that covers a sheep or other similar animal; also, the quantity shorn from a sheep, or animal, at one time.	Middle English flees, from Old English fleos.
fleeced		Furnished with a fleece; as, a sheep is well fleeced.	
fleeceless		Without a fleece.	
fleecer		One who fleeces or strips unjustly, especially by trickery or fraund.	
fleecy		Covered with, made of, or resembling, a fleece.	
fleen		Obs. pl. of Flea.	
fleer		To make a wry face in contempt, or to grin in scorn; to deride; to sneer; to mock; to gibe; as, to fleer and flout.	
fleerer		One who fleers.	
fleeringly		In a fleering manner.	
fleet		To fly swiftly; to pass over quickly; to hasten; to flit as a light substance.	Middle English fleten, from Old English fleotan.
fleet-foot		Swift of foot.	
fleeten	Obsolete	Fleeted or skimmed milk.	
fleeting		Passing swiftly away; not durable; transient; transitory; as, the fleeting hours or moments.	Middle English fleten, from Old English fleotan.
fleetingly		In a fleeting manner; swiftly.	
fleetings	English dialect	A mixture of buttermilk and boiling whey; curds.	
fleetly		In a fleet manner; rapidly.	
fleetness		Swiftness; rapidity; velocity; celerity; speed; as, the fleetness of a horse or of time.	
fleigh		imp. of Fly — to move in or pass thorugh the air with wings, as a bird.	
fleme	Obsolete	To banish; to drive out; to expel.	Middle English flemen, from Old English flyman.
flemer	Obsolete	One who, or that which, banishes or expels.	
fleming		A native or inhabitant of Flanders.	
flemish		Pertaining to Flanders, or the Flemings. -- n.	
flench		Same as Flence.	
flense		To strip the blubber or skin from, as from a whale, seal, etc. the flensed carcass of a fur seal.	Danish flense.
flesh		The aggregate of the muscles, fat, and other tissues which cover the framework of bones in man and other animals; especially, the muscles.	Old English flæsc.
fleshed		Corpulent; fat; having flesh.	
flesher		A two-handled, convex, blunt-edged knife, for scraping hides; a fleshing knife.	
fleshhood		The state or condition of having a form of flesh; incarnation.	
fleshiness		The state of being fleshy; plumpness; corpulence; grossness.	
fleshings		Flesh-colored tights, worn by actors dancers.	
fleshless		Destitute of flesh; lean.	
fleshliness		The state of being fleshly; carnal passions and appetites.	
fleshling	Obsolete	A person devoted to fleshly things.	
fleshly		Of or pertaining to the flesh; corporeal.	
fleshment		The act of fleshing, or the excitement attending a successful beginning.	
fleshmonger		One who deals in flesh; hence, a pimp; a procurer; a pander.	
fleshpot		A pot or vessel in which flesh is cooked; hence (pl.), plenty; high living.	
fleshquake	Obsolete	A quaking or trembling of the flesh; a quiver.	
fleshy	Obsolete	Full of, or composed of, flesh; plump; corpulent; fat; gross.	
flet	Obsolete	Skimmed.	
fletch		To feather, as an arrow.	
fletcher	Obsolete	One who fletches of feathers arrows; a manufacturer of bows and arrows.	
flete	Obsolete	To float; to swim.	
fletiferous	Obsolete	Producing tears.	
fleur-de-lis		A conventional flower suggested by the iris, and having a form which fits it for the terminal decoration of a scepter, the ornaments of a crown, etc. It is also a heraldic bearing…	French fleur de lys.
fleuron		A flower-shaped ornament, esp. one terminating an object or forming one of a series, as a knob of a cover to a dish, or a flower- shaped part in a necklace.	
fleury		Finished at the ends with fleurs-de-lis; -- said esp. a cross so decorated.	
flew		imp. of Fly — to move in or pass thorugh the air with wings, as a bird.	
flewed		Having large flews.	
flews		The pendulous or overhanging lateral parts of the upper lip of dogs, especially prominent in hounds; -- called also chaps.	
flex	Obsolete	To bend; as, to flex the arm.	
flexanimous	Obsolete	Having power to change the mind.	
flexibility		The state or quality of being flexible; flexibleness; pliancy; pliability; as, the flexibility of strips of hemlock, hickory, whalebone or metal, or of rays of light.	Latin flexibilitas.
flexible		Capable of being flexed or bent; admitting of being turned, bowed, or twisted, without breaking; pliable; yielding to pressure; not stiff or brittle.	Latin flexibilis.
flexicostate		Having bent or curved ribs.	
flexile		Flexible; pliant; pliable; easily bent; plastic; tractable.	
flexion		A bending; a part bent; a fold.	Latin flexio.
flexor		A muscle which bends or flexes any part; as, the flexors of the arm or the hand; -- opposed to extensor.	Latin flexor.
flexuose		Flexuous.	
flexuous		Having turns, windings, or flexures.	Latin flexuosus.
flexural		Of, pertaining to, or resulting from, flexure; of the nature of, or characterized by, flexure; as, flexural elasticity.	
flexure		The act of flexing or bending; a turning or curving; flexion; hence, obsequious bowing or bending.	
flibbergib	Obsolete	A sycophant.	
flibustier	Obsolete	A buccaneer; an American pirate. See Flibuster.	
flick		To whip lightly or with a quick jerk; to flap; as, to flick a horse; to flick the dirt from boots.	
flicker		To flutter; to flap the wings without flying.	Middle English flikeren, from Old English flicerian.
flickeringly		In a flickering manner.	
flickermouse		See Flittermouse — a bat; -- called also flickermouse, flindermouse, and flintymouse.	
flidge	Obsolete	Fledged; fledge.	
flier		One who flies or flees; a runaway; a fugitive.	
flight		The act or flying; a passing through the air by the help of wings; volitation; mode or style of flying.	
flight-shot	English dialect	The distance to which an arrow or flight may be shot; bowshot, -- about the fifth of a mile.	
flighted		Taking flight; flying; -- used in composition.	
flighter		A horizontal vane revolving over the surface of wort in a cooler, to produce a circular current in the liquor.	
flightily		In a flighty manner.	
flightiness		The state or quality of being flighty.	
flighty		Fleeting; swift; transient.	
flimflam		A freak; a trick; a lie.	
flimsily		In a flimsy manner.	
flimsiness		The state or quality of being flimsy.	
flimsy		Weak; feeble; limp; slight; vain; without strength or solidity; of loose and unsubstantial structure; without reason or plausibility; as, a flimsy argument, excuse, objection.	
flinch		To withdraw from any suffering or undertaking, from pain or danger; to fail in doing or perserving; to show signs of yielding or of suffering; to shrink; to wince; as, one of the parties flinched from the combat.	
flincher		One who flinches or fails.	
flinchingly		In a flinching manner.	
flindermouse		A bat; a flittermouse.	
flinders		Small pieces or splinters; fragments.	
fling		To cast, send, to throw from the hand; to hurl; to dart; to emit with violence as if thrown from the hand; as, to fing a stone into the pond.	
flingdust	Obsolete	One who kicks up the dust; a streetwalker; a low manner.	
flinger		One who flings; one who jeers.	
flint		(Min.) A massive, somewhat impure variety of quartz, in color usually of a gray to brown or nearly black, breaking with a conchoidal fracture and sharp edge.	Old English flint.
flint-hearted		Hard-hearted.	
flintiness		The state or quality of being flinty; hardness; cruelty.	
flintlock		A lock for a gun or pistol, having a flint fixed in the hammer, which on stricking the steel ignites the priming.	
flintware		A superior kind of earthenware into whose composition flint enters largely.	
flintwood		An Australian name for the very hard wood of the Eucalyptus piluralis.	
flinty		Consisting of, composed of, abounding in, or resembling, flint; as, a flinty rock; flinty ground; a flinty heart.	
flip		A mixture of beer, spirit, etc., stirred and heated by a hot iron.	
flip-flap		The repeated stroke of something long and loose.	
flipe	Scots	To turn inside out, or with the leg part back over the foot, as a stocking in pulling off or for putting on.	
flippancy		The state or quality of being flippant.	
flippant		Of smooth, fluent, and rapid speech; speaking with ease and rapidity; having a voluble tongue; talkative.	
flippantly		In a flippant manner.	
flippantness		State or quality of being flippant.	
flipper		(Zoöl.) A broad flat limb used for swimming, as those of seals, sea turtles, whales, etc.	
flirt		To throw with a jerk or quick effort; to fling suddenly; as, they flirt water in each other's faces; he flirted a glove, or a handkerchief.	
flirt-gill	Obsolete	A woman of light behavior; a gill-flirt.	
flirtation		Playing at courtship; coquerty.	
flirtigig	Obsolete	A wanton, pert girl.	
flirtingly		In a flirting manner.	
flisk	Obsolete	To frisk; to skip; to caper.	
flit		To move with celerity through the air; to fly away with a rapid motion; to dart along; to fleet; as, a bird flits away; a cloud flits along.	Old Norse flytja.
flitch		The side of a hog salted and cured; a side of bacon.	Old English flicce.
flite	English dialect	To scold; to quarrel.	Middle English fliten, from Old English flitan.
flitter	Obsolete	To flutter.	
flittermouse		A bat; -- called also flickermouse, flindermouse, and flintymouse.	
flittern		A term applied to the bark obtained from young oak trees.	
flittiness	Obsolete	Unsteadiness; levity; lightness.	
flitting		A flying with lightness and celerity; a fluttering.	
flittingly		In a flitting manner.	
flitty	Obsolete	Unstable; fluttering.	
flix	Obsolete	Down; fur.	
flo	Obsolete	An arrow.	
float		Anything which floats or rests on the surface of a fluid, as to sustain weight, or to indicate the height of the surface, or mark the place of, something.	Middle English floten, from Old English flotian.
floatable		That may be floated.	
floatage		Same as Flotage.	
floatation		See Flotation — the act, process, or state of floating.	
floater		One who floats or swims.	
floating		Buoyed upon or in a fluid; a, the floating timbers of a wreck; floating motes in the air.	
floatingly		In a floating manner.	
floaty		Swimming on the surface; buoyant; light.	
flobert		A small cartridge designed for target shooting; -- sometimes called ball cap.	
floccillation		A delirious picking of bedclothes by a sick person, as if to pick off flocks of wool; carphology; -- an alarming symptom in acute diseases.	
floccose		Spotted with small tufts like wool.	
floccular		Of or pertaining to the flocculus.	
flocculate		To aggregate into small lumps.	
flocculation		The process by which small particles of fine soils and sediments aggregate into larger lumps.	
floccule		A detached mass of loosely fibrous structure like a shredded tuft of wool.	
flocculence		The state of being flocculent.	
flocculent		Clothed with small flocks or flakes; woolly.	
flocculus		A small lobe in the under surface of the cerebellum, near the middle peduncle; the subpeduncular lobe.	
floccus		(Zoöl.) (a) The tuft of hair terminating the tail of mammals. (b) A tuft of feathers on the head of young birds.	
flock		A company or collection of living creatures; -- especially applied to sheep and birds, rarely to persons or (except in the plural) to cattle and other large animals; as, a flock of ravenous fowl.	Middle English flock, from Old English flocc.
flockly	Obsolete	In flocks; in crowds.	
flockmel	Obsolete	In a flock; in a body.	
flocky		Abounding with flocks; floccose.	
floe		A low, flat mass of floating ice.	
flog		To beat or strike with a rod or whip; to whip; to lash; to chastise with repeated blows.	
flogger		A kind of mallet for beating the bung stave of a cask to start the bung.	
flogging		from Flog, v. t.	
flon	Obsolete	See Flo — an arrow.	
flong		imp. & p. p. of Fling.	French flan, from Old French flaon, from Latin fladonem.
flood		A great flow of water; a body of moving water; the flowing stream, as of a river; especially, a body of water, rising, swelling, and overflowing land not usually thus covered; a deluge; a freshet; an inundation.	Middle English flod, from Old English flod.
floodage		Inundation.	
flooder		One who floods anything.	
flooding		The filling or covering with water or other fluid; overflow; inundation; the filling anything to excess.	
flook		A fluke of an anchor.	
flookan		See Flucan — soft clayey matter in the vein, or surrounding it.	
floor		The bottom or lower part of any room; the part upon which we stand and upon which the movables in the room are supported.	
floorage		Floor space.	
floorer	Colloquial	Anything that floors or upsets a person, as a blow that knocks him down; a conclusive answer or retort; a task that exceeds one's abilities.	
floorheads		The upper extermities of the floor of a vessel.	
flooring		A platform; the bottom of a room; a floor; pavement. See Floor, n.	Middle English floring.
floorless		Having no floor.	
floorwalker		One who walks about in a large retail store as an overseer and director.	
flop		To clap or strike, as a bird its wings, a fish its tail, etc.; to flap.	
floppy		Having a tendency to flop or flap; as, a floppy hat brim.	
flopwing		The lapwing.	
flora		(Bot.) The complete system of vegetable species growing without cultivation in a given locality, region, or period; a list or description of, or treatise on, such plants.	Latin Flora.
floral		Pertaining to Flora, or to flowers; made of flowers; as, floral games, wreaths.	
florally		In a floral manner.	
floramour	Obsolete	The plant love-lies-bleeding.	Latin flos.
floran		Tin ore scarcely perceptible in the stone; tin ore stamped very fine.	
floreal		The eight month of the French republican calendar.	
floren	Obsolete	A cerain gold coin; a Florence.	
florence		An ancient gold coin of the time of Edward III., of six shillings sterling value.	
florentine	Obsolete	A kind of pudding or tart; a kind of meat pie.	French florentin.
florescence		A bursting into flower; a blossoming.	
florescent		Expanding into flowers; blossoming.	
floret		(Bot.) A little flower; one of the numerous little flowers which compose the head or anthodium in such flowers as the daisy, thistle, and dandelion.	Old French florete, from French fleur, from Latin flos.
floriage	Obsolete	Bloom; blossom.	
floriated		Having floral ornaments; as, floriated capitals of Gothic pillars.	
floriation		Ornamentation by means of flower forms, whether closely imitated or conventionalized.	
floricomous		Having the head adorned with flowers.	
floricultural		Pertaining to the cultivation of flowering plants.	
floriculture		The cultivation of flowering plants.	
floriculturist		One skilled in the cultivation of flowers; a florist.	
florid		Covered with flowers; abounding in flowers; flowery.	
florideae		A subclass of algæ including all the red or purplish seaweeds; the Rhodospermeæ of many authors; -- so called from the rosy or florid color of most of the species.	
floridity		The quality of being florid; floridness.	
floridly		In a florid manner.	
floridness		The quality of being florid.	
floriferous		Producing flowers.	
florification		The act, process, or time of flowering; florescence.	Latin flos.
floriform		Having the form of a flower; flower-shaped.	Latin flos.
floriken		An Indian bustard (Otis aurita).	
florilege		The act of gathering flowers.	
florimer	Obsolete	See Floramour — the plant love-lies-bleeding.	
florin		A silver coin of Florence, first struck in the twelfth century, and noted for its beauty.	
florist		One who writes a flora, or an account of plants.	Latin floris.
floroon		A border worked with flowers.	French fleuron.
florulent	Obsolete	Flowery; blossoming.	Latin florulentus.
flos-ferri		A variety of aragonite, occuring in delicate white coralloidal forms; -- common in beds of iron ore.	
floscular		Flosculous.	
floscularian		One of a group of stalked rotifers, having ciliated tentacles around the lobed disk.	
floscule		A floret.	
flosculous		Consisting of many gamopetalous florets.	
flosh		A hopper-shaped box or Knight.	
floss		(Bot.) The slender styles of the pistillate flowers of maize; also called silk.	
flossification		A flowering; florification.	
flossy		Pertaining to, made of, or resembling, floss; hence, light; downy.	
flota		A fleet; especially, a	
flotage		That which floats on the sea or in rivers.	Old French flotage.
flotant		Represented as flying or streaming in the air; as, a banner flotant.	Old French flotant.
flotation		The act, process, or state of floating.	
flote	Obsolete	To fleet; to skim.	
flotery	Obsolete	Wavy; flowing.	
flotilla		A little fleet, or a fleet of small vessels.	Spanish flotilla.
flotsam		Goods lost by shipwreck, and floating on the sea; -- in distinction from jetsam or jetson.	Anglo-Norman floteson, from Old French flotaison.
flotson		Goods lost by shipwreck, and floating on the sea; -- in distinction from jetsam or jetson.	
flotten	Obsolete	Skimmed.	
flounce		To throw the limbs and body one way and the other; to spring, turn, or twist with sudden effort or violence; to struggle, as a horse in mire; to flounder; to throw one's self with a jerk or spasm, often as in displeasure.	
flounder		(Zoöl.) A flatfish of the family Pleuronectidæ, of many species.	Old Norse flyðra.
flour		The finely ground meal of wheat, or of any other grain; especially, the finer part of meal separated by bolting; hence, the fine and soft powder of any substance; as, flour of emery; flour of mustard.	
floured		Finely granulated; -- said of quicksilver which has been granulated by agitation during the amalgamation process.	
flourish		To grow luxuriantly; to increase and enlarge, as a healthy growing plant; a thrive.	Old English florisshen.
flourisher		One who flourishes.	
floury		Of or resembling flour; mealy; covered with flour.	
flout		To mock or insult; to treat with contempt.	
flouter		One who flouts; a mocker.	
floutingly		With flouting; insultingly; as, to treat a lover floutingly.	
flow		To move with a continual change of place among the particles or parts, as a fluid; to change place or circulate, as a liquid; as, rivers flow from springs and lakes; tears flow from the eyes.	Old English flowan.
flowage		An overflowing with water; also, the water which thus overflows.	
flowen		imp. pl. of Fly, v. i.	
flower		In the popular sense, the bloom or blossom of a plant; the showy portion, usually of a different color, shape, and texture from the foliage.	Middle English flour, from Anglo-Norman flur, from Old French flor, from Latin florem.
flower-de-luce		A genus of perennial herbs (Iris) with swordlike leaves and large three-petaled flowers often of very gay colors, but probably white in the plant first chosen for the royal French emblem.	
flower-fence		A tropical leguminous bush (Poinciana, or Cæsalpinia, pulcherrima) with prickly branches, and showy yellow or red flowers; -- so named from its having been sometimes used for hedges in the West Indies.	
flower-gentle		A species of amaranth (Amarantus melancholicus).	
flowerage		State of flowers; flowers, collectively or in general.	
flowerer		A plant which flowers or blossoms.	
floweret		A small flower; a floret.	
flowerful		Abounding with flowers.	
floweriness		The state of being flowery.	
flowering		Having conspicuous flowers; -- used as an epithet with many names of plants; as, flowering ash; flowering dogwood; flowering almond, etc. Flowering fern, a genus of showy ferns (Osmunda), with conspicuous bivalvular sporangia.	
flowerless		Having no flowers.	
flowerlessness		State of being without flowers.	
flowerpot		A vessel, commonly or earthenware, for earth in which plants are grown.	
flowery		Full of flowers; abounding with blossoms.	
flowery-kirtled	Poetic & rare	Dressed with garlands of flowers.	
flowing		That flows or for flowing (in various sense of the verb); gliding along smoothly; copious.	
flowingly		In a flowing manner.	
flowingness		Flowing tendency or quality; fluency.	
flowk		See 1st Fluke.	
flown		p. p. of Fly; -- often used with the auxiliary verb to be; as, the birds are flown.	
floyte	Obsolete	A variant of Flute.	
fluate	Obsolete	A fluoride.	
fluavil		A hydrocarbon extracted from gutta-percha, as a yellow, resinous substance; -- called also fluanil.	
flucan		Soft clayey matter in the vein, or surrounding it.	
fluctiferous		Tending to produce waves.	
fluctisonous		Sounding like waves.	
fluctuability		The capacity or ability to fluctuate.	
fluctuant		Moving like a wave; wavering; (Med.) showing undulation or fluctuation; as, a fluctuant tumor.	
fluctuate		To move as a wave; to roll hither and thither; to wave; to float backward and forward, as on waves; as, a fluctuating field of air.	
fluctuation		A motion like that of waves; a moving in this and that direction; as, the fluctuations of the sea.	Latin fluctuationem.
flue		An inclosed passage way for establishing and directing a current of air, gases, etc.; an air passage; esp.: (a) A compartment or division of a chimney for conveying flame and smoke to the outer air.	
fluegel		A grand piano or a harpsichord, both being wing-shaped.	
fluence	Obsolete	Fluency.	
fluency		The quality of being fluent; smoothness; readiness of utterance; volubility.	Latin fluentia.
fluent		Flowing or capable of flowing; liquid; glodding; easily moving.	Latin fluens.
fluently		In a fluent manner.	
fluentness		The quality of being fluent.	
fluework		A general name for organ stops in which the sound is caused by wind passing through a flue or fissure and striking an edge above; -- in distinction from reedwork.	
fluey		Downy; fluffy.	
fluff		Nap or down; flue; soft, downy feathers.	
fluffy		Pertaining to, or resembling, fluff or nap; soft and downy.	
flugel		A grand piano or a harpsichord, both being wing-shaped.	
flugelman		Same as Fugleman.	
fluid		Having particles which easily move and change their relative position without a separation of the mass, and which easily yield to pressure; capable of flowing; liquid or gaseous.	Latin fluidus.
fluidal		Pertaining to a fluid, or to its flowing motion.	
fluidity		The quality of being fluid or capable of flowing; a liquid, aëriform. or gaseous state; -- opposed to solidity.	
fluidize		To render fluid.	
fluidness		The state of being flluid; fluidity.	
fluidounce		See Fluid ounce, under Fluid.	
fluidrachm		See Fluid dram, under Fluid.	
flukan		See Flucan — soft clayey matter in the vein, or surrounding it.	
fluke		The part of an anchor which fastens in the ground; a flook. See Anchor.	Old English floc.
flukeworm		Same as 1st Fluke, 2.	
fluky		Formed like, or having, a fluke.	
flume		A stream; especially, a passage channel, or conduit for the water that drives a mill wheel; or an artifical channel of water for hydraulic or placer mining; also, a chute for conveying logs or lumber down a declivity.	Middle English flum, from Old French flum.
fluminous		Pertaining to rivers; abounding in streama.	Latin flumen.
flummery		A light kind of food, formerly made of flour or meal; a sort of pap.	
flung		imp. & p. p. of Fling.	
flunk	Colloquial	To fail, as on a lesson; to back out, as from an undertaking, through fear.	
flunky		A contemptuous name for a liveried servant or a footman.	
flunkydom		The place or region of flunkies.	
flunlyism		The quality or characteristics of a flunky; readiness to cringe to those who are superior in wealth or position; toadyism.	
fluo-		A combining form indicating fluorine as an ingredient; as in fluosilicate, fluobenzene.	
fluoborate		A salt of fluoboric acid; a fluoboride.	
fluoboric		Pertaining to, derived from, or consisting of, fluorine and boron.	
fluoboride		See Borofluoride — a double fluoride of boron and hydrogen, or some other positive element, or radical; -- called also fluoboride, and formerly fluoborate.	
fluocerine		A fluoride of cerium, occuring near Fahlun in Sweden.	
fluocerite		A fluoride of cerium, occuring near Fahlun in Sweden.	
fluohydric		See Hydrofluoric — pertaining to, or containing, hydrogen and fluorine; fluohydric; as, hydrofluoric acid.	
fluophosphate		A double salt of fluoric and phosphoric acids.	
fluor	Obsolete	Menstrual flux; catamenia; menses.	
fluoranthene		A white crystalline hydrocarbon C	
fluorated		Combined with fluorine; subjected to the action of fluoride.	
fluorene		A colorless, crystalline hydrocarbon, C13H10 having a beautiful violet fluorescence; whence its name.	
fluorescein		A yellowish red, crystalline substance, C20H12O5, produced by heating together phthalic anhydride and resorcin; -- so called, from the very brilliant yellowish green fluorescence of its alkaline solutions.	
fluorescence		That property which some transparent bodies have of producing at their surface, or within their substance, light different in color from the mass of the material, as when green crystals of fluor spar afford blue reflections.	
fluorescent		Having the property of fluorescence.	
fluorescin		A colorless, amorphous substance which is produced by the reduction of fluoresceïn, and from which the latter may be formed by oxidation.	
fluoric		Pertaining to, obtained from, or containing, fluorine.	
fluoride		A binary compound of fluorine with another element or radical.	
fluorine		A non-metallic, gaseous element, strongly acid or negative, or associated with chlorine, bromine, and iodine, in the halogen group of which it is the first member.	
fluorite		Calcium fluoride, a mineral of many different colors, white, yellow, purple, green, red, etc., often very beautiful, crystallizing commonly in cubes with perfect octahedral cleavage; also massive.	
fluoroid		A tetrahexahedron; -- so called because it is a common form of fluorite.	
fluoroscope		An instrument for observing or exhibiting fluorescence.	
fluoroscopy		Examination of an object, as the human body, by exposing it to the X rays and observing the shadow cast upon a fluorescent screen; cryptoscopy.	
fluorous		Pertaining to fluor.	
fluosilicate		A double fluoride of silicon and some other (usually basic) element or radical, regarded as a salt of fluosilicic acid; -- called also silicofluoride.	
fluosilicic		Composed of, or derived from, silicon and fluorine.	
flurried		Agitated; excited. -- Flur"ried*ly adv.	
flurry		A sudden and brief blast or gust; a light, temporary breeze; as, a flurry of wind.	
flurt	Obsolete	A flirt.	
flush		To flow and spread suddenly; to rush; as, blood flushes into the face.	Middle English flusshen.
flushboard		Same as Flashboard.	
flusher		A workman employed in cleaning sewers by flushing them with water.	
flushing		A heavy, coarse cloth manufactured from shoddy; -- commonly in the	
flushingly		In a flushing manner.	
flushness		The state of being flush; abundance.	
fluster		To make hot and rosy, as with drinking; to heat; hence, to throw into agitation and confusion; to confuse; to muddle.	
flusteration	Colloquial	The act of flustering, or the state of being flustered; fluster.	
flustrate	Colloquial	To fluster.	
flustration	Colloquial	The act of flustrating; confusion; flurry.	
flute		A musical wind instrument, consisting of a hollow cylinder or pipe, with holes along its length, stopped by the fingers or by keys which are opened by the fingers.	Old French fleüte, from Old Provençal flaut.
fluted		Thin; fine; clear and mellow; flutelike; as, fluted notes.	
flutemouth		A fish of the genus Aulostoma, having a much elongated tubular snout.	
fluter		One who plays on the flute; a flutist or flautist.	
fluting		Decoration by means of flutes or channels; a flute, or flutes collectively; as, the fluting of a column or pilaster; the fluting of a lady's ruffle.	
flutist		A performer on the flute; a flautist.	
flutter		To vibrate or move quickly; as, a bird flutters its wings.	Middle English floteren, from Old English floterian.
flutterer		One who, or that which, flutters.	
flutteringly		In a fluttering manner.	
fluty		Soft and clear in tone, like a flute.	
fluvial		Belonging to rivers; growing or living in streams or ponds; as, a fluvial plant.	Latin fluvialis.
fluvialist		One who exlpains geological phenomena by the action of streams.	
fluviatic		Belonging to rivers or streams; fluviatile.	Latin fluviaticus.
fluviatile		Belonging to rivers or streams; existing in or about rivers; produced by river action; fluvial; as, fluviatile starta, plants.	
fluvio-marine		Formed by the joint action of a river and the sea, as deposits at the mouths of rivers.	
fluviograph		An instrument for measuring and recording automatically the rise and fall of a river.	
fluviometer		An instrument for measuring the height of water in a river; a river gauge.	
flux		The act of flowing; a continuous moving on or passing by, as of a flowing stream; constant succession; change.	Latin fluxus.
fluxation		The act of fluxing.	
fluxibility		The quality of being fluxible.	
fluxible		Capable of being melted or fused, as a mineral.	
fluxile		Fluxible.	Latin fluxilis.
fluxility	Obsolete	State of being fluxible.	
fluxion		The matter that flows.	
fluxional		Pertaining to, or having the nature of, fluxion or fluxions; variable; inconstant.	
fluxionary		(Med.) Pertaining to, or caused by, an increased flow of blood to a part; congestive; as, a fluxionary hemorrhage.	
fluxionist		One skilled in fluxions.	
fluxions		See Fluxion, 6(b).	
fluxive		Flowing; also, wanting solidity.	
fluxure	Obsolete	The quality of being fluid.	
fly		To move in or pass thorugh the air with wings, as a bird.	Middle English flien, from Old English fleogan.
fly-bitten		Marked by, or as if by, the bite of flies.	
fly-case		The covering of an insect, esp. the elytra of beetles.	
fly-catching		Having the habit of catching insects on the wing.	
fly-fish		To angle, using flies for bait.	
flyaway		Disposed to fly away; flighty; unrestrained; light and free; -- used of both persons and things. -- n.	
flybane		A kind of catchfly of the genus Silene; also, a poisonous mushroom (Agaricus muscarius); fly agaric.	
flyblow		To deposit eggs upon, as a flesh fly does on meat; to cause to be maggoty; hence, to taint or contaminate, as if with flyblows.	
flyblown		Tainted or contaminated with flyblows; damaged; foul.	
flyboat		(Naut.) A large Dutch coasting vessel.	
flycatcher		One of numerous species of birds that feed upon insects, which they take on the wing.	
flyer		One that uses wings.	
flyfish		A California scorpænoid fish (Sebastichthys rhodochloris), having brilliant colors.	
flying		Moving in the air with, or as with, wings; moving lightly or rapidly; intended for rapid movement.	
flyman		The driver of a fly, or light public carriage.	
flysch		A name given to the series of sandstones and schists overlying the true nummulitic formation in the Alps, and included in the Eocene Tertiary.	
flyspeck		A speck or stain made by the excrement of a fly; hence, any insignificant dot.	
flyte	Obsolete	Strife; dispute; abusive or upbraiding talk, as in fliting; wrangling.	
flytrap		(Bot.) A plant (Dionæa muscipula), called also Venus's flytrap, the leaves of which are fringed with stiff bristles, and fold together when certain hairs on their upper surface are touched, thus seizing insects that light on them.	
flytting	Obsolete	Contention; strife; scolding; specif., a kind of metrical contest between two persons, popular in Scotland in the 16th century.	
