fo		The Chinese name of Buddha.	
foal		The young of any animal of the Horse family (Equidæ); a colt; a filly.	Old English fola.
foalfoot		(Bot.) See Coltsfoot.	
foam		The white substance, consisting of an aggregation of bubbles, which is formed on the surface of liquids,or in the mouth of an animal, by violent agitation or fermentation; froth; spume; scum; as, the foam of the sea.	Middle English fom, from Old English fam.
foamingly		With foam; frothily.	
foamless		Having no foam.	
foamy		Covered with foam; frothy; spumy.	
fob		A little pocket for a watch.	German foppen.
focal		Belonging to,or concerning, a focus; as, a focal point.	
focalization		The act of focalizing or bringing to a focus, or the state of being focalized.	
focalize		To bring to a focus; to focus; to concentrate.	
focillate	Obsolete	To nourish.	
focillation	Obsolete	Comfort; support.	
focimeter		(Photog.) An assisting instrument for focusing an object in or before a camera.	
focus		(Opt.) A point in which the rays of light meet, after being reflected or refrcted, and at which the image is formed; as, the focus of a lens or mirror.	Latin focus.
fodder	Obsolete	A weight by which lead and some other metals were formerly sold, in England, varying from 19 That which is fed out to cattle horses, and sheep, as hay, cornstalks, vegetables, etc. To feed, as cattle, with dry food or cut grass…	Old English fōdor.
fodderer		One who fodders cattle.	
fodient		Fitted for, or pertaining to, digging.	
fodientia		A group of African edentates including the aard-vark.	
foe		See Fiend, and cf. Feud a quarrel.	
foehn		(a) A warm dry wind that often blows in the northern valleys of the Alps, due to the indraught of a storm center passing over Central Europe.	German Föhn.
foeman		An enemy in war.	Middle English foman, from Old English fahman.
foetal		Same as Fetal.	Latin fetus.
foetation		Same as Fetation.	
foeticide		Same as Feticide.	
foetor		Same as Fetor.	
foetus		Same as Fetus.	
fog		Watery vapor condensed in the lower part of the atmosphere and disturbing its transparency.	
fogbow		A nebulous arch, or bow, of white or yellowish light sometimes seen in fog, etc.	
foge		The Cornish name for a forge used for smelting tin.	
fogey		See Fogy — a dull old fellow; a person behind the times, over- conservative, or slow; -- usually preceded by old.	
foggage		See 1st Fog.	
fogger	Obsolete	One who fogs; a pettifogger.	
foggily		In a foggy manner; obscurely.	
fogginess		The state of being foggy.	
foggy		Filled or abounding with fog, or watery exhalations; misty; as, a foggy atmosphere; a foggy morning.	
fogie		See Fogy — a dull old fellow; a person behind the times, over- conservative, or slow; -- usually preceded by old.	
fogless		Without fog; clear.	
fogy	Colloquial	A dull old fellow; a person behind the times, over- conservative, or slow; -- usually preceded by old.	
fogyism	Colloquial	The principles and conduct of a fogy.	
foh		An exclamation of abhorrence or contempt; poh; fle.	
fohist		A Buddhist priest. See Fo.	
foible		A moral weakness; a failing; a weak point; a frailty.	
foil		To tread under foot; to trample.	French feuille, from Old French fueille, from Latin folia.
foilable		Capable of being foiled.	
foiler		One who foils or frustrates.	
foin		(Zoöl.) The beech marten (Mustela foina). See Marten.	Old French foene, from Latin fuscina.
foinery	Obsolete	Thrusting with the foil; fencing with the point, as distinguished from broadsword play.	
foiningly	Obsolete	With a push or thrust.	
foison	Archaic	Rich harvest; plenty; abundance.	Old French foison.
foist	Obsolete	A light and fast-sailing ship.	
foister		One who foists something surreptitiously; a falsitier.	
foistiness	Obsolete	Fustiness; mustiness.	
foisty	Obsolete	Fusty; musty.	
fold		To lap or lay in plaits or folds; to lay one part over another part of; to double; as, to fold cloth; to fold a letter.	Middle English folden, from Old English fealdan.
foldage		See Faldage — a privilege of setting up, and moving about, folds for sheep, in any fields within manors, in order to manure them; -- often reserved to himself by the lord of the manor.	
folder		One who, or that which, folds; esp., a flat, knifelike instrument used for folding paper.	
folderol	Colloquial	Nonsense.	
folding		The act of making a fold or folds; also, a fold; a doubling; a plication.	
foldless		Having no fold.	
foliaceous		(Bot.) Belonging to, or having the texture or nature of, a leaf; having leaves intermixed with flowers; as, a foliaceous spike.	
foliage		Leaves, collectively, as produced or arranged by nature; leafage; as, a tree or forest of beautiful foliage.	Middle French feuillage.
foliaged		Furnished with foliage; leaved; as, the variously foliaged mulberry.	
foliar		Consisting of, or pertaining to, leaves; as, foliar appendages.	
foliate		Furnished with leaves; leafy; as, a foliate stalk.	
foliated		Having leaves, or leaflike projections; as, a foliated shell.	
foliation		The process of forming into a leaf or leaves.	
foliature		The state of being beaten into foil.	
folier		Goldsmith's foil.	
foliferous		Producing leaves.	
folily	Obsolete	Foolishly.	
folio		A sheet of paper once folded.	
foliolate		Of or pertaining to leaflets; -- used in composition; as, bi- foliolate.	
foliole		One of the distinct parts of a compound leaf; a leaflet.	
foliomort		See Feuillemort — having the color of a faded leaf.	
foliose		Having many leaves; leafy.	Latin foliosus.
foliosity		The ponderousness or bulk of a folio; voluminousness.	
folious		Like a leaf; thin; unsubstantial.	
folium		A leaf, esp. a thin leaf or plate.	
folk	Colloquial	People in general, or a separate class of people; -- generally used in the plural form, and often with a qualifying adjective; as, the old folks; poor folks.	
folkething		The lower house of the Danish Rigsdag, or Parliament. See Legislature, below.	
folkland		Land held in villenage, being distributed among the folk, or people, at the pleasure of the lord of the manor, and resumed at his discretion.	
folkmote		An assembly of the people; esp. (Sax. Law), a general assembly of the people to consider and order matters of the commonwealth; also, a local court.	
folkmoter	Obsolete	One who takes part in a folkmote, or local court.	
folks	Colloquial	People in general, or a separate class of people; -- generally used in the plural form, and often with a qualifying adjective; as, the old folks; poor folks.	
follicle		(Bot.) A simple podlike pericarp which contains several seeds and opens along the inner or ventral suture, as in the peony, larkspur and milkweed.	Latin folliculus.
follicular		Like, pertaining to, or consisting of, a follicles or follicles.	
folliculated		Having follicles.	
folliculous		Having or producing follicles.	
folliful	Obsolete	Full of folly.	
follow		To go or come after; to move behind in the same path or direction; hence, to go with (a leader, guide, etc.); to accompany; to attend.	
follower		One who follows; a pursuer; an attendant; a disciple; a dependent associate; a retainer.	
following		One's followers, adherents, or dependents, collectively.	
folly		The state of being foolish; want of good sense; levity, weakness, or derangement of mind.	Old French folie.
folwe	Obsolete	To follow.	
fomalhaut		A star of the first magnitude, in the constellation Piscis Australis, or Southern Fish.	
foment		To apply a warm lotion to; to bathe with a cloth or sponge wet with warm water or medicated liquid.	Old French fomenter, from Latin fomentare.
fomentation		(Med.) (a) The act of fomenting; the application of warm, soft, medicinal substances, as for the purpose of easing pain, by relaxing the skin, or of discussing tumors.	
fomenter		One who foments; one who encourages or instigates; as, a fomenter of sedition.	
fomes		Any substance supposed to be capable of absorbing, retaining, and transporting contagious or infectious germs; as, woolen clothes are said to be active fomites.	
fon	Obsolete	A fool; an idiot.	Middle English fonnen.
fond		imp. of Find — to meet with, or light upon, accidentally; to gain the first sight or knowledge of, as of something new, or unknown; hence, to fall in with, as a person.	Middle English fond.
fondant		A kind of soft sweetmeat made by boiling solutions to the point of crystallization, usually molded; as, cherry fondant.	
fonde	Obsolete	To endeavor; to strive; to try.	
fondle		To treat or handle with tenderness or in a loving manner; to caress; as, a nurse fondles a child.	
fondler		One who fondles.	
fondling		The act of caressing; manifestation of tenderness.	
fondly		In a fond manner; affectionately; tenderly.	
fondness		Doting affection; tender liking; strong appetite, propensity, or relish; as, he had a fondness for truffles.	
fondon		A large copper vessel used for hot amalgamation.	
fondu		Blended; passing into each other by subtle gradations; -- said of colors or of the surface or material on which the colors are laid.	French fondu.
fondue		A dish made of cheese, eggs, butter, etc., melted together.	French fondue.
fondus		A style of printing calico, paper hangings, etc., in which the colors are in bands and graduated into each other.	
fone	Obsolete	pl. of Foe — see Fiend, and cf. Feud a quarrel.	
fonge	Obsolete	To take; to receive.	
fonly	Obsolete	Foolishly; fondly.	
font		A complete assortment of printing type of one size, including a due proportion of all the letters in the alphabet, large and small, points, accents, and whatever else is necessary for printing with that variety of types; a fount.	Middle French fonte.
fontal		Pertaining to a font, fountain, source, or origin; original; primitive.	
fontanel		(Anat.) One of the membranous intervals between the incompleted angles of the parietal and neighboring bones of a fetal or young skull; -- so called because it exhibits a rhythmical pulsation.	
fontanelle		Same as Fontanel, 2.	Old French fontenelle.
fontange		A kind of tall headdress formerly worn.	
food		What is fed upon; that which goes to support life by being received within, and assimilated by, the organism of an animal or a plant; nutriment; aliment; especially, what is eaten by animals for nourishment.	Middle English fode.
foodful		Full of food; supplying food; fruitful; fertile.	
foodless		Without food; barren.	
foody		Eatable; fruitful.	
fool		A compound of gooseberries scalded and crushed, with cream; -- commonly called gooseberry fool.	Middle English fol, from Old French fol, from Latin follis.
fool-born		Begotten by a fool.	
fool-happy	Obsolete	Lucky, without judgment or contrivance.	
fool-hasty		Foolishly hasty.	
fool-large	Obsolete	Foolishly liberal.	
fool-largesse	Obsolete	Foolish expenditure; waste.	
foolahs		Same as Fulahs., Foo"lahs` (, n. pl.; sing. Fulah, Foolan (. (Ethnol.) A peculiar African race of uncertain origin, but distinct from the negro tribes, inhabiting an extensive region of Western Soudan.	
foolery		The practice of folly; the behavior of a fool; absurdity.	
foolfish		(a) The orange filefish. See Filefish. (b) The winter flounder. See Flounder.	
foolhardihood		The state of being foolhardy; foolhardiness.	
foolhardily		In a foolhardy manner.	
foolhardiness		Courage without sense or judgment; foolish rashness; recklessness.	
foolhardise	Obsolete	Foolhardiness.	
foolhardy		Daring without judgment; foolishly adventurous and bold.	
foolify		To make a fool of; to befool.	
foolish		Marked with, or exhibiting, folly; void of understanding; weak in intellect; without judgment or discretion; silly; unwise.	
foolishly		In a foolish manner.	
foolishness		The quality of being foolish.	
foolscap		A writing paper made in sheets, ordinarily 16 x 13 inches, and folded so as to make a page 13 x 8 inches.	
foot		(Anat.) The terminal part of the leg of man or an animal; esp., the part below the ankle or wrist; that part of an animal upon which it rests when standing, or moves.	
foot-sore		Having sore or tender feet, as by reason of much walking; as, foot-sore cattle.	
football		An inflated ball to be kicked in sport, usually made in India rubber, or a bladder incased in Leather.	
footband	Obsolete	A band of foot soldiers.	
footbath		A bath for the feet; also, a vessel used in bathing the feet.	
footboard		A board or narrow platfrom upon which one may stand or brace his feet; as: (a) The platform for the engineer and fireman of a locomotive.	
footboy		A page; an attendant in livery; a lackey.	
footbreadth		The breadth of a foot; -- used as a measure.	
footbridge		A narrow bridge for foot passengers only.	
footcloth		Formerly, a housing or caparison for a horse.	
footed		Having a foot or feet; shaped in the foot.	
footfall		A setting down of the foot; a footstep; the sound of a footstep.	
footfight		A conflict by persons on foot; -- distinguished from a fight on horseback.	
footglove	Obsolete	A kind of stocking.	
foothalt		A disease affecting the feet of sheep.	
foothill		A low hill at the foot of highe	
foothold		A holding with the feet; firm L'Estrange.	
foothook		See Futtock — one of the crooked timbers which are scarfed together to form the lower part of the compound rib of a vessel; one of the crooked transverse timbers passing across and over the keel.	
foothot		Hastily; immediately; instantly; on the spot; hotfloot.	
footing		Ground for the foot; place for the foot to rest on; firm foundation to stand on.	
footless		Having no feet.	
footlicker		A sycophant; a fawner; a toady.	
footlight		One of a row of lights in the front of the stage in a theater, etc., and on a level therewith.	
footman		A soldier who marches and fights on foot; a foot soldier.	
footmanship		Art or skill of a footman.	
footmark		A footprint; a track or vestige.	
footnote		A note of reference or comment at the foot of a page.	
footpace		A walking pace or step.	
footpad		A highwayman or robber on foot.	
footpath		A narrow path or way for pedestrains only; a footway.	
footplate		See Footboard (a).	
footprint		The impression of the foot; a trace or footmark; as,	
footrope		(a) The rope rigged below a yard, upon which men stand when reefing or furling; -- formerly called a horse.	
foots		The settlings of oil, molasses, etc., at the bottom of a barrel or hogshead.	
footstalk		(Bot.) The stalk of a leaf or of flower; a petiole, pedicel, or reduncle.	
footstall		The stirrup of a woman's saddle.	
footstep		The mark or impression of the foot; a track; hence, visible sign of a course pursued; token; mark; as, the footsteps of divine wisdom.	
footstone		The stone at the foot of a grave; -- opposed to headstone.	
footstool		A low stool to support the feet of one when sitting.	
footway		A passage for pedestrians only.	
footworn		Worn by, or weared in, the feet; as, a footworn path; a footworn traveler.	
footy		Having foots, or settlings; as, footy oil, molasses, etc.	
foozle		To bungle; to manage awkwardly; to treat or play unskillfully; as, to foozle a stroke in golf.	
fop		One whose ambition it is to gain admiration by showy dress; a coxcomb; an inferior dandy.	
fop-doodle		A stupid or insignaficant fellow; a fool; a simpleton.	
fopling		A petty fop.	
foppery		The behavior, dress, or other indication of a fop; coxcombry; affectation of show; showy folly.	
foppish		Foplike; characteristic of a top in dress or manners; making an ostentatious display of gay clothing; affected in manners.	
for		In the most general sense, indicating that in consideration of, in view of, or with reference to, which anything is done or takes place.	Middle English for, from Old English for.
for-		A prefix to verbs, having usually the force of a negative or privative.	
forage		The act of foraging; search for provisions, etc. He from forage will incline to play.	
forager		One who forages.	
foralite		A tubelike marking, occuring in sandstone and other strata.	
foramen		A small opening, perforation, or orifice; a fenestra.	Latin foramen.
foraminated		Having small opening, or foramina.	Latin foraminatus.
foraminifer		One of the foraminifera.	
foraminifera		An extensive order of rhizopods which generally have a chambered calcareous shell formed by several united zooids.	
foraminiferous		Having small openings, or foramina.	
foraminous		Having foramina; full of holes; porous.	
forasmuch		In consideration that; seeing that; since; because that; -- followed by as. See under For, prep.	
foray		A sudden or irregular incursion in border warfare; hence, any irregular incursion for war or spoils; a raid.	Middle English forrayen.
forayer		One who makes or joins in a foray.	
forbade		imp. of Forbid — to command against, or contrary to; to prohibit; to interdict.	
forbathe	Obsolete	To bathe.	
forbear	Scots	An ancestor; a forefather; -- usually in the plural.	Middle English forberen, from Old English forberan.
forbearance		The act of forbearing or waiting; the exercise of patience.	
forbearant		Forbearing.	
forbearer		One who forbears.	
forbearing		Disposed or accustomed to forbear; patient; long-suffering. -- For*bear"ing*ly, adv.	
forbid		To command against, or contrary to; to prohibit; to interdict.	Middle English forbeden, from Old English forbeodan.
forbiddance	Obsolete	The act of forbidding; prohibition; command or edict against a thing. ow hast thou yield to transgress The strict forbiddance.	
forbidden		Prohibited; interdicted.	
forbiddenly		In a forbidden or unlawful manner.	
forbidder		One who forbids.	
forbidding		Repelling approach; repulsive; raising abhorrence, aversion, or dislike; disagreeable; prohibiting or interdicting; as, a forbidding aspect; a forbidding formality; a forbidding air.	
forblack	Obsolete	Very black.	Middle English forblack.
forboden		p. p. of Forbid — to command against, or contrary to; to prohibit; to interdict.	
forbore		imp. of Forbear — an ancestor; a forefather; -- usually in the plural.	
forborne		p. p. of Forbear — an ancestor; a forefather; -- usually in the plural.	
forbruise	Obsolete	To bruise sorely or exceedingly.	Middle English forbrusen.
forby	Obsolete	Near; hard by; along; past.	Middle English forby.
forcarve	Obsolete	To cut completely; to cut off.	Middle English forkerven, from Old English forceorfan.
force		Strength or energy of body or mind; active power; vigor; might; often, an unusual degree of strength or energy; capacity of exercising an influence or producing an effect; especially, power to persuade, or convince…	Middle English force.
forced		Done or produced with force or great labor, or by extraordinary exertion; hurried; strained; produced by unnatural effort or pressure; as, a forced style; a forced laugh.	
forceful		Full of or processing force; exerting force; mighty. -- Force"ful*ly, adv.	
forceless		Having little or no force; feeble.	
forcemeat		Meat chopped fine and highly seasoned, either served up alone, or used as a stuffing.	
forcement	Obsolete	The act of forcing; compulsion.	
forceps		A pair of pinchers, or tongs; an instrument for grasping, holding firmly, or exerting traction upon, bodies which it would be inconvenient or impracticable to seize with the fingers, especially one for delicate operations…	
forcer		One who, or that which, forces or drives.	
forcible		Possessing force; characterized by force, efficiency, or energy; powerful; efficacious; impressive; influential.	
forcible-feeble		Seemingly vigorous, but really weak or insipid.	
forcibleness		The quality of being forcible.	
forcibly		In a forcible manner.	
forcing		The accomplishing of any purpose violently, precipitately, prematurely, or with unusual expedition.	
forcipal		Forked or branched like a pair of forceps; constructed so as to open and shut like a pair of forceps.	
forcipate		Like a pair of forceps; as, a forcipated mouth.	
forcipated		Like a pair of forceps; as, a forcipated mouth.	
forcipation		Torture by pinching with forceps or pinchers.	
forcite		A gelatin dynamite in which the dope is composed largely of sodium nitrate.	
forcut	Obsolete	To cut completely; to cut off.	Middle English forcutten.
ford		A place in a river, or other water, where it may passed by man or beast on foot, by wading.	Old English ford.
fordable		Capable of being forded. -- Ford"a*ble*ness, n.	
fordless		Without a ford.	
fordo		To overcome with fatigue; to exhaust.	Middle English fordon, from Old English fordon.
fordone	Obsolete	Undone; ruined.	
fordrive	Obsolete	To drive about; to drive here and there.	Middle English fordriven, from Old English fordrifan.
fordrunken	Obsolete	Utterly drunk; very drunk.	
fordry	Obsolete	Entirely dry; withered.	Middle English fordrien.
fordwine	Obsolete	To dwindle away; to disappear.	Middle English fordwinen, from Old English fordwinan.
fore		In the part that precedes or goes first; -- opposed to aft, after, back, behind, etc.	
fore-night	Scots	The evening between twilight and bedtime.	
fore-topgallant		Designating the mast, sail, yard, etc., above the topmast; as, the fore-topgallant sail.	
fore-topmast		The mast erected at the head of the foremast, and at the head of which stands the fore-topgallant mast.	
fore-topsail		See Sail — an extent of canvas or other fabric by means of which the wind is made serviceable as a power for propelling vessels through the water.	
foreadmonish		To admonish beforehand, or before the act or event.	
foreadvise		To advise or counsel before the time of action, or before the event.	
foreallege		To allege or cite before.	
foreappoint		To set, order, or appoint, beforehand.	
foreappointment		Previous appointment; preordinantion.	
forearm		To arm or prepare for attack or resistance before the time of need.	
forebeam		The breast beam of a loom.	
forebear		An ancestor. See Forbear.	
forebode	Obsolete	To be prescient of (some ill or misfortune); to have an inward conviction of, as of a calamity which is about to happen; to augur despondingly.	
forebodement		The act of foreboding; the thing foreboded.	
foreboder		One who forebodes.	
foreboding		Presage of coming ill; expectation of misfortune.	
forebodingly		In a foreboding manner.	
forebrace		A rope applied to the fore yardarm, to change the position of the foresail.	
forebrain		The anterior of the three principal divisions of the brain, including the prosencephalon and thalamencephalon.	
foreby		Near; hard by; along; past. See Forby.	
forecast		To plan beforehand; to scheme; to project.	
forecaster		One who forecast.	
forecastle		(a) A short upper deck forward, formerly raised like a castle, to command an enemy's decks.	
forechosen		Chosen beforehand.	
forecited		Cited or quoted before or above.	
foreclose		To shut up or out; to preclude; to stop; to prevent; to bar; to exclude.	Middle English foreclosen.
foreclosure		The act or process of foreclosing; a proceeding which bars or extinguishes a mortgager's right of redeeming a mortgaged estate.	
foreconceive	Obsolete	To preconceive; to imagine beforehand.	
foredate		To date before the true time; to antendate.	
foredeck		The fore part of a deck, or of a ship.	
foredeem	Obsolete	To recognize or judge in advance; to forebode.	
foredesign		To plan beforehand; to intend previously.	
foredetermine		To determine or decree beforehand.	
foredispose		To bestow beforehand.	
foredoom		To doom beforehand; to predestinate.	
forefather		One who precedes another in the line of genealogy in any degree, but usually in a remote degree; an ancestor.	
forefeel	Obsolete	To feel beforehand; to have a presentiment of.	
forefence	Obsolete	Defense in front.	
forefend		To hinder; to fend off; to avert; to prevent the approach of; to forbid or prohibit.	
forefinger		The finger next to the thumb; the index.	
foreflow	Obsolete	To flow before.	
forefoot		One of the anterior feet of a quardruped or multiped; -- usually written fore foot.	
forefront		Foremost part or place.	
foregame	Obsolete	A first game; first plan.	
foreganger		A short rope grafted on a harpoon, to which a longer lin Totten.	Middle English foreganger.
foregather		Same as Forgather.	
foregift		A premium paid by	
foregleam		An antecedent or premonitory gleam; a dawning light.	
forego		To relinquish the enjoyment or advantage of; to give up; to resign; to renounce; -- said of a thing already enjoyed, or of one within reach, or anticipated.	Old English foregan.
foregoer		One who goes before another; a predecessor; hence, an ancestor' a progenitor.	
foreground		On a painting, and sometimes in a bas-relief, mosaic picture, or the like, that part of the scene represented, which is nearest to the spectator, and therefore occupies the lowest part of the work of art itself.	
foreguess	Obsolete	To conjecture.	Middle English foregessen.
foregut		The anterior part of the alimentary canal, from the mouth to the intestine, o	
forehand		All that part of a horse which is before the rider.	
forehanded		Early; timely; seasonable.	
forehead		The front of that part of the head which incloses the brain; that part of the face above the eyes; the brow.	Old English forheafod.
forehear		To hear beforehand.	
forehearth		The forward extension of the hearth of a blast furnace under the tymp.	
forehend	Obsolete	See Forhend — to seize upon.	
forehew	Obsolete	To hew or cut in front.	
forehold		The forward part of the hold of a ship.	
foreholding	Obsolete	Ominous foreboding; superstitious prognostication.	
forehook		A piece of timber placed across the stem, to unite the bows and strengthen the fore part of the ship; a breast hook.	
foreign		Outside; extraneous; separated; alien; as, a foreign country; a foreign government.	Middle English forein, from Old French forain.
foreigner		A person belonging to or owning allegiance to a foreign country; one not native in the country or jurisdiction under consideration, or not naturalized there; an alien; a stranger.	
foreignism		Anything peculiar to a foreign language or people; a foreign idiom or custom.	
foreignness		The quality of being foreign; remoteness; want of relation or appropriateness.	
forein	Obsolete	Foreign.	
forejudge		To judge beforehand, or before hearing the facts and proof; to prejudge.	Middle English forjugen.
forejudger		A judgment by which one is deprived or put of a right or thing in question.	
forejudgment	Obsolete	Prejudgment.	
foreknow		To have previous knowledge of; to know beforehand.	
foreknowable		That may be foreknown.	
foreknower		One who foreknows.	
foreknowingly		With foreknowledge.	
foreknowledge		Knowledge of a thing before it happens, or of whatever is to happen; prescience.	
forel		A kind of parchment for book covers. See Forrill.	
foreland		A promontory or cape; a headland; as, the North and South Foreland in Kent, England.	
forelay		To lay down beforehand.	
foreleader		One who leads others by his example; aguide.	
forelend	Obsolete	See Forlend — to give up wholly.	
forelet	Obsolete	See Forlet — to give up; to leave; to abandon.	
forelie	Obsolete	To lie in front of.	
forelift	Obsolete	To lift up in front.	
forelock		The lock of hair that grows from the forepart of the head.	
forelook	Obsolete	To look beforehand or forward.	Middle English vorloken.
foreman		The first or chief man; as: (a) The chief man of a jury, who acts as their speaker.	
foremast		The mast nearest the bow.	
foremeant	Obsolete	Intended beforehand; premeditated.	
forementioned		Mentioned before; already cited; aforementioned.	
foremilk		The milk secreted just before, or directly after, the birth of a child or of the young of an animal; colostrum.	
foremost		First in time or place; most advanced; chief in rank or dignity; as, the foremost troops of an army.	Old English formest.
foremostly		In the foremost place or order; among the foremost.	
foremother		A female ancestor.	
forename		A name that precedes the family name or surname; a first name.	
forenamed		Named before; aforenamed.	
forendihaz		See Legislature — the body of persons in a state or kingdom invested with power to make and repeal laws; a legislative body.	
forenenst		Over against; opposite to.	
forenoon		The early part of the day, from morning to meridian, or noon.	
forenotice		Notice or information of an event before it happens; forewarning.	
forensal		Forensic.	
forensic		Belonging to courts of judicature or to public discussion and debate; used in legal proceedings, or in public discussions; argumentative; rhetorical; as, forensic eloquence or disputes.	Latin forensis.
forensical		Forensic.	
foreordain		To ordain or appoint beforehand; to preordain; to predestinate; to predetermine.	
foreordinate		To foreordain.	
foreordination		Previous ordination or appointment; predetermination; predestination.	
forepart		The part most advanced, or first in time or in place; the beginning.	
forepossessed	Obsolete	Holding or held formerly in possession.	
foreprize	Obsolete	To prize or rate beforehand.	
forepromised		Promised beforehand; preëngaged.	
forequoted		Cited before; quoted in a foregoing part of the treatise or essay.	
foreran		imp. of Forerun — to turn before; to precede; to be in advance of (something following).	
forerank		The first rank; the front.	
forereach		To advance or gain upon; -- said of a vessel that gains upon another when sailing closehauled.	
foreread	Obsolete	To tell beforehand; to signify by tokens; to predestine.	
forerecited		Named or recited before.	
foreremembered		Called to mind previously.	
foreright	Obsolete	Ready; directly forward; going before.	
forerun		To turn before; to precede; to be in advance of (something following).	
forerunner		A messenger sent before to give notice of the approach of others; a harbinger; a sign foreshowing something; a prognostic; as, the forerunner of a fever.	
foresaid		Mentioned before; aforesaid.	
foresail		(a) The sail bent to the foreyard of a square-rigged vessel, being the lowest sail on the foremast.	
foresay	Obsolete	To foretell.	
foresee		To see beforehand; to have prescience of; to foreknow.	
foreseen	Obsolete	, or (strictly) p. p.	
foreseer		One who foresees or foreknows.	
foreseize		To seize beforehand.	
foreshadow		To shadow or typi Dryden.	
foreshew		See Foreshow — to show or exhibit beforehand; to give foreknowledge of; to prognosticate; to foretell.	
foreship	Obsolete	The fore part of a ship.	
foreshorten		(Fine Art) To represent on a plane surface, as if extended in a direction toward the spectator or nearly so; to shorten by drawing in perspective.	
foreshortening		Representation in a foreshortened mode or way.	
foreshot		In distillation of low wines, the first portion of spirit that comes over, being a fluid abounding in fusel oil.	
foreshow		To show or exhibit beforehand; to give foreknowledge of; to prognosticate; to foretell.	Middle English foreschewen, from Old English foresceawian.
foreshower		One who predicts.	
foreside		The front side; the front; esp., a stretch of country fronting the sea.	
foresight		The act or the power of foreseeing; prescience; foreknowledge.	
foresighted		Sagacious; prudent; provident for the future.	
foresightful	Obsolete	Foresighted.	
foresignify		To signify beforehand; to foreshow; to typify.	
foreskin		The fold of skin which covers the glans of the penis; the prepuce.	
foreskirt		The front skirt of a garment, in distinction from the train.	
foreslack		See Forslack — to neglect by idleness; to delay or to waste by sloth.	
foresleeve		The sleeve below the elbow.	
foreslow	Obsolete	To make slow; to hinder; to obstruct. See Forslow, v. t.	
forespeak	Obsolete	See Forspeak — to forbid; to prohibit.	
forespeaking	Obsolete	A prediction; also, a preface.	
forespeech	Obsolete	A preface.	Middle English forespeche, from Old English forespæc.
forespent	Obsolete	Already spent; gone by; past.	
forespurrer	Obsolete	One who rides before; a harbinger.	
forest		An extensive wood; a large tract of land covered with trees; in the United States, a wood of native growth, or a tract of woodland which has never been cultivated.	Middle English forest, from Old French forest, from Latin foresta.
forestaff		An instrument formerly used at sea for taking the altitudes of heavenly bodies, now superseded by the sextant; -- called also cross- staff.	
forestage		(a) A duty or tribute payable to the king's foresters. (b) A service paid by foresters to the king.	
forestal		Of or pertaining to forests; as, forestal rights.	
forestall		To take beforehand, or in advance; to anticipate.	Middle English forestallen.
forestaller		One who forestalls; esp., one who forestalls the market.	
forestay		A large, strong rope, reaching from the foremast head to the bowsprit, to support the mast.	
forester		One who has charge of the growing timber on an estate; an officer appointed to watch a forest and preserve the game.	Old French forestier.
forestick		Front stick of a hearth fire.	
forestry		The art of forming or of cultivating forests; the management of growing timber.	
foreswart		See Forswat. See Forswat.	
foretaste		A taste beforehand; enjoyment in advance; anticipation.	
foretaster		One who tastes beforehand, or before another.	
foreteach	Obsolete	To teach beforehand.	
foretell		To predict; to tell before occurence; to prophesy; to foreshow.	
foreteller		One who predicts.	
forethink	Obsolete	To think beforehand; to anticipate in the mind; to prognosticate.	Middle English forethynken, from Old English foreþencan.
forethought		Thought of, or planned, beforehand; aforethought; prepense; hence, deliberate.	Middle English forethouht.
forethoughtful		Having forethought.	
foretime		The past; the time before the present.	
foretoken		Prognostic; previous omen.	
foretop		The hair on the forepart of the head; esp., a tuft or lock of hair which hangs over the forehead, as of a horse.	
forever		Through eternity; through endless ages, eternally.	
forevouched		Formerly vouched or avowed; affirmed in advance.	
foreward	Obsolete	The van; the front.	
forewarn		To warn beforehand; to give previous warning, admonition, information, or notice to; to caution in advance.	
forewaste		See Forewaste.	
forewend	Obsolete	To go before.	
forewish		To wish beforehand.	
forewit		Foresight; prudence.	Middle English forwiten, from Old English forewitan.
forewite	Obsolete	To foreknow.	
forewoman		A woman who is chief; a woman who has charge of the work or workers in a shop or other place; a head woman.	
foreword		A preface.	
foreworn	Archaic	Worn out; wasted; used up.	
forewot	Obsolete	, 1st & 3d pers. sing. of Forewite.	
foreyard		The lowermost yard on the foremast.	
forfalture	Obsolete	Forfeiture.	
forfeit		A thing forfeit or forfeited; what is or may be taken from one in requital of a misdeed committed; that which is lost, or the right to which is alienated, by a crime, offense, neglect of duty, or breach of contract; hence…	
forfeitable		Liable to be forfeited; subject to forfeiture.	
forfeiter		One who incurs a penalty of forfeiture.	
forfeiture		The act of forfeiting; the loss of some right, privilege, estate, honor, office, or effects, by an offense, crime, breach of condition, or other act.	
forfend	Archaic	To prohibit; to forbid; to avert.	Middle English forfenden.
forfered	Obsolete	Excessively alarmed; in great fear.	
forfete	Obsolete	To incur a penalty; to transgress.	
forfex		A pair of shears.	
forficate		Deeply forked, as the tail of certain birds.	Latin forfex.
forficula		A genus of insects including the earwigs. See Earwig, 1.	
forgather	Scots	To convene; to gossip; to meet accidentally.	Scots foregather.
forgave		imp. of Forgive — to give wholly; to make over without reservation; to resign.	
forge		A place or establishment where iron or other metals are wrought by heating and hammering; especially, a furnace, or a shop with its furnace, etc., where iron is heated and wrought; a smithy.	Old French forge.
forgeman		A skilled smith, who has a hammerer to assist him.	
forger		One who forges, makes, of forms; a fabricator; a falsifier.	
forgery		The act of forging, fabricating, or producing falsely; esp., the crime of fraudulently making or altering a writing or signature purporting to be made by another…	
forget		To lose the remembrance of; to let go from the memory; to cease to have in mind; not to think of; also, to lose the power of; to cease from doing.	Middle English forgeten.
forget-me-not		A small herb, of the genus Myosotis (M. palustris, incespitosa, etc.), bearing a beautiful blue flower, and extensively considered the emblem of fidelity.	
forgetful		Apt to forget; easily losing remembrance; as, a forgetful man should use helps to strengthen his memory.	
forgetfully		In a forgetful manner.	
forgetfulness		The quality of being forgetful; prononess to let slip from the mind.	
forgetive	Obsolete	Inventive; productive; capable.	
forgettable		Liable to be, or that may be, forgotten.	
forgetter		One who forgets; a heedless person.	
forgettingly		By forgetting.	
forging		The act of shaping metal by hammering or pressing.	
forgivable		Capable of being forgiven; pardonable; venial.	
forgive		To give wholly; to make over without reservation; to resign.	Middle English forgiven, from Old English forgiefan.
forgiveness		The act of forgiving; the state of being forgiven; as, the forgiveness of sin or of injuries.	
forgiver		One who forgives.	
forgiving		Disposed to forgive; inclined to overlook offenses; mild; merciful; compassionate; placable; as, a forgiving temper. -- For*giv ing*ness, n.	
forgo		To pass by; to leave. See 1st Forego.	Middle English forgon, from Old English forgan.
forgot		imp. & p. p. of Forget.	
forgotten		p. p. of Forget — to lose the remembrance of; to let go from the memory; to cease to have in mind; not to think of; also, to lose the power of; to cease from doing.	
forhall	Obsolete	To harass; to torment; to distress.	
forhend	Obsolete	To seize upon.	
forinsecal	Obsolete	Foreign; alien.	Latin forinsecus.
forisfamiliate		Literally, to put out of a family; hence, to portion off, so as to exclude further claim of inheritance; to emancipate (as a with his own consent) from paternal authority.	
forisfamiliation		The act of forisfamiliating.	
fork		An instrument consisting consisting of a handle with a shank terminating in two or more prongs or tines, which are usually of metal, parallel and slightly curved; -- used from piercing, holding, taking up, or pitching anything.	Middle English forke, from Old English force.
fork-tailed		Having the outer tail feathers longer than the median ones; swallow-tailed; -- said of many birds.	
forkbeard		(a) A European fish (Raniceps raninus), having a large flat head; -- also called tadpole fish, and lesser forked beard.	
forked		Formed into a forklike shape; having a fork; dividing into two or more prongs or branches; furcated; bifurcated; zigzag; as, the forked lighting.	
forkerve		See Forcarve, v. t.	
forkiness		The quality or state or dividing in a forklike manner.	
forkless		Having no fork.	
forktail	English dialect	(a) One of several Asiatic and East Indian passerine birds, belonging to Enucurus, and allied genera.	
forky		Opening into two or more parts or shoots; forked; furcated.	
forlaft		p. p. of Forleave — to leave off wholly.	
forlay		To lie in wait for; to ambush.	
forleave	Obsolete	To leave off wholly.	Middle English forleven.
forlend	Obsolete	To give up wholly.	
forlese	Obsolete	To lose utterly. haucer.	Middle English forlesen, from Old English forleosan.
forlet	Obsolete	To give up; to leave; to abandon.	Middle English forleten, from Old English forlætan.
forlie		See Forlie.	Middle English forliggen, from Old English forlicgan.
forlore	Obsolete	oForlese.	
forlorn		Deserted abandoned; lost.	Middle English forlorn.
forlornly		In a forlorn manner.	
forlornness		State of being forlorn.	Middle English forlorennesse, from Old English forlorenes.
forlye	Obsolete	Same as Forlie.	
form		A suffix used to denote in the form or shape of, resembling, etc.; as, valiform; oviform.	Middle English forme, from Old French forme, from Latin forma, from Greek μόρφα.
formal		Belonging to the form, shape, frame, external appearance, or organization of a thing.	Middle English formel, from Old French formel, from Latin formalis.
formaldehyde		A colorless, volatile liquid, H2CO, resembling acetic or ethyl aldehyde, and chemically intermediate between methyl alcohol and formic acid.	
formalin		An aqueous solution of formaldehyde, used as a preservative in museums and as a disinfectant.	
formalism		The practice or the doctrine of strict adherence to, or dependence on, external forms, esp. in matters of religion.	
formalist		One overattentive to forms, or too much confined to them; esp., one who rests in external religious forms, or observes strictly the outward forms of worship, without possessing the life and spirit of religion.	
formality		The condition or quality of being formal, strictly ceremonious, precise, etc.	
formalize		To give form, or a certain form, to; to model.	
formally		In a formal manner; essentially; characteristically; expressly; regularly; ceremoniously; precisely.	
format		The shape and size of a book; hence, its external form.	
formate		A salt of formic acid.	
formation		The act of giving form or shape to anything; a forming; a shaping.	French formation, from Latin formatio.
formative		Giving form; having the power of giving form; plastic; as, the formative arts.	
forme	Obsolete	Same as Paté or Patté.	
formed		(Astron.) Arranged, as stars in a constellation; as, formed stars.	
formedon		A writ of right for a tenant in tail in case of a discontinuance of the estate tail.	
formell		The female of a hawk or falcon.	
former		One who forms; a maker; a creator.	Middle English former.
formeret		One of the half ribs against the walls in a ceiling vaulted with ribs.	
formerly		In time past, either in time immediately preceding or at any indefinite distance; of old; heretofore.	
formful		Creative; imaginative.	
formic		Pertaining to, or derived from, ants; as, formic acid; in an extended sense, pertaining to, or derived from, formic acid; as, formic ether.	Latin formica.
formica		A Linnæan genus of hymenopterous insects, including the common ants. See Ant.	
formicaroid		Like or pertaining to the family Formicaridæ or ant thrushes.	
formicary		The nest or dwelling of a swarm of ants; an ant-hill.	
formicate		Resembling, or pertaining to, an ant or ants.	
formication		A sensation resembling that made by the creeping of ants on the skin.	
formicid		Pertaining to the ants. -- n.	
formidability		Formidableness.	
formidable		Exciting fear or apprehension; impressing dread; adapted to excite fear and deter from approach, encounter, or undertaking; alarming.	Latin formidabilis.
formidableness		The quality of being formidable, or adapted to excite dread.	
formidably		In a formidable manner.	
formidolose	Obsolete	Very much afraid.	
forming		The act or process of giving form or shape to anything; as, in shipbuilding, the exact shaping of partially shaped timbers.	
formless		Shapeless; without a determinate form; wanting regularity of shape. -- Form less*ness, n.	
formula		A prescribed or set form; an established rule; a fixed or conventional method in which anything is to be done, arranged, or said.	Latin formula.
formularistic		Pertaining to, or exhibiting, formularization.	
formularization		The act of formularizing; a formularized or formulated statement or exhibition.	
formularize		To reduce to a forula; to formulate.	
formulary		Stated; prescribed; ritual.	French formulaire.
formulate		To reduce to, or express in, a formula; to put in a clear and definite form of statement or expression.	
formulation		The act, process, or result of formulating or reducing to a formula.	
formule	Obsolete	A set or prescribed model; a formula.	
formulization		The act or process of reducing to a formula; the state of being formulized.	
formulize		To reduce to a formula; to formulate.	
formyl		(a) A univalent radical, H.C:O, regarded as the essential residue of formic acid and aldehyde.	
forncast	Obsolete	Predestined.	Middle English forncasten.
fornical		Relating to a fornix.	
fornicate		Vaulted like an oven or furnace; arched.	
fornicated		Vaulted like an oven or furnace; arched.	
fornication		Unlawful sexual intercourse on the part of an unmarried person; the act of such illicit sexual intercourse between a man and a woman as does not by law amount to adultery.	
fornicator		An unmarried person, male or female, who has criminal intercourse with the other sex; one guilty of fornication.	
fornicatress		A woman guilty of fornication.	
fornix		(a) An arch or fold; as, the fornix, or vault, of the cranium; the fornix, or reflection, of the conjuctiva.	
forold	Obsolete	Very old.	
forpass	Obsolete	To pass by or along; to pass over.	
forpine	Archaic	To waste away completely by suffering or torment.	Middle English forpinen.
forray		To foray; to ravage; to pillage.	
forrill		Lambskin parchment; vellum; forel.	
forsake		To quit or leave entirely; to desert; to abandon; to depart or withdraw from; to leave; as, false friends and flatterers forsake us in adversity.	Middle English forsaken, from Old English forsacan.
forsaker		One who forsakes or deserts.	
forsay	Obsolete	To forbid; to renounce; to forsake; to deny.	Middle English forsayen, from Old English forsecgan.
forshape	Obsolete	To render misshapen.	Middle English forshapen.
forslack	Obsolete	To neglect by idleness; to delay or to waste by sloth.	
forslouthe	Obsolete	To lose by sloth or negligence.	
forslow	Obsolete	To delay; to hinder; to neglect; to put off.	Middle English forslowen.
forslugge	Obsolete	To lsoe by idleness or slotch.	
forsooth	Obsolete	In truth; in fact; certainly; very well; -- formerly used as an expression of deference or respect, especially to woman; now used ironically or contemptuously.	
forspeak		To forbid; to prohibit.	
forspent	Archaic	Wasted in strength; tired; exhausted.	
forstall	Obsolete	To forestall.	
forster	Obsolete	A forester.	
forstraught	Obsolete	Distracted.	
forswat	Obsolete	Spent with heat; covered with sweat.	Middle English forswat.
forswear		To reject or renounce upon oath; hence, to renounce earnestly, determinedly, or with protestations.	Middle English forsweren, from Old English forswerian.
forswearer		One who rejects of renounces upon oath; one who swears a false oath.	Middle English forswerere.
forswonk	Obsolete	Overlabored; exhausted; worn out.	
forswore		imp. of Forswear — to reject or renounce upon oath; hence, to renounce earnestly, determinedly, or with protestations.	
forsworn		p. p. of Forswear — to reject or renounce upon oath; hence, to renounce earnestly, determinedly, or with protestations.	
forswornness		State of being forsworn.	Middle English forsworenesse.
forsythia		A shrub of the Olive family, with yellow blossoms.	
fort		A strong or fortified place; usually, a small fortified place, occupied only by troops, surrounded with a ditch, rampart, and parapet, or with palisades, stockades, or other means of defense; a fortification.	Middle French fort.
fortalice		A small outwork of a fortification; a fortilage; -- called also fortelace.	
forte		The strong point; that in which one excels. fort"a The construction of a fable seems by no means the forte of our modern poetical writers.	Italian forte.
forted		Furnished with, or guarded by, forts; strengthened or defended, as by forts.	
forth		Forward; onward in time, place, or order; in advance from a given point; on to end; as, from that day forth; one, two, three, and so forth.	Old English forþ.
forthby		See Forby — near; hard by; along; past.	
forthcoming		Ready or about to appear; making appearance.	
forthgoing		A going forth; an utterance.	
forthink	Obsolete	To repent; to regret; to be sorry for; to cause regret.	Middle English forthinken.
forthputing		Bold; forward; aggressive.	
forthright	Archaic	Straight forward; in a straight direction.	
forthrightness	Archaic	Straightforwardness; explicitness; directness.	
forthward	Obsolete	Forward.	Middle English forthward.
forthwith		Immediately; without delay; directly.	
forthy	Obsolete	Therefore.	Middle English forthy, from Old English froþy.
forties		See Forty — four times ten; thirtynine and one more.	
fortieth		Following the thirty-ninth, or preceded by thirty-nine units, things, or parts.	
fortifiable		Capable of being fortified.	
fortification		The act of fortifying; the art or science of fortifying places in order to defend them against an enemy.	Latin fortificatio.
fortifier		One who, or that which, fortifies, strengthens, supports, or upholds.	
fortify		To add strength to; to strengthen; to confirm; to furnish with power to resist attack.	
fortilage	Obsolete	A little fort; a blockhouse.	
fortin	Obsolete	A little fort; a fortlet.	
fortissimo		Very loud; with the utmost strength or loudness.	
fortition		Casual choice; fortuitous selection; hazard.	
fortitude		That strength or firmness of mind which enables a person to encounter danger with coolness and courage, or to bear pain or adversity without murmuring, depression, or despondency; passive courage; resolute endurance…	
fortitudinous		Having fortitude; courageous.	
fortlet		A little fort.	
fortnight		The space of fourteen days; two weeks.	
fortnightly		Occurring or appearing once in a fortnight; as, a fortnightly meeting of a club; a fortnightly magazine, or other publication. -- adv.	
fortread	Obsolete	To tread down; to trample upon.	Middle English fortreden, from Old English fortredan.
fortress		A fortified place; a large and permanent fortification, sometimes including a town; a fort; a castle; a stronghold; a place of defense or security.	Old French forteresce.
fortuitous		Happening by chance; coming or occuring unexpectedly, or without any known cause; chance; as, the fortuitous concourse of atoms.	Latin fortuitus.
fortuity		Accident; chance; casualty.	
fortunate		Coming by good luck or favorable chance; bringing some good thing not foreseen as certain; presaging happiness; auspicious; as, a fortunate event; a fortunate concurrence of circumstances; a fortunate investment.	
fortunately		In a fortunate manner; luckily; successfully; happily.	
fortunateness		The condition or quality of being fortunate; good luck; success; happiness.	
fortune		The arrival of something in a sudden or unexpected manner; chance; accident; luck; hap; also, the personified or deified power regarded as determining human success, apportioning happiness and unhappiness…	Latin fortuna.
fortuneless		Luckless; also, destitute of a fortune or portion.	
fortunize	Obsolete	To regulate the fortune of; to make happy.	
forty		Four times ten; thirtynine and one more.	
forty-niner	Colloquial	One of those who went to California in the rush for gold in 1849; an argonaut.	
forty-spot		The Tasmanian forty-spotted diamond bird (Pardalotus quadragintus).	
forum		A market place or public place in Rome, where causes were judicially tried, and orations delivered to the people.	Latin forum.
forwaked	Obsolete	Tired out with excessive waking or watching.	
forwander	Obsolete	To wander away; to go astray; to wander far and to weariness.	Middle English forwandrien.
forward		Near, or at the fore part; in advance of something else; as, the forward gun in a ship, or the forward ship in a fleet.	Middle English foreward, from Old English foreweard.
forwarder		One who forwards or promotes; a promoter.	
forwarding		The act of one who forwards; the act or occupation of transmitting merchandise or other property for others.	
forwardly		Eagerly; hastily; obtrusively.	
forwardness		The quality of being forward; cheerful readiness; promtness; as, the forwardness of Christians in propagating the gospel.	
forwards		Toward a part or place before or in front; onward; in advance; progressively; -- opposed to backward.	
forwaste	Obsolete	To desolate or lay waste utterly.	
forweary	Obsolete	To weary extremely; to dispirit.	Middle English forwerien.
forweep	Obsolete	To weep much.	Middle English forwepen.
forwete	Obsolete	See Forewite — to foreknow.	
forwhy	Obsolete	Wherefore; because.	Middle English forwhy.
forworn	Obsolete	Much worn.	
forwot	Obsolete	pres. indic. 1st & 3d pers. sing. of Forwete.	
forwrap	Obsolete	To wrap up; to conceal.	Middle English forwrappen.
foryelde	Obsolete	To repay; to requite.	
foryete	Obsolete	To forget.	
foryetten		p. p. of Foryete — to forget.	
forzando		See Sforzato — forcing or forced; -- a direction placed over a note, to signify that it must be executed with peculiar emphasis and force; -- marked fz (an abbreviation of forzando), sf, sfz, or	
fossa		A pit, groove, cavity, or depression, of greater or less depth; as, the temporal fossa on the side of the skull; the nasal fossæ containing the nostrils in most birds.	Latin fossa.
fossane		A species of civet (Viverra fossa) resembling the genet.	
fosse		(Fort.) A ditch or moat.	
fosset	Obsolete	A faucet.	
fossette		A little hollow; hence, a dimple.	
fosseway		One of the great military roads constructed by the Romans in England and other parts of Europe; -- so called from the fosse or ditch on each side for keeping it dry.	
fossick		(Mining) To search for gold by picking at stone or earth or among roots in isolated spots, picking over abandoned workings, etc.; hence, to steal gold or auriferous matter from another's claim.	
fossil		Dug out of the eart; as, fossil coal; fossil salt.	
fossiliferous		Containing or composed of fossils.	
fossilification		The process of becoming fossil.	
fossilism		The state of being extremely antiquated in views and opinions.	
fossilist		One who is versed in the science of fossils; a paleontologist.	
fossilization		The process of converting, or of being converted, into a fossil.	
fossilize		To convert into a fossil; to petrify; as, to fossilize bones or wood.	
fossilized		Converted into a fossil; antiquated; firmly fixed in views or opinions.	
fossores		A group of hymenopterous insects including the sand wasps.	
fossoria		See Fossores — a group of hymenopterous insects including the sand wasps.	
fossorial		Fitted for digging, adapted for burrowing or digging; as, a fossorial foot; a fossorial animal.	Latin fossorius.
fossorious		Adapted for digging; -- said of the legs of certain insects.	Latin fodere.
fossulate		Having, or surrounded by, long, narrow depressions or furrows.	
foster	Obsolete	To cherish; to promote the growth of; to encourage; to sustain and promote; as, to foster genius.	Old English fostor.
fosterage		The care of a foster child; the charge of nursing.	
fosterer		One who, or that which, fosters.	
fosterling		A foster child.	
fosterment	Obsolete	Food; nourishment.	
fostress		A woman who feeds and cherishes; a nurse.	
fother	Obsolete	A wagonload; a load of any sort.	Old Norse fóðr, from Middle Low German voder.
fotive	Obsolete	Nourishing.	Latin fovere.
fotmal		Seventy pounds of lead.	
fougade		A small mine, in the form of a well sunk from the surface of the ground, charged with explosive and projectiles.	
fougasse		A small mine, in the form of a well sunk from the surface of the ground, charged with explosive and projectiles.	
fought		imp. & p. p. of Fight.	
foughten	Archaic	p. p. of Fight — to strive or contened for victory, with armies or in single combat; to attempt to defeat, subdue, or destroy an enemy, either by blows or weapons; to contend in arms…	
foul		Covered with, or containing, extraneous matter which is injurious, noxious, offensive, or obstructive; filthy; dirty; not clean; polluted; nasty; defiled; as, a foul cloth; foul hands; a foul chimney; foul air…	Old English fulian.
foul-mouthed		Using language scurrilous, opprobrious, obscene, or profane; abusive.	
foul-spoken		Using profane, scurrilous, slanderous, or obscene language.	
foulard		A thin, washable material of silk, or silk and cotton, originally imported from India, but now also made elsewhere.	French foulard.
foulder	Obsolete	To flash, as lightning; to lighten; to gleam; to thunder.	Middle English fouldre.
foully		In a foul manner; filthily; nastily; shamefully; unfairly; dishonorably.	
foulness		The quality or condition of being foul.	
foumart		The European polecat; -- called also European ferret, and fitchew. See Polecat.	
found		To lay the basis of; to set, or place, as on something solid, for support; to ground; to establish upon a basis, literal or figurative; to fix firmly.	Anglo-Norman founder, from Latin fundare.
foundation		The act of founding, fixing, establishing, or beginning to erect.	Latin fundatio.
foundationer		One who derives support from the funds or foundation of a college or school.	
foundationless		Having no foundation.	
founder		One who founds, establishes, and erects; one who lays a foundation; an author; one from whom anything originates; one who endows.	Middle French fondeur, from Latin fundo.
founderous		Difficult to travel; likely to trip one up; as, a founderous road.	
foundershaft		The first shaft sunk.	
foundery		Same as Foundry.	French fonderie.
founding		The art of smelting and casting metals.	
foundling		A deserted or exposed infant; a child found without a parent or owner.	
foundress		A female founder; a woman who founds or establishes, or who endows with a fund.	
foundry		The act, process, or art of casting metals.	French fonderie.
fountain		A spring of water issuing from the earth.	
fountainless		Having no fountain; destitute of springs or sources of water.	
fountful		Full of fountains.	
four		One more than three; twice two.	Middle English fower, from Old English feower.
four-cornered		Having four corners or angles.	
four-cycle		A four-stroke cycle, as the Otto cycle, for an internal- combustion engine. -- Four"-cy`cle, a.	
four-in-hand		Consisting of four horses controlled by one person; as, a four- in-hand team; drawn by four horses driven by one person; as, a four- in-hand coach. -- n.	
four-poster	Colloquial	A large bedstead with tall posts at the corners to support curtains.	
four-way		Allowing passage in either of four directions; as, a four-way cock, or valve.	
four-wheeled		Having four wheels.	
four-wheeler	Colloquial	A vehicle having four wheels.	
fourb	Obsolete	A trickly fellow; a cheat.	
fourbe	Obsolete	A trickly fellow; a cheat.	
fourche		Having the ends forked or branched, and the ends of the branches terminating abruptly as if cut off; -- said of an ordinary, especially of a cross.	
fourchette		(Anat.) (a) A small fold of membrane, connecting the labia in the posterior part of the vulva.	French fourchette.
fourdrinier		A machine used in making paper; -- so named from an early inventor of improvements in this class of machinery.	
fourfold		Four times; quadruple; as, a fourfold division.	
fourfooted		Having four feet; quadruped; as, fourfooted beasts.	
fourhanded		Having four hands; quadrumanous.	
fourierism		The coöperative socialistic system of Charles Fourier, a Frenchman, who recommended the reorganization of society into small communities, living in common.	
fourierist		One who adopts the views of Fourier.	
fourierite		One who adopts the views of Fourier.	
fourling		One of four children born at the same time.	
fourneau		The chamber of a mine in which the powder is placed.	
fourpence		A British silver coin, worth four pence; a groat.	
fourrier	Obsolete	A harbinger.	
fourscore		Four times twenty; eighty.	
foursome	Scots	Consisting of four; requiring four participants.	
foursquare		Having four sides and four equal angles.	
fourteen		Four and ten more; twice seven.	Middle English fourtene, from Old English feowertiene.
fourteenth		Next in order after the thirteenth; as, the fourteenth day of the month.	
fourth		Next in order after the third; the ordinal of four.	
fourthly		In the fourth place.	
foussa		A viverrine animal of Madagascar (Cryptoprocta ferox).	
fouter	English dialect	A despicable fellow.	
foutra	Obsolete	A fig; -- a word of contempt.	
fouty	Obsolete	Despicable.	
fovea		A slight depression or pit; a fossa.	Latin fovea.
foveate		Having pits or depressions; pitted.	
foveola		A small depression or pit; a fovea.	
foveolate		Having small pits or depression, as the receptacle in some composite flowers.	
foveolated		Foveolate.	
fovilla		One of the fine granules contained in the protoplasm of a pollen grain.	
fowl		Any bird; esp., any large edible bird.	Middle English foul.
fowler		A sportsman who pursues wild fowl, or takes or kills for food.	
fowlerite		A variety of rhodonite, from Franklin Furnace, New Jersey, containing some zinc.	
fox		(Zoöl.) A carnivorous animal of the genus Vulpes, family Canidæ, of many species.	Middle English fox, from Old English fox.
fox-hunting		Pertaining to or engaged in the hunting of foxes; fond of hunting foxes.	
foxearth		A hole in the earth to which a fox resorts to hide himself.	
foxed		Discolored or stained; -- said of timber, and also of the paper of books or engravings.	
foxery	Obsolete	Behavior like that of a fox; Chaucer.	
foxes		See Fox, n., 7.	
foxfish		(a) The fox shark; -- called also sea fox. See Thrasher shark, under Shark.	
foxglove		Any plant of the genus Digitalis.	
foxhound		One of a special breed of hounds used for chasing foxes.	
foxiness		The state or quality of being foxy, or foxlike; craftiness; shrewdness.	
foxish	Obsolete	Foxlike.	
foxlike		Resembling a fox in his characteristic qualities; cunning; artful; foxy.	
foxly	Obsolete	Foxlike.	
foxship		Foxiness; craftiness.	
foxtail		(Bot.) The name of several kinds of grass having a soft dense head of flowers, mostly the species of Alopecurus and Setaria.	
foxy		Like or pertaining to the fox; foxlike in disposition or looks; wily.	
foy	Obsolete	Faith; allegiance; fealty.	Middle French foy, from Old French foi.
foyer		The crucible or basin in a furnace which receives the molten metal.	French foyer.
foyson		See Foison — rich harvest; plenty; abundance.	
foziness	Scots	The state of being fozy; spiritlessness; dullness. foziness can no longer be concealed.	
fozy	Scots	Spongy; soft; fat and puffy.	
