frab	English dialect	To scold; to nag.	
frabbit	English dialect	Crabbed; peevish.	
fracas		An uproar; a noisy quarrel; a disturbance; a brawl.	French fracas, from Italian fracasso.
fracho		A shallow iron pan to hold glass ware while being annealed.	
fracid	Obsolete	Rotten from being too ripe; overripe.	
fract	Obsolete	To break; to violate.	Latin fractus.
fracted		Having a part displaced, as if broken; -- said of an ordinary.	
fraction		(Arith. or Alg.) One or more aliquot parts of a unit or whole number; an expression for a definite portion of a unit or magnitude.	Middle English fraccioun.
fractional		Of or pertaining to fractions or a fraction; constituting a fraction; as, fractional numbers.	
fractionally		By fractions or separate portions; as, to distill a liquid fractionally, that is, so as to separate different portions.	
fractionary	Obsolete	Fractional.	
fractionate		To separate into different portions or fractions, as in the distillation of liquids.	
fractious		Apt to break out into a passion; apt to scold; cross; snappish; ugly; unruly; as, a fractious man; a fractious horse.	
fractural		Pertaining to, or consequent on, a fracture.	
fracture		The act of breaking or snapping asunder; rupture; breach.	
fraenulum		A frænum.	
fraenum		A connecting fold of membrane serving to support or restrain any part; as, the frænum of the tongue.	
fragile		Easily broken; brittle; frail; delicate; easily destroyed.	Latin fragilis.
fragility		The condition or quality of being fragile; brittleness; frangibility.	
fragment		A part broken off; a small, detached portion; an imperfect part; as, a fragment of an ancient writing.	
fragmental		(Geol.) Consisting of the pulverized or fragmentary material of rock, as conglomerate, shale, etc. A fragmentary rock.	
fragmentarily		In a fragmentary manner; piecemeal.	
fragmentariness		The quality or property of being in fragnebts, or broken pieces, incompleteness; want of continuity.	
fragmentary		Composed of fragments, or broken pieces; disconnected; not complete or entire.	
fragmented		Broken into fragments.	
fragmentist		A writer of fragments; as, the fragmentist of Wolfenbüttel.	
fragor		A loud and sudden sound; the report of anything bursting; a crash.	
fragrance		The quality of being fragrant; sweetness of smell; a sweet smell; a pleasing odor; perfume.	Latin fragrantia.
fragrancy		The quality of being fragrant; sweetness of smell; a sweet smell; a pleasing odor; perfume.	
fragrant		[fragrans. -antis, p.pr. of fragrare to emit a smell of fragrance: cf. OF. fragrant.	Latin fragrans.
fraight	Obsolete	Same as Fraught.	
frail		A basket made of rushes, used chiefly for containing figs and raisins.	Old French fraile, from Latin fragilis.
frailly		Weakly; infirmly.	
frailness		Frailty.	
frailty		The condition quality of being frail, physically, mentally, or morally, frailness; infirmity; weakness of resolution; liableness to be deceived or seduced.	
fraischeur		Freshness; coolness.	
fraise		(Fort.) A defense consisting of pointed stakes driven into the ramparts in a horizontal or inclined position.	Middle English fraisen, from Old English freasian.
fraised		Fortified with a fraise.	
fraken	Obsolete	A freckle.	
framable		Capable of being framed.	
frambaesia		The yaws. See Yaws.	
frame		(Arch. & Engin.) To construct by fitting and uniting the several parts of the skeleton of any structure; specifically, in woodwork, to put together by cutting parts of one member to fit parts of another.	Middle English framen.
frame-up	Slang	A conspiracy or plot, esp. for a malicious or evil purpose, as to incriminate a person on false evidence.	
framer		One who frames; as, the framer of a building; the framers of the Constitution.	
framework		The work of framing, or the completed work; the frame or constructional part of anything; as, the framework of society.	
framing		The act, process, or style of putting together a frame, or of constructing anything; a frame; that which frames.	
frampel	Obsolete	Peevish; cross; vexatious; quarrelsome.	
frampoid	Obsolete	Peevish; cross; vexatious; quarrelsome.	
franc		A silver coin of France, and since 1795 the unit of the French monetary system.	
franc-tireur		A French partisan soldier, or one belonging to a corps of detached light troops engaged in forays, skirmishes, scouting, etc.	
franchise		(LAw) A particular privilege conferred by grant from a sovereign or a government, and vested in individuals; an imunity or exemption from ordinary jurisdiction; a constitutional or statutory right or privilege…	Middle English franchisen.
franchisement		Release; deliverance; freedom.	
francic		Pertaining to the Franks, or their language; Frankish.	
franciscan		Belonging to the Order of St. Francis of the Franciscans.	
francolin		A spurred partidge of the genus Francolinus and allied genera, of Asia and Africa.	French francolin.
francolite		A variety of apatite from Wheal Franco in Devonshire.	
frangent		Causing fracture; breaking.	
frangibility		The state or quality of being frangible.	
frangible		Capable of being broken; brittle; fragile; easily broken.	Middle French frangible, from Latin frangibilis.
frangipane		A perfume of jasmine; frangipani.	
frangipani		A perfume derived from, or imitating the odor of, the flower of the red jasmine, a West Indian tree of the genus Plumeria.	
frangipanni		A perfume derived from, or imitating the odor of, the flower of the red jasmine, a West Indian tree of the genus Plumeria.	
frangulic		Pertaining to, or drived from, frangulin, or a species (Rhamnus Frangula) of the buckthorn.	
frangulin		A yellow crystalline dyestuff, regarded as a glucoside, extracted from a species (Rhamnus Frangula) of the buckthorn; -- called also rhamnoxanthin.	
frangulinic		Pertaining to, or drived from, frangulin, or a species (Rhamnus Frangula) of the buckthorn.	
franion	Obsolete	A paramour; a loose woman; also, a gay, idle fellow.	
frank		Unbounded by restrictions, limitations, etc.; free.	French franc.
frank-chase		The liberty or franchise of having a chase; free chase.	
frank-fee		A species of tenure in fee simple, being the opposite of ancient demesne, or copyhold.	
frank-law		The liberty of being sworn in courts, as a juror or witness; one of the ancient privileges of a freeman; free and common law; -- an obsolete expression signifying substantially the same as the American expression civil rights.	
frank-marriage	Obsolete	A certain tenure in tail special; an estate of inheritance given to a man his wife (the wife being of the blood of the donor), and descendible to the heirs of their two bodies begotten.	
frankalmoigne		A tenure by which a religious corporation holds lands given to them and their successors forever, usually on condition of praying for the soul of the donor and his heirs; -- called also tenure by free alms.	
frankincense		A fragrant, aromatic resin, or gum resin, burned as an incense in religious rites or for medicinal fumigation.	
franking		A method of forming a joint at the intersection of window-sash bars, by cutting away only enough wood to show a miter.	
frankish		Like, or pertaining to, the Franks.	
franklin	Obsolete	An English freeholder, or substantial householder.	Middle English frankelein, from Anglo-Norman fraunclein.
franklinic		Of or pertaining to Benjamin Franklin.	
franklinite		A kind of mineral of the spinel group.	
frankly		In a frank manner; freely.	
frankness		The quality of being frank; candor; openess; ingenuousness; fairness; liberality.	
frankpledge		(a) A pledge or surety for the good behavior of freemen, -- each freeman who was a member of an ancient decennary, tithing, or friborg, in England, being a pledge for the good conduct of the others…	
frantic		Mad; raving; furious; violent; wild and disorderly; distracted.	
frap		(Naut.) To draw together; to bind with a view to secure and strengthen, as a vessel by passing cables around it; to tighten; as a tackle by drawing the lines together.	
frape	Obsolete	A crowd, a rabble. ares.	
frapler	Obsolete	A blusterer; a rowdy.	
frappe		Iced; frozen; artificially cooled; as, wine frappé. -- n.	
frapping		A lashing binding a thing tightly or binding things together.	
frater		A monk; also, a frater house.	
fraternal		Pf, pertaining to, or involving, brethren; becoming to brothers; brotherly; as, fraternal affection; a fraternal embrace. -- Fra*ter"nal*ly, adv.	Middle French fraternel, from Latin fraternalis.
fraternate		To fraternize; to hold fellowship.	
fraternation		Fraternization.	
fraternism		Fraternization.	
fraternity		The state or quality of being fraternal or brotherly; brotherhood.	
fraternization		The act of fraternizing or uniting as brothers.	
fraternize		To associate or hold fellowship as brothers, or as men of like occupation or character; to have brotherly feelings.	
fraternizer		One who fraternizes.	
fratery		A frater house. See under Frater.	
fratrage	Obsolete	A sharing among brothers, or brothers' kin.	
fratricelli		(a) The name which St. Francis of Assisi gave to his followers, early in the 13th century.	
fratricidal		Of or pertaining to fratricide; of the nature of fratricide.	
fratricide		The act of one who murders or kills his own brother.	
frau		In Germany, a woman; a married woman; a wife; -- as a title, equivalent to Mrs., Madam.	
fraud		Deception deliberately practiced with a view to gaining an unlawful or unfair advantage; artifice by which the right or interest of another is injured; injurious stratagem; deceit; trick.	
fraudful		Full of fraud, deceit, or treachery; trickish; treacherous; fraudulent; -- applied to persons or things.	
fraudless		Free from fraud. -- Fraud less*ness, n.	
fraudulence		The quality of being fraudulent; deliberate deceit; trickishness.	
fraudulency		The quality of being fraudulent; deliberate deceit; trickishness.	
fraudulent		Using fraud; trickly; deceitful; dishonest.	
fraudulently		In a fraudulent manner.	
fraught	Obsolete	A freight; a cargo.	
fraughtage	Obsolete	Freight; loading; cargo.	
fraughting	Obsolete	Constituting the freight or cargo.	
fraulein		In Germany, a young lady; an unmarried woman; -- as a title, equivalent to Miss.	
fraxin		A colorless crystalline substance, regarded as a glucoside, and found in the bark of the ash (Fraxinus) and along with esculin in the bark of the horse-chestnut.	
fraxinus		A genus of deciduous forest trees, found in the north temperate zone, and including the true ash trees.	
fray		To wear out or into shreads, or to suffer injury by rubbing, as when the threads of the warp or of the woof wear off so that the cross threads are loose; to ravel; as, the cloth frays badly.	Old French frayer, from Latin frico.
fraying		The skin which a deer frays from his horns.	
frazzle	English dialect	To fray; to wear or pull into tatters or tag ends; to tatter; - -used literally and figuratively.	
freak		To variegate; to checker; to streak.	Middle English freke, from Old English freca.
freaking	Obsolete	Freakish.	
freakish		Apt to change the mind suddenly; whimsical; capricious.	
freck		To checker; to diversify.	
freckle		A small yellowish or brownish spot in the skin, particularly on the face, neck, or hands.	Middle English freken.
freckled		Marked with freckles; spotted.	
freckledness		The state of being freckled.	
freckly		Full of or marked with freckles; sprinkled with spots; freckled.	
fred		Peace; -- a word used in composition, especially in proper names; as, Alfred; Frederic.	
fredstole		See Fridstol — a seat in churches near the altar, to which offenders formerly fled for sanctuary.	
free		Exempt from subjection to the will of others; not under restraint, control, or compulsion; able to follow one's own impulses, desires, or inclinations; determining one's own course of action; not dependent; at liberty.	Middle English fre, from Old English freo.
free-denizen		To make free.	
free-hand		Done by the hand, without support, or the guidance of instruments; as, free-hand drawing.	
free-handed		Open-handed; liberal.	
free-hearted		Open; frank; unreserved; liberal; generous; as, free-hearted mirth. -- Free -heart`ed*ness, n.	
free-liver		One who gratifies his appetites without stint; one given to indulgence in eating and drinking.	
free-living		Unrestrained indulgence of the appetites.	
free-love		The doctrine or practice of consorting with the opposite sex, at pleasure, without marriage.	
free-lover		One who believes in or practices free-love.	
free-martin		An imperfect female calf, twinborn with a male.	
free-milling		Yielding free gold or silver; -- said of certain ores which can be reduced by crushing and amalgamation, without roasting or other chemical treatment.	
free-minded		Not perplexed; having a mind free from care.	
free-soil		Pertaining to, or advocating, the non-extension of slavery; -- esp. applied to a party which was active during the period 1846-1856. -- Free -soil`ism, n.	
free-spoken		Accustomed to speak without reserve.	
free-swimming		Swimming in the open sea; -- said of certain marine animals.	
free-tongued		Speaking without reserve.	
freebooter		One who plunders or pillages without the authority of national warfare; a member of a predatory band; a pillager; a buccaneer; a sea robber.	
freebootery		The act, practice, or gains of a freebooter; freebooting.	
freebooting		Robbery; plunder; a pillaging.	
freebooty	Obsolete	Freebootery.	
freeborn		Born free; not born in vasssalage; inheriting freedom.	
freedman		A man who has been a slave, and has been set free.	
freedom		The state of being free; exemption from the power and control of another; liberty; independence.	Middle English freedom.
freedstool		See Fridstol — a seat in churches near the altar, to which offenders formerly fled for sanctuary.	
freehold		An estate in real property, of inheritance (in fee simple or fee tail) or for life; or the tenure by which such estate is held.	
freeholder		The possessor of a freehold.	
freelte	Obsolete	Frailty.	
freely		In a free manner; without restraint or compulsion; abundantly; gratuitously.	Middle English frely.
freeman		One who enjoys liberty, or who is not subject to the will of another; one not a slave or vassal.	
freemason		One of an ancient and secret association or fraternity, said to have been at first composed of masons or builders in stone, but now consisting of persons who are united for social enjoyment and mutual assistance.	
freemasonic		Pertaining to, or resembling, the institutions or the practices of freemasons; as, a freemasonic signal.	
freemasonry		The institutions or the practices of freemasons.	
freeness		The state or quality of being free; freedom; liberty; openness; liberality; gratuitousness.	
freer		One who frees, or sets free.	
freestone		A stone composed of sand or grit; -- so called because it is easily cut or wrought.	
freethinker		One who speculates or forms opinions independently of the authority of others; esp., in the sphere or religion, one who forms opinions independently of the authority of revelation or of the church; an unbeliever…	
freethinking		Undue boldness of speculation; unbelief.	
freewheel		A clutch fitted in the rear hub of a cycle, which engages the rear sprocket with the rear wheel when the pedals are rotated forwards…	
freewill		Of or pertaining to free will; voluntary; spontaneous; as, a freewill offering.	
freezable		Capable of being frozen.	
freeze		To become congealed by cold; to be changed from a liquid to a solid state by the abstraction of heat; to be hardened into ice or a like solid body.	Middle English fresen, from Old English freosan.
freezer		One who, or that which, cools or freezes, as a refrigerator, or the tub and can used in the process of freezing ice cream.	
freezing		Tending to freeze; for freezing; hence, cold or distant in manner. -- Frrez"ing*ly, adv.	
freieslebenite		A sulphide of antimony, lead, and silver, occuring in monoclinic crystals.	
freight		That with which anything in fraught or laden for transportation; lading; cargo, especially of a ship, or a car on a railroad, etc.; as, a freight of cotton; a full freight.	Middle English freyght, from Middle Dutch vracht, from Middle Low German vracht.
freightage		Charge for transportation; expense of carriage.	
freighter		One who loads a ship, or one who charters and loads a ship.	
freightless		Destitute of freight.	
freiherr		In Germany and Austria, a baron.	
frejol		In Mexico, the southwestern United States, and the West Indies, any cultivated bean of the genus Phaseolus, esp. the black seed of a variety of P. vulgaris.	
frelte	Obsolete	Frailty.	
fremd		Strange; foreign.	Middle English fremede, from Old English fremde.
fremed		Strange; foreign.	
fremescent		Becoming murmurous, roaring. -- Fre*mes"cence (#), n.	
fremitus		Palpable vibration or thrill; as, the rhonchial fremitus.	Latin fremitus.
fren	Obsolete	A stranger.	
french		Of or pertaining to France or its inhabitants.	
frenchify		To make French; to infect or imbue with the manners or tastes of the French; to Gallicize.	
frenchism		A French mode or characteristic; an idiom peculiar to the French language.	
frenchman		A native or one of the people of France.	
frenetic		Distracted; mad; frantic; phrenetic.	Old French frenetike, from Latin phreneticus.
frenetical		Frenetic; frantic; frenzied. -- Frenet"ic*al*ly, adv.	
frenum		A connecting fold of membrane serving to support or restrain any part; as, the frænum of the tongue.	
frenzical	Obsolete	Frantic.	
frenzied		Affected with frenzy; frantic; maddened. -- Fren"zied-ly, adv.	
frenzy		Any violent agitation of the mind approaching to distraction; violent and temporary derangement of the mental faculties; madness; rage.	
frequence		Frequency; abundance.	
frequency		The condition of returning frequently; occurrence often repeated; common occurence; as, the frequency of crimes; the frequency of miracles.	Latin frequentia.
frequent		Often to be met with; happening at short intervals; often repeated or occurring; as, frequent visits.	Old French frequenter, from Latin frequentare.
frequentable		Accessible.	
frequentage		The practice or habit of frequenting.	
frequentation		The act or habit of frequenting or visiting often; resort.	
frequentative		Serving to express the frequent repetition of an action; as, a frequentative verb. -- n.	Latin frequentativus.
frequenter		One who frequents; one who often visits, or resorts to customarily.	
frequently		At frequent or short intervals; many times; often; repeatedly; commonly.	
frequentness		The quality of being frequent.	
frere		A friar.	
frescade		A cool walk; shady place.	
fresco		A cool, refreshing state of the air; duskiness; coolness; shade.	Italian fresco.
fresh		Possessed of original life and vigor; new and strong; unimpaired; sound.	Middle English fresch.
fresh-new	Obsolete	Unpracticed.	
fresh-water		Of, pertaining to, or living in, water not salt; as, fresh-water geological deposits; a fresh-water fish; fresh-water mussels.	
freshen		To make fresh; to separate, as water, from saline ingredients; to make less salt; as, to freshen water, fish, or flesh.	
freshet		A flood or overflowing of a stream caused by heavy rains or melted snow; a sudden inundation.	Old French freschete.
freshly		In a fresh manner; vigorously; newly, recently; brightly; briskly; coolly; as, freshly gathered; freshly painted; the wind blows freshly.	
freshman		novice; one in the rudiments of knowledge; especially, a student during his fist year in a college or university.	
freshmanship		The state of being a freshman.	
freshment	Obsolete	Refreshment.	
freshness		The state of being fresh.	
fret		To rub; to wear away by friction; to chafe; to gall; hence, to eat away; to gnaw; as, to fret cloth; to fret a piece of gold or other metal; a worm frets the plants of a ship.	Middle English freten, from Old English fretan.
fretful		Disposed to fret; ill-humored; peevish; angry; in a state of vexation; as, a fretful temper. -- Fret ful-ness, n.	
frett		The worn side of the bank of a river. See 4th Fret, n., 4.	
fretted		Rubbed or worn away; chafed.	
fretten	Obsolete	Rubbed; marked; as, pock-fretten, marked with the smallpox.	Middle English freten, from Old English fretan.
fretter		One who, or that which, frets.	
fretty		Adorned with fretwork.	
fretum		A strait, or arm of the sea.	Latin fretum.
fretwork		Work adorned with frets; ornamental openwork or work in relief, esp. when elaborate and minute in its parts.	
freya		The daughter of Njörd, aud goddess of love and beauty; the Scandinavian Venus; -- in Teutonic myths confounded with Frigga, but in Scandinavian, distinct.	
friabiiity		The quality of being friable; friableness.	
friable		[friabilis, fr. friare to rub, break, or crumble into small pieces, cf. fricare to rub, E. fray. cf. F. friable.) Easily crumbled, pulverized, or reduced to powder. -- Fri'a-ble-ness, n.	Latin friabilis.
friar		(Print.) A white or pale patch on a printed page.	
friarly		Like a friar; inexperienced.	
friary	Obsolete	Like a friar; pertaining to friars or to a convent.	
friation		The act of breaking up or pulverizing.	
fribble		Frivolous; trifling; sily.	
fribbler		A trifler; a fribble.	
fribbling		Frivolous; trining; toolishly captious.	
friborg		The pledge and tithing, afterwards called by the Normans frankpledge. See Frankpledge.	
friborgh		The pledge and tithing, afterwards called by the Normans frankpledge. See Frankpledge.	
fricace		An unguent; also, the act of rubbing with the unguent.	
fricandeau		A ragout or fricassee of veal; a fancy dish of veal or of boned turkey, served as an entrée, -- called also fricandel.	
fricando		A ragout or fricassee of veal; a fancy dish of veal or of boned turkey, served as an entrée, -- called also fricandel.	
fricassee		A dish made of fowls, veal, or other meat of small animals cut into pieces, and stewed in a gravy.	
frication	Obsolete	Friction.	
fricative		Produced by the friction or rustling of the breath, intonated or unintonated, through a narrow opening between two of the mouth organs; uttered through a close approach, but not with a complete closure…	Latin fricativus.
fricatrice	Obsolete	A lewd woman; a harlot.	
frickle	Obsolete	A bushel basket.	
friction		The act of rubbing the surface of one body against that of another; attrition; in hygiene, the act of rubbing the body with the hand, with flannel, or with a brush etc., to excite the skin to healthy action.	
frictional		Relating to friction; moved by friction; produced by friction; as, frictional electricity.	
frictionless		Having no friction.	
friday		The sixth day of the week, following Thursday and preceding Saturday.	
fridge	Obsolete	To rub; to fray.	
fridstol	Obsolete	A seat in churches near the altar, to which offenders formerly fled for sanctuary.	
fried		imp. & p. p. of Fry.	
friend		One who entertains for another suo Want gives to know the flatterer from the friend.	Middle English frende, from Old English freond.
friended	Obsolete	Having friends;	
friending	Obsolete	Friendliness.	
friendless		Destitute of friends; forsaken. -- Friend"less*ness, n.	
friendlily		In a friendly manner.	
friendliness		The condition or quality of being friendly.	
friendly		Having the temper and disposition of a friend; disposed to promote the good of another; kind; favorable.	
friendship		The state of being friends; friendly relation, or attachment, to a person, or between persons; affection arising from mutual esteem and good will; friendliness; amity; good will.	
frier		One who fries.	
friese		Same as Friesic, n.	
friesic		Of or pertaining to Friesland, a province in the northern part of the Netherlands.	
friesish		Friesic.	
frieze		(a) That part of the entablature of an order which is between the architrave and cornice.	Middle French frise.
friezed		Gathered, or having the map gathered, into little tufts, knots, or protuberances.	
friezer		One who, or that which, friezes or frizzes.	
frigate		Originally, a vessel of the Mediterranean propelled by sails and by oars.	
frigate-built		Built like a frigate with a raised quarter-deck and forecastle.	
frigatoon		A Venetian vessel, with a square stern, having only a mainmast, jigger mast, and bowsprit; also a sloop of war ship-rigged.	
frigefaction	Obsolete	The act of making cold.	
frigefactive	Obsolete	Cooling.	
frigerate	Obsolete	To make cool.	Latin frigerare.
frigg		The wife of Odin and mother of the gods; the supreme goddess; the Juno of the Valhalla.	
frigga		The wife of Odin and mother of the gods; the supreme goddess; the Juno of the Valhalla.	
fright		A state of terror excited by the sudden appearance of danger; sudden and violent fear, usually of short duration; a sudden alarm.	Middle English fright.
frighten		To disturb with fear; to throw into a state of alarm or fright; to affright; to terrify.	
frightful		Full of that which causes fright; exciting alarm; impressing terror; shocking; as, a frightful chasm, or tempest; a frightful appearance.	Middle English frightful, from Old English forhtful.
frightfully		In a frightful manner; to a frightful dagree.	
frightfulness		The quality of being frightful.	
frightless	Obsolete	Free from fright; fearless.	
frightment	Obsolete	Fear; terror.	
frigid		Cold; wanting heat or warmth; of low temperature; as, a frigid climate.	Latin frigidus.
frigidarium		The cooling room of the Roman thermæ, furnished with a cold bath.	
frigidity		The condition or quality of being frigid; coldness; want of warmth.	
frigidly		In a frigid manner; coldly; dully; without affection.	
frigidness		The state of being frigid; want of heat, vigor, or affection; coldness; dullness.	
frigorific		Causing cold; producing or generating cold.	
frigorifical		Causing cold; producing or generating cold.	
frijol		In Mexico, the southwestern United States, and the West Indies, any cultivated bean of the genus Phaseolus, esp. the black seed of a variety of P. vulgaris.	
frijole		In Mexico, the southwestern United States, and the West Indies, any cultivated bean of the genus Phaseolus, esp. the black seed of a variety of P. vulgaris.	
frill		To shake or shiver as with cold; as, the hawk frills.	
frilled		Furnished with a frill or frills.	
frim	Obsolete	Flourishing; thriving; fresh; in good case; vigorous.	Middle English frym, from Old English freme.
frimaire		The third month of the French republican calendar.	
fringe		An ornamental appendage to the border of a piece of stuff, originally consisting of the ends of the warp, projecting beyond the woven fabric; but more commonly made separate and sewed on, consisting sometimes of projecting ends…	
fringed		Furnished with a fringe.	
fringeless		Having no fringe.	
fringent		Encircling like a fringe; bordering.	
fringilla		A genus of birds, with a short, conical, pointed bill.	
fringillaceous		Fringilline.	
fringilline		Pertaining to the family Fringillidæ; characteristic of finches; sparrowlike.	
fringy		Aborned with fringes.	
fripper	Obsolete	One who deals in frippery or in old clothes.	French fripier.
fripperer	Obsolete	A fripper.	
frippery		Hence: Secondhand finery; cheap and tawdry decoration; affected elegance.	French friperie.
frisette		a fringe of hair or curls worn about the forehead by women.	
friseur		A hairdresser.	French friseur.
frisian		Of or pertaining to Friesland, a province of the Netherlands; Friesic.	
frisk	Obsolete	Lively; brisk; frolicsome; frisky.	Middle English frisk, from Old French frisque.
friskal	Obsolete	A leap or caper.	
frisker		One who frisks; one who leaps of dances in gayety; a wanton; an inconstant or unsettled person.	
frisket		The light frame which holds the sheet of paper to the tympan in printing.	
friskful		Brisk; lively; frolicsome.	
friskily		In a frisky manner.	
friskiness		State or quality of being frisky.	
frisky		Inclined to frisk; frolicsome; gay.	
frislet		[Fraise a kind of defense; also Friz.) A kind of small ruffle.	
frist		To sell upon credit, as goods.	
frisure		The dressing of the hair by crisping or curling.	
frit		(Glass Making) The material of which glass is made, after having been calcined or partly fused in a furnace, but before vitrification.	
fritfly		A small dipterous fly of the genus Oscinis, esp. O. vastator, injurious to grain in Europe, and O.	
frith		(Geog.) A narrow arm of the sea; an estuary; the opening of a river into the sea; as, the Frith of Forth.	Middle English frithien, from Old English friþian.
frithstool	Obsolete	A seat in churches near the altar, to which offenders formerly fled for sanctuary.	
fritillaria		A genus of liliaceous plants, of which the crown-imperial (Fritillaria imperialis) is one species, and the Guinea-hen flower (F.	
fritillary		(Bot.) A plant with checkered petals, of the genus Fritillaria: the Guinea-hen flower.	Latin fritillus.
fritinancy	Obsolete	A chirping or creaking, as of a cricket.	
fritter		A small quantity of batter, fried in boiling lard or in a frying pan.	
fritting		The formation of frit or slag by heat with but incipient fusion.	
frivol		To act frivolously; to trifle.	French frivole, from Latin frivolus.
frivolism		Frivolity.	
frivolity		The condition or quality of being frivolous; also, acts or habits of trifling; unbecoming levity of disposition.	
frivolous		Of little weight or importance; not worth notice; slight; as, a frivolous argument.	Latin frivolus.
friz		To curl or form into small curls, as hair, with a crisping pin; to crisp.	
frize		See 1st Frieze.	
frizel		A movable furrowed piece of steel struck by the flint, to throw sparks into the pan, in an early form of flintlock.	
frizette		a fringe of hair or curls worn about the forehead by women.	
frizz		See Friz, v. t. & n.	Middle English frysen, from Old French friser.
frizzle		To curl or crisp, as hair; to friz; to crinkle.	
frizzler		One who frizzles.	
frizzly		Curled or crisped; as, frizzly, hair.	
frizzy		Curled or crisped; as, frizzly, hair.	
fro	Obsolete	From; away; back or backward; -- now used only in oppositionto the word to, in the phrase to and fro, that is, to and from.	Middle English fro.
frock		A loose outer garment; especially, a gown forming a part of European modern costume for women and children; also, a coarse hirtlike garment worn by some workmen over their ther clothes; a smock frock; as, a marketman's frock.	Middle English froke.
frocked		Clothed in a frock.	
frockless		Destitute of a frock.	
froe	Obsolete	A dirty woman; a slattern; a frow.	
froebelian		Pertaining to, or derived from, Friedrich Froebel, or the kindergarten system of education, which he organized. -- n.	
frog		(Zoöl.) An amphibious animal of the genus Rana and related genera, of many species.	
frog-eyed		Spotted with whitish specks due to a disease, or produced artificially by spraying; -- said of tobacco used for cigar wrappers.	
frogbit		(a) A European plant (Hydrocharis Morsus-ranæ), floating on still water and propagating itself by runners.	
frogfish		(b) An oceanic fish of the genus Antennarius or Pterophrynoides; -- called also mousefish and toadfish.	
frogged		Provided or ornamented with frogs; as, a frogged coat. See Frog, n., 4.	
froggy		Abounding in frogs.	
frogmouth		One of several species of Asiatic and East Indian birds of the genus Batrachostomus (family Podargidæ); -- so called from their very broad, flat bills.	
frogs-bit		Frogbit.	
frogshell		One of numerous species of marine gastropod shells, belonging to Ranella and allied genera.	
froise		A kind of pancake. See 1st Fraise.	Middle English froise.
frolic		Full of levity; dancing, playing, or frisking about; full of pranks; frolicsome; gay; merry.	Dutch vrolijk.
frolicful		Frolicsome.	
frolicky	Obsolete	Frolicsome.	
frolicly	Obsolete	In a frolicsome manner; with mirth and gayety.	
frolicsome		Full of gayety and mirth; given to pranks; sportive.	
from		Out of the neighborhood of; lessening or losing proximity to; leaving behind; by reason of; out of; by aid of; -- used whenever departure, setting out, commencement of action, being, state, occurrence, etc., or procedure…	Middle English from, from Old English from.
fromward	Obsolete	A way from; -- the contrary of toward.	Middle English fromward.
fromwards	Obsolete	A way from; -- the contrary of toward.	
frond		The organ formed by the combination or union into one body of stem and leaf, and often bearing the fructification; as, the frond of a fern or of a lichen or seaweed; also, the peculiar leaf of a palm tree.	Latin frons.
frondation		The act of stripping, as trees, of leaves or branches; a kind of pruning.	Latin frondatio.
fronde		A political party in France, during the minority of Louis XIV., who opposed the government, and made war upon the court party.	
fronded		Furnished with fronds.	
frondent		Covered with leaves; leafy; as, a frondent tree.	
frondesce		To unfold leaves, as plants.	Latin frondescere.
frondescence		(a) The time at which each species of plants unfolds its leaves. (b) The act of bursting into leaf.	
frondeur		A member of the Fronde.	
frondiferous		Producing fronds.	
frondlet		A very small frond, or distinct portion of a compound frond.	
frondose		(a) Frond bearing; resembling a frond; having a simple expansion not separable into stem and leaves.	Latin frondosus.
frondous		Frondose.	
frons		The forehead; the part of the cranium between the orbits and the vertex.	Latin frons.
front		The forehead or brow, the part of the face above the eyes; sometimes, also, the whole face.	Old French front.
frontage		The front part of an edifice or lot; extent of front.	
frontal		Belonging to the front part; being in front; esp. (Anat.), Of or pertaining to the forehead or the anterior part of the roof of the brain case; as, the frontal bones.	
frontate		Growing broader and broader, as a leaf; truncate.	
frontated		Growing broader and broader, as a leaf; truncate.	
fronted		Formed with a front; drawn up in line.	
frontier		That part of a country which fronts or faces another country or an unsettled region; the marches; the border, confine, or extreme part of a country, bordering on another country…	Old French fronter.
frontiered		Placed on the frontiers.	
frontiersman		A man living on the frontier.	
frontignac		A sweet muscadine wine made in Frontignan (Languedoc), France.	
frontignan		A sweet muscadine wine made in Frontignan (Languedoc), France.	
frontingly		In a fronting or facing position; opposingly.	
frontiniac		See Frontignac — a sweet muscadine wine made in Frontignan (Languedoc), France.	
frontispiece	Obsolete	The part which first meets the eye; as: (a) (Arch.) The principal front of a building.	
frontless	Obsolete	Without face or front; shameless; not diffident; impudent.	
frontlessly	Obsolete	Shamelessly; impudently.	
frontlet		A frontal or brow band; a fillet or band worn on the forehead.	Old French frontelet.
fronto-		A combining form signifying relating to the forehead or the frontal bone; as, fronto-parietal, relating to the frontal and the parietal bones; fronto-nasal, etc.	
fronton		Same as Frontal, 2.	
froppish	Obsolete	Peevish; froward.	
frore	Obsolete	Frostily.	
frory	Obsolete	Frozen; stiff with cold.	
frost		The act of freezing; -- applied chiefly to the congelation of water; congelation of fluids.	Old English frost.
frost-bitten		Nipped, withered, or injured, by frost or freezing.	
frost-blite		(a) A plant of the genus Atriplex; orache.	
frostbird		The golden plover.	
frostbite		The freezing, or effect of a freezing, of some part of the body, as the ears or nose.	
frostbow		A white arc or circle in the sky attending frosty weather and formed by reflection of sunlight from ice crystals floating in the air; the parhelic circle whose center is at the zenith.	
frosted		Covered with hoarfrost or anything resembling hoarfrost; ornamented with frosting; also, frost-bitten; as, a frosted cake; frosted glass.	
frostfish	Dialect	(a) The tomcod; -- so called because it is abundant on the New England coast in autumn at about the commencement of frost.	
frostily		In a frosty manner.	
frostiness		State or quality of being frosty.	
frosting		A composition of sugar and beaten egg, used to cover or ornament cake, pudding, etc.	
frostless		Free from frost; as, a frostless winter.	
frostweed		An American species of rockrose (Helianthemum Canadense), sometimes used in medicine as an astringent or aromatic tonic.	
frostwork		The figurework, often fantastic and delicate, which moisture sometimes forms in freezing, as upon a window pane or a flagstone.	
frostwort		Same as Frostweed.	
frosty		Attended with, or producing, frost; having power to congeal water; cold; freezing; as, a frosty night.	
frote	Obsolete	To rub or wear by rubbing; to chafe.	French frotter.
froterer	Obsolete	One who frotes; one who rubs or chafes.	
froth		The bubbles caused in fluids or liquors by fermentation or agitation; spume; foam; esp., a spume of saliva caused by disease or nervous excitement.	
frothily		In a frothy manner.	
frothiness		State or quality of being frothy.	
frothing		Exaggerated declamation; rant.	
frothless		Free from froth.	
frothy		Full of foam or froth, or consisting of froth or light bubbles; spumous; foamy.	
froufrou		A rustling, esp. the rustling of a woman's dress.	
frounce		An affection in hawks, in which white spittle gathers about the hawk's bill.	Middle English frouncen.
frounceless		Without frounces.	
frouzy		Fetid, musty; rank; disordered and offensive to the smell or sight; slovenly; dingy.	
frow		A woman; especially, a Dutch or German woman.	Middle Dutch vrouwe, from Old Dutch frouwa.
froward		Not willing to yield or compIy with what is required or is reasonable; perverse; disobedient; peevish; as, a froward child.	Middle English froward.
frower		A tool. See 2d Frow.	
frowey		Working smoothly, or without splitting; -- said of timber.	
frown		To contract the brow in displeasure, severity, or sternness; to scowl; to put on a stern, grim, or surly look.	Old French frognier.
frowningly		In a frowning manner.	
frowny	Obsolete	Frowning; scowling.	
frowy		Musty. rancid; as, frowy butter.	
frowzy		Slovenly; unkempt; untidy; frouzy.	
froze		imp. of Freeze — to become congealed by cold; to be changed from a liquid to a solid state by the abstraction of heat; to be hardened into ice or a like solid body.	
frozen		Congealed with cold; affected by freezing; as, a frozen brook.	
frozenness		A state of being frozen.	
frubish	Obsolete	To rub up: to furbish.	
fructed		Bearing fruit; -- said of a tree or plant so represented upon an escutcheon.	
fructescence		The maturing or ripening of fruit.	
fructiculose		Fruitful; full of fruit.	
fructidor		The twelfth month of the French republican calendar; -- commencing August 18, and ending September 16.	
fructiferuos		Bearing or producing fruit.	
fructification		The act of forming or producing fruit; the act of fructifying, or rendering productive of fruit; fecundation.	
fructify		To bear fruit.	Old French fructefier.
fructose		Fruit sugar; levulose.	
fructuary		One who enjoys the profits, income, or increase of anything.	Latin fructuarius.
fructuation		Produce; fruit,	
fructuous	Obsolete	Fruitful; productive; profitable.	
fructure	Obsolete	Use; fruition; enjoyment.	
frugal		Economical in the use or appropriation of resources; not wasteful or lavish; wise in the expenditure or application of force, materials, time, etc.; characterized by frugality; sparing; economical; saving; as…	
frugality		The quality of being frugal; prudent economy; that careful management of anything valuable which expends nothing unnecessarily, and applies what is used to a profitable purpose; thrift; --- opposed to extravagance.	
frugally		Thriftily; prudently.	
frugiferous		Producing fruit; fruitful; fructiferous.	
frugivora		The fruit bate; a group of the Cheiroptera, comprising the bats which live on fruits.	
frugivorous		Feeding on fruit, as birds and other animals.	
fruit		Whatever is produced for the nourishment or enjoyment of man or animals by the processes of vegetable growth, as corn, grass, cotton, flax, etc.; -- commonly used in the plural.	
fruitage		Fruit, collectively; fruit, in general; fruitery.	
fruiter		A ship for carrying fruit.	
fruiterer		One who deals in fruit; a seller of fruits.	
fruiteress		A woman who sells fruit.	
fruitery		Fruit, taken collectively; fruitage.	
fruitestere	Obsolete	A fruiteress.	
fruitful		Full of fruit; producing fruit abundantly; bearing results; prolific; fertile; liberal; bountiful; as, a fruitful tree, or season, or soil; a fruitful wife. -- Fruit ful*ness, n.	
fruiting		Pertaining to, or producing, fruit.	
fruition		Use or possession of anything, especially such as is accompanied with pleasure or satisfaction; pleasure derived from possession or use.	Latin frui.
fruitive	Obsolete	Eujoying; possessing.	
fruitless		Lacking, or not bearing, fruit; barren; destitute of offspring; as, a fruitless tree or shrub; a fruitless marriage.	
fruity		Having the odor, taste, or appearance of fruit; also, fruitful.	
frumentaceous		Made of, or resembling, wheat or other grain.	
frumentarious		Of or pertaining to wheat or grain.	
frumentation		A largess of grain bestowed upon the people, to quiet them when uneasy.	Latin frumentatio.
frumenty		Food made of hulled wheat boiled in milk, with sugar, plums, etc. Halliwell.	Old French frumentee.
frump	Colloquial	A cross, old-fashioned person; esp., an old woman; a gossip.	
frumper	Obsolete	A mocker.	
frumpish	Obsolete	Cross-tempered; scornful.	
frush		A discharge of a fetid or ichorous matter from the frog of a horse's foot; -- also caled thrush.	Old French fruissier.
frustrable		Capable of beeing frustrated or defeated.	
frustraneous	Obsolete	Vain; useless; unprofitable.	
frustrate		Vain; ineffectual; useless; unprofitable; null; voil; nugatory; of no effect.	Latin frustro.
frustrately	Obsolete	In vain.	
frustration		The act of frustrating; disappointment; defeat; as, the frustration of one's designs	Latin frustratio.
frustrative	Obsolete	Tending to defeat; fallacious.	
frustratory	Obsolete	Making void; rendering null; as, a frustratory appeal.	
frustule		The siliceous shell of a diatom.	
frustulent		Abounding in fragments.	
frustum		(Geom.) The part of a solid next the base, formed by cutting off the, top; or the part of any solid, as of a cone, pyramid, etc., between two planes, which may be either parallel or inclined to each other.	Latin frustum.
frutage		A picture of fruit; decoration by representation of fruit.	
frutescent		Somewhat shrubby in character; imperfectly shrubby, as the American species of Wistaria.	
frutex		A plant having a woody, durable stem, but less than a tree; a shrub.	
fruticant	Obsolete	Full of shoots.	Latin fruticans.
fruticose		Pertaining to a shrub or shrubs; branching like a shrub; shrubby; shrublike; as, a fruticose stem.	
fruticous		Fruticose.	
fruticulose		Like, or pertaining to, a small shrub.	
fry		To cook in a pan or on a griddle (esp. with the use of fat, butter, or olive oil) by heating over a fire; to cook in boiling lard or fat; as, to fry fish; to fry doughnuts.	Old French frire, from Latin frigere.
frying		The process denoted by the verb fry.	
