fu		A department in China comprising several hsein; also, the chief city of a department; -- often forming the last part of a name; as, Paoting-fu.
fuage		Same as Fumage.
fuar		Same as Feuar.
fub	Obsolete	A plump young person or child.
fubbery		Cheating; deception.
fubby		Plump; chubby; short and stuffy; as a fubsy sofa.
fubs	Obsolete	A plump young person or child.
fubsy		Plump; chubby; short and stuffy; as a fubsy sofa.
fucate		Painted; disguised with paint, or with false show.
fucated		Painted; disguised with paint, or with false show.
fuchs		A student of the first year.
fuchsia		A genus of flowering plants having elegant drooping flowers, with four sepals, four petals, eight stamens, and a single pistil.
fuchsine		Aniline red; an artificial coal-tar dyestuff, of a metallic green color superficially, resembling cantharides, but when dissolved forming a brilliant dark red.
fucivorous		Eating fucus or other seaweeds.
fucoid		(a) Properly, belonging to an order of alga: (Fucoideæ) which are blackish in color, and produce oöspores which are not fertilized until they have escaped from the conceptacle.
fucoidal		(Geol.) Containing impressions of fossil fucoids or seaweeds; as, fucoidal sandstone.
fucus		(Bot.) A genus of tough, leathery seaweeds, usually of a dull brownish green color; rockweed.
fucusol		An oily liquid, resembling, and possibly identical with, furfurol, and obtained from fucus, and other seaweeds.
fud	English dialect	The tail of a hare, coney, etc. Burns.
fudder		See Fodder, a weight.
fuddle	Colloquial	To make foolish by drink; to cause to become intoxicated.
fuddler	Colloquial	A drunkard.
fudge		A made-up story; stuff; nonsense; humbug; -- often an exclamation of contempt.
fuegian		Of or pertaining to Terra del Fuego. -- n.
fuel		Any matter used to produce heat by burning; that which feeds fire; combustible matter used for fires, as wood, coal, peat, etc.
fueler		One who, or that which, supplies fuel.
fuero		(a) A code; a charter; a grant of privileges. (b) A custom having the force of law.
fuff	English dialect	To puff.
fuffy	English dialect	Light; puffy.
fuga		A fugue.
fugacious		Flying, or disposed to fly; fleeing away; lasting but a short time; volatile.
fugaciousness	Obsolete	Fugacity.
fugacity		The quality of being fugacious; fugaclousness; volatility; as, fugacity of spirits.
fugacy	Obsolete	Banishment.
fugato		in the gugue style, but not strictly like a fugue. -- n.
fugh		An exclamation of disgust; foh; faugh.
fughetta		a short, condensed fugue.
fugitive		Fleeing from pursuit, danger, restraint, etc., escaping, from service, duty etc.; as, a fugitive solder; a fugitive slave; a fugitive debtor.
fugitively		In a fugitive manner.
fugitiveness		The quality or condition of being fugitive; evanescence; volatility; fugacity; instability.
fugle	Colloquial	To maneuver; to move hither and thither.
fugleman		(Mil.) A soldier especially expert and well drilled, who takes his place in front of a military company, as a guide for the others in their exercises; a file leader.
fugue		A polyphonic composition, developed from a given theme or themes, according to strict contrapuntal rules.
fuguist		A musician who composes or performs fugues.
fulahs		, Foo"lahs` (, n. pl.; sing. Fulah, Foolan (. (Ethnol.) A peculiar African race of uncertain origin, but distinct from the negro tribes, inhabiting an extensive region of Western Soudan.
fulbe		Same as Fulahs.
fulcible	Obsolete	Capable of being propped up.
fulciment	Obsolete	A prop; a fulcrum.
fulcra		See Fulcrum — (Mech.) That by which a lever is sustained, or about which it turns in lifting or moving a body.
fulcrate		(Bot.) Propped; supported by accessory organs.
fulcrum		(Mech.) That by which a lever is sustained, or about which it turns in lifting or moving a body.
fulfill		To accomplish or carry into effect, as an intention, promise, or prophecy, a desire, prayer, or requirement, etc.; to complete by performance; to answer the requisitions of; to bring to pass, as a purpose or design; to effectuate.
fulfiller		One who fulfills.
fulfillment		The act of fulfilling; accomplishment; completion; as, the fulfillment of prophecy.
fulgency		Brightness; splendor; glitter; effulgence.
fulgent		Exquisitely bright; shining; dazzling; effulgent.
fulgently		Dazzlingly; glitteringly.
fulgid		Shining; glittering; dazzling.
fulgidity		Splendor; resplendence; effulgence.
fulgor		Dazzling brightness; splendor.
fulgurant		Lightening.
fulgurata		A spectro-electric tube in which the decomposition of a liquid by the passage of an electric spark is observed.
fulgurate		To flash as lightning.
fulgurating		Resembling lightning; -- used to describe intense lancinating painsaccompanying locomotor ataxy.
fulguration		(Assaying) The sudden brightening of a fused globule of gold or silver, when the last film of the oxide of lead or copper leaves its surface; -- also called blick.
fulgurite		A vitrified sand tube produced by the striking of lightning on sand; a lightning tube; also, the portion of rock surface fused by a lightning discharge.
fulgury	Obsolete	Lightning.
fulham		A false die.
fuliginosity		The condition or quality of being fuliginous; sootiness; matter deposited by smoke.
fuliginous		Pertaining to soot; sooty; dark; dusky.
fuliginously		In a smoky manner.
fulimart		Same as Foumart.
full		Filled up, having within its limits all that it can contain; supplied; not empty or vacant; -- said primarily of hollow vessels, and hence of anything else; as, a cup full of water; a house full of people.
full-blooded		Having a full supply of blood.
full-bloomed		Like a perfect blossom.
full-blown		Fully expanded, as a blossom; as, a full-bloun rose.
full-bottomed		Full and large at the bottom, as wigs worn by certain civil officers in Great Britain.
full-butt	Colloquial	With direct and violentop position; with sudden collision.
full-drive	Colloquial	With full speed.
full-formed		Full in form or shape; rounded out with flesh.
full-grown		Having reached the limits of growth; mature.
full-hearted		Full of courage or confidence.
full-hot		Very fiery.
full-manned		Completely furnished wiith men, as a ship.
full-orbed		Having the orb or disk complete or fully illuminated; like the full moon.
full-sailed		Having all its sails set,; hence, without restriction or reservation.
full-winged		Having large and strong or complete wings.
fullage		The money or price paid for fulling or cleansing cloth.
fullam		A false die. See Fulham.
fuller		One whose occupation is to full cloth.
fullery		The place or the works where the fulling of cloth is carried on.
fulling		The process of cleansing, shrinking, and thickening cloth by moisture, heat, and pressure.
fullmart		See Foumart — the european polecat; -- called also European ferret, and fitchew. See Polecat.
fullness		The state of being full, or of abounding; abundance; completeness. xvi. 11.
fullonical	Obsolete	Pertaining to a fuller of cloth.
fully		In a full manner or degree; completely; entirely; without lack or defect; adequately; satisfactorily; as, to be fully persuaded of the truth of a proposition.
fulmar		One of several species of sea birds, of the family procellariidæ, allied to the albatrosses and petrels.
fulminant		Thundering; fulminating.
fulminate		To thunder; hence, to make a loud, sudden noise; to detonate; to explode with a violent report.
fulminating		Thundering; exploding in a peculiarly sudden or violent manner.
fulmination		The act of fulminating or exploding; detonation.
fulminatory		Thundering; striking terror.
fulmine	Obsolete	To thunder.
fulmineous		Of, or concerning thunder.
fulminic		Pertaining to fulmination; detonating; specifically (Chem.), pertaining to, derived from, or denoting, an acid, so called; as, fulminic acid.
fulminuric		Pertaining to fulminic and cyanuric acids, and designating an acid so called.
fulness		See Fullness. See Fullness.
fulsamic	Obsolete	Fulsome.
fulsome		Offending or disgusting by overfullness, excess, or grossness; cloying; gross; nauseous; esp., offensive from excess of praise; as, fulsome flattery.
fulvid		Fulvous.
fulvous		Tawny; dull yellow, with a mixture of gray and brown.
fum	Obsolete	To play upon a fiddle.
fumacious		Smoky; hence, fond of smoking; addicted to smoking tobacco.
fumade		A salted and smoked fish, as the pilchard.
fumado		A salted and smoked fish, as the pilchard.
fumage		Hearth money.
fumarate		A salt of fumaric acid.
fumaric		Pertaining to, or derived from, fumitory (Fumaria officinalis).
fumarine		An alkaloid extracted from fumitory, as a white crystalline substance.
fumarole		A hole or spot in a volcanic or other region, from which fumes issue.
fumatorium		An air-tight compartment in which vapor may be generated to destroy germs or insects; esp., the apparatus used to destroy San José scale on nursery stock, with hydrocyanic acid vapor.
fumatory	Obsolete	See Fumitory — the common uame of several species of the genus Fumaria, annual herbs of the Old World, with finely dissected leaves and small flowers in dense racemes or spikes.
fumble		To feel or grope about; to make awkward attempts to do or find something.
fumbler		One who fumbles.
fumblingly		In the manner of one who fumbles.
fume		Exhalation; volatile matter (esp. noxious vapor or smoke) ascending in a dense body; smoke; vapor; reek; as, the fumes of tobacco.
fumeless		Free from fumes.
fumer		One that fumes.
fumerell		See Femerell — a lantern, or louver covering, placed on a roof, for ventilation or escape of smoke.
fumet		The dung of deer.
fumetere	Obsolete	Fumitory.
fumette		The stench or high flavor of game or other meat when kept long.
fumid		Smoky; vaporous.
fumidity		The state of being fumid; smokiness.
fumidness		The state of being fumid; smokiness.
fumiferous		Producing smoke.
fumifugist		One who, or that which, drives away smoke or fumes.
fumify	Obsolete	To subject to the action of smoke.
fumigate		To apply smoke to; to expose to smoke or vapor; to purify, or free from infection, by the use of smoke or vapors.
fumigation		The act of fumigating, or applying smoke or vapor, as for disinfection.
fumigator		One who, or that which, fumigates; an apparattus for fumigating.
fumigatory		Having the quality of purifying by smoke.
fumily		Smokily; with fume.
fuming		Producing fumes, or vapors.
fumingly		In a fuming manner; angrily.
fumish		Smoky; hot; choleric.
fumishness		Choler; fretfulness; passion.
fumiter	Obsolete	Fumitory.
fumitory		The common uame of several species of the genus Fumaria, annual herbs of the Old World, with finely dissected leaves and small flowers in dense racemes or spikes.
fummel		A hinny.
fumosity	Obsolete	The fumes of drink.
fumous		Producing smoke; smoky.
fumy		Producing fumes; fumous.
fun		Sport; merriment; frolicsome amusement.
funambulate		To walk or to dance on a rope.
funambulation		Ropedancing.
funambulatory		Performing like a ropedancer.
funambulist		A ropewalker or ropedancer.
funambulo	Obsolete	A ropewalker or ropedancer.
funambulus	Obsolete	A ropewalker or ropedancer.
function		The act of executing or performing any duty, office, or calling; per formance.
functional		Pertaining to, or connected with, a function or duty; official.
functionalize		To assign to some function or office.
functionally		In a functional manner; as regards normal or appropriate activity.
functionary		One charged with the performance of a function or office; as, a public functionary; secular functionaries.
functionate		To execute or perform a function; to transact one's regular or appointed business.
functionless		Destitute of function, or of an appropriate organ.
fund		An aggregation or deposit of resources from which supplies are or may be drawn for carrying on any work, or for maintaining existence.
fundable		Capable of being funded, or converted into a fund; convertible into bonds.
fundament		The part of the body on which one sits; the buttocks; specifically (Anat.), the anus.
fundamental		Pertaining to the foundation or basis; serving for the foundation. Hence: Essential, as an element, principle, or law; important; original; elementary; as, a fundamental truth; a fundamental axiom.
fundamentally		Primarily; originally; essentially; radically; at the foundation; in origin or constituents.
funded		Existing in the form of bonds bearing regular interest; as, funded debt.
fundholder		One who has money invested in the public funds.
funding		Providing a fund for the payment of the interest or principal of a debt.
fundless		Destitute of funds.
fundus		The bottom or base of any hollow organ; as, the fundus of the bladder; the fundus of the eye.
funebrial	Obsolete	Pertaining to a funeral or funerals; funeral; funereal.
funebrious	Obsolete	Funebrial.
funeral		The solemn rites used in the disposition of a dead human body, whether such disposition be by interment, burning, or otherwise; esp., the ceremony or solemnization of interment; obsequies; burial; -- formerly used in the plural.
funerate	Obsolete	To bury with funeral rites.
funeration	Obsolete	The act of burying with funeral rites.
funereal		Suiting a funeral; pertaining to burial; solemn. Hence: Dark; dismal; mournful.
funest		Lamentable; doleful.
fungal		Of or pertaining to fungi.
fungate		A salt of fungic acid.
funge	Obsolete	A blockhead; a dolt; a fool.
fungi		See Fungus — (Bot.) Any one of the Fungi, a large and very complex group of thallophytes of low organization, -- the molds, mildews, rusts, smuts, mushrooms, toadstools, puff balls…
fungia		A genus of simple, stony corals; -- so called because they are usually flat and circular, with radiating plates, like the gills of a mushroom.
fungian		Of or pertaining to the Fungidæ, a family of stony corals. -- n.
fungibles		(Scots Law) Movable goods which may be valued by weight or measure, in contradistinction from those which must be judged of individually.
fungic		Pertaining to, or obtained from, mushrooms; as, fungic acid.
fungicide		Anything that kills fungi. -- Fun`gi*ci"dal, n.
fungiform		Shaped like a fungus or mushroom.
fungilliform		Shaped like a small fungus.
fungin		A name formerly given to cellulose found in certain fungi and mushrooms.
fungite		A fossil coral resembling Fungia.
fungivorous		Eating fungi; -- said of certain insects and snails.
fungoid		Like a fungus; fungous; spongy.
fungologist		A mycologist.
fungology		Mycology.
fungosity		The quality of that which is fungous; fungous excrescence.
fungous		Of the nature of fungi; spongy.
fungus		(Bot.) Any one of the Fungi, a large and very complex group of thallophytes of low organization, -- the molds, mildews, rusts, smuts, mushrooms, toadstools, puff balls, and the allies of each.
funic		Funicular.
funicle		A small cord, ligature, or fiber.
funicular		Consisting of a small cord or fiber.
funiculate		Forming a narrow ridge.
funiculus		(Anat.) A cord, baud, or bundle of fibers; esp., one of the small bundles of fibers, of which large nerves are made up; applied also to different bands of white matter in the brain and spinal cord.
funiliform		Resembling a cord in toughness and flexibility, as the roots of some endogenous trees.
funis		A cord; specifically, the umbilical cord or navel string.
funk		To emit an offensive smell; to stink.
funking	Colloquial	A shrinking back through fear.
funky	Colloquial	Pertaining to, or characterized by, great fear, or funking.
funnel		A vessel of the shape of an inverted hollow cone, terminating below in a pipe, and used for conveying liquids into a close vessel; a tunnel.
funnelform		Having the form of a funnel, or tunnel; that is, expanding gradually from the bottom upward, as the corolla of some flowers; infundibuliform.
funny		Droll; comical; amusing; laughable.
fur		The short, fine, soft hair of certain animals, growing thick on the skin, and distinguished from the hair, which is longer and coarser.
furacious	Obsolete	Given to theft; thievish.
furacity	Obsolete	Addictedness to theft; thievishness.
furbelow		A plaited or gathered flounce on a woman's garment.
furbish		To rub or scour to brightness; to clean; to burnish; as, to furbish a sword or spear.
furbishable		Capable of being furbished.
furbisher		One who furbishes; esp., a sword cutler, who finishes sword blades and similar weapons.
furcate		Forked; branching like a fork; as, furcate twigs.
furcated		Forked; branching like a fork; as, furcate twigs.
furcation		A branching like a. fork.
furciferous		Rascally; scandalous.
furcula		A forked process; the wishbone or furculum.
furcular		Shaped like a fork; furcate.
furculum		The wishbone or merrythought of birds, formed by the united clavicles.
furdle		To draw up into a bundle; to roll up.
furfur		Scurf; dandruff.
furfuraceous		Made of bran; like bran; scurfy.
furfuran		A colorless, oily substance, C4H4O, obtained by distilling certain organic substances, as pine wood, salts of pyromucic acid, etc.; -- called also tetraphenol.
furfuration		Falling of scurf from the head; desquamation.
furfurine		A white, crystalline base, obtained indirectly from furfurol.
furfurol		A colorless oily liquid, C4H3O.CHO, of a pleasant odor, obtained by the distillation of bran, sugar, etc., and regarded as an aldehyde derivative of furfuran; -- called also furfural.
furfurous		Made of bran; furfuraceous.
furial	Obsolete	Furious; raging; tormenting.
furibundal	Obsolete	Full of rage.
furies		See Fury, 3.
furile		A yellow, crystalline substance, (C4H3O)2.C2O2, obtained by the oxidation of furoin.
furilic		Pertaining to, or derived from, furile; as, furilic acid.
furioso		With great force or vigor; vehemently.
furious		Transported with passion or fury; raging; violent; as, a furious animal.
furl		To draw up or gather into close compass; to wrap or roll, as a sail, close to the yard, stay, or mast, or, as a flag, close to or around its staff, securing it there by a gasket or line.
furlong		A measure of length; the eighth part of a mile; forty rods; two hundred and twenty yards.
furlough		Leave of abserice; especially, leave given to an offcer or soldier to be absent from service for a certain time; also, the document granting leave of absence.
furmity		Same as Frumenty.
furmonty		Same as Frumenty.
furnace		An inclosed place in which heat is produced by the combustion of fuel, as for reducing ores or melting metals, for warming a house, for baking pottery, etc.; as, an iron furnace; a hot-air furnace; a glass furnace…
furniment	Obsolete	Furniture.
furnish		To supply with anything necessary, useful, or appropriate; to provide; to equip; to fit out, or fit up; to adorn; as, to furnish a family with provisions; to furnish one with arms for defense; to furnish a Cable…
furnisher		One who supplies or fits out.
furnishment	Obsolete	The act of furnishing, or of supplying furniture; also, furniture.
furniture		That with which anything is furnished or supplied; supplies; outfit; equipment.
furoin		A colorless, crystalline substance, C10H8O4, from furfurol.
furore		Excitement; commotion; enthusiasm.
furrier		A dealer in furs; one who makes or sells fur goods.
furriery		The business of a furrier; trade in furs.
furring		(Carp.) (a) The leveling of a surface, or the preparing of an air space, by means of strips of board or of larger pieces.
furrow		A trench in the earth made by, or as by, a plow.
furrowy		Furrowed.
furry		Covered with fur; dressed in fur.
further		To a greater distance; in addition; moreover. See Farther.
furtherance		The act of furthering or helping forward; promotion; advancement; progress.
furtherer		One who furthers. or helps to advance; a promoter.
furthermore		or conj.
furthermost		Most remote; furthest.
furthersome		Tending to further, advance, or promote; helpful; advantageous.
furtive		Stolen; obtained or characterized by stealth; sly; secret; stealthy; as, a furtive look.
furtively		Stealthily by theft.
furuncle		A superficial, inflammatory tumor, suppurating with a central core; a boil.
furuncular		Of or pertaining to a furuncle; marked by the presence of furuncles.
fury		Violent or extreme excitement; overmastering agitation or enthusiasm.
furze		A thorny evergreen shrub (Ulex Europæus), with beautiful yellow flowers, very common upon the plains and hills of Great Britain; -- called also gorse, and whin.
furzechat		The whinchat; -- called also furzechuck.
furzeling		An English warbler (Melizophilus provincialis); -- called also furze wren, and Dartford warbler.
furzen	Obsolete	Furzy; gorsy.
furzy		bounding in, or overgrown with, furze; characterized by furze.
fusain		(a) Fine charcoal of willow wood, used as a drawing implement. (b) A drawing made with it.
fusarole		A molding generally placed under the echinus or quarter round of capitals in the Doric, Ionic, and Corinthian orders of architecture.
fuscation		A darkening; obscurity; obfuscation.
fuscin		A brown, nitrogenous pigment contained in the retinal epithelium; a variety of melanin.
fuscine		A dark-colored substance obtained from empyreumatic animal oil.
fuscous		Brown or grayish black; darkish.
fuse		To liquefy by heat; to render fiuid; to dissolve; to melt.
fusee		A kind of match for lighting a pipe or cigar. (Railroad) A small packet of explosive material with wire appendages allowing it to be conveniently attached to a railroad track.
fusel		A hot, acrid, oily liquid, accompanying many alcoholic liquors (as potato whisky, corn whisky, etc.), as an undesirable ingredient, and consisting of several of the higher alcohols and compound ethers…
fuselage		An elongated body or frame of an aëroplane or flying machine; sometimes, erroneously, any kind of frame or body.
fusibility		The quality of being fusible.
fusible		CapabIe of being melted or liquefied.
fusiform		Shaped like a spindle; tapering at each end; as, a fusiform root; a fusiform cell.
fusil		Capable of being melted or rendered fluid by heat; fusible.
fusile		Same as Fusil, a.
fusileer		(a) Formerly, a soldier armed with a fusil. Hence, in the plural: (b) A title now borne by some regiments and companies; as, etc.
fusilier		(a) Formerly, a soldier armed with a fusil. Hence, in the plural: (b) A title now borne by some regiments and companies; as, etc.
fusillade		A simultaneous discharge of firearms.
fusion		The act or operation of melting or rendering fluid by heat; the act of melting together; as, the fusion of metals.
fusome	English dialect	Handy; reat; handsome; notable.
fuss		A tumult; a bustle; unnecessary or annoying ado about trifles.
fussily		In a fussy manner.
fussiness		The quality of being fussy.
fussy		Making a fuss; disposed to make an unnecessary ado about trifles; overnice; fidgety.
fust	Obsolete	The shaft of a column, or trunk of pilaster.
fusted	Obsolete	Moldy; ill-smelling.
fusteric		The coloring matter of fustet.
fustet		The wood of the Rhus Cptinus or Venice sumach, a shrub of Southern Europe, which yields a fine orange color, which, however, is not durable without a mordant.
fustian		A kind of coarse twilled cotton or cotton and linen stuff, including corduroy, velveteen, etc.
fustianist		A writer of fustian.
fustic		The wood of the Maclura tinctoria, a tree growing in the West Indies, used in dyeing yellow; -- called also old fustic.
fustigate		To cudgel.
fustigation		A punishment by beating with a stick or club; cudgeling.
fustilarian	Obsolete	A low fellow; a stinkard; a scoundrel.
fustilug	Obsolete	A gross, fat, unwieldy person.
fustilugs	Obsolete	A gross, fat, unwieldy person.
fustiness		A fusty state or quality; moldiness; mustiness; an ill smell from moldiness.
fusty	Archaic	Moldy; musty; ill-smelling; rank. 2.
fusure		Act of fusing; fusion.
futchel		The jaws between which the hinder end of a carriage tongue is inserted.
futhorc		The Runic alphabet; -- so called from the six letters f, u, þ (th), o (or a), r, c (=k).
futhork		The Runic alphabet; -- so called from the six letters f, u, þ (th), o (or a), r, c (=k).
futile		Of no importance; answering no useful end; useless; vain; worthless.
futilely		In a futile manner.
futility		The quality of producing no valuable effect, or of coming to nothing; uselessness.
futilous	Obsolete	Futile; trifling.
futtock		One of the crooked timbers which are scarfed together to form the lower part of the compound rib of a vessel; one of the crooked transverse timbers passing across and over the keel.
futurable		Capable of being future; possible to occur.
future		That is to be or come hereafter; that will exist at any time after the present; as, the next moment is future, to the present.
futureless		Without prospect of betterment in the future.
futurely	Obsolete	In time to come.
futurism		A movement or phase of post-impressionism (which see, below).
futurist		One whose chief interests are in what is to come; one who anxiously, eagerly, or confidently looks forward to the future; an expectant.
futuritial		Relating to what is to come; pertaining to futurity; future.
futurition		The state of being future; futurity.
futurity		State of being that is yet to come; future state.
fuze		A tube, filled with combustible matter, for exploding a shell, etc. See Fuse, n.
fuzz	Obsolete	To make drunk.
fuzzle	Obsolete	To make drunk; to intoxicate; to fuddle.
fuzzy	English dialect	Not firmly woven; that ravels.
