gab	Colloquial	The hook on the end of an eccentric rod opposite the strap. See.
gabarage	Obsolete	A kind of coarse cloth for packing goods.
gabardine		A coarse frock or loose upper garment formerly worn by Jews; a mean dress.
gabber		One addicted to idle talk.
gabble		To talk fast, or to talk without meaning; to prate; to jabber.
gabbler		One who gabbles; a prater.
gabbro		A name originally given by the Italians to a kind of serpentine, later to the rock called euphotide, and now generally used for a coarsely crystalline, igneous rock consisting of lamellar pyroxene (diallage) and labradorite…
gabel		A rent, service, tribute, custom, tax, impost, or duty; an excise.
gabeler		A collector of gabels or taxes.
gabelle		A tax, especially on salt.
gabelleman		A gabeler.
gaber-lunzie	Scots	A beggar with a wallet; a licensed beggar.
gaberdine		A coarse frock or loose upper garment formerly worn by Jews; a mean dress.
gabert	Scots	A lighter, or vessel for inland navigation.
gabion		(Fort.) A hollow cylinder of wickerwork, like a basket without a bottom.
gabionade		(Fort.) A traverse made with gabions between guns or on their flanks, protecting them from enfilading fire.
gabionage		The part of a fortification built of gabions.
gabioned		Furnished with gabions.
gabionnade		See Gabionade — (Fort.) A traverse made with gabions between guns or on their flanks, protecting them from enfilading fire.
gable	Archaic	A cable.
gablet		A small gable, or gable-shaped canopy, formed over a tabernacle, niche, etc.
gablock		A false spur or gaff, fitted on the heel of a gamecock.
gaby	Colloquial	A simpleton; a dunce; a lout.
gad		A pointed or wedge-shaped instrument of metal, as a steel wedge used in mining, etc. I will go get a leaf of brass, And with a gad of steel will write these words.
gadabout	Colloquial	A gadder
gadbee		The gadfly.
gadder		One who roves about idly, a rambling gossip.
gadding		Going about much, needlessly or without purpose.
gaddingly		In a roving, idle manner.
gaddish		Disposed to gad. -- Gad Gaddishness and folly." Abp.
gade	English dialect	(a) A small British fish (Motella argenteola) of the Cod family. (b) A pike, so called at Moray Firth; -- called also gead.
gadere	Obsolete	To gather.
gadfly		Any dipterous insect of the genus Oestrus, and allied genera of botflies.
gadhelic		Of or pertaining to that division of the Celtic languages, which includes the Irish, Gaelic, and Manx.
gadic		Pertaining to, or derived from, the cod (Gadus); -- applied to an acid obtained from cod-liver oil, viz., gadic acid.
gaditanian		Of or relating to Cadiz, in Spain. -- n.
gadling	Obsolete	See Gad, n., 4.
gadman		A gadsman.
gadoid		Of or pertaining to the family of fishes (Gadidæ) which includes the cod, haddock, and hake. -- n.
gadolinia		A rare earth, regarded by some as an oxide of the supposed element gadolinium, by others as only a mixture of the oxides of yttrium, erbium, ytterbium, etc.
gadolinic		Pertaining to or containing gadolinium.
gadolinite		A mineral of a nearly black color and vitreous luster, and consisting principally of the silicates of yttrium, cerium, and iron.
gadolinium		A supposed rare metallic element, with a characteristic spectrum, found associated with yttrium and other rare metals.
gadre	Obsolete	To gather.
gadsman		One who uses a gad or goad in driving.
gaduin		A yellow or brown amorphous substance, of indifferent nature, found in cod-liver oil.
gadwall		A large duck (Anas strepera), valued as a game bird, found in the northern parts of Europe and America; -- called also gray duck.
gaekwar		The title of the ruling Prince of Baroda, in Gujarat, in Bombay, India.
gael		A Celt or the Celts of the Scotch Highlands or of Ireland; now esp., a Scotch Highlander of Celtic origin.
gaelic		Of or pertaining to the Gael, esp. to the Celtic Highlanders of Scotland; as, the Gaelic language.
gaff		A barbed spear or a hook with a handle, used by fishermen in securing heavy fish.
gaff-topsail		A small triangular sail having its foot extended upon the gaff and its luff upon the topmast.
gaffer		An old fellow; an aged rustic.
gaffle		An artificial spur or gaff for gamecocks.
gag		To stop the mouth of, by thrusting sometimes in, so as to hinder speaking; hence, to silence by authority or by violence; not to allow freedom of speech to.
gag-toothed	Obsolete	Having gagteeth.
gage		A pledge or pawn; something laid down or given as a security for the performance of some act by the person depositing it, and forfeited by nonperformance; security.
gager		A measurer. See Gauger.
gagger		(Founding) A piece of iron imbedded in the sand of a mold to keep the sand in place.
gaggle	English dialect	To make a noise like a goose; to cackle.
gagtooth	Obsolete	A projecting tooth.
gahnite		Zinc spinel; automolite.
gaidic		Pertaining to hypogeic acid; -- applied to an acid obtained from hypogeic acid.
gaiety		Same as Gayety.
gailer	Obsolete	A jailer.
gaillard		Gay; brisk; merry; galliard.
gailliarde		A lively French and Italian dance.
gaily		Merrily; showily. See gaily.
gain		That which is gained, obtained, or acquired, as increase, profit, advantage, or benefit; -- opposed to loss.
gainable		Capable of being obtained or reached.
gainage		(a) The horses, oxen, plows, wains or wagons and implements for carrying on tillage.
gainer		One who gains.
gainful		Profitable; advantageous; lucrative. -- Gain ful*ness, n.
gaingiving	Obsolete	A misgiving.
gainless		Not producing gain; unprofitable.
gainly	Obsolete	Handily; readily; dexterously; advantageously.
gainpain		Bread-gainer; -- a term applied in the Middle Ages to the sword of a hired soldier.
gainsay		To contradict; to deny; to controvert; to dispute; to forbid.
gainsayer		One who gainsays, contradicts, or denies. i. 9.
gainsome	Obsolete	Prepossessing; well-favored.
gainstand	Obsolete	To withstand; to resist.
gainstrive	Obsolete	To strive or struggle against; to withstand.
gairfowl		See Garefowl — the great auk; also, the razorbill. See Auk.
gairish		Same as Garish, Garishly, Garishness.
gairishly		Same as Garish, Garishly, Garishness.
gairishness		Same as Garish, Garishly, Garishness.
gait		Manner of walking or stepping; bearing or carriage while moving.
gaited		Having (such) a gait; -- used in composition; as, slow-gaited; heavy-gaited.
gaiter		A covering of cloth or leather for the ankle and instep, or for the whole leg from the knee to the instep, fitting down upon the shoe.
gaitre	Obsolete	The dogwood tree.
gala		Pomp, show, or festivity.
galacta-gogue		An agent exciting secretion of milk.
galactic		Of or pertaining to milk; got from milk; as, galactic acid.
galactin		(a) An amorphous, gelatinous substance containing nitrogen, found in milk and other animal fluids.
galactodensimeter		Same as Galactometer.
galactometer		An instrument for ascertaining the quality of milk (i.e., its richness in cream) by determining its specific gravity; a lactometer.
galactophagist		One who eats, or subsists on, milk.
galactophagous		Feeding on milk.
galactophorous		Milk-carrying; lactiferous; -- applied to the ducts of mammary glands.
galactopoietic		Increasing the flow of milk; milk-producing. -- n.
galactose		A white, crystalline sugar, C6H12O6, isomeric with dextrose, obtained by the decomposition of milk sugar, and also from certain gums.
galage		See Galoche — hence: An overshoe worn in wet weather.
galago		A genus of African lemurs, including numerous species.
galanga		The pungent aromatic rhizome or tuber of certain East Indian or Chinese species of Alpinia (A.
galangal		The pungent aromatic rhizome or tuber of certain East Indian or Chinese species of Alpinia (A.
galantine		A dish of veal, chickens, or other white meat, freed from bones, tied up, boiled, and served cold.
galatea		A kind of striped cotton fabric, usually of superior quality and striped with blue or red on white.
galatian		Of or pertaining to Galatia or its inhabitants. -- A native or inhabitant of Galatia, in Asia Minor; a descendant of the Gauls who settled in Asia Minor.
galaxy		(Astron.) The Milky Way; that luminous tract, or belt, which is seen at night stretching across the heavens, and which is composed of innumerable stars, so distant and blended as to be distinguishable only with the telescope.
galban		A gum resin exuding from the stems of certain Asiatic umbelliferous plants, mostly species of Ferula.
galbanum		A gum resin exuding from the stems of certain Asiatic umbelliferous plants, mostly species of Ferula.
galbe		The general outward form of any solid object, as of a column or a vase.
gale		A strong current of air; a wind between a stiff breeze and a hurricane.
galea		(Bot.) The upper lip or helmet-shaped part of a labiate flower.
galeas		See Galleass — a large galley, having some features of the galleon, as broadside guns; esp., such a vessel used by the southern nations of Europe in the 16th and 17th centuries.
galeate		Wearing a helmet; protected by a helmet; covered, as with a helmet.
galeated		Wearing a helmet; protected by a helmet; covered, as with a helmet.
galei		That division of elasmobranch fishes which includes the sharks.
galena		(Min.) Lead sulphide; the principal ore of lead.
galenic		Pertaining to, or containing, galena.
galenical		Pertaining to, or containing, galena.
galenism		The doctrines of Galen.
galenist		A follower of Galen.
galenite		Galena; lead ore.
galeopithecus		A genus of flying Insectivora, formerly called flying lemurs. See Colugo.
galericulate		Covered as with a hat or cap.
galerite		A cretaceous fossil sea urchin of the genus Galerites.
galician		Of or pertaining to Galicia, in Spain, or to Galicia, the kingdom of Austrian Poland. -- n.
galilean		Of or pertaining to Galileo; as, the Galilean telescope. See Telescope.
galilee		A porch or waiting room, usually at the west end of an abbey church, where the monks collected on returning from processions, where bodies were laid previous to interment…
galimatias		Nonsense; gibberish; confused and unmeaning talk; confused mixture.
galingale		A plant of the Sedge family (Cyperus longus) having aromatic roots; also, any plant of the same genus.
galiot		(a) A small galley, formerly used in the Mediterranean, built mainly for speed.
galipot		An impure resin of turpentine, hardened on the outside of pine trees by the spontaneous evaporation of its essential oil.
gall		(Physiol.) The bitter, alkaline, viscid fluid found in the gall bladder, beneath the liver.
gallant		Showy; splendid; magnificent; gay; well-dressed.
gallantly		In a polite or courtly manner; like a gallant or wooer.
gallantness		The quality of being gallant.
gallantry		Bravery; intrepidity; as, the troops behaved with great gallantry.
gallate		A salt of gallic acid.
gallature		The tread, treadle, or chalasa of an egg.
galleass		A large galley, having some features of the galleon, as broadside guns; esp., such a vessel used by the southern nations of Europe in the 16th and 17th centuries.
gallegan		A native or inhabitant of Galicia, in Spain; a Galician.
gallego		A native or inhabitant of Galicia, in Spain; a Galician.
gallein		A red crystalline dyestuff, obtained by heating together pyrogallic and phthalic acids.
galleon		A sailing vessel of the 15th and following centuries, often having three or four decks, and used for war or commerce.
galleot		See Galiot — (a) A small galley, formerly used in the Mediterranean, built mainly for speed.
gallery		A long and narrow corridor, or place for walking; a connecting passageway, as between one room and another; also, a long hole or passage excavated by a boring or burrowing animal.
galletyle	Obsolete	A little tile of glazed earthenware.
galley		(Naut.) A vessel propelled by oars, whether having masts and sails or not; as: (a) A large vessel for war and national purposes; -- common in the Middle Ages, and down to the 17th century.
galley-bird	English dialect	The European green woodpecker; also, the spotted woodpecker.
galley-worm		A chilognath myriapod of the genus Iulus, and allied genera, having numerous short legs along the sides; a milliped or
gallfly		An insect that deposits its eggs in plants, and occasions galls, esp. any small hymenopteran of the genus Cynips and allied genera.
galliambic		Consisting of two iambic dimeters catalectic, the last of which lacks the final syllable; -- said of a kind of verse.
gallian	Obsolete	Gallic; French.
galliard	Obsolete	Gay; brisk; active.
galliardise	Obsolete	Excessive gayety; merriment.
galliass		Same as Galleass.
gallic		Pertaining to, or containing, gallium.
gallican		Of or pertaining to Gaul or France; Gallic; French; as, the Gallican church or clergy.
gallicanism		The principles, tendencies, or action of those, within the Roman Catholic Church in France, who (esp. in 1682) sought to restrict the papal authority in that country and increase the power of the national church.
gallicism		A mode of speech peculiar to the French; a French idiom; also, in general, a French mode or custom.
gallicize		To conform to the French mode or idiom.
gallied		Worried; flurried; frightened.
galliform		Like the Gallinae (or Galliformes) in structure.
galligaskins		Loose hose or breeches; leather leg quards.
gallimatia	Obsolete	Senseless talk. See Galimatias.
gallimaufry		A hash of various kinds of meats, a ragout.
gallin		A substance obtained by the reduction of galleïn.
gallinaceae		Same as Gallinae.
gallinacean		One of the Gallinae or gallinaceous birds.
gallinaceous		Resembling the domestic fowls and pheasants; of or pertaining to the Gallinae.
gallinae		An order of birds, including the common domestic fowls, pheasants, grouse, quails, and allied forms; -- sometimes called Rasores.
galling		Fitted to gall or chafe; vexing; harassing; irritating. -- Gall"ing*ly, adv.
gallinipper		A large mosquito.
gallinule		One of several wading birds, having long, webless toes, and a frontal shield, belonging to the family Rallidae.
galliot		See Galiot — (a) A small galley, formerly used in the Mediterranean, built mainly for speed.
gallipot		A glazed earthen pot or vessel, used by druggists and apothecaries for containing medicines, etc.
gallium		A rare metallic element, found in certain zinc ores.
gallivant	Slang	To play the beau; to wait upon the ladies; also, to roam about for pleasure without any definite plan.
gallivat		A small armed vessel, with sails and oars, -- used on the Malabar coast.
galliwasp		A West Indian lizard (Celestus occiduus), about a foot long, imagined by the natives to be venomous.
gallize		In wine making, to add water and sugar to (unfermented grape juice) so as to increase the quantity of wine produced. -- Gal`li*za"tion (#), n.
gallnut		A round gall produced on the leaves and shoots of various species of the oak tree.
gallomania		An excessive admiration of what is French. -- Gal`lo*ma"ni*ac, n.
gallon		A measure of capacity, containing four quarts; -- used, for the most part, in liquid measure, but sometimes in dry measure.
galloon		A narrow tapelike fabric used for binding hats, shoes, etc., -- sometimes made ornamental.
gallooned		Furnished or adorned with galloon.
gallop		To move or run in the mode called a gallop; as a horse; to go at a gallop; to run or move with speed.
gallopade		I horsemanship, a sidelong or curveting kind of gallop.
galloper		One who, or that which, gallops.
gallopin	Obsolete	An under servant for the kitchen; a scullion; a cook's errand boy.
galloping		Going at a gallop; progressing rapidly; as, a galloping horse.
gallotannic		Pertaining to the tannin or nutgalls.
gallow	Obsolete	To fright or terrify. See Gally, v. t.
galloway		A small horse of a breed raised at Galloway, Scotland; -- called also garran, and garron.
gallowglass		A heavy-armed foot soldier from Ireland and the Western Isles in the time of Edward Shak.
gallows		A frame from which is suspended the rope with which criminals are executed by hanging, usually consisting of two upright posts and a crossbeam on the top; also, a like frame for suspending anything.
gallstone		A concretion, or calculus, formed in the gall bladder or biliary passages.
gally	Obsolete	To frighten; to worry.
gallygaskins		See Galligaskins — loose hose or breeches; leather leg quards.
galoche		Hence: An overshoe worn in wet weather.
galoot	Slang	A noisy, swaggering, or worthless fellow; a rowdy.
galop		A kind of lively dance, in 2-4 time; also, the music to the dance.
galore		Plenty; abundance; in abundance.
galosh		A strip of material, as leather, running around a shoe at and above the sole, as for protection or ornament.
galoshe		Hence: An overshoe worn in wet weather.
galpe	Obsolete	To gape,; to yawn.
galsome	Obsolete	Angry; malignant.
galt		Same as Gault.
galvanic		Of or pertaining to, or exhibiting the phenomena of, galvanism; employing or producing electrical currents.
galvanism		(a) Electricity excited by the mutual action of certain liquids and metals; dynamical electricity.
galvanist		One versed in galvanism.
galvanization		The act of process of galvanizing.
galvanize		To affect with galvanism; to subject to the action of electrical currents.
galvanizer		One who, or that which, galvanize.
galvanocaustic		Relating to the use of galvanic heat as a caustic, especially in medicine.
galvanocautery		Cautery effected by a knife or needle heated by the passage of a galvanic current.
galvanoglyphy		Same as Glyphography.
galvanograph		A copperplate produced by the method of galvanography; also, a picture printed from such a plate.
galvanographic		Of or pertaining to galvanography.
galvanography		The art or process of depositing metals by electricity; electrotypy.
galvanologist		One who describes the phenomena of galvanism; a writer on galvanism.
galvanology		A treatise on galvanism, or a description of its phenomena.
galvanometer		An instrument or apparatus for measuring the intensity of an electric current, usually by the deflection of a magnetic needle.
galvanometric		Of, pertaining to, or measured by, a galvanometer.
galvanometry		The art or process of measuring the force of electric currents.
galvanoplastic		Of or pertaining to the art or process of electrotyping; employing, or produced by, the process of electolytic deposition; as, a galvano-plastic copy of a medal or the like.
galvanoplasty		The art or process of electrotypy.
galvanopuncture		Same as Electro-puncture.
galvanoscope		An instrument or apparatus for detecting the presence of electrical currents, especially such as are of feeble intensity.
galvanoscopic		Of or pertaining to a galvanoscope.
galvanoscopy		The use of galvanism in physiological experiments.
galvanotonus		Same as Electrotonus.
galvanotropism		The tendency of a root to place its axis in the line of a galvanic current.
galwes	Obsolete	Gallows.
gam		(a) A herd, or school, of whales. (b) A visit between whalers at sea; a holding of social intercourse between those on different vessels at sea, or (Local U.
gamashes		High boots or buskins; in Scotland, short spatterdashes or riding trousers, worn over the other clothing.
gamba		A viola da gamba.
gambadoes		Same as Gamashes.
gambeer		To gaff, as mackerel.
gambeson		Same as Gambison.
gambet		Any bird of the genuis Totanus. See Tattler.
gambier		(a) The inspissated juice of a plant (Uncaria Gambir) growing in Malacca.
gambison		A defensive garment formerly in use for the body, made of cloth stuffed and quilted.
gambist		A performer upon the viola di gamba. See under Viola.
gambit		A mode of opening the game, in which a pawn is sacrificed to gain an attacking position.
gamble		To play or game for money or other stake.
gambler		One who gambles.
gamboge		A concrete juice, or gum resin, produced by several species of trees in Siam, Ceylon, and Malabar.
gambogian		Pertaining to, resembling, or containing, gamboge.
gambogic		Pertaining to, resembling, or containing, gamboge.
gambol		A skipping or leaping about in frolic; a hop; a sportive prank.
gambrel		The hind leg of a horse.
gambroon		A kind of twilled linen cloth for lining.
game	Colloquial	Crooked; lame; as, a game leg.
gamecock		The male game fowl.
gameful		Full of game or games.
gamekeeper		One who has the care of game, especially in a park or preserve.
gameless		Destitute of game.
gamely		In a plucky manner; spiritedly.
gameness		Endurance; pluck.
gamesome		Gay; sportive; playful; frolicsome; merry.
gamester		A person who plays at games; esp., one accustomed to play for a stake; a gambler; one skilled in games.
gamete		A sexual cell or germ cell; a conjugating cell which unites with another of like or unlike character to form a new individual.
gametophyte		In the alternation of generations in plants, that generation or phase which bears sex organs.
gamic		Pertaining to, or resulting from, sexual connection; formed by the union of the male and female elements.
gamin		A neglected and untrained city boy; a young street Arab.
gaming		The act or practice of playing games for stakes or wagers; gambling.
gamma		The third letter (G) of the Greek alphabet.
gammadion		A cross formed of four capital gammas, formerly used as a mysterious ornament on ecclesiastical vestments, etc. See Fylfot.
gammer		An old wife; an old woman; -- correlative of gaffer, an old man.
gammon		The buttock or tight of a hog, salted and smoked or dried; the lower end of a flitch.
gammoning	Colloquial	The lashing or iron band by which the bowsprit of a vessel is secured to the stem to opposite the lifting action of the forestays.
gamogenesis		The production of offspring by the union of parents of different sexes; sexual reproduction; -- the opposite of agamogenesis.
gamogenetic		Relating to gamogenesis. -- Gam`o*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv.
gamomorphism		That stage of growth or development in an organism, in which the reproductive elements are generated and matured in preparation for propagating the species.
gamopetalous		Having the petals united or joined so as to form a tube or cup; monopetalous.
gamophyllous		Composed of leaves united by their edges (coalescent).
gamosepalous		Formed of united sepals; monosepalous.
gamp		A large umbrella; --said to allude to Mrs.
gamut		The scale.
gamy		(Cookery) Having the flavor of game, esp. of game kept uncooked till near the condition of tainting; high-flavored.
gan		Began; commenced.
ganancial		Designating, pertaining to, or held under, the Spanish system of law (called ganancial system) which controls the title and disposition of the property acquired during marriage by the husband or wife.
ganch		To drop from a high place upon sharp stakes or hooks, as the Turks dropped malefactors, by way of punishment.
gander		The male of any species of goose.
gane	Obsolete	To yawn; to gape.
ganesa		The Hindoo god of wisdom or prudence.
gang		A number going in company; hence, a company, or a number of persons associated for a particular purpose; a group of laborers under one foreman; a squad; as, a gang of sailors; a chain gang; a gang of thieves.
gang-flower		The common English milkwort (Polygala vulgaris), so called from blossoming in gang week.
gange		To protect (the part of a line next a fishhook, or the hook itself) by winding it with wire.
ganger		One who oversees a gang of workmen.
gangetic		Pertaining to, or inhabiting, the Ganges; as, the Gangetic shark.
gangion		A short line attached to a trawl. See Trawl, n.
gangliac		Relating to a ganglion; ganglionic.
ganglial		Relating to a ganglion; ganglionic.
gangliate		Furnished with ganglia; as, the gangliated cords of the sympathetic nervous system.
gangliated		Furnished with ganglia; as, the gangliated cords of the sympathetic nervous system.
gangliform		Having the form of a ganglion.
ganglioform		Having the form of a ganglion.
ganglion		(Anat.) (a) A mass or knot of nervous matter, including nerve cells, usually forming an enlargement in the course of a nerve.
ganglionary		Ganglionic.
ganglionic		Pertaining to, containing, or consisting of, ganglia or ganglion cells; as, a ganglionic artery; the ganglionic columns of the spinal cord.
gangrel	Scots	Wandering; vagrant.
gangrenate	Obsolete	To gangrene.
gangrene		A term formerly restricted to mortification of the soft tissues which has not advanced so far as to produce complete loss of vitality; but now applied to mortification of the soft parts in any stage.
gangrenescent		Tending to mortification or gangrene.
gangrenous		Affected by, or produced by, gangrene; of the nature of gangrene.
gangue		The mineral or earthy substance associated with metallic ore.
gangway		A passage or way into or out of any inclosed place; esp., a temporary way of access formed of planks.
ganil	English dialect	A kind of brittle limestone.
ganister		A refractory material consisting of crushed or ground siliceous stone, mixed with fire clay; -- used for lining Bessemer converters; also used for macadamizing roads.
ganja		The dried hemp plant, used in India for smoking.
gannet		One of several species of sea birds of the genus Sula, allied to the pelicans.
gannister		A refractory material consisting of crushed or ground siliceous stone, mixed with fire clay; -- used for lining Bessemer converters; also used for macadamizing roads.
ganocephala		A group of fossil amphibians allied to the labyrinthodonts, having the head defended by bony, sculptured plates, as in some ganoid fishes.
ganocephalous		Of or pertaining to the Ganocephala.
ganoid		Of or pertaining to Ganoidei. -- n.
ganoidei		One of the subclasses of fishes.
ganoine		A peculiar bony tissue beneath the enamel of a ganoid scale.
gansa		Same as Ganza.
gantlet		A military punishment formerly in use, wherein the offender was made to run between two files of men facing one another, who struck him as he passed.
gantline		A line rigged to a mast; -- used in hoisting rigging; a girtline.
gantlope	Obsolete	See Gantlet — a military punishment formerly in use, wherein the offender was made to run between two files of men facing one another, who struck him as he passed.
gantry		See Gauntree — a frame for supporting barrels in a cellar or elsewhere.
ganza		A kind of wild goose, by a flock of which a virtuoso was fabled to be carried to the lunar world.
gaol		A place of confinement, especially for minor offenses or provisional imprisonment; a jail.
gaoler		The keeper of a jail. See Jailer.
gap		An opening in anything made by breaking or parting; as, a gap in a fence; an opening for a passage or entrance; an opening which implies a breach or defect; a vacant space or time; a hiatus; a mountain pass.
gap-toothed		Having interstices between the teeth.
gape		To open the mouth wide; as: (a) Expressing a desire for food; as, young birds gape.
gaper		(Zoöl.) (a) A European fish. See 4th Comber. (b) A large edible clam (Schizothærus Nuttalli), of the Pacific coast; -- called also gaper clam.
gapes		(a) A fit of yawning. (b) A disease of young poultry and other birds, attended with much gaping.
gapeseed		Any strange sight.
gapesing	English dialect	Act of gazing about; sightseeing.
gapeworm		The parasitic worm that causes the gapes in birds. See Illustration in Appendix.
gapingstock		One who is an object of open-mouthed wonder.
gar	Obsolete	(a) Any slender marine fish of the genera Belone and Tylosurus. See Garfish.
garage		A place for housing automobiles.
garancin		An extract of madder by sulphuric acid.
garb		(a) Clothing in general. (b) The whole dress or suit of clothes worn by any person, especially when indicating rank or office; as, the garb of a clergyman or a judge.
garbage		Offal, as the bowels of an animal or fish; refuse animal or vegetable matter from a kitchen; hence, anything worthless, disgusting, or loathsome.
garbed		Dressed; habited; clad.
garbel	Obsolete	Same as Garboard.
garble		To pick out such parts of as may serve a purpose; to mutilate; to pervert; as, to garble a quotation; to garble an account.
garbler		One who garbles.
garboard		One of the planks next the keel on the outside, which form a garboard strake.
garboil	Obsolete	Tumult; disturbance; disorder.
garcinia		A genus of plants, including the mangosteen tree (Garcinia Mangostana), found in the islands of the Indian Archipelago; -- so called in honor of Dr. Garcin.
garcon		A boy; fellow; esp., a serving boy or man; a waiter; -- in Eng. chiefly applied to French waiters.
gard	Obsolete	Garden. See Guard.
gardant		Turning the head towards the spectator, but not the body; -- said of a lion or other beast.
garden		A piece of ground appropriates to the cultivation of herbs, fruits, flowers, or vegetables.
gardener		One who makes and tends a garden; a horticulturist.
gardenia		A genus of plants, some species of which produce beautiful and fragrant flowers; Cape jasmine; -- so called in honor of Dr. Alexander Garden.
gardening		The art of occupation of laying out and cultivating gardens; horticulture.
gardenless		Destitute of a garden.
gardenly		Like a garden.
gardenship	Obsolete	Horticulture.
gardon		A European cyprinoid fish; the id.
gardyloo		An old cry in throwing water, slops, etc., from the windows in Edingburgh.
gare		Coarse wool on the legs of sheep.
garefowl		The great auk; also, the razorbill. See Auk.
garfish		(a) A European marine fish (Belone vulgaris); -- called also gar, gerrick, greenback, greenbone, gorebill, hornfish, longnose, mackerel guide, sea needle, and sea pike.
gargalize	Obsolete	To gargle; to rinse.
garganey		A small European duck (Anas querquedula); -- called also cricket teal, and summer teal.
gargantuan		Characteristic of Gargantua, a gigantic, wonderful personage; enormous; prodigious; inordinate.
gargarism		A gargle.
gargarize	Obsolete	To gargle; to rinse or wash, as the mouth and throat.
garget		A diseased condition of the udders of cows, etc., arising from an inflammation of the mammary glands.
gargil		A distemper in geese, affecting the head.
gargle		See Gargoyle — a spout projecting from the roof gutter of a building, often carved grotesquely.
gargol		A distemper in swine; garget.
gargoulette		A water cooler or jug with a handle and spout; a gurglet.
gargoyle		A spout projecting from the roof gutter of a building, often carved grotesquely.
gargyle		See Gargoyle — a spout projecting from the roof gutter of a building, often carved grotesquely.
garibaldi		A jacket worn by women; -- so called from its resemblance in shape to the red shirt worn by the Italians patriot Garibaldi.
garish		Showy; dazzling; ostentatious; attracting or exciting attention.
garland		A wreath of chaplet made of branches, flowers, or feathers, and sometimes of precious stones, to be worn on the head like a crown; a coronal; a wreath.
garlandless		Destitute of a garland.
garlic		(Bot.) A plant of the genus Allium (A. sativum is the cultivated variety), having a bulbous root, a very strong smell, and an acrid, pungent taste.
garlicky		Like or containing garlic.
garment		Any article of clothing, as a coat, a gown, etc. No man putteth a piece of new cloth unto old garment.
garmented	Poetic	Having on a garment; attired; enveloped, as with a garment.
garmenture		Clothing; dress.
garner		A granary; a building or place where grain is stored for preservation.
garnet		A mineral having many varieties differing in color and in their constituents, but with the same crystallization (isometric), and conforming to the same general chemical formula.
garnetiferous		Containing garnets.
garnierite		An amorphous mineral of apple-green color; a hydrous silicate of nickel and magnesia.
garnish		To decorate with ornamental appendages; to set off; to adorn; to embellish.
garnishee		One who is garnished; a person upon whom garnishment has been served in a suit by a creditor against a debtor, such person holding property belonging to the debtor, or owing him money.
garnisher		One who, or that which, garnishes.
garnishment		Ornament; embellishment; decoration.
garniture		That which garnishes; ornamental appendage; embellishment; furniture; dress.
garookuh		A small fishing vessel met with in the Persian Gulf.
garous		Pertaining to, or resembling, garum.
garpike		See under Gar.
garran	Scots	See Galloway — a small horse of a breed raised at Galloway, Scotland; -- called also garran, and garron.
garret		That part of a house which is on the upper floor, immediately under or within the roof; an attic.
garreted	Obsolete	Protected by turrets.
garreteer		One who lives in a garret; a poor author; a literary hack.
garreting		Small splinters of stone inserted into the joints of coarse masonry.
garrison		(a) A body of troops stationed in a fort or fortified town. (b) A fortified place, in which troops are quartered for its security.
garron	Scots	Same as Garran.
garrot		A stick or small wooden cylinder used for tightening a bandage, in order to compress the arteries of a limb.
garrote		A Spanish mode of execution by strangulation, with an iron collar affixed to a post and tightened by a screw until life become extinct; also, the instrument by means of which the punishment is inflicted.
garroter		One who seizes a person by the throat from behind, with a view to strangle and rob him.
garrulity		Talkativeness; loquacity.
garrulous		Talking much, especially about commonplace or trivial things; talkative; loquacious.
garrupa		One of several species of California market fishes, of the genus Sebastichthys; -- called also rockfish.
garter		A band used to prevent a stocking from slipping down on the leg.
garth		A close; a yard; a croft; a garden; as, a cloister garth.
garum		A sauce made of small fish.
garvie	English dialect	The spart; -- called also garvie herring, and garvock.
gas		An aëriform fluid; -- a term used at first by chemists as synonymous with air, but since restricted to fluids supposed to be permanently elastic, as oxygen, hydrogen, etc., in distinction from vapors, as steam…
gas-burner		The jet piece of a gas fixture where the gas is burned as it escapes from one or more minute orifices.
gasalier		A chandelier arranged to burn gas.
gascoines		See Gaskins,
gascon		Of or pertaining to Gascony, in France, or to the Gascons; also, braggart; swaggering. -- n.
gasconade		A boast or boasting; a vaunt; a bravado; a bragging; braggodocio.
gasconader		A great boaster; a blusterer.
gascoynes		Gaskins.
gaseity		State of being gaseous.
gaselier		A chandelier arranged to burn gas.
gaseous		In the form, or of the nature, of gas, or of an aëriform fluid.
gash		To make a gash, or long, deep incision in; -- applied chiefly to incisions in flesh.
gashful	Obsolete	Full of gashes; hideous; frightful.
gasification		The act or process of converting into gas.
gasiform		Having a form of gas; gaseous.
gasify		To convert into gas, or an aëriform fluid, as by the application of heat, or by chemical processes.
gasket		(Naut.) A line or band used to lash a furled sail securely.
gaskins	Obsolete	Loose hose or breeches; galligaskins.
gaslight		The light yielded by the combustion of illuminating gas.
gasogen		An apparatus for the generation of gases, or for impregnating a liquid with a gas, or a gas with a volatile liquid.
gasolene		See Gasoline — a highly volatile mixture of fluid hydrocarbons, obtained from petroleum, as also by the distillation of bituminous coal.
gasolier		Same as Gasalier.
gasoline		A highly volatile mixture of fluid hydrocarbons, obtained from petroleum, as also by the distillation of bituminous coal.
gasometer		An apparatus for holding and measuring of gas; in gas works, a huge iron cylinder closed at one end and having the other end immersed in water, in which it is made to rise or fall, according to the volume of gas it contains…
gasometric		Of or pertaining to the measurement of gases; as, gasometric analysis.
gasometrical		Of or pertaining to the measurement of gases; as, gasometric analysis.
gasometry		The art or practice of measuring gases; also, the science which treats of the nature and properties of these elastic fluids.
gasoscope		An apparatus for detecting the presence of any dangerous gas, from a gas leak in a coal mine or a dwelling house.
gasp		To open the mouth wide in catching the breath, or in laborious respiration; to labor for breath; to respire convulsively; to pant violently.
gaspereau	Dialect	The alewife.
gasserian		Relating to Casserio (L.
gassing		(Manuf.) The process of passing cotton goods between two rollers and exposing them to numerous minute jets of gas to burn off the small fibers; any similar process of singeing.
gassy	Colloquial	Full of gas; like gas. Hence: Inflated; full of boastful or insincere talk.
gast	Obsolete	To make aghast; to frighten; to terrify. See Aghast.
gaster	Obsolete	To gast.
gasteromycetes		An order of fungi, in which the spores are borne inside a sac called the peridium, as in the puffballs.
gasteropod		Same as Gastropod.
gasteropoda		Same as Gastropoda.
gasteropodous		Same as Gastropodous.
gastful		See Ghastful, Ghastly.
gastight		So tightly fitted as to preclude the escape of gas; impervious to gas.
gastly		See Ghastful, Ghastly.
gastness	Obsolete	See Ghastness — ghastliness.
gastornis		A genus of large eocene birds from the Paris basin.
gastraea		A primeval larval form; a double-walled sac from which, according to the hypothesis of Haeckel, man and all other animals, that in the first stages of their individual evolution pass through a two-layered structural stage…
gastralgia		Pain in the stomach or epigastrium, as in gastric disorders.
gastric		Of, pertaining to, or situated near, the stomach; as, the gastric artery.
gastriloquist		One who appears to speak from his stomach; a ventriloquist.
gastriloquous		Ventriloquous.
gastriloquy		A voice or utterance which appears to proceed from the stomach; ventriloquy.
gastritis		Inflammation of the stomach, esp. of its mucuos membrane.
gastro-		A combining form from the Gr. gastrocolic, gastrocele, gastrotomy.
gastrocnemius		The muscle which makes the greater part of the calf of the leg.
gastrocolic		Pertaining to both the stomach and the colon; as, the gastrocolic, or great, omentum.
gastrodisc		That part of blastoderm where the hypoblast appears like a small disk on the inner face of the epibladst.
gastroduodenal		Pertaining to the stomach and duodenum; as, the gastroduodenal artery.
gastroduodenitis		Inflammation of the stomach and duodenum.
gastroelytrotomy		The operation of cutting into the upper part of the vagina, through the abdomen (without opening the peritoneum), for the purpose of removing a fetus.
gastroenteric		Gastrointestinal.
gastroenteritis		Inflammation of the lining membrane of the stomach and the intestines.
gastroepiploic		Of or pertaining to the stomach and omentum.
gastrohepatic		Pertaining to the stomach and liver; hepatogastric; as, the gastrohepatic, or lesser, omentum.
gastrohysterotomy		Cæsarean section. See under Cæsarean.
gastrointestinal		Of or pertaining to the stomach and intestines; gastroenteric.
gastrolith		See Crab's eyes, under Crab.
gastrology		The science which treats of the structure and functions of the stomach; a treatise of the stomach.
gastromalacia		A softening of the coats of the stomach; -- usually a post- morten change.
gastromancy		(a) A kind of divination, by means of words seemingly uttered from the stomach.
gastromyces		The fungoid growths sometimes found in the stomach; such as Torula, etc.
gastromyth	Obsolete	One whose voice appears to proceed from the stomach; a ventriloquist.
gastronome		One fond of good living; an epicure.
gastronomer		One fond of good living; an epicure.
gastronomic		Pertaining to gastromony.
gastronomical		Pertaining to gastromony.
gastronomist		A gastromomer.
gastronomy		The art or science of good eating; epicurism; the art of good cheer.
gastrophrenic		Pertaining to the stomach and diaphragm; as, the gastrophrenic ligament.
gastropneumatic		Pertaining to the alimentary canal and air passages, and to the cavities connected with them; as, the gastropneumatic mucuos membranes.
gastropod		One of the Gastropoda.
gastropoda		One of the classes of Mollusca, of great extent.
gastropodous		Of or pertaining to the Gastropoda.
gastroraphy		The operation of sewing up wounds of the abdomen.
gastroscope		An instrument for viewing or examining the interior of the stomach.
gastroscopic		Of or pertaining to gastroscopy.
gastroscopy		Examination of the abdomen or stomach, as with the gastroscope.
gastrosplenic		Pertaining to the stomach and spleen; as, the gastrosplenic ligament.
gastrostege		One of the large scales on the belly of a serpent.
gastrostomy		The operation of making a permanent opening into the stomach, for the introduction of food.
gastrotomy		A cutting into, or opening of, the abdomen or the stomach.
gastrotricha		A group of small wormlike animals, having cilia on the ventral side.
gastrotrocha		A form of annelid larva having cilia on the ventral side.
gastrovascular		Having the structure, or performing the functions, both of digestive and circulatory organs; as, the gastrovascular cavity of coelenterates.
gastrula		An embryonic form having its origin in the invagination or pushing in of the wall of the planula or blastula (the blastosphere) on one side, thus giving rise to a double-walled sac…
gastrulation		The process of invagination, in embryonic development, by which a gastrula is formed.
gastrura		See Stomatopoda — same as Stomapoda.
gastrurous		Pertaining to the Gastrura.
gat	Obsolete	imp. of Get — to procure; to obtain; to gain possession of; to acquire; to earn; to obtain as a price or reward; to come by; to win, by almost any means; as, to get favor by kindness…
gat-toothed	Obsolete	Goat-toothed; having a lickerish tooth; lustful; wanton.
gatch		Plaster as used in Persian architecture and decorative art.
gate		A large door or passageway in the wall of a city, of an inclosed field or place, or of a grand edifice, etc.; also, the movable structure of timber, metal, etc., by which the passage can be closed.
gated		Having gates.
gatehouse		A house connected or associated with a gate.
gateless		Having no gate.
gateman		A gate keeper; a gate tender.
gatepost		A post to which a gate is hung; -- called also swinging or hinging post.
gateway		A passage through a fence or wall; a gate; also, a frame, arch, etc., in which a gate in hung, or a structure at an entrance or gate designed for ornament or defense.
gatewise		In the manner of a gate.
gather		To bring together; to collect, as a number of separate things, into one place, or into one aggregate body; to assemble; to muster; to congregate.
gatherable		Capable of being gathered or collected; deducible from premises.
gatherer		One who gathers or collects.
gathering		The act of collecting or bringing together.
gauche		Left handed; hence, awkward; clumsy.
gaucherie		An awkward action; clumsiness; boorishness.
gaucho		On of the native inhabitants of the pampas, of Spanish-American descent.
gaud	Obsolete	Trick; jest; sport.
gaud-day		See Gaudy, a feast.
gaudery		Finery; ornaments; ostentatious display.
gaudful	Obsolete	Joyful; showy.
gaudily		In a gaudy manner.
gaudiness		The quality of being gaudy.
gaudless		Destitute of ornament.
gaudy		Ostentatiously fine; showy; gay, but tawdry or meretricious.
gaudygreen	Obsolete	Light green.
gauffer		To plait, crimp, or flute; to goffer, as lace. See Goffer.
gauffering		A mode of plaiting or fluting.
gauffre		A gopher, esp. the pocket gopher.
gauge		To measure or determine with a gauge.
gaugeable		Capable of being gauged.
gauged		Tested or measured by, or conformed to, a gauge.
gauger		One who gauges; an officer whose business it is to ascertain the contents of casks.
gauger-ship		The office of a gauger.
gaul		The Anglicized form of Gallia, which in the time of the Romans included France and Upper Italy (Transalpine and Cisalpine Gaul).
gaulish		Pertaining to ancient France, or Gaul; Gallic.
gault		A series of beds of clay and marl in the South of England, between the upper and lower greensand of the Cretaceous period.
gaultheria		A genus of ericaceous shrubs with evergreen foliage, and, often, edible berries.
gaunt		Attenuated, as with fasting or suffering; lean; meager; pinched and grim.
gauntlet		See Gantlet — a military punishment formerly in use, wherein the offender was made to run between two files of men facing one another, who struck him as he passed.
gauntletted		Wearing a gauntlet.
gauntly		In a gaunt manner; meagerly.
gauntree		A frame for supporting barrels in a cellar or elsewhere.
gauntry		A frame for supporting barrels in a cellar or elsewhere.
gaur		An East Indian species of wild cattle (Bibos gauris), of large size and an untamable disposition.
gaure	Obsolete	To gaze; to stare.
gauss		The C.G.S. unit of density of magnetic field, equal to a field of one line of force per square centimeter, being thus adopted as an international unit at Paris in 1900; sometimes used as a unit of intensity of magnetic field.
gaussage		The intensity of a magnetic field expressed in C.G.S. units, or gausses.
gauze		A very thin, slight, transparent stuff, generally of silk; also, any fabric resembling silk gauze; as, wire gauze; cotton gauze.
gauziness		The quality of being gauzy; flimsiness.
gauzy		Pertaining to, or resembling, gauze; thin and slight as gauze.
gavage		Forced feeding (as of poultry or infants) by means of a tube passed through the mouth down to the stomach.
gave		imp. of Give — to bestow without receiving a return; to confer without compensation; to impart, as a possession; to grant, as authority or permission; to yield up or allow.
gavel		The mallet of the presiding officer in a legislative body, public assembly, court, masonic body, etc.
gavelet	Obsolete	An ancient special kind of cessavit used in Kent and London for the recovery of rent.
gavelkind		A tenure by which land descended from the father to all his sons in equal portions, and the land of a brother, dying without issue, descended equally to his brothers.
gaveloche		Same as Gavelock.
gavelock	Scots	An iron crow or lever.
gaverick	English dialect	The European red gurnard (Trigla cuculus).
gaviae		The division of birds which includes the gulls and terns.
gavial		A large Asiatic crocodilian (Gavialis Gangeticus); -- called also nako, and Gangetic crocodile.
gavot		A kind of difficult dance; a dance tune, the air of which has two brisk and lively, yet dignified, strains in common time, each played twice over.
gawby	English dialect	A baby; a dunce.
gawk		A cuckoo.
gawky		Foolish and awkward; clumsy; clownish; as, gawky behavior. -- n.
gawn	English dialect	A small tub or lading vessel.
gawntree		See Gauntree — a frame for supporting barrels in a cellar or elsewhere.
gay		Excited with merriment; manifesting sportiveness or delight; inspiring delight; livery; merry.
gayal		A Southern Asiatic species of wild cattle (Bibos frontalis).
gaydiang		A vessel of Anam, with two or three masts, lofty triangular sails, and in construction somewhat resembling a Chinese junk.
gayety		The state of being gay; merriment; mirth; acts or entertainments prompted by, or inspiring, merry delight; -- used often in the plural; as, the gayeties of the season.
gaylussite		A yellowish white, translucent mineral, consisting of the carbonates of lime and soda, with water.
gayly		With mirth and frolic; merrily; blithely; gleefully.
gayne	Obsolete	To avail.
gayness		Gayety; finery.
gaysome		Full of gayety.
gaytre	Obsolete	The dogwood tree.
gaze		To fixx the eyes in a steady and earnest look; to look with eagerness or curiosity, as in admiration, astonishment, or with studious attention.
gazeebo	Colloquial	A summerhouse so situated as to command an extensive prospect.
gazehound		A hound that pursues by the sight rather than by the scent.
gazel	English dialect	The black currant; also, the wild plum. See Gazelle.
gazelle		One of several small, swift, elegantly formed species of antelope, of the genus Gazella, esp. G. dorcas; -- called also algazel, corinne, korin, and kevel.
gazer		One who gazes.
gazet	Obsolete	A Venetian coin, worth about three English farthings, or one and a half cents.
gazette		A newspaper; a printed sheet published periodically; esp., the official journal published by the British government, and containing legal and state notices.
gazetteer		A writer of news, or an officer appointed to publish news by authority.
gazingstock		A person or thing gazed at with scorn or abhorrence; an object of curiosity or contempt.
gazogene		A portable apparatus for making soda water or aërated liquids on a small scale.
gazon		One of the pieces of sod used to line or cover parapets and the faces of earthworks.
