ge-		An Anglo-Saxon prefix. See Y-.	
geal	Obsolete	To congeal.	French geler, from Old French geler, from Latin gelo.
gean		A species of cherry tree common in Europe (Prunus avium); also, the fruit, which is usually small and dark in color.	French guigne.
geanticlinal		An upward bend or flexure of a considerable portion of the earth's crust, resulting in the formation of a class of mountain elevations called anticlinoria; -- opposed to geosynclinal.	
gear		Clothing; garments; ornaments.	Old Norse gervi.
gearing		(Mach.) The parts by which motion imparted to one portion of an engine or machine is transmitted to another, considered collectively; as, the valve gearing of locomotive engine; belt gearing; esp.…	
geason	Obsolete	Rare; wonderful.	Middle English geson.
geat		The channel or spout through which molten metal runs into a mold in casting.	
gecarcinian		A land crab of the genus Gecarcinus, or of allied genera.	
geck	English dialect	Scorn, derision, or contempt.	
gecko		Any lizard of the family Geckonidæ.	Malay (macrolanguage gekok.
geckotian		A gecko.	
ged		The European pike.	
gedd		The European pike.	
gee		Etym: To turn to the off side, or from the driver (i.e., in the United States, to the right side); -- said of cattle, or a team; used most frequently in the imperative, often with off, by drivers of oxen…	
geer		See Gear, Gearing.	
geering		See Gear, Gearing.	
geese		pl. of Goose — any large web-footen bird of the subfamily Anserinæ, and belonging to Anser, Branta, Chen, and several allied genera.	
geest		Alluvial matter on the surface of land, not of recent origin.	
geez		The original native name for the ancient Ethiopic language or people. See Ethiopic.	
geezer		A queer old fellow; an old chap; an old woman.	
gehenna		The valley of Hinnom, near Jerusalem, where some of the Israelites sacrificed their children to Moloch, which, on this account, was afterward regarded as a place of abomination…	
geic		Pertaining to, or derived from, earthy or vegetable mold.	
gein		See Humin — a bitter, brownish yellow, amorphous substance, extracted from vegetable mold, and also produced by the action of acids on certain sugars and carbohydrates; -- called also humic acid…	Greek γήινος.
geisha		A Japanese singing and dancing girl.	Japanese 芸者.
geitonogamy		Fertilization of flowers by pollen from other flowers on the same plant.	
gelable		Capable of being congealed; capable of being converted into jelly.	
gelada		A baboon (Gelada Ruppelli) of Abyssinia, remarkable for the length of the hair on the neck and shoulders of the adult male.	Amharic ጭላዳ.
gelastic		Pertaining to laughter; used in laughing.	
gelatification		The formation of gelatin.	
gelatigenous		Producing, or yielding, gelatin; gelatiniferous; as, the gelatigeneous tissues.	
gelatin		, Gel"a*tine (, n.	French gélatine, from Italian gelatina, from Latin gelatus.
gelatinate		To convert into gelatin, or into a substance resembling jelly.	
gelatination		The act of process of converting into gelatin, or a substance like jelly.	
gelatine		, Gel"a*tine (, n.	French gélatine, from Italian gelatina, from Latin gelatus.
gelatiniferous		Yielding gelatin on boiling with water; capable of gelatination.	
gelatiniform		Having the form of gelatin.	
gelatinization		Same as Gelatination.	
gelatinize		To convert into gelatin or jelly.	
gelatinous		Of the nature and consistence of gelatin or the jelly; resembling jelly; viscous.	
gelation		The process of becoming solid by cooling; a cooling and solidifying.	
geld		To deprive of anything essential.	Old Norse gelda.
geldable	Obsolete	Capable of being gelded.	
gelder		One who gelds or castrates.	
gelder-rose		Same as Guelder-rose.	
gelding		A castrated animal; -- usually applied to a horse, but formerly used also of the human male.	Old Norse geldingr.
gelid		Cold; very cold; frozen.	
gelidity		The state of being gelid.	
gelidly		In a gelid manner; coldly.	
gelidness		The state of being gelid; gelidity.	
geloscopy		Divination by means of laughter.	
gelose		An amorphous, gummy carbohydrate, found in Gelidium, agar-agar, and other seaweeds.	
gelsemic		Gelseminic.	
gelsemine		An alkaloid obtained from the yellow jasmine (Gelsemium sempervirens), as a bitter white semicrystalline substance; -- called also gelsemia.	
gelseminic		Pertaining to, or derived from, the yellow jasmine (Gelsemium sempervirens); as, gelseminic acid, a white crystalline substance resembling esculin.	
gelsemium		(Bot.) A genus of climbing plants.	
gelt	Obsolete	Trubute, tax.	
gem		A precious stone of any kind, as the ruby, emerald, topaz, sapphire, beryl, spinel, etc., especially when cut and polished for ornament; a jewel.	Old English gimm, from Latin gemma.
gemara		The second part of the Talmud, or the commentary on the Mishna (which forms the first part or text).	
gemaric		Pertaining to the Gemara.	
gemarist		One versed in the Gemara, or adhering to its teachings.	
gemel		Coupled; paired.	Old French gemel, from Latin gemellus.
gemellipa-rous		Producing twins.	
geminate		In pairs or twains; two together; binate; twin; as, geminate flowers.	Latin geminatus.
gemination		A doubling; duplication; repetition.	Latin geminatio.
gemini		A constellation of the zodiac, containing the two bright stars Castor and Pollux; also, the third sign of the zodiac, which the sun enters about May 20th.	
geminiflorous		Having the flowers arranged in pairs.	
geminous		Double; in pairs.	Latin geminus.
geminy	Obsolete	Twins; a pair; a couple.	
gemitores		A division of birds including the true pigeons.	
gemma		(Bot.) A leaf bud, as distinguished from a flower bud.	Latin gemma.
gemmaceous		Of or pertaining to gems or to gemmæ; of the nature of, or resembling, gems or gemmæ.	
gemmary		Of or pertaining to gems.	
gemmate		Having buds; reproducing by buds.	
gemmated		Having buds; adorned with gems or jewels.	
gemmation		(Biol.) The formation of a new individual, either animal or vegetable, by a process of budding; an asexual method of reproduction; gemmulation; gemmiparity.	
gemmeous		Pertaining to gems; of the nature of gems; resembling gems.	Latin gemmeus.
gemmiferous		Producing gems or buds; (Biol.) multiplying by buds.	
gemmification		The production of a bud or gem.	
gemmiflorate		Having flowers like buds.	
gemminess		The state or quality of being gemmy; spruceness; smartness.	
gemmipara		Animals which increase by budding, as hydroids.	
gemmipares		Animals which increase by budding, as hydroids.	
gemmiparity		Reproduction by budding; gemmation. See Budding.	
gemmiparous		Producing buds; reproducing by buds. See Gemmation, 1.	
gemmosity	Obsolete	The quality or characteristics of a gem or jewel.	
gemmulation		See Gemmation — (Biol.) The formation of a new individual, either animal or vegetable, by a process of budding; an asexual method of reproduction; gemmulation; gemmiparity.	
gemmule		(Bot.) (a) A little leaf bud, as the plumule between the cotyledons. (b) One of the buds of mosses.	
gemmuliferous		Bearing or producing gemmules or buds.	
gemmy		Full of gems; bright; glittering like a gem.	
gemote		A meeting; -- used in combination, as, Witenagemote, an assembly of the wise men.	Old English gemot.
gems		The chamois.	
gems-horn		An organ stop with conical tin pipes.	
gemsbok		A South African antelope (Oryx Capensis), having long, sharp, nearly straight horns.	
gemul		A small South American deer (Furcifer Chilensis), with simple forked horns.	
gena		(a) The cheek; the feathered side of the under mandible of a bird. (b) The part of the head to which the jaws of an insect are attached.	
genappe		A worsted yarn or cord of peculiar smoothness, used in the manufacture of braid, fringe, etc. Simmonds.	
gendarme		An armed policeman in France.	
gendarmery		The body of gendarmes.	
gender		(Gram.) A classification of nouns, primarily according to sex; and secondarily according to some fancied or imputed quality associated with sex.	Middle English gendren.
genderless		Having no gender.	
geneagenesis		Alternate generation. See under Generation.	
genealogic		Genealogical.	
genealogical		Of or pertaining to genealogy; as, a genealogical table; genealogical order. -- Gen`e*a*log"ic*al*ly, adv.	
genealogist		One who traces genealogies or the descent of persons or families.	
genealogize		To investigate, or relate the history of, descents.	
genealogy		An account or history of the descent of a person or family from an ancestor; enumeration of ancestors and their children in the natural order of succession; a pedigree.	Old French genealogie, from Latin genealogia, from Greek γενεαλογία.
genearch		The chief of a family or tribe.	
genera		See Genus — (Logic) A class of objects divided into several subordinate species; a class more extensive than a species; a precisely defined and exactly divided class…	
generability		Capability of being generated.	
generable		Capable of being generated or produced.	
general		Relating to a genus or kind; pertaining to a whole class or order; as, a general law of animal or vegetable economy.	Anglo-Norman general.
generalia		Generalities; general terms.	
generalissimo		The chief commander of an army; especially, the commander in chief of an army consisting of two or more grand divisions under separate commanders; -- a title used in most foreign countries.	
generality		The state of being general; the quality of including species or particulars.	
generalizable		Capable of being generalized, or reduced to a general form of statement, or brought under a general rule.	
generalization		The act or process of generalizing; the act of bringing individuals or particulars under a genus or class; deduction of a general principle from particulars.	
generalize		To bring under a genus or under genera; to view in relation to a genus or to genera.	
generalized		Comprising structural characters which are separated in more specialized forms; synthetic; as, a generalized type.	
generalizer		One who takes general or comprehensive views.	
generally		In general; commonly; extensively, though not universally; most frequently.	
generalness		The condition or quality of being general; frequency; commonness.	
generalship		The office of a general; the exercise of the functions of a general; -- sometimes, with the possessive pronoun, the personality of a general.	
generalty		Generality.	
generant		Generative; producing; esp. (Geom.), acting as a generant.	
generate		To beget; to procreate; to propagate; to produce (a being similar to the parent); to engender; as, every animal generates its own species.	Latin generatus.
generation		The act of generating or begetting; procreation, as of animals.	
generative		Having the power of generating, propagating, originating, or producing.	
generator		One who, or that which, generates, begets, causes, or produces.	Latin generator.
generatrix		That which generates; the point, or the mathematical magnitude, which, by its motion, generates another magnitude, as a line, surface, or solid; -- called also describent.	Latin generatrix.
generic		(Biol.) Pertaining to a genus or kind; relating to a genus, as distinct from a species, or from another genus; as, a generic description; a generic difference; a generic name.	
generical		(Biol.) Pertaining to a genus or kind; relating to a genus, as distinct from a species, or from another genus; as, a generic description; a generic difference; a generic name.	
generically		With regard to a genus, or an extensive class; as, an animal generically distinct from another, or two animals or plants generically allied.	
genericalness		The quality of being generic.	
generification		The act or process of generalizing.	
generosity		The quality of being noble; noble-mindedness.	
generous		Exhibiting those qualities which are popularly reregarded as belonging to high birth; noble; honorable; magnanimous; spirited; courageous.	Middle French genereux.
genesial		Of or relating to generation.	
genesiolgy		The doctrine or science of generation.	
genesis		The act of producing, or giving birth or origin to anything; the process or mode of originating; production; formation; origination.	Latin genesis, from Greek γένεσις.
genet		(Zoöl.) One of several species of small Carnivora of the genus Genetta, allied to the civets, but having the scent glands less developed, and without a pouch.	Anglo-Norman genette.
genethliac		Pertaining to nativities; calculated by astrologers; showing position of stars at one's birth.	
genethliacal		Genethliac.	
genethliacs		The science of calculating nativities, or predicting the future events of life from the stars which preside at birth.	
genethlialogy		Divination as to the destinies of one newly born; the act or art of casting nativities; astrology.	
genethliatic		One who calculates nativities.	
genetic		Same as Genetical.	
genetical		Pertaining to, concerned with, or determined by, the genesis of anything, or its natural mode of production or development.	
genetically		In a genetical manner.	
genette		(Zoöl.) One of several species of small Carnivora of the genus Genetta, allied to the civets, but having the scent glands less developed, and without a pouch.	
geneva		The chief city of Switzerland.	
genevan		Of or pertaining to Geneva, in Switzerland; Genevese.	
genevanism		Strict Calvinism.	
genevese		Of or pertaining to Geneva, in Switzerland; Genevan. -- n. sing. & pl. A native or inhabitant of Geneva; collectively, the inhabitants of Geneva; people of Geneva.	
genial		Contributing to, or concerned in, propagation or production; generative; procreative; productive.	Latin genialis.
geniality		The quality of being genial; sympathetic cheerfulness; warmth of disposition and manners.	
genially		Gayly; cheerfully.	
genialness		The quality of being genial.	
genian		Of or pertaining to the chin; mental; as, the genian prominence.	
geniculate		Bent abruptly at an angle, like the knee when bent; as, a geniculate stem; a geniculate ganglion; a geniculate twin crystal.	Latin geniculatus.
geniculated		Same as Geniculate.	
geniculation		The state of being bent abruptly at an angle.	
genie		See Genius — a good or evil spirit, or demon, supposed by the ancients to preside over a man's destiny in life; a tutelary deity; a supernatural being; a spirit, good or bad.	French génie, from Latin genius.
genio		A man of a particular turn of mind.	
geniohyoid		Of or pertaining to the chin and hyoid bone; as, the geniohyoid muscle.	
genip		Any tree or shrub of the genus Genipa.	
genipap		The edible fruit of a West Indian tree (Genipa Americana) of the order Rubiaceæ.	
genista		A genus of plants including the common broom of Western Europe.	
genital		Pertaining to generation, or to the generative organs.	
genitals		The organs of generation; the sexual organs; the private parts.	
geniting		A species of apple that ripens very early.	
genitival		Possessing genitive from; pertaining to, or derived from, the genitive case; as, a genitival adverb. -- Gen`i*ti"val*ly, adv.	
genitive		Of or pertaining to that case (as the second case of Latin and Greek nouns) which expresses source or possession.	
genitocrural		Pertaining to the genital organs and the thigh; -- applied especially to one of the lumbar nerves.	
genitor		One who begets; a generator; an originator.	Latin genitor.
genitourinary		See Urogenital — same as Urinogenital.	
geniture		Generation; procreation; birth.	
genius		A good or evil spirit, or demon, supposed by the ancients to preside over a man's destiny in life; a tutelary deity; a supernatural being; a spirit, good or bad.	Latin genius.
genoese		Of or pertaining to Genoa, a city of Italy. -- n. sing. & pl. A native or inhabitant of Genoa; collectively, the people of Genoa.	
genouillere		(Fort.) That part of a parapet which lies between the gun platform and the bottom of an embrasure.	
genre		A style of painting, sculpture, or other imitative art, which illustrates everyday life and manners.	
gens		A clan or family connection, embracing several families of the same stock, who had a common name and certain common religious rites; a subdivision of the Roman curia or tribe.	Latin gens.
gent	Obsolete	Gentle; noble; of gentle birth.	Old French gent, from Latin gens.
genteel		Possessing or exhibiting the qualities popularly regarded as belonging to high birth and breeding; free from vulgarity, or lowness of taste or behavior; adapted to a refined or cultivated taste; polite; well-bred; as…	French gentil, from Latin gentilis.
genteelish		Somewhat genteel.	
genteelly		In a genteel manner.	
genteelness		The quality of being genteel.	
genterie	Obsolete	Nobility of birth or of character; gentility.	
gentian		Any one of a genus (Gentiana) of herbaceous plants with opposite leaves and a tubular four- or five-lobed corolla, usually blue, but sometimes white, yellow, or red.	
gentianaceous		Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Gentianaceæ) of which the gentian is the type.	
gentianella		A kind of blue color.	
gentianic		Pertaining to or derived from the gentian; as, gentianic acid.	
gentianine		A bitter, crystallizable substance obtained from gentian.	
gentianose		A crystallizable, sugarlike substance, with a slightly sweetish taste, obtained from the gentian.	
gentile		One of a non-Jewish nation; one neither a Jew nor a Christian; a worshiper of false gods; a heathen.	Latin gentilis.
gentile-falcon		See Falcon-gentil.	
gentilesse	Obsolete	Gentleness; courtesy; kindness; nobility.	
gentilish		Heathenish; pagan.	
gentilism		Hethenism; paganism; the worship of false gods.	
gentilitial		Peculiar to a people; national.	
gentilitious		Peculiar to a people; national.	
gentility		Good extraction; dignity of birth.	
gentilize	Obsolete	To live like a gentile or heathen.	
gentilly	Obsolete	In a gentle or hoble manner; frankly.	
gentiopikrin		A bitter, yellow, crystalline substance, regarded as a glucoside, and obtained from the gentian.	
gentisin		A tasteless, yellow, crystalline substance, obtained from the gentian; -- called also gentianin.	
gentle		Well-born; of a good family or respectable birth, though not noble.	Middle English gentil, from Old French gentil, from Latin gentilis.
gentle-hearted		Having a kind or gentle disposition.	
gentlefolk		Persons of gentle or good family and breeding.	
gentlefolks		Persons of gentle or good family and breeding.	
gentleman		A man well born; one of good family; one above the condition of a yeoman.	
gentlemanhood		The qualities or condition of a gentleman.	
gentlemanlike		Of, pertaining to, resembling, or becoming, a gentleman; well- behaved; courteous; polite.	
gentlemanliness		The state of being gentlemanly; gentlemanly conduct or manners.	
gentlemanly		Of, pertaining to, resembling, or becoming, a gentleman; well- behaved; courteous; polite.	
gentlemanship		The carriage or quality of a gentleman.	
gentleness		The quality or state of being gentle, well-born, mild, benevolent, docile, etc.; gentility; softness of manners, disposition, etc.; mildness.	
gentleship	Obsolete	The deportment or conduct of a gentleman.	
gentlesse	Obsolete	Gentilesse; gentleness.	
gentlewoman		A woman of good family or of good breeding; a woman above the vulgar.	
gently		In a gentle manner.	
gentoo	Archaic	A native of Hindostan; a Hindoo.	
gentrie	Obsolete	Nobility of birth or of character; gentility.	
gentry		People of education and good breeding; in England, in a restricted sense, those between the nobility and the yeomanry.	
genty	Scots	Neat; trim.	French gentil, from Latin gentilis.
genu		(a) The knee. (b) The kneelike bend, in the anterior part of the callosum of the brain.	Latin genu.
genuflect		To bend the knee, as in worship.	
genuflection		The act of bending the knee, particularly in worship.	
genuine		Belonging to, or proceeding from, the original stock; native; hence, not counterfeit, spurious, false, or adulterated; authentic; real; natural; true; pure; as, a genuine text; a genuine production…	Latin genuinus.
genus		(Logic) A class of objects divided into several subordinate species; a class more extensive than a species; a precisely defined and exactly divided class; one of the five predicable conceptions, or sorts of terms.	
genys		See Conys.	
geocentric		(a) Having reference to the earth as center; in relation to or seen from the earth, -- usually opposed to heliocentric, as seen from the sun; as, the geocentric longitude or latitude of a planet.	
geocentrical		(a) Having reference to the earth as center; in relation to or seen from the earth, -- usually opposed to heliocentric, as seen from the sun; as, the geocentric longitude or latitude of a planet.	
geocentrically		In a geocentric manner.	
geochemistry		The study of the chemical composition of, and of actual or possible chemical changes in, the crust of the earth. -- Ge`o*chem ist (#), n.	
geocronite		A lead-gray or grayish blue mineral with a metallic luster, consisting of sulphur, antimony, and lead, with a small proportion of arsenic.	
geocyclic		Of, pertaining to, or illustrating, the revolutions of the earth; as, a geocyclic machine.	
geode		(a) A nodule of stone, containing a cavity, lined with crystals or mineral matter.	
geodephagous		Living in the earth; -- applied to the ground beetles.	
geodesic		Of or pertaining to geodetic.	
geodesical		Of or pertaining to geodetic.	
geodesist		One versed in geodesy.	
geodesy		That branch of applied mathematics which determines, by means of observations and measurements, the figures and areas of large portions of the earth's surface, or the general figure and dimenshions of the earth…	French géodésie, from Latin geodaesia, from Greek γεωδαισία.
geodetic		Of or pertaining to gebdesy; obtained or determined by the operations of geodesy; engaged in geodesy; geodesic; as, geodetic surveying; geodetic observers.	
geodetical		Of or pertaining to gebdesy; obtained or determined by the operations of geodesy; engaged in geodesy; geodesic; as, geodetic surveying; geodetic observers.	
geodetically		In a geodetic manner; according to geodesy.	
geodetics		Same as Geodesy.	
geodiferous		Producing geodes; containing geodes.	
geoduck		A gigantic clam (Glycimeris generosa) of the Pacific coast of North America, highly valued as an article of food.	Lushootseed gʷídəq.
geognosis		Knowledge of the earth.	
geognost		One versed in geognosy; a geologist.	
geognostic		Of or pertaining to geognosy, or to a knowledge of the structure of the earth; geological.	
geognostical		Of or pertaining to geognosy, or to a knowledge of the structure of the earth; geological.	
geognosy		That part of geology which treats of the materials of the earth's structure, and its general exterior and interior constitution.	
geogonic		Of or pertaining to geogony, or to the formation of the earth.	
geogonical		Of or pertaining to geogony, or to the formation of the earth.	
geogony		The branch of science which treats of the formation of the earth.	
geographer		One versed in geography.	
geographic		Of or pertaining to geography.	Latin geographicus.
geographical		Of or pertaining to geography.	
geographically		In a geographical manner or method; according to geography.	
geography		The science which treats of the world and its inhabitants; a description of the earth, or a portion of the earth, including its structure, fetures, products, political divisions, and the people by whom it is inhabited.	
geolatry		The worship of the earth.	
geologer		A geologist.	
geologian		A geologist.	
geologic		Of or pertaining to geology, or the science of the earth.	
geological		Of or pertaining to geology, or the science of the earth.	
geologically		In a geological manner.	
geologist		One versed in the science of geology.	
geologize		To study geology or make geological investigations in the field; to discourse as a geologist.	
geology		The science which treats: (a) Of the structure and mineral constitution of the globe; structural geology.	
geomalism		The tendency of an organism to respond, during its growth, to the force of gravitation.	
geomancer		One who practices, or is versed in, geomancy.	
geomancy		A kind of divination by means of figures or lines, formed by little dots or points, originally on the earth, and latterly on paper.	Latin geomantia.
geomantic		Pertaining or belonging to geomancy.	
geomantical		Pertaining or belonging to geomancy.	
geometer		(Zoöl.) Any species of geometrid moth; a geometrid.	
geometral	Obsolete	Pertaining to geometry.	
geometric		Pertaining to, or according to the rules or principles of, geometry; determined by geometry; as, a geometrical solution of a problem.	Latin geometricus, from Greek γεωμετρικός.
geometrical		Pertaining to, or according to the rules or principles of, geometry; determined by geometry; as, a geometrical solution of a problem.	
geometrically		According to the rules or laws of geometry.	
geometrician		One skilled in geometry; a geometer; a mathematician.	
geometrid		Pertaining or belonging to the Geometridæ.	
geometrize		To investigate or apprehend geometrical quantities or laws; to make geometrical constructions; to proceed in accordance with the principles of geometry.	
geometry		That branch of mathematics which investigates the relations, properties, and measurement of solids, surfaces, lines, and angles; the science which treats of the properties and relations of magnitudes…	Greek γεωμετρία.
geophagism		The act or habit of eating earth. See Dirt eating, under Dirt.	
geophagist		One who eats earth, as dirt, clay, chalk, etc.	
geophagous		Earth-eating.	
geophila		The division of Mollusca which includes the land snails and slugs.	
geoponic		Pertaining to tillage of the earth, or agriculture.	
geoponical		Pertaining to tillage of the earth, or agriculture.	
geoponics		The art or science of cultivating the earth; agriculture.	
georama		A hollow globe on the inner surface of which a map of the world is depicted, to be examined by one standing inside.	
geordie		A name given by miners to George Stephenson's safety lamp.	
george		A figure of St. George (the patron saint of England) on horseback, appended to the collar of the Order of the Garter.	
georgian		Of or pertaining to Georgia, in Asia, or to Georgia, one of the United States.	
georgic		A rural poem; a poetical composition on husbandry, containing rules for cultivating lands, etc.; as, the Georgics of Virgil.	Latin georgicum.
georgical		Relating to agriculture and rural affairs.	
geoscopy		Knowledge of the earth, ground, or soil, obtained by inspection.	
geoselenic		Pertaining to the earth and moon; belonging to the joint action or mutual relations of the earth and moon; as, geoselenic phenomena.	
geostatic		Relating to the pressure exerted by earth or similar substance.	
geosynclinal		the downward bend or subsidence of the earth's crust, which allows of the gradual accumulation of sediment, and hence forms the first step in the making of a mountain range; -- opposed to geanticlinal.	
geothermometer		A thermometer specially constructed for measuring temperetures at a depth below the surface of the ground.	
geotic	Obsolete	Belonging to earth; terrestrial.	
geotropic		Relating to, or showing, geotropism.	
geotropism		A disposition to turn or incline towards the earth; the influence of gravity in determining the direction of growth of an organ.	
gephyrea		An order of marine Annelida, in which the body is imperfectly, or not at all, annulated externally, and is mostly without setæ.	
gephyrean		Belonging to the Gephyrea. -- n.	
gephyreoid		Gephyrean.	
gepound	Obsolete	See Gipoun — a short cassock.	
gerah		A small coin and weight; 1-20th of a shekel.	
geraniaceous		Of or pertaining to a natural order of pants (Geraniaceæ) which includes the genera Geranium, Pelargonium, and many others.	
geraniine		(Med.) A valuable astringet obtained from the root of the Geranium maculatum or crane's-bill.	
geranine		(Med.) A valuable astringet obtained from the root of the Geranium maculatum or crane's-bill.	
geranium		(Bot.) A genus of plants having a beaklike tours or receptacle, around which the seed capsules are arranged, and membranous projections, or stipules, at the joints.	Greek γέρανος.
gerant		The manager or acting partner of a company, joint-stock association, etc.	French gérant.
gerbe		A kind of ornamental firework.	
gerbil		One of several species of small, jumping, murine rodents, of the genus Gerbillus.	French gerbille, from Latin gerbo, from Arabic يربوع.
gerbille		One of several species of small, jumping, murine rodents, of the genus Gerbillus.	French gerbille, from Latin gerbo, from Arabic يربوع.
gerboa		The jerboa.	
gerent	Obsolete	Bearing; carrying.	
gerfalcon		See Gyrfalcon — one of several species and varieties of large Arctic falcons, esp. Falco rusticolus and the white species F.	
gerful	Obsolete	Changeable; capricious.	
gerland	Obsolete	A garland.	
gerlind	English dialect	A salmon returning from the sea the second time.	
gerlond	Obsolete	A garland.	
germ		(Biol.) That which is to develop a new individual; as, the germ of a fetus, of a plant or flower, and the like; the earliest form under which an organism appears.	Middle French germe, from Latin germen.
germain		See Germane — literally, near akin; hence, closely allied; appropriate or fitting; relevant.	
german		Nearly related; closely akin.	Old French germain, from Latin germanus.
germander		A plant of the genus Teucrium (esp. Teucrium Chamædrys or wall germander), mintlike herbs and low shrubs.	
germane		Literally, near akin; hence, closely allied; appropriate or fitting; relevant.	
germanic		Pertaining to, or containing, germanium.	
germanism		An idiom of the German language.	
germanium		A rare element, recently discovered (1885), in a silver ore (argyrodite) at Freiberg.	
germanization		The act of Germanizing.	
germanize		To make German, or like what is distinctively German; as, to Germanize a province, a language, a society.	
germarium		An organ in which the ova are developed in certain Turbellaria.	
germen		See Germ — (Biol.) That which is to develop a new individual; as, the germ of a fetus, of a plant or flower, and the like; the earliest form under which an organism appears.	Latin germen.
germicidal		Germicide.	
germicide		Destructive to germs; -- applied to any agent which has a destructive action upon living germs, particularly bacteria, or bacterial germs, which are considered the cause of many infectious diseases. -- n.	
germinal		Pertaining or belonging to a germ; as, the germinal vesicle.	
germinant		Sprouting; sending forth germs or buds.	
germinate		To sprout; to bud; to shoot; to begin to vegetate, as a plant or its seed; to begin to develop, as a germ.	
germination		The process of germinating; the beginning of vegetation or growth in a seed or plant; the first development of germs, either animal or vegetable.	
germinative		Pertaining to germination; having power to bud or develop.	
germiparity		Reproduction by means of germs.	
germless		Without germs.	
germogen		(a) A polynuclear mass of protoplasm, not divided into separate cells, from which certain ova are developed.	
germule		A small germ.	
gern	Obsolete	To grin or yawn.	
gerner	Obsolete	A garner.	
gerocomia		See Gerocomy — that part of medicine which treats of regimen for old people.	
gerocomical		Pertaining to gerocomy.	
gerocomy		That part of medicine which treats of regimen for old people.	Greek γηροκομία.
gerontes		Magistrates in Sparta, who with the ephori and kings, constituted the supreme civil authority.	
gerontocracy		Government by old men.	
geropigia		A mixture composed of unfermented grape juice, brandy, sugar, etc., for adulteration of wines.	
gerrymander		To divide (a State) into districts for the choice of representatives, in an unnatural and unfair way, with a view to give a political party an advantage over its opponent.	
gerund		A kind of verbal noun, having only the four oblique cases of the singular number, and governing cases like a participle.	Latin gerundium.
gerundial		Pertaining to, or resembling, a gerund; as, a gerundial use.	
gerundive		Pertaining to, or partaking of, the nature of the gerund; gerundial. -- n.	Latin gerundivus.
gerundively		In the manner of a gerund; as, or in place of, a gerund.	
gery	Obsolete	Changeable; fickle.	
gesling	English dialect	A gosling.	
gesse	Obsolete	To guess.	
gesso		Plaster of Paris, or gypsum, esp. as prepared for use in painting, or in making bas-reliefs and the like; by extension, a plasterlike or pasty material spread upon a surface to fit it for painting or gilding…	Italian gesso, from Latin gypsum, from Greek γύψος.
gest	Obsolete	Something done or achieved; a deed or an action; an adventure.	Middle French geste.
gestant		Bearing within; laden; burdened; pregnant.	
gestation		The act of carrying young in the womb from conception to delivery; pregnancy.	
gestatory	Obsolete	Capable of being carried or worn.	
geste	Obsolete	To tell stories or gests.	
gestic		Pertaining to deeds or feats of arms; legendary.	
gesticulate		To make gestures or motions, as in speaking; to use postures.	
gesticulation		The act of gesticulating, or making gestures to express passion or enforce sentiments.	
gesticulator		One who gesticulates.	
gesticulatory		Representing by, or belonging to, gestures.	
gestour	Obsolete	A reciter of gests or legendary tales; a story-teller.	
gestural		Relating to gesture.	
gesture		A motion of the body or limbs expressive of sentiment or passion; any action or posture intended to express an idea or a passion, or to enforce or emphasize an argument, assertion, or opinion.	Latin gestura.
gestureless		Free from gestures.	
gesturement	Obsolete	Act of making gestures; gesturing.	
get		To procure; to obtain; to gain possession of; to acquire; to earn; to obtain as a price or reward; to come by; to win, by almost any means; as, to get favor by kindness; to get wealth by industry and economy…	Middle English geten, from Old Norse geta.
get-penny	Colloquial	Something which gets or gains money; a successful affair.	
get-up	Colloquial	General composition or structure; manner in which the parts of a thing are combined; make-up; style of dress, etc. H.	
geten		p. p. of Get — to procure; to obtain; to gain possession of; to acquire; to earn; to obtain as a price or reward; to come by; to win, by almost any means; as, to get favor by kindness…	
geth	Obsolete	the original third pers. sing. pres. of Go.	
gettable		That may be obtained.	
getter		One who gets, gains, obtains, acquires, begets, or procreates.	
getterup	Colloquial	One who contrives, makes, or arranges for, anything, as a book, a machine, etc. A diligent getter-up of miscellaneous works.	
getting		The act of obtaining or acquiring; acquisition.	
geusdism		The Marxian socialism and programme of reform through revolution as advocated by the French political leader Jules Basile Guesde (pron. ged) (1845- ). -- Guesd"ist (#), n. & a.	
gewgaw		A showy trifle; a toy; a splendid plaything; a pretty but worthless bauble.	
geyser		A boiling spring which throws forth at frequent intervals jets of water, mud, etc., driven up by the expansive power of steam.	
geyserite		A loose hydrated form of silica, a variety of opal, deposited in concretionary cauliflowerlike masses, around some hot springs and geysers.	
