gharry		Any wheeled cart or carriage.	
ghast	Obsolete	To strike aghast; to affright.	
ghastful	Obsolete	Fit to make one aghast; dismal. -- Ghast"ful*ly, adv.	
ghastliness		The state of being ghastly; a deathlike look.	
ghastly		Like a ghost in appearance; deathlike; pale; pallid; dismal.	
ghastness	Obsolete	Ghastliness.	Middle English gastnes.
ghat		A pass through a mountain.	Hindi घाट, from Sanskrit घट्ट.
ghaut		A pass through a mountain.	
ghawazi		Egyptian dancing girls, of a lower sort than the almeh.	
ghazal		A kind of Oriental lyric, and usually erotic, poetry, written in recurring rhymes.	Persian غزل, from Arabic غزل.
ghazel		A kind of Oriental lyric, and usually erotic, poetry, written in recurring rhymes.	
ghazi		Among Mohammedans, a warrior champion or veteran, esp. in the destruction of infidels.	Arabic غازي.
gheber		A worshiper of fire; a Zoroastrian; a Parsee.	
ghebre		A worshiper of fire; a Zoroastrian; a Parsee.	
ghee		Butter clarified by boiling, and thus converted into a kind of oil.	
gherkin		(Bot.) A kind of small, prickly cucumber, much used for pickles.	
ghess	Obsolete	See Guess — to form an opinion concerning, without knowledge or means of knowledge; to judge of at random; to conjecture.	
ghetto		The Jews'quarter in an Italian town or city.	
ghibelline		One of a faction in Italy, in the 12th and 13th centuries, which favored the German emperors, and opposed the Guelfs, or adherents of the poses.	
ghole		See Ghoul — an imaginary evil being among Eastern nations, which was supposed to feed upon human bodies.	
ghost		The disembodied soul; the soul or spirit of a deceased person; a spirit appearing after death; an apparition; a specter.	Middle English gost, from Old English gast.
ghostfish		A pale ubspotted variety of the wrymouth.	
ghostless		Without life or spirit.	
ghostlike		Like a ghost; ghastly.	
ghostliness		The quality of being ghostly.	
ghostly		Relating to the soul; not carnal or secular; spiritual; as, a ghostly confessor.	Middle English gostly.
ghostology		Ghost lore.	
ghoul		An imaginary evil being among Eastern nations, which was supposed to feed upon human bodies.	
ghoulish		Characteristic of a ghoul; vampirelike; hyenalike.	
ghyll	English dialect	A ravine. See Gill a woody glen.	
