giallolino		A term variously employed by early writers on art, though commonly designating the yellow oxide of lead, or massicot.	
giambeux	Obsolete	Greaves; armor for the legs.	
giant		A man of extraordinari bulk and stature.	Greek γίγας.
giantess		A woman of extraordinary size.	
giantize		To play the giant.	
giantly	Obsolete	Appropriate to a giant.	
giantry		The race of giants.	
giantship		The state, personality, or character, of a giant; -- a compellation for a giant.	
giaour		An infidel; -- a term applied by Turks to disbelievers in the Mohammedan religion, especially Christrians.	Turkish gavur, from Persian گور.
gib	Obsolete	A male cat; a tomcat.	
gib-cat	Obsolete	A male cat, esp. an old one. See lst Gib. n.	
gibaro		The offspring of a Spaniard and an Indian; a Spanish-Indian mestizo.	
gibbartas		One of several finback whales of the North Atlantic; -- called also Jupiter whale.	
gibber		A balky horse.	
gibberish		Rapid and inarticulate talk; unintelligible language; unmeaning words; jargon.	
gibbet		A kind of gallows; an upright post with an arm projecting from the top, on which, formerly, malefactors were hanged in chains, and their bodies allowed to remain asa warning.	Old French gibet.
gibbier	Obsolete	Wild fowl; game.	French gibier.
gibbon		Any arboreal ape of the genus Hylobates, of which many species and varieties inhabit the East Indies and Southern Asia.	French gibbon.
gibbose		Humped; protuberant; -- said of a surface which presents one or more large elevations.	
gibbostity		The state of being gibbous or gibbose; gibbousness.	
gibbous		Swelling by a regular curve or surface; protuberant; convex; as, the moon is gibbous between the half-moon and the full moon.	
gibbsite		A hydrate of alumina.	
gibe		To cast reproaches and sneering expressions; to rail; to utter taunting, sarcastic words; to flout; to fleer; to scoff.	
gibel		A kind of carp (Cyprinus gibelio); -- called also Prussian carp.	
giber		One who utters gibes.	
gibfish	English dialect	The male of the salmon.	
gibingly		In a gibing manner; scornfully.	
giblet		Made of giblets; as, a giblet pie.	
giblets		The inmeats, or edible viscera (heart, gizzard, liver, etc.), of poultry.	
gibraltar		A strongly fortified town on the south coast of Spain, held by the British since 1704; hence, an impregnable stronghold.	
gibstaff		A staff to guage water, or to push a boat.	
gid		A disease of sheep, characterized by vertigo; the staggers.	
giddily		In a giddy manner.	
giddiness		The quality or state of being giddy.	
giddy		Having in the head a sensation of whirling or reeling about; having lost the power of preserving the balance of the body, and therefore wavering and inclined to fall; lightheaded; dizzy.	Middle English gidi.
giddy-head	Colloquial	A person without thought fulness, prudence, or judgment.	
giddy-headed		Thoughtless; unsteady.	
giddy-paced		Moving irregularly; flighty; fickle.	
gie	Obsolete	To guide. See Gye.	
gier-eagle		A bird referred to in the Bible (Lev. xi. 18and Deut. xiv. 17) as unclean, probably the Egyptian vulture (Neophron percnopterus).	
gier-falcon		The gyrfalcon.	
gieseckite		A mineral occurring in greenish gray six-sided prisms, having a greasy luster.	
giffgaff	Scots	Mutial accommodation; mutual giving.	
giffy		See Jiffy — a moment; an instant; as, I will be ready in a jiffy.	
gift		Anything given; anything voluntarily transferred by one person to another without compensation; a present; an offering.	Old Norse gipt.
giftedness		The state of being gifted.	
gig		A top or whirligig; any little thing that is whirled round in play.	
gigantean	Obsolete	Like a giant; mighty; gigantic.	Latin giganteus.
gigantesque		Befitting a giant; bombastic; magniloquent.	
gigantic		Of extraordinary size; like a giant.	Greek γιγαντικός.
gigantical	Obsolete	Bulky, big.	
giganticide		The act of killing, or one who kills, a giant.	
gigantine	Obsolete	Gigantic.	
gigantology		An account or description of giants.	
gigantomachy		A war of giants; especially, the fabulous war of the giants against heaven.	
gige		The leather strap by which the shield of a knight was slung across the shoulder, or across the neck and shoulder.	
gigerium		The muscular stomach, or gizzard, of birds.	Latin gigeria.
gigget		Same as Gigot.	
giggle		To laugh with short catches of the breath or voice; to laugh in a light, affected, or silly manner; to titter with childish levity.	
giggler		One who giggles or titters.	
giggly		Prone to giggling.	
giggot	Obsolete	See Gigot — a small piece of flesh; a slice.	
giggyng	Obsolete	The act of fastending the gige or leather strap to the shield.	
giglet	Obsolete	A wanton; a lascivious or light, giddy girl.	
giglot	Obsolete	A wanton; a lascivious or light, giddy girl.	
gigot	Obsolete	A small piece of flesh; a slice.	
gigue		A piece of lively dance music, in two strains which are repeated; also, the dance.	
gild		To overlay with a thin covering of gold; to cover with a golden color; to cause to look like gold.	
gildale	Obsolete	A drinking bout in which every one pays an equal share.	
gilder		One who gilds; one whose occupation is to overlay with gold.	
gilding		The art or practice of overlaying or covering with gold leaf; also, a thin coating or wash of gold, or of that which resembles gold.	
gill		(Anat.) An organ for aquatic respiration; a branchia.	Middle English gille, from Old Norse gil.
gill-flirt		A thoughtless, giddy girl; a flirt-gill.	
gillhouse		A shop where gill is sold.	
gillian	Obsolete	A girl; esp., a wanton; a gill.	
gillie		A boy or young man; a manservant; a male attendant, in the Scottish Highlands.	
gilly		A boy or young man; a manservant; a male attendant, in the Scottish Highlands.	
gillyflower		A name given by old writers to the clove pink (Dianthus Caryophyllus) but now to the common stock (Matthiola incana), a cruciferous plant with showy and fragrant blossoms, usually purplish, but often pink or white.	
gilour	Obsolete	A guiler; deceiver.	
gilse		See Grilse — a young salmon after its first return from the sea.	Welsh gleisiad.
gilt		A female pig, when young. imp. & p. p. of Gild.	
gilt-edge		Having a gilt edge; as, gilt-edged paper.	
gilt-edged		Having a gilt edge; as, gilt-edged paper.	
gilthead		A marine fish.	
gilttail		A yellow-tailed worm or larva.	
gim		Neat; spruce.	
gimbal		A contrivance for permitting a body to incline freely in all directions, or for suspending anything, as a barometer, ship's compass, chronometer, etc., so that it will remain plumb, or level, when its support is tipped…	
gimbals		A contrivance for permitting a body to incline freely in all directions, or for suspending anything, as a barometer, ship's compass, chronometer, etc., so that it will remain plumb, or level, when its support is tipped…	
gimblet		See Gimlet — a small tool for boring holes.	
gimcrack		A trivial mechanism; a device; a toy; a pretty thing.	
gimlet	Colloquial	A small tool for boring holes.	
gimmal		Joined work whose parts move within each other; a pair or series of interlocked rings.	
gimmer	Obsolete	A piece of mechanism; mechanical device or contrivance; a gimcrack.	
gimmor	Obsolete	A piece of mechanism; mechanical device or contrivance; a gimcrack.	
gimp	Obsolete	Smart; spruce; trim; nice.	
gin		Contrivance; artifice; a trap; a snare.	Middle English ginnen, from Old English ginnan.
ging	Obsolete	There is a knot, a ging, a pack, a conspiracy against me.	
gingal		See Jingal — a small portable piece of ordnance, mounted on a swivel.	
ginger		(Bot.) A plant of the genus Zingiber, of the East and West Indies.	Middle English gingere.
gingerbread		A kind of plain sweet cake seasoned with ginger, and sometimes made in fanciful shapes.	Old French gingembras.
gingerly		Cautiously; timidly; fastidiously; daintily.	
gingerness		Cautiousness; tenderness.	
gingham		A kind of cotton or linen cloth, usually in stripes or checks, the yarn of which is dyed before it is woven; -- distinguished from printed cotton or prints.	Malay (macrolanguage genggang.
ginging		The lining of a mine shaft with stones or bricks to prevent caving.	
gingival		Of or pertaining to the gums.	
gingle		See Jingle — to sound with a fine, sharp, rattling, clinking, or tinkling sound; as, sleigh bells jingle.	
ginglyform		Ginglymoid.	
ginglymodi		An order of ganoid fishes, including the modern gar pikes and many allied fossil forms.	
ginglymoid		Pertaining to, or resembling, a ginglymus, or hinge joint; ginglyform.	
ginglymoidal		Pertaining to, or resembling, a ginglymus, or hinge joint; ginglyform.	
ginglymus		A hinge joint; an articulation, admitting of flexion and extension, or motion in two directions only, as the elbow and the ankle.	
ginhouse		A building where cotton is ginned.	
ginkgo		A large ornamental tree (Ginkgo biloba) from China and Japan, belonging to the Yew suborder of Coniferæ.	
ginnee		See Jinnee — a genius or demon; one of the fabled genii, good and evil spirits, supposed to be the children of fire, and to have the power of assuming various forms.	
ginnet		See Genet, a horse.	
ginning	Obsolete	Beginning.	
ginny-carriage		A small, strong carriage for conveying materials on a railroad.	
ginseng		A plant of the genus Aralia, the root of which is highly valued as a medicine among the Chinese.	Mandarin Chinese 人参.
ginshop	Colloquial	A shop or barroom where gin is sold as a beverage.	
gip		To take out the entrails of (herrings).	
gipoun	Obsolete	A short cassock.	
gipser		A kind of pouch formerly worn at the girdle.	French gibecière.
gipsire		A kind of pouch formerly worn at the girdle.	
gipsy		See Gypsy — one of a vagabond race, whose tribes, coming originally from India, entered Europe in 14th or 15th centry, and are now scattered over Turkey, Russia, Hungary, Spain, England, etc.…	
gipsyism		See Gypsyism — the arts and practices or habits of gypsies; deception; cheating; flattery.	
giraffe		An African ruminant (Camelopardalis giraffa) related to the deers and antelopes, but placed in a family by itself; the camelopard.	French giraffe, from Arabic زرافة, from Classical Syriac ܙܵܪܝܼܦܵܐ.
girandole		An ornamental branched candlestick.	French girandole.
girasol		(Min.) A variety of opal which is usually milk white, bluish white, or sky blue; but in a bright light it reflects a reddish color.	
girasole		(Min.) A variety of opal which is usually milk white, bluish white, or sky blue; but in a bright light it reflects a reddish color.	
gird		A stroke with a rod or switch; a severe spasm; a twinge; a pang.	Old English gyrdan.
girder		One who girds; a satirist.	
girding		That with which one is girded; a girdle.	
girdle		That which girds, encircles, or incloses; a circumference; a belt; esp., a belt, sash, or article of dress encircling the body usually at the waist; a cestus.	Old English grydel.
girdler		One who girdles.	
girdlestead	Obsolete	That part of the body where the girdle is worn.	
gire		See Gyre — a circular motion, or a circle described by a moving body; a turn or revolution; a circuit.	
girkin		See Gherkin — (Bot.) A kind of small, prickly cucumber, much used for pickles.	
girl		A female child, from birth to the age of puberty; a young maiden.	
girlhood		State or time of being a girl.	
girlish		Like, or characteristic of, a girl; of or pertaining to girlhood; innocent; artless; immature; weak; as, girlish ways; girlish grief. -- Girl ish*ness, n.	
girlond	Obsolete	A garland; a prize.	
girn	Obsolete	To grin.	
girondist		A member of the moderate republican party formed in the French legislative assembly in 1791.	
girrock		A garfish.	
girt		imp. & p. p. of Gird.	Middle English girten.
girth		A band or strap which encircles the body; especially, one by which a saddle is fastened upon the back of a horse.	Old Norse gjǫrð.
girtline		A gantline.	
gisarm		A weapon with a scythe-shaped blade, and a separate long sharp point, mounted on a long staff and carried by foot soldiers.	
gise	Obsolete	To feed or pasture.	
gisle	Obsolete	A pledge.	
gismondine		A native hydrated silicate of alumina, lime, and potash, first noticed near Rome.	
gismondite		A native hydrated silicate of alumina, lime, and potash, first noticed near Rome.	
gist		The main point, as of a question; the point on which an action rests; the pith of a matter; as, the gist of a question.	Old French gist.
git		See Geat — the channel or spout through which molten metal runs into a mold in casting.	Middle English get.
gitana		A Spanish gypsy.	
gitano		A Spanish gypsy.	
gith		The corn cockle; also anciently applied to the Nigella, or fennel flower.	
gittern		An instrument like a guitar.	Latin guiterne.
gittith		A musical instrument, of unknown character, supposed by some to have been used by the people of Gath, and thence obtained by David.	
giust		Same as Joust.	
giusto		In just, correct, or suitable time.	
give		To bestow without receiving a return; to confer without compensation; to impart, as a possession; to grant, as authority or permission; to yield up or allow.	Middle English given, from Old Norse gefa.
given		(Math. & Logic) Granted; assumed; supposed to be known; set forth as a known quantity, relation, or premise.	
giver		One who gives; a donor; a bestower; a grantor; one who imparts or distributes.	
gives		Fetters.	
giving		The act of softening, breaking, or yielding.	
gizzard		(Anat.) The second, or true, muscular stomach of birds, in which the food is crushed and ground, after being softened in the glandular stomach (crop), or lower part of the esophagus; the gigerium.	Old French gesier.
