glabella		The space between the eyebrows, also including the corresponding part of the frontal bone; the mesophryon. -- Gla*bel"lar, a.	
glabellum		The median, convex lobe of the head of a trilobite. See Trilobite.	
glabrate		Becoming smooth or glabrous from age.	
glabreate	Obsolete	To make smooth, plain, or bare.	
glabriate	Obsolete	To make smooth, plain, or bare.	
glabrity		Smoothness; baldness.	Latin glabritas.
glabrous		Smooth; having a surface without hairs or any unevenness.	Latin glaber.
glace		Coated with icing; iced; glazed; -- said of fruits, sweetmeats, cake, etc.	
glacial		Pertaining to ice or to its action; consisting of ice; frozen; icy; esp., pertaining to glaciers; as, glacial phenomena.	French glacial, from Latin glacialis.
glacialist		One who attributes the phenomena of the drift, in geology, to glaciers.	
glaciate		To convert into, or cover with, ice.	Latin glaciatus.
glaciation		That which is formed by freezing; ice.	
glacier		An immense field or stream of ice, formed in the region of perpetual snow, and moving slowly down a mountain slope or valley, as in the Alps, or over an extended area, as in Greenland.	French glacier, from Old French glace, from Latin glacies.
glacious		Pertaining to, consisting of or resembling, ice; icy.	
glacis		A gentle slope, or a smooth, gently sloping bank; especially (Fort.), that slope of earth which inclines from the covered way toward the exterior ground or country (see Illust. of Ravelin).	
glad		Pleased; joyous; happy; cheerful; gratified; -- opposed to sorry, sorrowful, or unhappy; -- said of persons, and often followed by of, at, that, or by the infinitive, and sometimes by with, introducing the cause or reason.	Old English glæd.
gladden		To make glad; to cheer; to please; to gratify; to rejoice; to exhilarate.	
gladder		One who makes glad.	Middle English gladere, from Old English glædra.
glade		An open passage through a wood; a grassy open or cleared space in a forest.	
gladen		Sword grass; any plant with sword-shaped leaves, esp. the European Iris foetidissima.	
gladeye		The European yellow-hammer.	
gladful		Full of gladness; joyful; glad. -- Glad"ful*ness, n.	
gladiate		Sword-shaped; resembling a sword in form, as the leaf of the iris, or of the gladiolus.	
gladiator		Originally, a swordplayer; hence, one who fought with weapons in public, either on the occasion of a funeral ceremony, or in the arena, for public amusement.	Latin gladiator.
gladiatorial		Of or pertaining to gladiators, or to contests or combatants in general.	
gladiatorian		Of or pertaining to gladiators, or to contests or combatants in general.	
gladiatorism		The art or practice of a gladiator.	
gladiatorship		Conduct, state, or art, of a gladiator.	
gladiatory		Gladiatorial.	Latin gladiatorius.
gladiature		Swordplay; fencing; gladiatorial contest.	Latin gladiatura.
gladiole		A lilylike plant, of the genus Gladiolus; -- called also corn flag.	
gladiolus		(Bot.) A genus of plants having bulbous roots and gladiate leaves, and including many species, some of which are cultivated and valued for the beauty of their flowers; the corn flag; the sword lily.	Latin gladiolus.
gladius		The internal shell, or pen, of cephalopods like the squids.	Latin gladius.
gladly		With pleasure; joyfully; cheerfully; eagerly.	Middle English gladly.
gladness		State or quality of being glad; pleasure; joyful satisfaction; cheerfulness.	
gladship	Obsolete	A state of gladness.	
gladsome		Pleased; joyful; cheerful.	
gladstone		A four-wheeled pleasure carriage with two inside seats, calash top, and seats for driver and footman.	
gladwyn		See Gladen — sword grass; any plant with sword-shaped leaves, esp. the European Iris foetidissima.	
glair		Any viscous, transparent substance, resembling the white of an egg.	Old French glaire.
glaire		See Glair — any viscous, transparent substance, resembling the white of an egg.	
glaireous		Glairy; covered with glair.	
glairin		A glairy viscous substance, which forms on the surface of certain mineral waters, or covers the sides of their inclosures; -- called also baregin.	
glairy		Like glair, or partaking of its qualities; covered with glair; viscous and transparent; slimy.	
glaive		A weapon formerly used, consisting of a large blade fixed on the end of a pole, whose edge was on the outside curve; also, a light lance with a long sharp-pointed head.	Old French gleve, from Latin gladius.
glama		A copious gummy secretion of the humor of the eyelids, in consequence of some disorder; blearedness; lippitude.	
glamour		A charm affecting the eye, making objects appear different from what they really are.	Scots gramarye.
glamourie	Scots	Glamour.	
glance		A sudden flash of light or splendor.	
glancing		Flying off (after striking) in an oblique direction; as, a glancing shot.	
glancingly		In a glancing manner; transiently; incidentally; indirectly.	
gland		(Anat.) (a) An organ for secreting something to be used in, or eliminated from, the body; as, the sebaceous glands of the skin; the salivary glands of the mouth.	Latin glans.
glandage	Obsolete	A feeding on nuts or mast.	
glandered		Affected with glanders; as, a glandered horse.	
glanderous		Of or pertaining to glanders; of the nature of glanders.	
glanders		A highly contagious and very destructive disease of horses, asses, mules, etc., characterized by a constant discharge of sticky matter from the nose…	
glandiferous		Bearing acorns or other nuts; as, glandiferous trees.	
glandiform		Having the form of a gland or nut; resembling a gland.	
glandular		Containing or supporting glands; consisting of glands; pertaining to glands.	
glandulation		The situation and structure of the secretory vessels in plants.	
glandule		A small gland or secreting vessel.	Latin glandula.
glanduliferous		Bearing glandules.	
glandulose		Same as Glandulous.	
glandulosity		Quality of being glandulous; a collection of glands.	
glandulous		Containing glands; consisting of glands; pertaining to glands; resembling glands.	Latin glandulosus.
glans		(Anat.) The vascular body which forms the apex of the penis, and the extremity of the clitoris.	Latin glans.
glare		To shine with a bright, dazzling light.	
glariness		A dazzling luster or brilliancy.	
glaring		Clear; notorious; open and bold; barefaced; as, a glaring crime. -- Glar"ing*ly, adv.	
glaringness		A dazzling luster or brilliancy.	
glary		Of a dazzling luster; glaring; bright; shining; smooth.	
glass		A hard, brittle, translucent, and commonly transparent substance, white or colored, having a conchoidal fracture, and made by fusing together sand or silica with lime, potash, soda, or lead oxide.	
glass-crab		The larval state (Phyllosoma) of the genus Palinurus and allied genera.	
glass-faced		Mirror-faced; reflecting the sentiments of another.	
glass-gazing	Poetic	Given to viewing one's self in a glass or mirror; finical.	
glass-rope		A remarkable vitreous sponge, of the genus Hyalonema, first brought from Japan.	
glass-snail		A small, transparent, land snail, of the genus Vitrina.	
glass-snake		A long, footless lizard (Ophiosaurus ventralis), of the Southern United States; -- so called from its fragility, the tail easily breaking into small pieces.	
glass-sponge		A siliceous sponge, of the genus Hyalonema, and allied genera; -- so called from their glassy fibers or spicules; -- called also vitreous sponge.	
glassen	Obsolete	Glassy; glazed.	
glasseye		(Zoöl.) A fish of the great lakes; the wall-eyed pike.	
glassful	Obsolete	The contents of a glass; as much of anything as a glass will hold.	
glasshouse		A house where glass is made; a commercial house that deals in glassware.	
glassily		So as to resemble glass.	
glassiness		The quality of being glassy.	
glassite		A member of a Scottish sect, founded in the 18th century by John Glass, a minister of the Established Church of Scotland…	
glassmaker		One who makes, or manufactures, glass. -- Glass mak`ing, n.	
glassware		Ware, or articles collectively, made of glass.	
glasswork		Manufacture of glass; articles or ornamentation made of glass.	
glasswort		A seashore plant of the Spinach family (Salicornia herbacea), with succulent jointed stems; also, a prickly plant of the same family (Salsola Kali), both formerly burned for the sake of the ashes…	
glassy		Made of glass; vitreous; as, a glassy substance.	
glasynge	Obsolete	Glazing or glass.	
glauberite		A mineral, consisting of the sulphates of soda and lime.	
glaucescent		Having a somewhat glaucous appearance or nature; becoming glaucous.	
glaucic		Of or pertaining to the Glaucium or horned poppy; -- formerly applied to an acid derived from it, now known to be fumaric acid.	
glaucine		Glaucous or glaucescent.	
glaucodot		A metallic mineral having a grayish tin-white color, and containing cobalt and iron, with sulphur and arsenic.	
glaucoma		Dimness or abolition of sight, with a diminution of transparency, a bluish or greenish tinge of the refracting media of the eye, and a hard inelastic condition of the eyeball, with marked increase of tension within the eyeball.	
glaucomatous		Having the nature of glaucoma.	
glaucometer		See Gleucometer — an instrument for measuring the specific gravity and ascertaining the quantity of sugar contained in must.	
glauconite		The green mineral characteristic of the greensand of the chalk and other formations.	
glaucophane		A mineral of a dark bluish color, related to amphibole.	
glaucosis		Same as Glaucoma.	
glaucous		Of a sea-green color; of a dull green passing into grayish blue.	Latin glaucus, from Greek γλαυκός.
glaucus		A genus of nudibranchiate mollusks, found in the warmer latitudes, swimming in the open sea.	
glaum	Scots	To grope with the hands, as in the dark.	
glave		See Glaive — a weapon formerly used, consisting of a large blade fixed on the end of a pole, whose edge was on the outside curve; also, a light lance with a long sharp-pointed head.	
glaver	Obsolete	To prate; to jabber; to babble.	
glaverer	Obsolete	A flatterer.	
glaymore		A claymore.	
glaze		To furnish (a window, a house, a sash, a ease, etc.) with glass.	Old English glær.
glazen	Obsolete	Resembling glass; glasslike; glazed.	
glazer		One who applies glazing, as in pottery manufacture, etc.; one who gives a glasslike or glossy surface to anything; a calenderer or smoother of cloth, paper, and the like.	
glazier		One whose business is to set glass.	
glazing		The act or art of setting glass; the art of covering with a vitreous or glasslike substance, or of polishing or rendering glossy.	
glazy		Having a glazed appearance; -- said of the fractured surface of some kinds of pin iron.	
glead	Archaic	A live coal. See Gleed.	
gleam		To disgorge filth, as a hawk.	
gleamy		Darting beams of light; casting light in rays; flashing; coruscating.	
glean		To gather after a reaper; to collect in scattered or fragmentary parcels, as the grain left by a reaper, or grapes left after the gathering.	Middle English glenen, from Anglo-Norman glener, from Latin gleno.
gleaner		One who gathers after reapers.	
gleaning		The act of gathering after reapers; that which is collected by gleaning.	
gleba		The chambered sporogenous tissue forming the central mass of the sporophore in puff balls, stinkhorns, etc.	
glebe		Turf; soil; ground; sod.	
glebeless		Having no glebe.	
glebosity		The quality of being glebous.	
glebous		Pertaining to the glebe; turfy; cloddy; fertile; fruitful.	
gleby		Pertaining to the glebe; turfy; cloddy; fertile; fruitful.	
glede	Archaic	The common European kite (Milvus ictinus).	Old English glida.
glee		Joy; merriment; mirth; gayety; paricularly, the mirth enjoyed at a feast.	Middle English gle, from Old English gleo.
gleed	Archaic	A live or glowing coal; a glede.	Middle English gleede.
gleeful		Merry; gay; joyous.	
gleek	Obsolete	Etym: An enticing look or glance.	
gleeman		A name anciently given to an itinerant minstrel or musician.	
gleen	Obsolete	To glisten; to gleam.	
gleesome		Merry; joyous; gleeful.	
gleet		A transparent mucous discharge from the membrane of the urethra, commonly an effect of gonorrhea.	Old French glette.
gleety		Ichorous; thin; limpid.	
gleg	Scots	Quick of perception; alert; sharp.	
gleire	Obsolete	See Glair — any viscous, transparent substance, resembling the white of an egg.	
glen		A secluded and narrow valley; a dale; a depression between hills.	Scottish Gaelic gleann.
glengarry		A kind of Highland Scotch cap for men, with straight sides and a hollow top sloping to the back, where it is parted and held together by ribbons or strings.	
glenlivat		A kind of Scotch whisky, named from the district in which it was first made.	
glenlivet		A kind of Scotch whisky, named from the district in which it was first made.	
glenoid		Having the form of a smooth and shallow depression; sockas, the glenoid cavity, or fossa, of the scapula, in which the head of the humerus articulates.	
glenoidal		Glenoid.	
glent		See Glint — a glimpse, glance, or gleam.	
gleucometer		An instrument for measuring the specific gravity and ascertaining the quantity of sugar contained in must.	
glew	Obsolete	See Glue — a hard brittle brownish gelatin, obtained by boiling to a jelly the skins, hoofs, etc., of animals.	
gley	Scots	To squint; to look obliquely; to overlook things.	
gleyre	Obsolete	See Glair — any viscous, transparent substance, resembling the white of an egg.	
gliadin		Vegetable glue or gelatin; glutin.	
glib	Obsolete	Smooth; slippery; as, ice is glib.	
glibbery	Obsolete	Slippery; changeable.	
glibly		In a glib manner; as, to speak glibly.	
glibness		The quality of being glib.	
glicke	Obsolete	An ogling look.	
glidden		p. p. of Glide — to move gently and smoothly; to pass along without noise, violence, or apparent effort; to pass rapidly and easily, or with a smooth, silent motion, as a river in its channel…	
glidder	English dialect	Giving no sure footing; smooth; slippery.	
gliddery	English dialect	Giving no sure footing; smooth; slippery.	
glide		To move gently and smoothly; to pass along without noise, violence, or apparent effort; to pass rapidly and easily, or with a smooth, silent motion, as a river in its channel, a bird in the air, a skater over ice.	Old English glīdan.
gliden		p. p. of Glide — to move gently and smoothly; to pass along without noise, violence, or apparent effort; to pass rapidly and easily, or with a smooth, silent motion, as a river in its channel…	
glider		One who, or that which, glides.	
glidingly		In a gliding manner.	
gliff	English dialect	A transient glance; an unexpected view of something that startles one; a sudden fear.	
glike	Obsolete	A sneer; a flout.	
glim	Obsolete	Brightness; splendor.	
glimmer		To give feeble or scattered rays of light; to shine faintly; to show a faint, unsteady light; as, the glimmering dawn; a glimmering lamp.	
glimmering		Faint, unsteady light; a glimmer.	
glimpse		A sudden flash; transient luster.	
glint	Scots	A glimpse, glance, or gleam.	
glioma		A tumor springing from the neuroglia or connective tissue of the brain, spinal cord, or other portions of the nervous system.	
glires		An order of mammals; the Rodentia. -- Gli"rine, a.	
glissade		A sliding, as down a snow slope in the Alps.	French glisser.
glissando		A gliding effect; gliding.	
glissette		The locus described by any point attached to a curve that slips continuously on another fixed curve, the movable curve having no rotation at any instant.	
glist		Glimmer; mica.	
glisten		To sparkle or shine; especially, to shine with a mild, subdued, and fitful luster; to emit a soft, scintillating light; to gleam; as, the glistening stars.	Old English glisnian.
glister		To be bright; to sparkle; to be brilliant; to shine; to glisten; to glitter.	
glisteringly		In a glistering manner.	
glitter		To sparkle with light; to shine with a brilliant and broken light or showy luster; to gleam; as, a glittering sword.	
glitterand	Obsolete	Glittering.	
glitteringly		In a glittering manner.	
gloam		To begin to grow dark; to grow dusky.	
gloaming	Scots	Twilight; dusk; the fall of the evening.	Old English glomung.
gloar	Obsolete	To squint; to stare.	
gloat		To look steadfastly; to gaz In vengeance gloating on another's pain.	
globard		A glowworm. {Obs.] Holland.	
globate		Having the form of a globe; spherical.	
globated		Having the form of a globe; spherical.	
globe		A round or spherical body, solid or hollow; a body whose surface is in every part equidistant from the center; a ball; a sphere.	
globe-shaped		Shaped like a globe.	
globefish		A plectognath fish of the genera Diodon, Tetrodon, and allied genera.	
globeflower		(a) A plant of the genus Trollius (T.	
globiferous		Having a round or globular tip.	
globigerina		A genus of small Foraminifera, which live abundantly at or near the surface of the sea.	
globose		Having a rounded form resembling that of a globe; globular, or nearly so; spherical.	Latin globosus.
globosely		In a globular manner; globularly.	
globosity		Sphericity.	
globous		Spherical.	
globular		Globe-shaped; having the form of a ball or sphere; spherical, or nearly so; as, globular atoms.	
globularity		The state of being globular; globosity; sphericity.	
globularly		Spherically.	
globularness		Sphericity; globosity.	
globule		A little globe; a small particle of matter, of a spherical form.	Latin globulus.
globulet		A little globule.	
globuliferous		Bearing globules; in geology, used of rocks, and denoting a variety of concretionary structure, where the concretions are isolated globules and evenly distributed through the texture of the rock.	
globulimeter		An instrument for measuring the number of red blood corpuscles in the blood.	
globulin		An albuminous body, insoluble in water, but soluble in dilute solutions of salt.	
globulite		A rudimentary form of crystallite, spherical in shape.	
globulous		Globular; spherical; orbicular. -- Glob"u*lous*ness, n.	
globy		Resembling, or pertaining to, a globe; round; orbicular.	
glochidiate		Having barbs; as, glochidiate bristles.	
glochidium		The larva or young of the mussel, formerly thought to be a parasite upon the parent's gills.	
glockenspiel		An instrument, originally a series of bells on an iron rod, now a set of flat metal bars, diatonically tuned, giving a bell-like tone when played with a mallet; a carillon.	German Glockenspiel.
glode		imp. of Glide — to move gently and smoothly; to pass along without noise, violence, or apparent effort; to pass rapidly and easily, or with a smooth, silent motion, as a river in its channel…	
glombe	Obsolete	To gloom; to look gloomy, morose, or sullen.	
glome	Obsolete	To gloom; to look gloomy, morose, or sullen.	
glomerate		Gathered together in a roundish mass or dense cluster; conglomerate.	
glomeration		The act of forming or gathering into a ball or round mass; the state of being gathered into a ball; conglomeration.	Latin glomeratio.
glomerous	Obsolete	Gathered or formed into a ball or round mass.	Latin glomerosus.
glomerule		(Bot.) A head or dense cluster of flowers, formed by condensation of a cyme, as in the flowering dogwood.	
glomerulus		The bunch of looped capillary blood vessels in a Malpighian capsule of the kidney.	
glomuliferous		Having small clusters of minutely branched coral-like excrescences.	
glonoin		(Med.) A dilute solution of nitroglycerin used as a neurotic.	
glonoine		(Med.) A dilute solution of nitroglycerin used as a neurotic.	
gloom		Partial or total darkness; thick shade; obscurity; as, the gloom of a forest, or of midnight.	
gloomily		In a gloomy manner.	
gloominess		State of being gloomy.	
glooming		Twilight (of morning or evening); the gloaming.	
gloomy		Imperfectly illuminated; dismal through obscurity or darkness; dusky; dim; clouded; as, the cavern was gloomy.	
gloppen	English dialect	To surprise or astonish; to be startled or astonished.	Middle English glopnen, from Old Norse glúpna.
glore	Obsolete	To glare; to glower.	
gloria		(a) A doxology (beginning Gloria Patri, Glory be to the Father), sung or said at the end of the Psalms in the service of the Roman Catholic and other churches.	
gloriation	Obsolete	Boast; a triumphing.	Latin gloriatio.
gloried	Obsolete	Illustrious; honorable; noble.	
glorification		The act of glorifyng or of giving glory to.	
glorify		To make glorious by bestowing glory upon; to confer honor and distinction upon; to elevate to power or happiness, or to celestial glory.	Middle English glorifien, from Anglo-Norman glorifier.
gloriole		An aureole.	Latin gloriola.
gloriosa		A genus of climbing plants with very showy lilylike blossoms, natives of India.	
glorioser	Obsolete	A boaster.	
glorioso	Obsolete	A boaster.	
glorious		Exhibiting attributes, qualities, or acts that are worthy of or receive glory; noble; praiseworthy; excellent; splendid; illustrious; inspiring admiration; as, glorious deeds.	
glory		Praise, honor, admiration, or distinction, accorded by common consent to a person or thing; high reputation; honorable fame; renown.	Middle English glory.
glose		See Gloze — to flatter; to wheedle; to fawn; to talk smoothly.	
gloser		See Glosser — a polisher; one who gives a luster.	
gloss		Bbrightness or luster of a body proceeding from a smooth surface; polish; as, the gloss of silk; cloth is calendered to give it a gloss.	Icelandic glossi.
glossa		The tongue, or lingua, of an insect. See Hymenoptera.	
glossal		Of or pertaining to the tongue; lingual.	
glossanthrax		A disease of horses and cattle accompanied by carbuncles in the mouth and on the tongue.	
glossarial		Of or pertaining to glosses or to a glossary; containing a glossary.	
glossarially		In the manner of a glossary.	
glossarist		A writer of glosses or of a glossary; a commentator; a scholiast.	
glossary		A collection of glosses or explanations of words and passages of a work or author; a partial dictionary of a work, an author, a dialect, art, or science, explaining archaic, technical, or other uncommon words.	Latin glossarium, from Greek γλῶσσα.
glossata		The Lepidoptera.	
glossator		A writer of glosses or comments; a commentator.	
glosser		A polisher; one who gives a luster.	
glossic		A system of phonetic spelling based upon the present values of English letters, but invariably using one symbol to represent one sound only.	
glossily		In a glossy manner.	
glossiness		The condition or quality of being glossy; the luster or brightness of a smooth surface.	
glossist	Obsolete	A writer of comments.	
glossitis		Inflammation of the tongue.	
glossly		Like gloss; specious.	
glossocomon		A kind of hoisting winch.	
glossoepiglottic		Pertaining to both tongue and epiglottis; as, glossoepiglottic folds.	
glossographer		A writer of a glossary; a commentator; a scholiast.	
glossographical		Of or pertaining to glossography.	
glossography		The writing of glossaries, glosses, or comments for illustrating an author.	
glossohyal		Pertaining to both the hyoidean arch and the tongue; -- applied to the anterior segment of the hyoidean arch in many fishes. -- n.	
glossolalia		The gift of tongues.	
glossolaly		The gift of tongues.	
glossological		Of or pertaining to glossology.	
glossologist		One who defines and explains terms; one who is versed in glossology.	
glossology		The definition and explanation of terms; a glossary.	
glossopharyngeal		Pertaining to both the tongue and the pharynx; -- applied especially to the ninth pair of cranial nerves, which are distributed to the pharynx and tongue. -- n.	
glossy		Smooth and shining; reflecting luster from a smooth surface; highly polished; lustrous; as, glossy silk; a glossy surface.	
glottal		Of or pertaining to, or produced by, the glottis; glottic.	
glottic		Of or pertaining to the glottis; glottal.	
glottidean		Of or pertaining to the glottis; glottal.	
glottis		The opening from the pharynx into the larynx or into the trachea. See Larynx.	
glottological		Of or pertaining to glottology.	
glottologist		A linguist; a philologist.	
glottology		The science of tongues or languages; comparative philology; glossology.	
glout	Obsolete	To pout; to look sullen.	
glove		A cover for the hand, or for the hand and wrist, with a separate sheath for each finder.	Middle English glove.
glover		One whose trade it is to make or sell gloves.	
glow		To shine with an intense or white heat; to give forth vivid light and heat; to be incandenscent.	
glowbard	Obsolete	The glowworm.	
glower		to look intently; to stare angrily or with a scowl.	
glowingly		In a glowing manner; with ardent heat or passion.	
glowlamp		(Chem.) An aphlogistic lamp. See Aphlogistic.	
glowworm		A coleopterous insect of the genus Lampyris; esp., the wingless females and larvæ of the two European species (L. noctiluca, and L. splendidula), which emit light from some of the abdominal segments.	
gloxinia		American genus of herbaceous plants with very handsome bell- shaped blossoms; -- named after B.	
gloze		To flatter; to wheedle; to fawn; to talk smoothly.	
glozer	Obsolete	A flatterer.	
glucic		Pertaining to, or obtained from, sugar; as, glucic acid.	
glucina		A white or gray tasteless powder, the oxide of the element glucinum; -- formerly called glucine.	
glucinic		Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, glucinum; as, glucinic oxide.	
glucinum		A rare metallic element, of a silver white color, and low specific gravity (2.1), resembling magnesium.	
glucogen		See Glycogen — a white, amorphous, tasteless substance resembling starch, soluble in water to an opalescent fluid.	
glucogenesis		Glycogenesis.	
gluconic		Pertaining to, or derived from, glucose.	
glucose		A variety of sugar occurring in nature very abundantly, as in ripe grapes, and in honey, and produced in great quantities from starch, etc., by the action of heat and acids.	
glucoside		One of a large series of amorphous or crystalline substances, occurring very widely distributed in plants, rarely in animals, and regarded as influental agents in the formation and disposition of the sugars.	
glucosuria		A condition in which glucose is discharged in the urine; diabetes mellitus.	
glue		A hard brittle brownish gelatin, obtained by boiling to a jelly the skins, hoofs, etc., of animals.	Old French glu, from Latin glus.
gluepot		A utensil for melting glue, consisting of an inner pot holding the glue, immersed in an outer one containing water which is heated to soften the glue.	
gluer		One who cements with glue.	
gluey		Viscous; glutinous; of the nature of, or like, glue.	
glueyness		Viscidity.	
gluish		Somewhat gluey.	
glum	Obsolete	Sullenness.	Middle English glomen.
glumaceous		Having glumes; consisting of glumes.	
glumal		Characterized by a glume, or having the nature of a glume.	
glume		The bracteal covering of the flowers or seeds of grain and grasses; esp., an outer husk or bract of a spikelt.	
glumella		One of the pelets or inner chaffy scales of the flowers or spikelets of grasses.	
glumelle		One of the pelets or inner chaffy scales of the flowers or spikelets of grasses.	French glumelle.
glumly		In a glum manner; sullenly; moodily.	
glummy	Obsolete	dark; gloomy; dismal.	
glumness		Moodiness; sullenness.	
glump	Colloquial	To manifest sullenness; to sulk.	
glumpy	Colloquial	Glum; sullen; sulky.	
glunch	English dialect	Frowning; sulky; sullen.	
glut		To swallow, or to swallow greedlly; to gorge.	Latin gluttio.
glutaconic		Pertaining to, or derived from, an acid intermediate between glutaric and aconitic acids.	
glutaeus		The great muscle of the buttock in man and most mammals, and the corresponding muscle in many lower animals.	
glutamic		Of or pertaining to gluten.	
glutaric		Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid so called; as, glutaric ethers.	
glutazine		A nitrogenous substance, forming a heavy, sandy powder, white or nearly so.	
gluteal		Pertaining to, or in the region of, the glutæus.	
gluten		The viscid, tenacious substance which gives adhesiveness to dough.	French gluten, from Latin gluten.
gluteus		Same as Glutæus.	Greek γλουτός.
glutin		Sometimes synonymous with Gelatin.	
glutinate		To unite with glue; to cement; to stick together.	
glutination		The act of uniting with glue; sticking together.	
glutinative		Having the quality of cementing; tenacious; viscous; glutinous.	
glutinosity		The quality of being glutinous; viscousness.	
glutinous		Of the nature of glue; resembling glue; viscous; viscid; adhesive; gluey.	
glutinousness		The quality of being glutinous.	
glutton		One who eats voraciously, or to excess; a gormandizer.	Old French gloton.
gluttonish		Gluttonous; greedy.	
gluttonize		To eat to excess; to eat voraciously; to gormandize.	
gluttonous		Given to gluttony; eating to excess; indulging the appetite; voracious; as, a gluttonous age. -- Glut ton*ous*ness, n.	
gluttony		Excess in eating; extravagant indulgence of the appetite for food; voracity.	Old French glutonie.
glycerate		A salt of glyceric acid.	
glyceric		Pertaining to, or derived from, glycerin.	
glyceride		A compound ether (formed from glycerin).	
glycerin		An oily, viscous liquid, C3H5(OH)3, colorless and odorless, and with a hot, sweetish taste, existing in the natural fats and oils as the base, combined with various acids, as oleic, margaric, stearic, and palmitic.	French glycérine, from Greek γλυκερός.
glycerine		An oily, viscous liquid, C3H5(OH)3, colorless and odorless, and with a hot, sweetish taste, existing in the natural fats and oils as the base, combined with various acids, as oleic, margaric, stearic, and palmitic.	
glycerite		A medicinal preparation made by mixing or dissolving a substance in glycerin.	
glycerol		Same as Glycerin.	
glycerole		Same as Glycerite.	
glyceryl		A compound radical, C3H5, regarded as the essential radical of glycerin.	
glycide		A colorless liquid, obtained from certain derivatives of glycerin, and regarded as a partially dehydrated glycerin; -- called also glycidic alcohol.	
glycidic		Pertaining to, or derived from, glycide; as, glycidic acid.	
glycin		Same as Glycocoll.	
glycocholate		A salt of glycocholic acid; as, sodium glycocholate.	
glycocholic		Pertaining to, or composed of, glycocoll and cholic acid.	
glycocin		Same as Glycocoll.	
glycocoll		A crystalline, nitrogenous substance, with a sweet taste, formed from hippuric acid by boiling with hydrochloric acid, and present in bile united with cholic acid.	
glycogen		A white, amorphous, tasteless substance resembling starch, soluble in water to an opalescent fluid.	
glycogenesis		The production or formation of sugar from gycogen, as in the liver.	
glycogenic		Pertaining to, or caused by, glycogen; as, the glycogenic function of the liver.	
glycogeny		The production or formation of sugar from gycogen, as in the liver.	
glycol		(a) A thick, colorless liquid, C2H4(OH)2, of a sweetish taste, produced artificially from certain ethylene compounds.	
glycolic		Pertaining to, or derived from, glycol; as, glycolic ether; glycolic acid.	
glycolide		A white amorphous powder, C4H4O, obtained by heating and dehydrating glycolic acid.	
glycoluric		Pertaining to, derived from, glycol and urea; as, glycoluric acid, which is called also hydantoic acid.	
glycoluril		A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance, obtained by the reduction of allantoïn.	
glycolyl		A divalent, compound radical, CO.CH2, regarded as the essential radical of glycolic acid, and a large series of related compounds.	
glyconian		Glyconic.	
glyconic		Consisting of a spondee, a choriamb, and a pyrrhic; -- applied to a kind of verse in Greek and Latin poetry. -- n.	
glyconin		An emulsion of glycerin and the yolk of eggs, used as an ointment, as a vehicle for medicines, etc.	
glycose		One of a class of carbohydrates having from three to nine atoms of carbon in the molecules and having the constitution either of an aldehyde alcohol or of a ketone alcohol.	
glycosine		An organic base, C6H6N4, produced artificially as a white, crystalline powder, by the action of ammonia on glyoxal.	
glycosometer		An apparatus for determining the amount of sugar in diabetic urine.	
glycosuria		Same as Gluoosuria.	
glycyrrhiza		(Bot.) A genus of papilionaceous herbaceous plants, one species of which (G. glabra), is the licorice plant, the roots of which have a bittersweet mucilaginous taste.	
glycyrrhizimic		From, or pertaining to, glycyrrhizin; as, glycyrrhizimic acid.	
glycyrrhizin		A glucoside found in licorice root (Glycyrrhiza), in monesia bark (Chrysophyllum), in the root of the walnut, etc., and extracted as a yellow, amorphous powder, of a bittersweet taste.	
glyn		A glen. See Glen.	
glynne		A glen. See Glen.	
glyoxal		A white, amorphous, deliquescent powder, (CO.H)2, obtained by the partial oxidation of glycol.	
glyoxalic		Pertaining to, or designating, an aldehyde acid, intermediate between glycol and oxalic acid.	
glyoxaline		A white, crystalline, organic base, C3H4N2, produced by the action of ammonia on glyoxal, and forming the origin of a large class of derivatives hence, any one of the series of which glyoxaline is a type; -- called also oxaline.	
glyoxime		A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance, produced by the action of hydroxylamine on glyoxal, and belonging to the class of oximes; also, any one of a group of substances resembling glyoxime proper, and of which it is a type.	
glyph		A sunken channel or groove, usually vertical. See Triglyph.	
glyphic		Of or pertaining to sculpture or carving of any sort, esp. to glyphs.	Greek γλυϕικός.
glyphograph		A plate made by glyphography, or an impression taken from such a plate.	
glyphographic		Of or pertaining to glyphography.	
glyphography		A process similar to etching, in which, by means of voltaic electricity, a raised copy of a drawing is made, so that it can be used to print from.	
glyptic		Of or pertaining to gem engraving.	
glyptics		The art of engraving on precious stones.	
glyptodon		An extinct South American quaternary mammal, allied to the armadillos.	
glyptodont		One of a family (glyptodontidæ) of extinct South American edentates, of which Glyptodon is the type.	
glyptographic		Relating to glyptography, or the art of engraving on precious stones.	
glyptography		The art or process of engraving on precious stones.	
glyptotheca		A building or room devoted to works of sculpture.	
glyster		Same as Clyster.	
