gnaphalium		A genus of composite plants with white or colored dry and persistent involucres; a kind of everlasting.	
gnar	Archaic	A knot or gnarl in wood; hence, a tough, thickset man; -- written also gnarr.	
gnarl		To growl; to snarl.	
gnarled		Knotty; full of knots or gnarls; twisted; crossgrained.	
gnarly		Full of knots; knotty; twisted; crossgrained.	
gnash		To strike together, as in anger or pain; as, to gnash the teeth.	Middle English gnasten.
gnashingly		With gnashing.	
gnat		(Zoöl.) A blood-sucking dipterous fly, of the genus Culex, undergoing a metamorphosis in water.	
gnathic		Of or pertaining to the jaw.	
gnathidium		The ramus of the lower jaw of a bird as far as it is naked; -- commonly used in the plural.	
gnathite		Any one of the mouth appendages of the Arthropoda.	
gnathonic	Obsolete	Flattering; deceitful.	
gnathonical	Obsolete	Flattering; deceitful.	
gnathopod		A gnathopodite or maxilliped. See Maxilliped.	
gnathopodite		Any leglike appendage of a crustacean, when modified wholly, or in part, to serve as a jaw, esp. one of the maxillipeds.	
gnathostegite		One of a pair of broad plates, developed from the outer maxillipeds of crabs, and forming a cover for the other mouth organs.	
gnathostoma		A comprehensive division of vertebrates, including all that have distinct jaws, in contrast with the leptocardians and marsipobranchs (Cyclostoma), which lack them.	
gnathotheca		The horney covering of the lower mandible of a bird.	
gnatling		A small gnat.	
gnatworm		The aquatic larva of a gnat; -- called also, colloquially, wiggler.	
gnaw		To bite, as something hard or tough, which is not readily separated or crushed; to bite off little by little, with effort; to wear or eat away by scraping or continuous biting with the teeth; to nibble at.	Old English gnagan.
gnawer		One who, or that which, gnaws.	
gneiss		A crystalline rock, consisting, like granite, of quartz, feldspar, and mica, but having these materials, especially the mica, arranged in planes, so that it breaks rather easily into coarse slabs or flags.	German Gneis, from Middle High German (ca. 1050-1500 gneist, from Old High German gneisto.
gneissic		Relating to, or resembling, gneiss; consisting of gneiss.	
gneissoid		Resembling gneiss; having some of the characteristics of gneiss; -- applied to rocks of an intermediate character between granite and gneiss, or mica slate and gneiss.	
gneissose		Having the structure of gneiss.	
gnew		imp. of Gnaw — to bite, as something hard or tough, which is not readily separated or crushed; to bite off little by little, with effort…	
gnide	Obsolete	To rub; to bruise; to break in pieces.	Middle English gniden, from Old English gnidan.
gnof	Obsolete	Churl; curmudgeon.	
gnome		An imaginary being, supposed by the Rosicrucians to inhabit the inner parts of the earth, and to be the guardian of mines, quarries, etc.	French gnome, from Latin gnomus.
gnomic		Sententious; uttering or containing maxims, or striking detached thoughts; aphoristic.	
gnomical		Sententious; uttering or containing maxims, or striking detached thoughts; aphoristic.	
gnomically		In a gnomic, didactic, or sententious manner.	
gnomologic		Pertaining to, of the nature of, or resembling, a gnomology.	
gnomological		Pertaining to, of the nature of, or resembling, a gnomology.	
gnomology	Obsolete	A collection of, or a treatise on, maxims, grave sentences, or reflections.	Greek γνωμολογία.
gnomon		(Dialing) The style or pin, which by its shadow, shows the hour of the day.	Latin gnomon, from Greek γνώμων.
gnomonic		Of or pertaining to the gnomon, or the art of dialing.	
gnomonical		Of or pertaining to the gnomon, or the art of dialing.	
gnomonically		According to the principles of the gnomonic projection.	
gnomonics		The art or science of dialing, or of constructing dials to show the hour of the day by the shadow of a gnomon.	
gnomonist		One skilled in gnomonics.	
gnomonology		A treatise on gnomonics.	
gnoscopine		An alkaloid existing in small quantities in opium.	
gnosis		The deeper wisdom; knowledge of spiritual truth, such as was claimed by the Gnostics.	Greek γνῶσις.
gnostic		Knowing; wise; shrewd.	
gnosticism		The system of philosophy taught by the Gnostics.	
gnu		One of two species of large South African antelopes of the genus Catoblephas, having a mane and bushy tail, and curved horns in both sexes.	
