go		To pass from one place to another; to be in motion; to be in a state not motionless or at rest; to proced; to advance; to make progress; -- used, in various applications, of the movement of both animate and inanimate beings…
go-between		An intermediate agent; a broker; a procurer; -- usually in a disparaging sense.
go-by		A passing without notice; intentional neglect; thrusting away; a shifting off; adieu; as, to give a proposal the go-by.
go-devil	Dialect	(a) A weight which is dropped into a bore, as of an oil well, to explode a cartridge previously lowered.
go-out		A sluice in embankments against the sea, for letting out the land waters, when the tide is out.
goa		A species of antelope (Procapra picticauda), inhabiting Thibet.
goad		A pointed instrument used to urge on a beast; hence, any necessity that urges or stimulates.
goaf		That part of a mine from which the mineral has been partially or wholly removed; the waste left in old workings; -- called also gob.
goal		The mark set to bound a race, and to or around which the constestants run, or from which they start to return to it again; the place at which a race or a journey is to end.
goar		Same as lst Gore.
goarish	Obsolete	Patched; mean.
goat	Obsolete	A hollow-horned ruminant of the genus Capra, of several species and varieties, esp. the domestic goat (C. hircus), which is raised for its milk, flesh, and skin.
goatee		A part of a man's beard on the chin or lower lip which is allowed to grow, and trimmed so as to resemble the beard of a goat.
goatfish		A fish of the genus Upeneus, inhabiting the Gulf of Mexico.
goatherd		One who tends goats.
goatish		Characteristic of a goat; goatlike.
goatlike		Like a goat; goatish.
goatskin		The skin of a goat, or leather made from it. -- a.
goatsucker		One of several species of insectivorous birds, belonging to Caprimulgus and allied genera, esp. the European species (Caprimulgus Europæus); -- so called from the mistaken notion that it sucks goats.
goaves		Old workings. See Goaf.
gob	Low	A little mass or collection; a small quantity; a mouthful.
gobang		A Japanese game, played on a checkerboard, in which the object of the game is to be the first in placing five pieces, or men, in a row in any direction.
gobbet	Low	A mouthful; a lump; a small piece.
gobbetly	Obsolete	In pieces.
gobbing		(a) The refuse thrown back into the excavation after removing the coal.
gobble		To swallow or eat greedily or hastily; to gulp.
gobbler		A turkey cock; a bubbling Jock.
gobelin		Pertaining to tapestry produced in the so-called Gobelin works, which have been maintained by the French Government since 1667.
gobemouche		Literally, a fly swallower; hence, once who keeps his mouth open; a boor; a silly and credulous person.
gobet	Obsolete	See Gobbet — a mouthful; a lump; a small piece.
gobioid		Like, or pertaining to, the goby, or the genus Gobius. -- n.
goblet		A kind of cup or drinking vessel having a foot or standard, but without a handle.
goblin		An evil or mischievous spirit; a playful or malicious elf; a frightful phantom; a gnome.
gobline		One of the ropes or chains serving as stays for the dolphin striker or the bowsprit; -- called also gobrope and gaubline.
goblinize		To transform into a goblin.
gobstick		(Angling) A stick or device for removing the hook from a fish's gullet.
goby		One of several species of small marine fishes of the genus Gobius and allied genera.
gocart		A framework moving on casters, designed to support children while learning to walk.
god		A being conceived of as possessing supernatural power, and to be propitiated by sacrifice, worship, etc.; a divinity; a deity; an object of worship; an idol.
god-fearing		Having a reverential and loving feeling towards God; religious.
godchild		One for whom a person becomes sponsor at baptism, and whom he promises to see educated as a Christian; a godson or goddaughter.
goddaughter		A female for whom one becomes sponsor at baptism.
goddess		A female god; a divinity, or deity, of the female sex.
gode-year	Obsolete	The venereal disease; -- often used as a mild oath.
godfather		A man who becomes sponsor for a child at baptism, and makes himself a surety for its Christian training and instruction.
godhead		Godship; deity; divinity; divine nature or essence; godhood.
godhood		Divine nature or essence; deity; godhead.
godild		A corruption of God yield, i. e., God reward or bless.
godless		Having, or acknowledging, no God; without reverence for God; impious; wicked. -- God less*ness, n.
godlike		Resembling or befitting a god or God; divine; hence, preeminently good; as, godlike virtue. -- God"like`ness, n.
godlily		Righteously.
godliness		Careful observance of, or conformity to, the laws of God; the state or quality of being godly; piety.
godling		A diminutive god.
godly		Pious; reverencing God, and his character and laws; obedient to the commands of God from love for, and reverence of, his character; conformed to God's law; devout; righteous; as, a godly life.
godlyhead	Obsolete	Goodness.
godmother		A woman who becomes sponsor for a child in baptism. See Godfather
godown		A warehouse.
godroon		An ornament produced by notching or carving a rounded molding.
godsend		Something sent by God; an unexpected acquisiton or piece of good fortune.
godship		The rank or character of a god; deity; divinity; a god or goddess.
godsib	Obsolete	A gossip.
godson		A male for whom one has stood sponsor in baptism. See Godfather.
godspeed		Success; prosperous journeying; -- a contraction of the phrase, Receive him not into house, neither bid him God speed. 2 John 10.
godward		Toward God. 2 Cor. iii. 4.
godwit		One of several species of long-billed, wading birds of the genus Limosa, and family Tringidæ.
goeland		A white tropical tern (Cygis candida).
goemin		A complex mixture of several substances extracted from Irish moss.
goen	Obsolete	p. p. of Go — to pass from one place to another; to be in motion; to be in a state not motionless or at rest; to proced; to advance; to make progress; -- used, in various applications…
goer	Obsolete	One who, or that which, goes; a runner or walker; as: (a) A foot.
goethite		A hydrous oxide of iron, occurring in prismatic crystals, also massive, with a fibrous, reniform, or stalactitic structure.
goety	Obsolete	Invocation of evil spirits; witchcraft.
goff	English dialect	A silly clown.
goffer		To plait, flute, or crimp. See Gauffer.
gog	Obsolete	Haste; ardent desire to go.
goggle		To roll the eyes; to stare.
goggle-eye		(a) One of two or more species of American fresh-water fishes of the family Centrarchidæ, esp. Chænobryttus antistius, of Lake Michigan and adjacent waters, and Ambloplites rupestris, of the Great Lakes and Mississippi Valley…
goggle-eyed		Having prominent and distorted or rolling eyes.
goggled		Prominent; staring, as the eye.
goggler		A carangoid oceanic fish (Trachurops crumenophthalmus), having very large and prominent eyes; -- called also goggle-eye, big-eyed scad, and cicharra.
goglet		See Gurglet — a porous earthen jar for cooling water by evaporation.
going		The act of moving in any manner; traveling; as, the going is bad.
goiter		An enlargement of the thyroid gland, on the anterior part of the neck; bronchocele.
goitered		Affected with goiter.
goitre		An enlargement of the thyroid gland, on the anterior part of the neck; bronchocele.
goitred		Affected with goiter.
goitrous		Pertaining to the goiter; affected with the goiter; of the nature of goiter or bronchocele.
gold		An old English name of some yellow flower, -- the marigold (Calendula), according to Dr. Prior, but in Chaucer perhaps the turnsole.
gold-beating		The art or process of reducing gold to extremely thin leaves, by beating with a hammer.
gold-bound		Encompassed with gold.
gold-hammer		The yellow-hammer.
goldcrest		The European golden-crested kinglet (Regulus cristatus, or R. regulus); -- called also golden-crested wren, and golden wren.
goldcup		The cuckoobud.
golde		An old English name of some yellow flower, -- the marigold (Calendula), according to Dr. Prior, but in Chaucer perhaps the turnsole.
golden		Made of gold; consisting of gold.
golden-eye		A duck (Glaucionetta clangula), found in Northern Europe, Asia, and America.
golden-rod		A tall herb (Solidago Virga-aurea), bearing yellow flowers in a graceful elongated cluster.
goldenly	Obsolete	In golden terms or a golden manner; splendidly; delightfully.
goldfinch		(a) A beautiful bright-colored European finch (Carduelis elegans).
goldfinny		One of two or more species of European labroid fishes (Crenilabrus melops, and Ctenolabrus rupestris); -- called also goldsinny, and goldney.
goldfish		(a) A small domesticated cyprinoid fish (Carassius auratus); -- so named from its color.
goldie		(a) The European goldfinch. (b) The yellow-hammer.
goldilocks		Same as Goldylocks.
goldin		A conspicuous yellow flower, commonly the corn marigold (Chrysanthemum segetum).
golding		A conspicuous yellow flower, commonly the corn marigold (Chrysanthemum segetum).
goldless		Destitute of gold.
goldney		See Gilthead — a marine fish.
goldseed		Dog's-tail grass.
goldsinny		See Goldfinny — one of two or more species of European labroid fishes (Crenilabrus melops, and Ctenolabrus rupestris); -- called also goldsinny, and goldney.
goldsmith		An artisan who manufactures vessels and ornaments, etc., of gold.
goldtit		See Verdin — a small yellow-headed bird (Auriparus flaviceps) of Lower California, allied to the titmice; -- called also goldtit.
goldylocks		A plant of several species of the genus Chrysocoma; -- so called from the tufts of yellow flowers which terminate the stems; also, the Ranunculus auricomus, a kind of buttercup.
golet	Obsolete	The gullet.
golf	Scots	A game played with a small ball and a bat or club crooked at the lower end.
golfer	Scots	One who plays golf.
golgotha		Calvary. See the Note under Calvary.
goliard		A buffoon in the Middle Ages, who attended rich men's tables to make sport for the guests by ribald stories and songs.
goliardery		The satirical or ribald poetry of the Goliards.
goll	Obsolete	A hand, paw, or claw.
goloe-shoe		A galoche.
golore		See Galore — plenty; abundance; in abundance.
goloshe		See Galoche — hence: An overshoe worn in wet weather.
goltschut		A small ingot of gold.
golyardeys	Obsolete	A buffoon. See Gollard.
goman	Obsolete	A husband; a master of a family.
gomarist		One of the followers of Francis Gomar or Gomarus, a Dutch disciple of Calvin in the 17th century, who strongly opposed the Arminians.
gomarite		One of the followers of Francis Gomar or Gomarus, a Dutch disciple of Calvin in the 17th century, who strongly opposed the Arminians.
gombo		See Gumbo — a soup thickened with the mucilaginous pods of the okra; okra soup.
gomer		A Hebrew measure. See Homer.
gommelin		See Dextrin — a translucent, gummy, amorphous substance, nearly tasteless and odorless, used as a substitute for gum, for sizing, etc., and obtained from starch by the action of heat, acids, or diastase.
gomphiasis		A disease of the teeth, which causes them to loosen and fall out of their sockets.
gomphosis		A form of union or immovable articulation where a hard part is received into the cavity of a bone, as the teeth into the jaws.
gomuti		A black, fibrous substance resembling horsehair, obtained from the leafstalks of two kinds of palms, Metroxylon Sagu, and Arenga saccharifera, of the Indian islands.
gon	Obsolete	imp. & p. p. of Go.
gonad		One of the masses of generative tissue primitively alike in both sexes, but giving rise to either an ovary or a testis; a generative gland; a germ gland.
gonakie		An African timber tree (Acacia Adansonii).
gonangium		See Gonotheca — a capsule developed on certain hydroids (Thecaphora), inclosing the blastostyle upon which the medusoid buds or gonophores are developed; -- called also gonangium, and teleophore.
gondola		A long, narrow boat with a high prow and stern, used in the canals of Venice.
gondolet		A small gondola.
gondolier		A man who rows a gondola.
gone		p. p. of Go — to pass from one place to another; to be in motion; to be in a state not motionless or at rest; to proced; to advance; to make progress; -- used, in various applications…
goneness	Colloquial	A state of exhaustion; faintness, especially as resulting from hunger.
gonfalon		The ensign or standard in use by certain princes or states, such as the mediæval republics of Italy, and in more recent times by the pope.
gonfalonier		He who bears the gonfalon; a standard bearer; as: (a) An officer at Rome who bears the standard of the Church.
gonfanon		The ensign or standard in use by certain princes or states, such as the mediæval republics of Italy, and in more recent times by the pope.
gong		Etym: An instrument, first used in the East, made of an alloy of copper and tin, shaped like a disk with upturned rim, and producing, when struck, a harsh and resounding noise.
gongorism		An affected elegance or euphuism of style, for which the Spanish poet Gongora y Argote (1561-1627), among others of his time, was noted.
goniatite		One of an extinct genus of fossil cephalopods, allied to the Ammonites.
gonidial		Pertaining to, or containing, gonidia.
gonidium		A special groove or furrow at one or both angles of the mouth of many Anthozoa.
gonimia		Bluish green granules which occur in certain lichens, as Collema, Peltigera, etc., and which replace the more usual gonidia.
gonimous		Pertaining to, or containing, gonidia or gonimia, as that part of a lichen which contains the green or chlorophyll-bearing cells.
goniometer		An instrument for measuring angles, especially the angles of crystals, or the inclination of planes.
goniometric		Pertaining to, or determined by means of, a goniometer; trigonometric.
goniometrical		Pertaining to, or determined by means of, a goniometer; trigonometric.
goniometry		The art of measuring angles; trigonometry.
gonoblastid		A reproductive bud of a hydroid; a simple gonophore.
gonoblastidium		A blastostyle.
gonocalyx		The bell of a sessile gonozooid.
gonochorism		(a) Separation of the sexes in different individuals; -- opposed to hermaphroditism.
gonococcus		A vegetable microörganism of the genus Micrococcus, occurring in the secretion in gonorrhea.
gonoph		A pickpocket or thief.
gonophore		(Zoöl.) A sexual zooid produced as a medusoid bud upon a hydroid, sometimes becoming a free hydromedusa, sometimes remaining attached.
gonorrhea		A contagious inflammatory disease of the genitourinary tract, affecting especially the urethra and vagina, and characterized by a mucopurulent discharge, pain in urination, and chordee; clap.
gonorrheal		Of or pertaining to gonorrhea; as, gonorrheal rheumatism.
gonorrhoea		A contagious inflammatory disease of the genitourinary tract, affecting especially the urethra and vagina, and characterized by a mucopurulent discharge, pain in urination, and chordee; clap.
gonorrhoeal		Of or pertaining to gonorrhea; as, gonorrheal rheumatism.
gonosome		The reproductive zooids of a hydroid colony, collectively.
gonotheca		A capsule developed on certain hydroids (Thecaphora), inclosing the blastostyle upon which the medusoid buds or gonophores are developed; -- called also gonangium, and teleophore.
gonozooid		A sexual zooid, or medusoid bud of a hydroid; a gonophore. See Hydroidea, and Illust. of Campanularian.
gonydial		Pertaining to the gonys of a bird's beak.
gonys		The keel or lower outline of a bird's bill, so far as the mandibular rami are united.
goober		A peanut.
good		Possessing desirable qualities; adapted to answer the end designed; promoting success, welfare, or happiness; serviceable; useful; fit; excellent; admirable; commendable; not bad, corrupt, evil, noxious, offensive…
good-by		Farewell; a form of address used at parting. See the last Note under By, prep.
good-bye		Farewell; a form of address used at parting. See the last Note under By, prep.
good-den	Obsolete	A form of salutation.
good-fellowship		Agreeable companionship; companionableness.
good-humored		Having a cheerful spirit and demeanor; good-tempered. See Good- natured.
good-humoredly		With a cheerful spirit; in a cheerful or good-tempered manner.
good-looking		Handsome.
good-natured		Naturally mild in temper; not easily provoked.
good-naturedly		With maldness of temper.
good-tempered		Having a good temper; not easily vexed. See Good-natured.
goodgeon		Same as Gudgeon, 5.
goodish		Rather good than the contrary; not actually bad; tolerable.
goodless	Obsolete	Having no goods.
goodliness		Beauty of form; grace; elegance; comeliness.
goodly		Pleasant; agreeable; desirable.
goodlyhead	Obsolete	Goodness; grace; goodliness.
goodlyhood	Obsolete	Goodness; grace; goodliness.
goodman	Obsolete	A familiar appellation of civility, equivalent to,, -- sometimes used ironically.
goodness		The quality of being good in any of its various senses; excellence; virtue; kindness; benevolence; as, the goodness of timber, of a soil, of food; goodness of character, of disposition, of conduct, etc.
goods		See Good, n., 3.
goodship	Obsolete	Favor; grace.
goodwife	Archaic	The mistress of a house.
goody	Colloquial	A bonbon, cake, or the like; -- usually in the pl.
goody-goody	Colloquial	Mawkishly or weakly good; exhibiting goodness with silliness.
goodyship		The state or quality of a goody or goodwife Hudibraus.
goolde		An old English name of some yellow flower, -- the marigold (Calendula), according to Dr. Prior, but in Chaucer perhaps the turnsole.
gooroo		A spiritual teacher, guide, or confessor amoung the Hindoos.
goosander		A species of merganser (M. merganser) of Northern Europe and America; -- called also merganser, dundiver, sawbill, sawneb, shelduck, and sheldrake.
goose		Any large web-footen bird of the subfamily Anserinæ, and belonging to Anser, Branta, Chen, and several allied genera.
goose-rumped		Having the tail set low and buttocks that fall away sharply from the croup; -- said of certain horses.
gooseberry		(Bot.) Any thorny shrub of the genus Ribes; also, the edible berries of such shrub.
goosefish		See Angler — one who angles.
goosefoot		A genus of herbs (Chenopodium) mostly annual weeds; pigweed.
goosery		A place for keeping geese.
goosewing		One of the clews or lower corners of a course or a topsail when the middle part or the rest of the sail is furled.
goosewinged		(a) Having a (b) Said of a fore-and-aft rigged vessel with foresail set on one side and mainsail on the other; wing and wing.
goosish	Obsolete	Like a goose; foolish.
goost	Obsolete	Ghost; spirit.
gopher		One of several North American burrowing rodents of the genera Geomys and Thomomys, of the family Geomyidæ; -- called also pocket gopher and pouched rat.
gor-bellied	Obsolete	Bog-bellied.
gor-belly	Obsolete	A prominent belly; a big-bellied person.
goracco		A paste prepared from tobacco, and smoked in hookahs in Western India.
goral		An Indian goat antelope (Nemorhedus goral), resembling the chamois.
goramy		Same as Gourami.
gorce	Obsolete	A pool of water to keep fish in; a wear.
gorcock	English dialect	The moor cock, or red grouse. See Grouse.
gorcrow	English dialect	The carrion crow; -- called also gercrow.
gord	Obsolete	An instrument of gaming; a sort of dice.
gordiacea		A division of nematoid worms, including the hairworms or hair eels (Gordius and Mermis).
gordian		Pertaining to Gordius, king of Phrygia, or to a knot tied by him; hence, intricate; complicated; inextricable.
gordius		A genus of long, slender, nematoid worms, parasitic in insects until near maturity, when they leave the insect, and live in water, in which they deposit their eggs; -- called also hair eel, hairworm, and hair snake…
gore		Blood; especially, blood that after effusion has become thick or clotted.
gorebill	English dialect	The garfish.
gorfly		A dung fly.
gorge		The throat; the gullet; the canal by which food passes to the stomach.
gorged		(Her.) Bearing a coronet or ring about the neck.
gorgelet		A small gorget, as of a humming bird.
gorgeous		Imposing through splendid or various colors; showy; fine; magnificent.
gorgerin		In some columns, that part of the capital between the termination of the shaft and the annulet of the echinus, or the space between two neck moldings; -- called also neck of the capital, and hypotrachelium.
gorget		A piece of armor, whether of chain mail or of plate, defending the throat and upper part of the breast, and forming a part of the double breastplate of the 14th century.
gorgon		(Gr. Myth.) One of three fabled sisters, Stheno, Euryale, and Medusa, with snaky hair and of terrific aspect, the sight of whom turned the beholder to stone.
gorgonacea		See Gorgoniacea — one of the principal divisions of Alcyonaria, including those forms which have a firm and usually branched axis, covered with a porous crust, or c
gorgonean		See Gorgonian, 1.
gorgoneion		A mask carved in imitation of a Gorgon's head.
gorgonia		A genus of Gorgoniacea, formerly very extensive, but now restricted to such species as the West Indian sea fan (Gorgonia flabellum), sea plume (G. setosa), and other allied species having a flexible, horny axis.
gorgoniacea		One of the principal divisions of Alcyonaria, including those forms which have a firm and usually branched axis, covered with a porous crust, or c
gorgonian		Pertaining to, or resembling, a Gorgon; terrifying into stone; terrific.
gorgonize		To have the effect of a Gorgon upon; to turn into stone; to petrify.
gorgonzola		A kind of Italian pressed milk cheese; -- so called from a village near Milan.
gorhen		The female of the gorcock.
gorilla		A large, arboreal, anthropoid ape of West Africa.
goring		A piece of canvas cut obliquely to widen a sail at the foot.
gorm	English dialect	Axle grease. See Gome.
gorma		The European cormorant.
gormand		A greedy or ravenous eater; a luxurious feeder; a gourmand.
gormander	Obsolete	See Gormand, n.
gormandism		Gluttony.
gormandize		To eat greedily; to swallow voraciously; to feed ravenously or like a glutton.
gormandizer		A greedy, voracious eater; a gormand; a glutton.
gorse	English dialect	Furze. See Furze.
gory		Covered with gore or clotted blood.
goshawk		Any large hawk of the genus Astur, of which many species and varieties are known.
gosherd		One who takes care of geese.
goslet		One of several species of pygmy geese, of the genus Nettepus.
gosling		A young or unfledged goose.
gospel		Glad tidings; especially, the good news concerning Christ, the Kingdom of God, and salvation.
gospeler		One of the four evangelists.
gospelize		To form according to the gospel; as, a command gospelized to us.
gossamer		A fine, filmy substance, like cobwebs, floating in the air, in calm, clear weather, especially in autumn.
gossamery		Like gossamer; flimsy.
gossan		Decomposed rock, usually reddish or ferruginous (owing to oxidized pyrites), forming the upper part of a metallic vein.
gossaniferous		Containing or producing gossan.
gossat	English dialect	A small British marine fish (Motella tricirrata); -- called also whistler and three-bearded rockling.
gossib	Obsolete	A gossip.
gossip		One who runs house to house, tattling and telling news; an idle tattler.
gossiper		One given to gossip.
gossiprede	Obsolete	The relationship between a person and his sponsors.
gossipry		Spiritual relationship or affinity; gossiprede; special intimacy.
gossipy		Full of, or given to, gossip.
gossoon		A boy; a servant.
gossypium		A genus of plants which yield the cotton of the arts.
got		imp. & p. p. of Get. See Get.
gote	English dialect	A channel for water.
goter	Obsolete	a gutter.
goth		(Ethnol.) One of an ancient Teutonic race, who dwelt between the Elbe and the Vistula in the early part of the Christian era, and who overran and took an important part in subverting the Roman empire.
gothamist		A wiseacre; a person deficient in wisdom; -- so called from Gotham, in Nottinghamshire, England, noted for some pleasant blunders.
gothamite		An inhabitant of New York city.
gothic		Pertaining to the Goths; as, Gothic customs; also, rude; barbarous.
gothicism		A Gothic idiom.
gothicize		To make Gothic; to bring back to barbarism.
gothite		A hydrous oxide of iron, occurring in prismatic crystals, also massive, with a fibrous, reniform, or stalactitic structure.
gotten		p. p. of Get — to procure; to obtain; to gain possession of; to acquire; to earn; to obtain as a price or reward; to come by; to win, by almost any means; as, to get favor by kindness…
gouache		A method of painting with opaque colors, which have been ground in water and mingled with a preparation of gum; also, a picture thus painted.
goudron		a small fascine or fagot, steeped in wax, pitch, and glue, used in various ways, as for igniting buildings or works, or to light ditches and ramparts.
gouge		A chisel, with a hollow or semicylindrical blade, for scooping or cutting holes, channels, or grooves, in wood, stone, etc.; a similar instrument, with curved edge, for turning wood.
gouger		See Plum Gouger.
gougeshell		A sharp-edged, tubular, marine shell, of the genus Vermetus; also, the pinna.
goujere	Obsolete	The venereal disease.
gouland		See Golding — a conspicuous yellow flower, commonly the corn marigold (Chrysanthemum segetum).
gour		A fire worshiper; a Gheber or Gueber.
goura		One of several species of large, crested ground pigeons of the genus Goura, inhabiting New Guinea and adjacent islands.
gourami		A very largo East Indian freshwater fish (Osphromenus gorami), extensively reared in artificial ponds in tropical countries, and highly valued as a food fish.
gourd		(Bot.) A fleshy, three-celled, many-seeded fruit, as the melon, pumpkin, cucumber, etc., of the order Cucurbitaceæ; and especially the bottle gourd (Lagenaria vulgaris) which occurs in a great variety of forms, and…
gourde		A silver dollar; -- so called in Cuba, Hayti, etc. Simmonds.
gourdiness		The state of being gourdy.
gourdworm		The fluke of sheep. See Fluke.
gourdy		Swelled in the legs.
gourmand		A greedy or ravenous eater; a glutton. See Gormand.
gourmet		A connoisseur in eating and drinking; an epicure.
gournet		A fish. See Gurnet.
gout		(Med.) A constitutional disease, occurring by paroxysms.
goutily		In a gouty manner.
goutiness		The state of being gouty; gout.
goutweed		A coarse umbelliferous plant of Europe (Ægopodium Podagraria); -- called also bishop's weed, ashweed, and herb gerard.
goutwort		A coarse umbelliferous plant of Europe (Ægopodium Podagraria); -- called also bishop's weed, ashweed, and herb gerard.
gouty		Diseased with, or subject to, the gout; as, a gouty person; a gouty joint.
gove	Obsolete	A mow; a rick for hay.
govern		To direct and control, as the actions or conduct of men, either by established laws or by arbitrary will; to regulate by authority.
governability		Governableness.
governable		Capable of being governed, or subjected to authority; controllable; manageable; obedient.
governableness		The quality of being governable; manageableness.
governail	Obsolete	Management; mastery.
governal	Obsolete	Management; mastery.
governance		Exercise of authority; control; government; arrangement.
governante		A governess.
governess		A female governor; a woman invested with authority to control and direct; especially, one intrusted with the care and instruction of children, -- usually in their homes.
governing		Holding the superiority; prevalent; controlling; as, a governing wind; a governing party in a state.
government		The act of governing; the exercise of authority; the administration of laws; control; direction; regulation; as, civil, church, or family government.
governmental		Pertaining to government; made by government; as, governmental duties.
governor		One who governs; especially, one who is invested with the supreme executive authority in a State; a chief ruler or magistrate; as, the governor of Pennsylvania.
governorship		The office of a governor.
gowan	Scots	The daisy, or mountain daisy.
gowany	Scots	Having, abounding in, or decked with, daisies.
gowd	Scots	Gold; wealth.
gowdie	Scots	See Dragont.
gowdnook		The saury pike; -- called also gofnick.
gowk		The European cuckoo; -- called also gawky.
gowl	Obsolete	To howl.
gown		A loose, flowing upper garment; especially: (a) The ordinary outer dress of a woman; as, a calico or silk gown.
gowned		Dressed in a gown; clad.
gownman		One whose professional habit is a gown, as a divine or lawyer, and particularly a member of an English university; hence, a civilian, in distinction from a soldier.
gownsman		One whose professional habit is a gown, as a divine or lawyer, and particularly a member of an English university; hence, a civilian, in distinction from a soldier.
gozzard	English dialect	See Gosherd — one who takes care of geese.
