graafian		Pertaining to, or discovered by, Regnier de Graaf, a Dutch physician.	
graal		See Grail., a dish.	
grab		A vessel used on the Malabar coast, having two or three masts.	
grabber		One who seizes or grabs.	
grabble		To grope; to feel with the hands.	
grace		The exercise of love, kindness, mercy, favor; disposition to benefit or serve another; favor bestowed or privilege conferred.	Middle English grace, from Old French grace.
graced		Endowed with grace; beautiful; full of graces; honorable.	
graceful		Displaying grace or beauty in form or action; elegant; easy; agreeable in appearance; as, a graceful walk, deportment, speaker, air, act, speech.	
graceless		Wanting in grace or excellence; departed from, or deprived of, divine grace; hence, depraved; corrupt.	
gracile	Obsolete	Slender; thin.	Latin gracilis.
gracility		State of being gracilent; slenderness.	
gracillent	Obsolete	Slender; thin.	
gracious		Abounding in grace or mercy; manifesting love,. or bestowing mercy; characterized by grace; beneficent; merciful; disposed to show kindness or favor; condescending; as, his most gracious majesty.	
graciously		In a gracious manner; courteously; benignantly.	
graciousness		Quality of being gracious.	
grackle		(a) One of several American blackbirds, of the family Icteridæ; as, the rusty grackle (Scolecophagus Carolinus); the boat-tailed grackle (see Boat-tail); the purple grackle (Quiscalus quiscula, or Q. versicolor).	
gradate		To grade or arrange (parts in a whole, colors in painting, etc.), so that they shall harmonize.	
gradation		The act of progressing by regular steps or orderly arrangement; the state of being graded or arranged in ranks; as, the gradation of castes.	
gradational		By regular steps or gradations; of or pertaining to gradation.	
gradatory		Proceeding step by step, or by gradations; gradual.	
grade		A step or degree in any series, rank, quality, order; relative position or standing; as, grades of military rank; crimes of every grade; grades of flour.	French grade, from Latin gradus.
gradely	English dialect	Decent; orderly.	Middle English greiþli, from Old Norse greiðliga.
grader		One who grades, or that by means of which grading is done or facilitate.	
gradient		Moving by steps; walking; as, gradient automata.	Latin gradiens.
gradin		Any member like a step, as the raised back of an altar or the like; a set raised over another.	
gradine		Any member like a step, as the raised back of an altar or the like; a set raised over another.	
grading		The act or method of arranging in or by grade, or of bringing, as the surface of land or a road, to the desired level or grade.	
gradino		A step or raised shelf, as above a sideboard or altar.	
gradual		Proceeding by steps or degrees; advancing, step by step, as in ascent or descent or from one state to another; regularly progressive; slow; as, a gradual increase of knowledge; a gradual decline.	Latin gradualis.
graduality		The state of being gradual; gradualness.	
gradually		In a gradual manner.	
gradualness		The quality or state of being gradual; regular progression or gradation; slowness.	
graduate		To mark with degrees; to divide into regular steps, grades, or intervals, as the scale of a thermometer, a scheme of punishment or rewards, etc.	Latin gradus.
graduated		Marked with, or divided into, degrees; divided into grades.	
graduateship		State of being a graduate.	
graduation		The act of graduating, or the state of being graduated; as, graduation of a scale; graduation at a college; graduation in color; graduation by evaporation; the graduation of a bird's tail, etc.	
graduator		One who determines or indicates graduation; as, a graduator of instruments.	
gradus		A dictionary of prosody, designed as an aid in writing Greek or Latin poetry.	
graf		A German title of nobility, equivalent to earl in English, or count in French.	
graff		A steward; an overseer. is nothing but a servant, overseer, or graff, and not the head, which is a title belonging only to Christ.	
graffage		The scarp of a ditch or moat.	
graffer		a notary or scrivener.	
graffiti		Inscriptions, figure drawings, etc., found on the walls of ancient sepulchers or ruins, as in the Catacombs, or at Pompeii.	Italian graffiti.
graffito		Production of decorative designs by scratching them through a surface of layer plaster, glazing, etc., revealing a different- colored ground; also, pottery or ware so decorated; -- chiefly used attributively.	Italian graffito.
graft		(a) A small shoot or scion of a tree inserted in another tree, the stock of which is to support and nourish it.	Middle English graffe, from Old French greffe, from Latin graphium, from Greek γραφείον.
graftage		The science of grafting, including the various methods of practice and details of operation.	
grafter		One who inserts scions on other stocks, or propagates fruit by ingrafting.	
grafting		The act or method of weaving a cover for a ring, rope end, etc. 3. (Surg.) The transplanting of a portion of flesh or skin to a denuded surface; autoplasty. 4.	
grahamite		One who follows the dietetic system of Graham.	
grail	Obsolete	A book of offices in the Roman Catholic Church; a gradual.	Old French graal, from Latin gradalis.
graille		A halfround single-cut file or fioat, having one curved face and one straight face, -- used by comb makers.	
grain		A single small hard seed; a kernel, especially of those plants, like wheat, whose seeds are used for food.	Old French grain, from Latin granum.
grained		Having a grain; divided into small particles or grains; showing the grain; hence, rough.	
grainer		An infusion of pigeon's dung used by tanners to neutralize the effects of lime and give flexibility to skins; -- called also grains and bate.	
grainfield		A field where grain is grown.	
graining		Indentation; roughening; milling, as on edges of coins.	
grains		Pigeon's dung used in tanning. See Grainer. n., 1.	
grainy		Resembling grains; granular.	
graip	Scots	A dungfork.	
graith	Scots	See Greith — to make ready; -- often used reflexively.	Middle English graithen.
grakle		See Grackle — (a) One of several American blackbirds, of the family Icteridæ; as, the rusty grackle (Scolecophagus Carolinus); the boat-tailed grackle (see Boat-tail)…	
grallae		An order of birds which formerly included all the waders.	
grallatores		See Grallæ.	
grallatorial		Of or pertaining to the Grallatores, or waders.	Latin grallator.
grallatory		Of or pertaining to the Grallatores, or waders.	
grallic		Pertaining to the Grallæ.	
gralline		Of or pertaining to the Grallæ.	
gralloch		Offal of a deer. -- v. t.	Scottish Gaelic grealach.
gramarye		Necromancy; magic.	
gramashes		Gaiters reaching to the knee; leggings.	
grame	Obsolete	Anger; wrath; scorn.	Middle English gramen.
gramercy		A word formerly used to express thankfulness, with surprise; many thanks.	Middle English gramerci.
graminaceous		Pertaining to, or resembling, the grasses; gramineous; as, graminaceous plants.	
gramineal		Gramineous.	
gramineous		Like, Or pertaining to, grass. See Grass, n., 2.	Latin gramineus.
graminifolious		Bearing leaves resembling those of grass.	Latin gramen.
graminivorous		Feeding or subsisting on grass, and the like food; -- said of horses, cattle, and other animals.	Latin graminivorus.
grammalogue		Literally, a letter word; a word represented by a logogram; as, it, represented by |, that is, t. pitman.	
grammar		The science which treats of the principles of language; the study of forms of speech, and their relations to one another; the art concerned with the right use aud application of the rules of a language, in speaking or writing.	Middle English gramarye.
grammarian		One versed in grammar, or the construction of languages; a philologist.	
grammarianism		The principles, practices, or peculiarities of grammarians.	
grammarless		Without grammar.	
grammates	Obsolete	Rudiments; first principles, as of grammar.	
grammatic		Grammatical.	
grammatical		Of or pertaining to grammar; of the nature of grammar; as, a grammatical rule.	Latin grammaticalis.
grammaticaster		A petty grammarian; a grammatical pedant or pretender.	
grammatication	Obsolete	A principle of grammar; a grammatical rule.	
grammaticism		A point or principle of grammar.	
grammaticize		To render grammatical.	
grammatist		A petty grammarian.	
gramme		The unit of weight in the metric system.	
gramophone		An instrument for recording, preserving, and reproducing sounds, the record being a tracing of a phonautograph etched in some solid material.	
grampus		(Zoöl.) A toothed delphinoid cetacean, of the genus Grampus, esp. G. griseus of Europe and America, which is valued for its oil.	
granade		See Grenade — a hollow ball or shell of iron filled with powder of other explosive, ignited by means of a fuse, and thrown from the hand among enemies.	
granadilla		The fruit of certain species of passion flower (esp. Passiflora quadrangularis) found in Brazil and the West Indies.	
granado		See Grenade — a hollow ball or shell of iron filled with powder of other explosive, ignited by means of a fuse, and thrown from the hand among enemies.	
granary		A storehouse or repository for grain, esp. after it is thrashed or husked; a cornbouse; also (Fig.), a region fertile in grain.	
granate		See Garnet — a mineral having many varieties differing in color and in their constituents, but with the same crystallization (isometric), and conforming to the same general chemical formula.	
granatin		Mannite; -- so called because found in the pomegranate.	
granatite		See Staurolite — a mineral of a brown to black color occurring in prismatic crystals, often twinned so as to form groups resembling a cross.	
grand		Of large size or extent; great; extensive; hence, relatively great; greatest; chief; principal; as, a grand mountain; a grand army; a grand mistake.	
grand-ducal		Of or pertaining to a grand duke.	
grandam		An old woman; specifically, a grandmother.	
grandaunt		The aunt of one's father or mother.	
grandchild		A son's or daughter's child; a child in the second degree of descent.	
granddaughter		The daughter of one's son or daughter.	
grandee		A man of elevated rank or station; a nobleman.	Latin grandis.
grandeeship		The rank or estate of a grandee; lordship.	
grandeur		The state or quality of being grand; vastness; greatness; splendor; magnificence; stateliness; sublimity; dignity; elevation of thought or expression; nobility of action.	Old French grandeur.
grandevity	Obsolete	Great age; long life.	Latin grandaevitas.
grandevous		Of great age; aged; longlived.	
grandfather		A father's or mother's father; an ancestor in the next degree above the father or mother in lineal ascent.	
grandfatherly		Like a grandfather in age or manner; kind; benignant; indulgent.	
grandific		Making great.	
grandiloquence		The use of lofty words or phrases; bombast; -- usually in a bad sense.	
grandiloquent		Speaking in a lofty style; pompous; bombastic.	Latin grandiloquus.
grandiloquous		Grandiloquent.	
grandinous		Consisting of hail; abounding in hail.	
grandiose		Impressive or elevating in effect; vimposing; splendid; striking; -- in a good sense.	French grandiose, from Italian grandioso, from Latin grandis.
grandiosity		The state or quality of being grandiose,	
grandity	Obsolete	Grandness.	
grandly		In a grand manner.	
grandma		A grand mother.	
grandmamma		A grand mother.	
grandmother		The mother of one's father or mother.	
grandmotherly		Like a grandmother in age or manner; kind; indulgent.	
grandnephew		The grandson of one's brother or sister.	
grandness		Grandeur.	
grandniece		The granddaughter of one's brother or sister.	
grandpa		A grandfather.	
grandpapa		A grandfather.	
grandsire		Specifically, a grandfather; more generally, any ancestor.	
grandson		A son's or daughter's son.	
granduncle		father's or mother's uncle.	
grane	Obsolete	See Groan — to give forth a low, moaning sound in breathing; to utter a groan, as in pain, in sorrow, or in derision; to moan.	
grange		A farmhouse, with the barns and other buildings for farming purposes.	Old French grange.
granger	Obsolete	A farm steward.	
grangerism		The practice of illustrating a particular book by engravings collected from other books.	
grangerite		One who collects illustrations from various books for the decoration of one book.	
grangerize		To collect (illustrations from books) for decoration of other books.	
graniferous		Bearing grain, or seeds like grain.	
graniform		Formed like of corn.	
granilla		Small grains or dust of cochineal or the coccus insect.	
granite		A crystalline, granular rock, consisting of quartz, feldspar, and mica, and usually of a whitish, grayish, or flesh-red color.	French granit, from Italian granito.
granitic		Like granite in composition, color, etc.; having the nature of granite; as, granitic texture.	
granitical		Granitic.	
granitification		The act or the process of forming into granite.	
granitiform		Resembling granite in structure or shape.	
granitoid		Resembling granite in granular appearance; as, granitoid gneiss; a granitoid pavement.	
granivorous		Eating grain; feeding or subsisting on seeds; as, granivorous birds.	
grannam	Colloquial	A grandam.	
granny		A grandmother; a grandam; familiarly, an old woman.	
granolithic		A kind of hard artificial stone, used for pavements.	
grant		To give over; to make conveyance of; to give the possession or title of; to convey; -- usually in answer to petition.	Middle English granten.
grantable		Capable of being granted.	
grantee		The person to whom a grant or conveyance is made.	
granter		One who grants.	
grantor		The person by whom a grant or conveyance is made.	
granular		Consisting of, or resembling, grains; as, a granular substance.	
granularly		In a granular form.	
granulary		Granular.	
granulate		To form into grains or small masses; as, to granulate powder, sugar, or metal.	
granulated		Consisting of, or resembling, grains; crystallized in grains; granular; as, granulated sugar.	
granulation		The act or process of forming or crystallizing into grains; as, the granulation of powder and sugar.	
granule		A little grain a small particle; a pellet.	Latin granulum.
granuliferous		Full of granulations.	
granuliform		Having a granular structure; granular; as, granuliform limestone.	
granulite		A whitish, granular rock, consisting of feldspar and quartz intimately mixed; -- sometimes called whitestone, and leptynite.	
granulose		The main constituent of the starch grain or granule, in distinction from the framework of cellulose.	
granulous		Full of grains; abounding with granular substances; granular.	
grape		(Bot.) A well-known edible berry growing in pendent clusters or bunches on the grapevine.	Middle English grape, from Old French grape.
grapeless		Wanting grapes or the flavor of grapes.	
grapery		A building or inclosure used for the cultivation of grapes.	
grapeshot		A cluster, usually nine in number, of small iron balls, put together by means of cast-iron circular plates at top and bottom, with two rings, and a central connecting rod, in order to be used as a charge for a cannon.	
grapestone		A seed of the grape.	
grapevine		A vine or climbing shrub, of the genus Vitis, having small green flowers and lobed leaves, and bearing the fruit called grapes.	
graphic		Of or pertaining to the arts of painting and drawing.	Latin graphicus, from Greek γραφικός.
graphical		Of or pertaining to the arts of painting and drawing.	
graphically		In a graphic manner; vividly.	
graphicalness		The quality or state of being graphic.	
graphicness		The quality or state of being graphic.	
graphics		The art or the science of drawing; esp. of drawing according to mathematical rules, as in perspective, projection, and the like.	
graphiscope		See Graphoscope — an optical instrument for magnifying engravings, photographs, etc., usually having one large lens and two smaller ones.	
graphite		Native carbon in hexagonal crystals, also foliated or granular massive, of black color and metallic luster, and so soft as to leave a trace on paper.	German Graphit, from Greek γράφω.
graphitic		Pertaining to, containing, derived from, or resembling, graphite.	
graphitoid		Resembling graphite or plumbago.	
graphitoidal		Resembling graphite or plumbago.	
grapholite		Any species of slate suitable to be written on.	
graphology		The art of judging of a person's character, disposition, and aptitude from his handwriting.	Greek γραφή.
graphophone		A kind of photograph.	
graphoscope		An optical instrument for magnifying engravings, photographs, etc., usually having one large lens and two smaller ones.	
graphotype		A process for producing a design upon a surface in relief so that it can be printed from.	
grapnel		A small anchor, with four or five flukes or claws, used to hold boats or small vessels; hence, any instrument designed to grapple or hold; a grappling iron; a grab; -- written also grapline, and crapnel.	
grapple		To seize; to lay fast hold of; to attack at close quarters: as, to grapple an antagonist.	
grapplement	Obsolete	A grappling; close fight or embrace.	
grappling		A laying fast ho1d of; also, that by which anything is seized and held, a grapnel.	
grapsoid		Pertaining to the genus Grapsus or the family Grapsidæ. -- n.	
graptolite		One of numerous species of slender and delicate fossils, of the genus Graptolites and allied genera, found in the Silurian rocks.	
graptolitic		Of or pertaining to graptolites; containing graptolites; as, a graptolitic slate.	
grapy		Composed of, or resembling, grapes.	
grasp		To seize and hold by clasping or embracing with the fingers or arms; to catch to take possession of.	
graspable		Capable of being grasped.	
grasper		One who grasps or seizes; one who catches or holds.	
grasping		Seizing; embracing; catching.	
graspless		Without a grasp; relaxed.	
grass		Popularly: Herbage; the plants which constitute the food of cattle and other beasts; pasture.	Middle English gras.
grass-green		Green with grass.	
grass-grown		Overgrown with grass; as, a grass-grown road.	
grassation	Obsolete	A wandering about with evil intentions; a rioting.	Latin grassatio.
grasshopper		(Zoöl.) Any jumping, orthopterous insect, of the families Acrididæ and Locustidæ.	
grassiness		The state of abounding with grass; a grassy state.	
grassless		Destitute of grass.	
grassplot		A plot or space covered with grass; a lawn.	
grassy		Covered with grass; abounding with grass; as, a grassy lawn.	
grate		A structure or frame containing parallel or crosed bars, with interstices; a kind of latticework, such as is used ia the windows of prisons and cloisters.	Old French grater, from Frankish kratton.
grated		Furnished with a grate or grating; as, grated windows.	
grateful		Having a due sense of benefits received; kindly disposed toward one from whom a favor has been received; willing to acknowledge and repay, or give thanks for, benefits; as, a grateful heart.	
grater		One who, or that which, grates; especially, an instrument or utensil with a rough, indented surface, for rubbing off small particles of any substance; as a grater for nutmegs.	
graticulation		The division of a design or draught into squares, in order the more easily to reproduce it in larger or smaller dimensions.	
graticule		A design or draught which has been divided into squares, in order to reproduce it in other dimensions.	
gratification		The act of gratifying, or pleasing, either the mind, the taste, or the appetite; as, the gratification of the palate, of the appetites, of the senses, of the desires, of the heart.	Latin gratification.
gratified		Pleased; indulged according to desire.	
gratifier		One who gratifies or pleases.	
gratify		To please; to give pleasure to; to satisfy; to soothe; to indulge; as, to gratify the taste, the appetite, the senses, the desires, the mind, etc. For who would die to gratify a foe Dryden.	French gratifier, from Latin gratificare.
gratin		The brown crust formed upon a gratinated dish; also, dish itself, as crusts bread, game, or poultry.	French gratin.
gratinate		To cook, as macaroni, in a savory juice or sauce until juice is absorbed and a crisp surface forms.	
grating		A partition, covering, or frame of parallel or cross bars; a latticework resembling a window grate; as, the grating of a prison or convent.	
gratiolin		One of the essential principles of the hedge hyssop (Gratiola officinalis).	
gratis		For nothing; without fee or recompense; freely; gratuitously.	Latin gratis.
gratitude		The state of being grateful; warm and friendly feeling toward a benefactor; kindness awakened by a favor received; thankfulness.	French gratitude, from Latin gratitudo.
gratuitous		Given without an equivalent or recompense; conferred without valuable consideration; granted without pay, or without claim or merit; not required by justice.	Latin gratuitus.
gratuity		Something given freely or without recompense; a free gift; a present.	Old French gratuite, from Latin gratuitas.
gratulate	Obsolete	To salute with declaration of joy; to congratulate.	Latin congratulor.
gratulation		The act of gratulating or felicitating; congratulation.	Latin gratulationem.
gratulatory		Expressing gratulation or joy; congratulatory.	
graunt		See Grant — to give over; to make conveyance of; to give the possession or title of; to convey; -- usually in answer to petition.	
grauwacke		Graywacke.	German Grauwacke.
gravamen		The grievance complained of; the substantial cause of the action; also, in general, the ground or essence of a complaint.	
grave		(Naut.) To clean, as a vessel's bottom, of barnacles, grass, etc., and pay it over with pitch; -- so called because graves or greaves was formerly used for this purpose.	Middle English graven, from Old English grafan.
graveclothes		The clothes or dress in which the dead are interred.	
gravedigger		(Zoöl.) See Burying beetle, under Bury, v. t.	
gravel		Small stones, or fragments of stone; very small pebbles, often intermixed with particles of sand.	
gravel-stone		A pebble, or small fragment of stone; a calculus.	
graveless		Without a grave; unburied.	
graveling		The act of covering with gravel.	
gravelliness		State of being gravelly.	
gravelling		The act of covering with gravel.	
gravelly		Abounding with gravel; consisting of gravel; as, a gravelly soil.	
gravely		In a grave manner.	
graveness		The quality of being grave.	
gravenstein		A kind of fall apple, marked with streaks of deep red and orange, and of excellent flavor and quality.	
graveolence		A strong and offensive smell; rancidity.	
graveolent		Having a rank smell.	
graver		One who graves; an engraver or a sculptor; one whose occupation is te cut letters or figures in stone or other hard material.	
gravery		The act, process, or art, of graving or carving; engraving.	
graves		The sediment of melted tallow.	
gravestone		A stone laid over, or erected near, a grave, usually with an inscription, to preserve the memory of the dead; a tombstone.	
graveyard		A yard or inclosure for the interment of the dead; a cemetery.	
gravic		Pertaining to, or causing, gravitation; as, gravic forces; gravic attraction.	
gravid		Being with child; heavy with young; pregnant; fruitful; as, a gravid uterus; gravid piety.	Latin gravidus.
gravidated	Obsolete	Made pregnant; big.	Latin gravidatus.
gravidation	Obsolete	Gravidity.	
gravidity		The state of being gravidated; pregnancy.	Latin graviditas.
gravigrade		Slow-paced. -- n.	
gravimeter		(Physics) An instrument for ascertaining the specific gravity of bodies.	
gravimetric		Of or pertaining to measurement by weight; measured by weight. -- Grav"i*met"ric*al*ly, adv.	
graving		That which is graved or carved.	
gravitate		To obey the law of gravitation; to exert a force Or pressure, or tend to move, under the influence of gravitation; to tend in any direction or toward any object.	
gravitation		(Pysics) That species of attraction or force by which all bodies or particles of matter in the universe tend toward each other; called also attraction of gravitation, universal gravitation, and universal gravity.	
gravitational		Of or pertaining to the force of gravity; as, gravitational units.	
gravitative		Causing to gravitate; tending to a center.	
gravity		The state of having weight; beaviness; as, the gravity of lead.	
gravy		The juice or other liquid matter that drips from flesh in cooking, made into a dressing for the food when served up.	
gray		White mixed with black, as the color of pepper and salt, or of ashes, or of hair whitened by age; sometimes, a dark mixed color; as, the soft gray eye of a dove.	Old English grǣġ.
grayback		(a) The California gray whale. (b) The redbreasted sandpiper or knot. (c) The dowitcher.	
graybeard		An old man.	
grayfly		The trumpet fly.	
grayhound		See Greyhound — a slender, graceful breed of dogs, remarkable for keen sight and swiftness.	
grayish		Somewhat gray.	
graylag		The common wild gray goose (Anser anser) of Europe, believed to be the wild form of the domestic goose.	
grayling		(Zoöl.) A European fish (Thymallus vulgaris), allied to the trout, but having a very broad dorsal fin; -- called also umber.	
grayness		The quality of being gray.	
graystone		A grayish or greenish compact rock, composed of feldspar and augite, and allied to basalt.	
graywacke		A conglomerate or grit rock, consisting of rounded pebbles sand firmly united together.	
graze		To feed or supply (cattle, sheep, etc.) with grass; to furnish pasture for.	
grazer		One that grazes; a creature which feeds on growing grass or herbage.	
grazier		One who pastures cattle, and rears them for market.	
grazing		The act of one who, or that which, grazes.	
grazioso		Gracefully; smoothly; elegantly.	
gre	Obsolete	See Gree, a step. See Gree, good will.	
grease		Animal fat, as tallow or lard, especially when in a soft state; oily or unctuous matter of any kind.	Anglo-Norman grece, from Old French graisse, from Latin crassus.
greaser		One who, or that which, greases; specifically, a person employed to lubricate the working parts of machinery, engines, carriages, etc.	
greasily		In a greasy manner.	
greasiness		The quality or state of being greasy, oiliness; unctuousness; grossness.	
greasy		Composed of, or characterized by, grease; oily; unctuous; as, a greasy dish.	
great		Large in space; of much size; big; immense; enormous; expanded; -- opposed to small and little; as, a great house, ship, farm, plain, distance, length.	Middle English greet, from Old English great.
great-bellied		Having a great belly, bigbellied; pregnant; teeming.	
great-grandchild		The child of one's grandson or granddaughter.	
great-granddaughter		A daughter of one's grandson or granddaughter.	
great-grandfather		The father of one's grandfather or grandmother.	
great-grandmother		The mother of one's grandfather or grandmother.	
great-grandson		A son of one's grandson or granddaughter.	
great-hearted		Generous; magnanimous; noble.	
great-heartedness		The quality of being greathearted; high-mindedness; magnanimity.	
greatcoat		An overcoat.	
greaten		To make great; to aggrandize; to cause to increase in size; to expand.	Middle English gretnen.
greatly		In a great degree; much.	
greatness		The state, condition, or quality of being great; as, greatness of size, greatness of mind, power, etc.	Old English greátnes.
greave	Obsolete	A grove.	
greaves		The sediment of melted tallow.	
grebe		One of several swimming birds or divers, of the genus Colymbus (formerly Podiceps), aud allied genera, found in the northern parts of America, Europe, and Asia.	French grèbe.
grecian		A native or naturalized inhabitant of Greece; a Greek.	
grecianize		To conform to the Greek custom, especially in speech.	
grecism		An idiom of the Greek language; a Hellenism.	
grecize		To render Grecian; also, to cause (a word or phrase in another language) to take a Greek form; as, the name is Grecized.	
greco-roman		Having characteristics that are partly Greek and partly Roman; as, Greco-Roman architecture.	
grecque		An ornament supposed to be of Greek origin, esp. a fret or meander,	French grecque.
gree	Obsolete	Good will; favor; pleasure; satisfaction; -- used esp. in such phrases as: to take in gree; to accept in gree; that is, to take favorably.	Old French gré, from Latin gradum.
greece	Obsolete	See Gree a step.	
greed		An eager desire or longing; greediness; as, a greed of gain.	
greediness		The quality of being greedy; vehement and selfish desire.	
greedy		Having a keen appetite for food or drink; ravenous; voracious; very hungry; -- followed by of; as, a lion that is greedy of his prey.	Middle English gredy, from Old English grædig.
greedy-gut	Low	A glutton.	
greegree		An African talisman or Gri'gri' charm.	
greek		A native, or one of the people, of Greece; a Grecian; also, the language of Greece.	
greekess		A female Greek.	
greekish		Peculiar to Greece.	
greekling		A little Greek, or one of small esteem or pretensions.	
green		Having the color of grass when fresh and growing; resembling that color of the solar spectrum which is between the yellow and the blue; verdant; emerald.	Middle English grene, from Old English grene.
green-broom		A plant of the genus Genista (G. tinctoria); dyer's weed; -- called also greenweed.	
green-eyed		Having green eyes.	
green-leek		An Australian parrakeet (Polytelis Barrabandi); -- called also the scarlet-breasted parrot.	
green-stall		A stall at which greens and fresh vegetables are exposed for sale.	
greenback		One of the legal tender notes of the United States; -- first issued in 1862, and having the devices on the back printed with green ink, to prevent alterations and counterfeits.	
greenbacker	Colloquial	One of those who supported greenback or paper money, and opposed the resumption of specie payments.	
greenbone		(a) Any garfish (Belone or Tylosurus). (b) The European eelpout.	
greencloth		A board or court of justice formerly held in the counting house of the British sovereign's household, composed of the lord steward and his officers, and having cognizance of matters of justice in the household…	
greenery		Green plants; verdure.	
greenfinch		A European finch (Ligurinus chloris); -- called also green bird, green linnet, green grosbeak, green olf, greeny, and peasweep.	
greenfish		See Bluefish, and Pollock.	
greengage		A kind of plum of medium size, roundish shape, greenish flesh, and delicious flavor.	
greengill		An oyster which has the gills tinged with a green pigment, said to be due to an abnormal condition of the blood.	
greengrocer		A retailer of vegetables or fruits in their fresh or green state.	
greenhead		(a) The mallard. (b) The striped bass. See Bass.	
greenhood		A state of greenness; verdancy.	
greenhorn		A raw, inexperienced person; one easily imposed upon.	
greenhouse		A house in which tender plants are cultivated and sheltered from the weather.	
greening		A greenish apple, of several varieties, among which the Rhode Island greening is the best known for its fine-grained acid flesh and its excellent keeping quality.	
greenish		Somewhat green; having a tinge of green; as, a greenish yellow. -- Green"ish*ness, n.	
greenlander		A native of Greenland.	
greenlet		l. (Zoöl.) One of numerous species of small American singing birds, of the genus Vireo, as the solitary, or blue-headed (Vireo solitarius); the brotherly-love (V.	
greenly	Obsolete	With a green color; newly; freshly, immaturely. -- a.	
greenness		The quality of being green; viridity; verdancy; as, the greenness of grass, or of a meadow.	
greenockite		Native cadmium sulphide, a mineral occurring in yellow hexagonal crystals, also as an earthy incrustation.	
greenroom		The retiring room of actors and actresses in a theater.	
greensand		A variety of sandstone, usually imperfectly consolidated, consisting largely of glauconite, a silicate of iron and potash of a green color, mixed with sand and a trace of phosphate of lime.	
greenshank		A European sandpiper or snipe (Totanus canescens); -- called also greater plover.	
greenstone		A name formerly applied rather loosely to certain dark-colored igneous rocks, including diorite, diabase, etc.	
greensward		Turf green with grass.	
greenth		The state or quality of being green; verdure.	
greenweed		See Greenbroom.	
greenwood		A forest as it appears is spring and summer.	
greet		To address with salutations or expressions of kind wishes; to salute; to hail; to welcome; to accost with friendship; to pay respects or compliments to, either personally or through the intervention of another…	Old English gretan.
greeter	Obsolete	One who greets or salutes another.	
greeting		Expression of kindness or joy; salutation at meeting; a compliment from one absent.	
greeve	Scots	See Grieve, an overseer.	Middle English greve, from Old English græfe.
greeze	Obsolete	A step. See Gree, a step.	
greffier	Obsolete	A registrar or recorder; a notary.	
gregal		Pertaining to, or like, a flock.	Latin gregalis.
gregarian	Obsolete	Gregarious; belonging to the herd or common sort; common.	
gregarinae		An order of Protozoa, allied to the Rhizopoda, and parasitic in other animals, as in the earthworm, lobster, etc. When adult, they have a small, wormlike body inclosing a nucleus, but without external organs…	
gregarine		An order of Protozoa, allied to the Rhizopoda, and parasitic in other animals, as in the earthworm, lobster, etc. When adult, they have a small, wormlike body inclosing a nucleus, but without external organs…	
gregarinida		Gregarinæ.	
gregarious		Habitually living or moving in flocks or herds; tending to flock or herd together; not habitually solitary or living alone.	Latin gregarius.
grege	Obsolete	To make heavy; to increase.	
gregge	Obsolete	To make heavy; to increase.	
greggoe		A short jacket or cloak, made of very thick, coarse cloth, with a hood attached, worn by the Greeks and others in the Levant.	
grego		A short jacket or cloak, made of very thick, coarse cloth, with a hood attached, worn by the Greeks and others in the Levant.	
gregorian		Pertaining to, or originated by, some person named Gregory, especially one of the popes of that name.	
greillade		Iron ore in coarse powder, prepared for reduction by the Catalan process.	
greisen		A crystalline rock consisting of quarts and mica, common in the tin regions of Cornwall and Saxony.	
greit		See Greet, to weep.	
greith	Obsolete	To make ready; -- often used reflexively.	
gremial		Of or pertaining to the lap or bosom.	
grenade		A hollow ball or shell of iron filled with powder of other explosive, ignited by means of a fuse, and thrown from the hand among enemies.	French grenade.
grenadier		(Mil.) Originaly, a soldier who carried and threw grenades; afterward, one of a company attached to each regiment or battalion, taking post on the right of the line, and wearing a peculiar uniform.	French grenadier.
grenadillo		A handsome tropical American wood, much used for making flutes and other wind instruments; -- called also Grenada cocos, or cocus, and red ebony.	
grenadine		A thin gauzelike fabric of silk or wool, for women's wear.	French grenadine, from Middle French grenade.
grenado		Same as Grenade.	
gressorial		Adapted for walking; anisodactylous; as the feet of certain birds and insects.	Latin gressus.
gressorious		Adapted for walking; anisodactylous; as the feet of certain birds and insects.	
gretto		imp. of Greet, to salute.	
greve	Obsolete	A grove.	
grew		imp. of Grow — to increase in size by a natural and organic process; to increase in bulk by the gradual assimilation of new matter into the living organism…	
grewsome		, Grue"some, a.	
grey		See Gray (the correct orthography).	
greyhound		A slender, graceful breed of dogs, remarkable for keen sight and swiftness.	Old English grighund.
greylag		See Graylag — the common wild gray goose (Anser anser) of Europe, believed to be the wild form of the domestic goose.	
gribble		A small marine isopod crustacean (Limnoria lignorum or L. terebrans), which burrows into and rapidly destroys submerged timber, such as the piles of wharves, both in Europe and America.	
grice	Scots	A little pig. See Gree, a step.	Old Norse gríss.
grid		A grating of thin parallel bars, similar to a gridiron.	
griddle		An iron plate or pan used for cooking cakes.	
griddlecake		A cake baked or fried on a griddle, esp. a thin batter cake, as of buckwheat or common flour.	
gride		To cut with a grating sound; to cut; to penetrate or pierce harshly; as, the griding sword.	
gridelin		A color mixed of white, and red, or a gray violet.	
gridiron		A grated iron utensil for broiling flesh and fish over coals.	
grief		Pain of mind on account of something in the past; mental suffering arising from any cause, as misfortune, loss of friends, misconduct of one's self or others, etc.; sorrow; sadness.	Middle English greef.
griefful		Full of grief or sorrow.	
griefless		Without grief.	
griego		See Greggoe — a short jacket or cloak, made of very thick, coarse cloth, with a hood attached, worn by the Greeks and others in the Levant.	
grievable	Obsolete	Lamentable.	
grievance		A cause of uneasiness and complaint; a wrong done and suffered; that which gives ground for remonstrance or resistance, as arising from injustice, tyranny, etc.; injury.	Old French grievance.
grievancer	Obsolete	One who occasions a grievance; one who gives ground for complaint.	
grieve	Scots	A manager of a farm, or overseer of any work; a reeve; a manorial bailiff.	Old French grever, from Latin gravare.
griever		One who, or that which, grieves.	
grieving		Sad; sorrowful; causing grief. -- n.	
grievous		Causing grief or sorrow; painful; afflictive; hard to bear; offensive; harmful.	
griff		Etym: (Weaving) An arrangement of parallel bars for lifting the hooked wires which raise the warp threads in a loom for weaving figured goods.	
griffe	Dialect	The offspring of a mulatto woman and a negro; also, a mulatto.	
griffin		An Anglo-Indian name for a person just arrived from Europe.	Old French griffon, from Latin gryphus, from Greek γρύψ.
griffon		(Myth.) A fabulous monster, half lion and half eagle.	
grig	English dialect	(Zoöl.) (a) A cricket or grasshopper. (b) Any small eel. (c) The broad-nosed eel See Glut. 2.	
grigri		An African talisman or Gri'gri' charm.	
gril	Obsolete	Harah; hard; severe; stern; rough.	
grill		A gridiron. make grills of to broil their meat.	Middle English grillen, from Old English grillan.
grillade		The act of grilling; also, that which is grilled.	
grillage		A framework of sleepers and crossbeams forming a foundation in marshy or treacherous soil.	
grille		A lattice or grating.	
grillroom		A room specially fitted for broiling food, esp. one in a restaurant, hotel, or clubhouse, arranged for prompt service.	
grilly	Obsolete	To broil; to grill; hence, To harass.	
grilse		A young salmon after its first return from the sea.	
grim		Of forbidding or fear-inspiring aspect; fierce; stern; surly; cruel; frightful; horrible.	Old English grim.
grimace		A distortion of the countenance, whether habitual, from affectation, or momentary aad occasional, to express some feeling, as contempt, disapprobation, complacency, etc.; a smirk; a made-up face.	
grimaced		Distorted; crabbed.	
grimalkin		An old cat, esp. a she-cat.	
grime		Foul matter; dirt, rubbed in; sullying blackness, deeply ingrained.	Middle English grim.
grimily		In a grimy manner.	
griminess		The state of being grimy.	
grimly		Grim; hideous; stern.	Old English grimmlic.
grimme		A West African antelope (Cephalophus rufilotus) of a deep bay color, with a broad dorsal stripe of black; -- called also conquetoon.	
grimness		Fierceness of look; sternness; crabbedness; forbiddingness.	
grimsir	Obsolete	A stern man.	
grimy		Full of grime; begrimed; dirty; foul.	
grin		To show the teeth, as a dog; to shsrl.	
grind		To reduce to powder by friction, as in a mill, or with the teeth; to crush into small fragments; to produce as by the action of millstones.	Old English grindan.
grindelia		The dried stems and leaves of tarweed (Grindelia), used as a remedy in asthma and bronchitis.	
grinder		One who, or that which, grinds.	
grindery		Leather workers' materials.	
grinding		from Grind.	
grindingly	Colloquial	In a grinding manner.	
grindle	Dialect	The bowfin; -- called also Johnny Grindle.	
grindlet		A small drain.	
grindstone		A flat, circular stone, revolving on an axle, for grinding or sharpening tools, or shaping or smoothing objects.	
gringo		Among Spanish Americans, a foreigner, esp. an Englishman or American; -- often used as a term of reproach.	Spanish gringo.
grinner		One who grins.	
grinningly		In a grinning manner.	
grint	Obsolete	3d pers. sing. pres. of Grind, Etym: contr. from grindeth.	
grinte		grinte with his teeth, so was he wroth.	
grinting	Obsolete	Grinding.	
grip		An energetic or tenacious grasp; a holding fast; strength in grasping.	Old English grippan.
gripe		To catch with the hand; to clasp closely with the fingers; to clutch.	Old English gripan.
gripeful		Disposed to gripe; extortionate.	
griper		One who gripes; an oppressor; an extortioner.	
gripingly		In a griping or oppressive manner.	
gripman		The man who manipulates a grip.	
grippe		The influenza or epidemic catarrh.	
gripper		One who, or that which, grips or seizes.	
gripple	Obsolete	A grasp; a gripe.	
grippleness	Obsolete	The quality of being gripple.	
gripsack	Colloquial	A traveler's handbag.	
grisaille		(Fine Arts) Decorative painting in gray monochrome; -- used in English especially for painted glass.	
grisamber	Obsolete	Ambergris.	
grise	English dialect	See Grice, a pig.	
griseous		Of a light color, or white, mottled with black or brown; grizzled or grizzly.	
grisette		A French girl or young married woman of the lower class; more frequently, a young working woman who is fond of gallantry.	French grisette.
griskin	Obsolete	The spine of a hog.	
grisled		See Grizzled — gray; grayish; sprinkled or mixed with gray; of a mixed white and black.	
grisliness		The quality or state of being grisly; horrid.	
grisly		Frightful; horrible; dreadful; harsh; as, grisly locks; a grisly specter.	
grison		(a) A South American animal of the family Mustelidae (Galictis vittata).	
grisons		(a) Inhabitants of the eastern Swiss Alps. (b) sing. The largest and most eastern of the Swiss cantons.	
grist		Ground corn; that which is ground at one time; as much grain as is carried to the mill at one time, or the meal it produces.	Middle English grist.
gristle		Cartilage. See Cartilage.	Middle English gristel.
gristly		Consisting of, or containing, gristle; like gristle; cartilaginous.	
gristmill		A mill for grinding grain; especially, a mill for grinding grists, or portions of grain brought by different customers; a custom mill.	
grit		Sand or gravel; rough, hard particles.	
grith	Obsolete	Peace; security; agreement.	
gritrock		See Grit, n., 4.	
gritstone		See Grit, n., 4.	
grittiness		The quality of being gritty.	
gritty		Containing sand or grit; consisting of grit; caused by grit; full of hard particles.	
grivet		A monkey of the upper Nile and Abyssinia (Cercopithecus griseoviridis), having the upper parts dull green, the lower parts white, the hands, ears, and face black.	
grize	Obsolete	Same as 2d Grise.	
grizelin		See Gridelin — a color mixed of white, and red, or a gray violet.	
grizzle		Gray; a gray color; a mixture of white and black.	Old French grisel.
grizzled		Gray; grayish; sprinkled or mixed with gray; of a mixed white and black.	
grizzly		Somewhat gray; grizzled.	
groan		To give forth a low, moaning sound in breathing; to utter a groan, as in pain, in sorrow, or in derision; to moan.	
groanful	Obsolete	Agonizing; sad.	
groat		An old English silver coin, equal to four pence.	Middle English grotes, from Old English grotan.
groats		Dried grain, as oats or wheat, hulled and broken or crushed; in high milling, cracked fragments of wheat larger than grits.	
grobian		A rude or clownish person; boor; lout.	
grocer		A trader who deals in tea, sugar, spices, coffee, fruits, and various other commodities.	
grocery		The commodities sold by grocers, as tea, coffee, spices, etc.; -- in the United States almost always in the plural form, in this sense.	French grosserie.
grog		A mixture of spirit and water not sweetened; hence, any intoxicating liquor.	
groggery	Slang	A grogshop.	
grogginess		State of being groggy.	
groggy	Colloquial	Overcome with grog; tipsy; unsteady on the legs.	
grogram		A coarse stuff made of silk and mohair, or of coarse silk.	French gros grain, from Latin grossus, from Old High German groz.
grogran		A coarse stuff made of silk and mohair, or of coarse silk.	
grogshop		A shop or room where strong liquors are sold and drunk; a dramshop.	
groin		(Anat.) The line between the lower part of the abdomen and the thigh, or the region of this line; the inguen.	
groined		Built with groins; as, a groined ceiling; a groined vault.	
grolier		The name by which Jean Grolier de Servier (1479-1565), a French bibliophile, is commonly known; -- used in naming a certain style of binding, a design, etc. Grolier binding…	
gromet		Same as Grommet.	
gromill		See Gromwell — a plant of the genus Lithospermum (L. arvense), anciently used, because of its stony pericarp, in the cure of gravel.	
grommet		A ring formed by twisting on itself a single strand of an unlaid rope; also, a metallic eyelet in or for a sail or a mailbag.	
gromwell		A plant of the genus Lithospermum (L. arvense), anciently used, because of its stony pericarp, in the cure of gravel.	
grond		obs. imp. of Grind.	
gronte		obs. imp. of Groan.	
groom		A boy or young man; a waiter; a servant; especially, a man or boy who has charge of horses, or the stable.	Middle English grom.
groomer		One who, or that which, grooms horses; especially, a brush rotated by a flexible or jointed revolving shaft, for cleaning horses.	
groomsman		A male attendant of a bridegroom at his wedding; -- the correlative of bridesmaid.	
grooper		See Grouper — (a) One of several species of valuable food fishes of the genus Epinephelus, of the family Serranidæ, as the red grouper, or brown snapper (E. morio), and the black grouper…	
groove		A furrow, channel, or long hollow, such as may be formed by cutting, molding, grinding, the wearing force of flowing water, or constant travel; a depressed way; a worn path; a rut.	Middle English groof.
groover		One who or that which grooves.	
grooving		The act of forming a groove or grooves; a groove, or collection of grooves.	
grope		To search or attempt to find something in the dark, or, as a blind person, by feeling; to move about hesitatingly, as in darkness or obscurity; to feel one's way, as with the hands, when one can not see.	
groper		One who gropes; one who feels his way in the dark, or searches by feeling.	
groping-ly		In a groping manner.	
gros		A heavy silk with a dull finish; as, gros de Naples; gros de Tours.	
grosbeak		One of various species of finches having a large, stout beak.	
groschen		A small silver coin and money of account of Germany, worth about two cents.	
grosgrain		Of a coarse texture; -- applied to silk with a heavy thread running crosswise.	French gros-grain.
gross		Great; large; bulky; fat; of huge size; excessively large.	Middle English gross, from Old French gros, from Latin grossus, from Old High German groz.
gross-headed		Thick-skulled; stupid.	
grossbeak		See Grosbeak — one of various species of finches having a large, stout beak.	
grossification		The act of making gross or thick, or the state of becoming so.	
grossly		In a gross manner; greatly; coarsely; without delicacy; shamefully; disgracefully.	
grossness		The state or quality of being gross; thickness; corpulence; coarseness; shamefulness.	
grossular		Pertaining too, or resembling, a gooseberry; as, grossular garnet.	
grossularia		Same as Grossular.	
grossulin		A vegetable jelly, resembling pectin, found in gooseberries (Ribes Grossularia) and other fruits.	
grot	Poetic	A grotto.	
grote	Obsolete	A groat.	
grotesque		Like the figures found in ancient grottoes; grottolike; wildly or strangely formed; whimsical; extravagant; of irregular forms and proportions; fantastic; ludicrous; antic.	Middle French grotesque, from Italian grottesco.
grotesquely		In a grotesque manner.	
grotesqueness		Quality of being grotesque.	
grotesquery		Grotesque action, speech, or manners; grotesque doings.	
grotto		A natural covered opening in the earth; a cave; also, an artificial recess, cave, or cavernlike apartment.	Italian grotta, from Latin grupta.
grotto-work		Artificial and ornamental rockwork in imitation of a grotto.	
ground		The surface of the earth; the outer crust of the globe, or some indefinite portion of it.	Old English grund.
groundage		A local tax paid by a ship for the ground or space it occupies while in port.	
groundedly		In a grounded or firmly established manner.	
grounden		p. p. of Grind — to reduce to powder by friction, as in a mill, or with the teeth; to crush into small fragments; to produce as by the action of millstones.	
grounding		The act, method, or process of laying a groundwork or foundation; hence, elementary instruction; the act or process of applying a ground, as of color, to wall paper, cotton cloth, etc.; a basis.	
groundless		Without ground or foundation; wanting cause or reason for support; not authorized; false; as, groundless fear; a groundless report or assertion. -- Ground less*ness, n.	
groundling		(Zoöl.) A fish that keeps at the bottom of the water, as the loach.	
groundly	Obsolete	Solidly; deeply; thoroughly.	Middle English grundlich.
groundnut		(a) The fruit of the Arachis hypogæa (native country uncertain); the peanut; the earthnut.	
groundsel		An annual composite plant (Senecio vulgaris) one of the most common, and widely distributed weeds on the globe.	
groundwork		That which forms the foundation or support of anything; the basis; the essential or fundamental part; first principle.	
group		A cluster, crowd, or throng; an assemblage, either of persons or things, collected without any regular form or arrangement; as, a group of men or of trees; a group of isles.	French groupe, from Italian gruppo.
grouper		(a) One of several species of valuable food fishes of the genus Epinephelus, of the family Serranidæ, as the red grouper, or brown snapper (E. morio), and the black grouper, or warsaw (E. nigritus)…	Portuguese garoupa.
grouping		The disposal or relative arrangement of figures or objects, as in, drawing, painting, and sculpture, or in ornamental design.	
grouse		) Any of the numerous species of gallinaceous birds of the family Tetraonidæ, and subfamily Tetraoninæ, inhabiting Europe, Asia, and North America.	
grouser		(Dredging, Pile Driving, etc.) A pointed timber attached to a boat and sliding vertically, to thrust into the ground as a means of anchorage.	
grout		Coarse meal; ground malt; pl. groats.	
grouthead		See Growthead — a lazy person; a blockhead.	
grouting		The process of filling in or finishing with grout; also, the grout thus filled in.	
groutnol		Same as Growthead.	
grouty	Colloquial	Cross; sulky; sullen.	
grove		The original sense seems to have been a lane cut through trees. See Grave, v., and cf. Groove.] A smaller group of trees than a forest, and without underwood, planted, or growing naturally as if arranged by art…	Old English graf.
grovel		To creep on the earth, or with the face to the ground; to lie prone, or move uneasily with the body prostrate on the earth; to lie fiat on one's belly, expressive of abjectness; to crawl.	Old Norse á grufu.
groveler		One who grovels; an abject wretch.	
groveling		Lying prone; low; debased.	
grovy		Pertaining to, or resembling, a grove; situated in, or frequenting, groves.	
grow		To increase in size by a natural and organic process; to increase in bulk by the gradual assimilation of new matter into the living organism; -- said of animals and vegetables and their organs.	Middle English growen, from Old English growan.
growable		Capable of growth.	
growan		A decomposed granite, forming a mass of gravel, as in tin lodes in Cornwall.	
grower		One who grows or produces; as, a grower of corn; also, that which grows or increases; as, a vine may be a rank or a slow grower.	
growl		To utter a deep guttural sound, sa an angry dog; to give forth an angry, grumbling sound.	Middle English growlen.
growler		One who growls.	
growlingly		In a growling manner.	
grown		p. p. of Grow — to increase in size by a natural and organic process; to increase in bulk by the gradual assimilation of new matter into the living organism…	
growse	Obsolete	To shiver; to have chills.	
growth		The process of growing; the gradual increase of an animal or a vegetable body; the development from a seed, germ, or root, to full size or maturity; increase in size, number, frequency, strength, etc.; augmentation; advancement…	
growthead	Obsolete	A lazy person; a blockhead.	
growthful		Having capacity of growth.	
groyne		See Groin — (Anat.) The line between the lower part of the abdomen and the thigh, or the region of this line; the inguen.	Old French groign, from Latin grunium.
grub		To dig in or under the ground, generally for an object that is difficult to reach or extricate; to be occupied in digging.	
grubber		One who, or that which, grubs; especially, a machine or tool of the nature of a grub ax,.grub hook, etc.	
grubble	Obsolete	To feel or grope in the dark.	
grubby	Colloquial	Dirty; unclean.	
grubworm		And gnats and grubworms crowded on his view.	
grucche	Obsolete	To murmur; to grumble.	
grudge		To look upon with desire to possess or to appropriate; to envy (one) the possession of; to begrudge; to covet; to give with reluctance; to desire to get back again; -- followed by the direct object only…	
grudgeful		Full of grudge; envious.	
grudgeons	Obsolete	Coarse meal.	
grudger		One who grudges.	
grudgingly		In a grudging manner.	
grudgingness		The state or quality of grudging, or of being full of grudge or unwillingness.	
gruel		A light, liquid food, made by boiling meal of maize, oatmeal, or fiour in water or milk; thin porridge.	Old French gruel.
gruelly		Like gruel; of the consistence of gruel.	
gruesome	Scots	, Grue"some, a.	
gruf	Obsolete	Forwards; with one's face to the ground.	
gruff		Of a rough or stern manner, voice, or countenance; sour; surly; severe; harsh.	Middle Dutch grof.
grum		Morose; severe of countenance; sour; surly; glum; grim.	
grumble		To murmur or mutter with discontent; to make ill-natured complaints in a low voice and a surly manner.	
grumbler		One who grumbles.	
grumblingly		In a grumbling manner.	
grume		A thick, viscid fluid; a clot, as of blood.	
grumly		In a grum manner.	
grumose		Clustered in grains at intervals; grumous.	
grumous		Resembling or containing grume; thick; concreted; clotted; as, grumous blood.	
grumousness		The state of being grumous.	
grumpily	Colloquial	In a surly manner; sullenly.	
grumpy		Surly; dissatisfied; grouty.	
grundel	English dialect	A groundling (fish).	
grundsel	Obsolete	Grounsel.	
grundyism		Narrow and unintelligent conventionalism. -- Grun"dy*ist, n.	
grunt		To make a deep, short noise, as a hog; to utter a short groan or a deep guttural sound.	Middle English grunten, from Old English grunnettan.
grunter		One who, or that which, grunts; specifically, a hog.	
gruntingly		In a grunting manner.	
gruntle	Obsolete	To grunt; to grunt repeatedly.	
gruntling		A young hog.	
grutch	Obsolete	See Grudge — to look upon with desire to possess or to appropriate; to envy (one) the possession of; to begrudge; to covet; to give with reluctance; to desire to get back again…	
gry		Anything very small, or of little value.	
gryde		To gride. See Gride.	
gryfon		See Griffin — an anglo-Indian name for a person just arrived from Europe.	
gryllus		A genus of insects including the common crickets.	
grype	Obsolete	To gripe. See Gripe.	
gryphaea		A genus of cretaceous fossil shells allied to the oyster.	
gryphite		A shell of the genus Gryphea.	
gryphon		The griffin vulture.	
grysbok		A small South African antelope (Neotragus melanotis).	Afrikaans grysbok.
