guacharo		A nocturnal bird of South America and Trinidad (Steatornis Caripensis, or S. steatornis); -- called also oilbird.
guacho		One of the mixed-blood (Spanish-Indian) inhabitants of the pampas of South America; a mestizo.
guaco		(a) A plant (Aristolochia anguicida) of Carthagena, used as an antidote to serpent bites.
guaiac		Pertaining to, or resembling, guaiacum. -- n.
guaiacol		A colorless liquid, C7H8O2, with a peculiar odor.
guaiacum		(Bot.) A genus of small, crooked trees, growing in tropical America.
guan		Any one of many species of large gallinaceous birds of Certal and South America, belonging to Penelope, Pipile, Ortalis, and allied genera.
guana		See Iguana — any species of the genus Iguana, a genus of large American lizards of the family Iguanidæ.
guanaco		A South American mammal (Auchenia huanaco), allied to the llama, but of larger size and more graceful form, inhabiting the southern Andes and Patagonia.
guanidine		A strongly alkaline base, CN3H5, formed by the oxidation of guanin, and also obtained combined with methyl in the decomposition of creatin.
guaniferous		Yielding guano.
guanin		A crystalline substance (C5H5N5O) contained in guano.
guano		A substance found in great abundance on some coasts or islands frequented by sea fowls, and composed chiefly of their excrement.
guara		(a) The scarlet ibis. See Ibis. (b) A large-maned wild dog of South America (Canis jubatus) -- named from its cry.
guarana		A preparation from the seeds of Paullinia sorbilis, a woody climber of Brazil, used in making an astringent drink, and also in the cure of headache.
guaranine		An alkaloid extracted from guarana.
guarantee		In law and common usage: A promise to answer for the payment of some debt, or the performance of some duty, in case of the failure of another person, who is, in the first instance, liable to such payment or performance…
guarantor		(a) One who makes or gives a guaranty; a warrantor; a surety. (b) One who engages to secure another in any right or possession.
guaranty		In law and common usage: An undertaking to answer for the payment of some debt, or the performance of some contract or duty, of another, in case of the failure of such other to pay or perform; a guarantee; a warranty; a security.
guard		To protect from danger; to secure against surprise, attack, or injury; to keep in safety; to defend; to shelter; to shield from surprise or attack; to protect by attendance; toaccompany for protection; to vare for.
guardable		Capable of being guarded or protected.
guardage	Obsolete	Wardship Shak.
guardant	Obsolete	Acting as guardian.
guarded		Cautious; wary; circumspect; as, he was guarded in his expressions; framed or uttered with caution; as, his expressions were guarded. -- Guard ed*ness, n.
guardenage	Obsolete	Guardianship.
guarder		One who guards.
guardfish		The garfish.
guardful	Obsolete	Cautions; wary; watchful. -- Guard"ful*ly, adv.
guardhouse		A building which is occupied by the guard, and in which soldiers are confined for misconduct; hence, a lock-up.
guardian		One who guards, preserves, or secures; one to whom any person or thing is committed for protection, security, or preservation from injury; a warden.
guardianage	Obsolete	Guardianship.
guardiance	Obsolete	Guardianship.
guardianess		A female guardian.
guardianless		Without a guardian.
guardianship		The office, duty, or care, of a guardian; protection; care; watch.
guardless		Without a guard or defense; unguarded.
guardroom		The room occupied by the guard during its term of duty; also, a room where prisoners are confined.
guards		A body of picked troops; as,
guardship	Obsolete	Care; protection.
guardsman		One who guards; a guard.
guarish	Obsolete	To heal.
guava		A tropical tree, or its fruit, of the genus Psidium.
gubernance	Obsolete	Government.
gubernate	Obsolete	To govern.
gubernation	Obsolete	The act of governing; government I.
gubernative	Obsolete	Governing.
gubernatorial		Pertaining to a governor, or to government.
gudgeon		(Zoöl.) A small European freshwater fish (Gobio fluviatilis), allied to the carp.
gue	Obsolete	A sharper; a rogue.
gueber		Same as Gheber.
guebre		Same as Gheber.
guelderrose		A cultivated variety of a species of Viburnum (V.
guelf		One of a faction in Germany and Italy, in the 12th and 13th centuries, which supported the House of Guelph and the pope, and opposed the Ghibellines, or faction of the German emperors.
guelfic		Of or pertaining to the family or the facttion of the Guelphs.
guelph		One of a faction in Germany and Italy, in the 12th and 13th centuries, which supported the House of Guelph and the pope, and opposed the Ghibellines, or faction of the German emperors.
guelphic		Of or pertaining to the family or the facttion of the Guelphs.
guenon		One of several long-tailed Oriental monkeys, of the genus Cercocebus, as the green monkey and grivet.
gueparde		The cheetah.
guerdon		A reward; requital; recompense; -- used in both a good and a bad sense.
guerdonable		Worthy of reward.
guerdonless		Without reward or guerdon.
guereza		A beautiful Abyssinian monkey (Colobus guereza), having the body black, with a fringe of long, silky, white hair along the sides, and a tuft of the same at the end of the tail.
guerilla		See Guerrilla — an irregular mode of carrying on war, by the constant attacks of independent bands, adopted in the north of Spain during the Peninsular war.
guerite		A projecting turret for a sentry, as at the salient angles of works, or the acute angles of bastions.
guerrilla		An irregular mode of carrying on war, by the constant attacks of independent bands, adopted in the north of Spain during the Peninsular war.
guess		To form an opinion concerning, without knowledge or means of knowledge; to judge of at random; to conjecture.
guessable		Capable of being guessed.
guesser		One who guesses; one who forms or gives an opinion without means of knowing.
guessingly		By way of conjecture.
guessive	Obsolete	Conjectural.
guesswork		Work performed, or results obtained, by guess; conjecture.
guest	Obsolete	A visitor; a person received and entertained in one's house or at one's table; a visitor entertained without pay.
guestwise		In the manner of a guest.
guevi		One of several very small species and varieties of African antelopes, of the genus Cephalophus, as the Cape guevi or kleeneboc (C. pyg. mæa); -- called also pygmy antelope.
guffaw		A loud burst of laughter, a horse laugh.
guffer		The eelpout; guffer eel.
guggle		See Gurgle — to run or flow in a broken, irregular, noisy current, as water from a bottle, or a small stream among pebbles or stones.
guhr		A loose, earthy deposit from water, found in the cavities or clefts of rocks, mostly white, but sometimes red or yellow, from a mixture of clay or ocher.
guiac		Same as Guaiac.
guiacol		A colorless liquid, C6H4,OCH3.OH, resembling the phenols, found as a constituent of woodtar creosote, aud produced by the dry distillation of guaiac resin.
guiacum		Same as Guaiacum.
guib		A West African antelope (Tragelaphus scriptus), curiously marked with white stripes and spots on a reddish fawn ground, and hence called harnessed antelope; -- called also guiba.
guicowar		The title of the sovereign of Guzerat, in Western India; -- generally called the Guicowar of Baroda, which is the capital of the country.
guidable		Capable of being guided; willing to be guided or counseled.
guidage		The reward given to a guide for services.
guidance		The act or result of guiding; the superintendence or assistance of a guide; direction; government; a leading.
guide		To regulate and manage; to direct; to order; to superintend the training or education of; to instruct and influence intellectually or morally; to train.
guideboard		A board, as upon a guidepost having upon it directions or information as to the road.
guidebook		A book of directions and information for travelers, tourists, etc.
guideless		Without a guide.
guidepost		A post at the fork of a road, with a guideboard on it, to direct travelers.
guider		A guide; a director.
guideress	Obsolete	A female guide.
guidguid		A South American ant bird of the genus Hylactes; -- called also barking bird.
guidon		A small flag or streamer, as that carried by cavalry, which is broad at one end and nearly pointed at the other, or that used to direct the movements of a body of infantry, or to make signals at sea; also…
guige		The leather strap by which the shield of a knight was slung across the shoulder, or across the neck and shoulder.
guild		An association of men belonging to the same class, or engaged in kindred pursuits, formed for mutual aid and protection; a business fraternity or corporation; as, the Stationers' Guild; the Ironmongers' Guild.
guildable	Obsolete	Liable to a tax.
guilder		A Dutch silver coin worth about forty cents; -- called also florin and gulden.
guildhall		The hall where a guild or corporation usually assembles; a townhall.
guile	Obsolete	Craft; deceitful cunning; artifice; duplicity; wile; deceit; treachery.
guileful		Full of guile; characterized by cunning, deceit, or treachery; guilty. -- Guile ful*ness, n.
guileless		Free from guile; artless. -- Guile less*ness, n.
guillemet		A quotation mark.
guillemot		One of several northern sea birds, allied to the auks.
guillevat		A vat for fermenting liquors.
guilloche		An ornament in the form of two or more bands or strings twisted over each other in a continued series, leaving circular openings which are filled with round ornaments.
guilloched		Waved or engine-turned.
guillotine		A machine for beheading a person by one stroke of a heavy ax or blade, which slides in vertical guides, is raised by a cord, and let fall upon the neck of the victim.
guilor	Obsolete	A deceiver; one who deludes, or uses guile.
guilt		The criminality and consequent exposure to punishment resulting from willful disobedience of law, or from morally wrong action; teh state of one who has broken a moral or political law; crime; criminality; offense against right.
guilt-sick		Made sick by consciousness of guilt. c& El.
guiltily		In a guilty manner.
guiltiness		The quality or state of being guilty.
guiltless		Free from guilt; innocent.
guilty		Having incurred guilt; criminal; morally delinquent; wicked; chargeable with, or responsible for, something censurable; justly exposed to penalty; -- used with of, and usually followed by the crime, sometimes by the punishment.
guiltylike	Obsolete	Guiltily.
guimpe		A kind of short chemisette, worn with a low-necked dress.
guinea		A district on the west coast of Africa (formerly noted for its export of gold and slaves) after which the Guinea fowl, Guinea grass, Guinea peach, etc., are named.
guipure		A term used for lace of different kinds; most properly for a lace of large pattern and heavy material which has no ground or mesh, but has the pattern held together by connecting threads called bars or brides.
guirland		See Garland — a wreath of chaplet made of branches, flowers, or feathers, and sometimes of precious stones, to be worn on the head like a crown; a coronal; a wreath.
guise		Customary way of speaking or acting; custom; fashion; manner; behavior; mien; mode; practice; -- often used formerly in such phrases as: at his own guise; that is, in his own fashion, to suit himself.
guiser	Obsolete	A person in disguise; a masker; a mummer.
guitar		A stringed instrument of music resembling the lute or the violin, but larger, and having six strings, three of silk covered with silver wire, and three of catgut, -- played upon with the fingers.
guitguit		One of several species of small tropical American birds of the family Coerebidæ, allied to the creepers; -- called also quit.
gula		(Zoöl.) (a) The upper front of the neck, next to the chin; the upper throat.
gular		Pertaining to the gula or throat; as, gular plates. See Illust. of Bird, and Bowfin.
gulaund		An arctic sea bird.
gulch	Obsolete	A ravine, or part of the deep bed of a torrent when dry; a gully.
guld	Obsolete	A flower. See Gold.
gulden		See Guilder — a dutch silver coin worth about forty cents; -- called also florin and gulden.
gule	Obsolete	To give the color of gules to.
gules		The tincture red, indicated in seals and engraved figures of escutcheons by parallel vertical lines.
gulf		A hollow place in the earth; an abyss; a deep chasm or basin, He then surveyed Hell and the gulf between.
gulfy		Full of whirlpools or gulfs.
gulgul		A cement made in India from sea shells, pulverized and mixed with oil, and spread over a ship's bottom, to prevent the boring of worms.
gulist	Obsolete	A glutton.
gull		A cheating or cheat; trick; fraud.
gullage	Obsolete	Act of being gulled.
guller		One who gulls; a deceiver.
gullery		An act, or the practice, of gulling; trickery; fraud.
gullet		(Anat.) The tube by which food and drink are carried from the pharynx to the stomach; the esophagus.
gulleting		A system of excavating by means of gullets or channels.
gullible		Easily gulled; that may be duped. -- Gul"li*bii`i*ty, n.
gullish	Obsolete	Foolish; stupid.
gully		A channel or hollow worn in the earth by a current of water; a short deep portion of a torrent's bed when dry.
gulosity		Excessive appetite; greediness; voracity.
gulp		To swallow eagerly, or in large draughts; to swallow up; to take down at one swallow.
gulph		See Gulf — a hollow place in the earth; an abyss; a deep chasm or basin, He then surveyed Hell and the gulf between.
gult	Obsolete	Guilt. See Guilt.
guly		Of or pertaining to gules; red.
gum		The dense tissues which invest the teeth, and cover the adjacent parts of the jaws.
gumbo		A soup thickened with the mucilaginous pods of the okra; okra soup.
gumboil		A small suppurting inflamed spot on the gum.
gumma		A kind of soft tumor, usually of syphilitic origin.
gummatous		Belonging to, or resembling, gumma.
gummer		A punch-cutting tool, or machine for deepening and enlarging the spaces between the teeth of a worn saw.
gummiferous		Producing gum; gum-bearing.
gumminess		The state or quality of being gummy; viscousness.
gummite		A yellow amorphous mineral, essentially a hydrated oxide of uranium derived from the alteration of uraninite.
gummosity		Gumminess; a viscous or adhesive quality or nature.
gummous		Gumlike, or composed of gum; gummy.
gummy		Consisting of gum; viscous; adhesive; producing or containing gum; covered with gum or a substance resembling gum.
gump	Low	A dolt; a dunce.
gumption	Colloquial	Capacity; shrewdness; common sense.
gun		A weapon which throws or propels a missile to a distance; any firearm or instrument for throwing projectiles by the explosion of gunpowder, consisting of a tube or barrel closed at one end, in which the projectile is placed…
guna		In Sanskrit grammar, a lengthening of the simple vowels a, i, e, by prefixing an a element.
gunarchy		See Gynarchy — government by a woman.
gunboat		A vessel of light draught, carrying one or more guns.
guncotton		See under Gun.
gundelet		See Gondola — a long, narrow boat with a high prow and stern, used in the canals of Venice.
gunflint		A sharpened flint for the lock of a gun, to ignite the charge.
gunjah		See Ganja — the dried hemp plant, used in India for smoking.
gunlock		The lock of a gun, for producing the discharge. See Lock.
gunnage		The number of guns carried by a ship of war.
gunnel		(Zoöl.) A small, eel-shaped, marine fish of the genus Murænoides; esp., M. gunnellus of Europe and America; -- called also gunnel fish, butterfish, rock eel.
gunner		One who works a gun, whether on land or sea; a cannoneer.
gunnery		That branch of military science which comprehends the theory of projectiles, and the manner of constructing and using ordnance.
gunnie		Space left by the removal of ore.
gunning		The act or practice of hunting or shooting game with a gun.
gunny		A strong, coarse kind of sacking, made from the fibers (called jute) of two plants of the genus Corchorus (C. olitorius and C. capsularis), of India.
gunocracy		See Gyneocracy.
gunpowder		A black, granular, explosive substance, consisting of an intimate mechanical mixture of niter, charcoal, and sulphur.
gunreach		The reach or distance to which a gun will shoot; gunshot.
gunroom		An apartment on the after end of the lower gun deck of a ship of war, usually occupied as a messroom by the commissioned officers, except the captain; -- called wardroom in the United States navy.
gunshot		The distance to which shot can be thrown from a gun, so as to be effective; the reach or range of a gun.
gunsmith		One whose occupation is to make or repair small firearms; an armorer.
gunsmithery		The art or business of a gunsmith.
gunsmithing		The art or business of a gunsmith.
gunstick		A stick to ram down the charge of a musket, etc.; a rammer or ramrod.
gunstock		The stock or wood to which the barrel of a hand gun is fastened.
gunstome	Obsolete	A cannon ball; -- so called because originally made of stone.
gunwale		The upper edge of a vessel's or boat's side; the uppermost wale of a ship (not including the bulwarks); or that piece of timber which reaches on either side from the quarter-deck to the forecastle, being the uppermost bend…
gurge	Obsolete	A whirlpool.
gurgeons	Obsolete	Coarse meal. See Grudgeons.
gurgle		To run or flow in a broken, irregular, noisy current, as water from a bottle, or a small stream among pebbles or stones.
gurglet		A porous earthen jar for cooling water by evaporation.
gurglingly		In a gurgling manner.
gurgoyle		See Gargoyle — a spout projecting from the roof gutter of a building, often carved grotesquely.
gurjun		A thin balsam or wood oil derived from the Diptcrocarpus lævis, an East Indian tree.
gurl	Obsolete	A young person of either sex. See Girl.
gurlet		A pickax with one sharp point and one cutting edge.
gurmy		A level; a working.
gurnard		One ofseveral European marine fishes, of the genus Trigla and allied genera, having a large and spiny head, with mailed cheeks.
gurnet		One ofseveral European marine fishes, of the genus Trigla and allied genera, having a large and spiny head, with mailed cheeks.
gurniad		See Gwiniad — a fish (Coregonus ferus) of North Wales and Northern Europe, allied to the lake whitefish; -- called also powan, and schelly.
gurry	Obsolete	An alvine evacuation; also, refuse matter.
gurt		A gutter or channel for water, hewn out of the bottom of a working drift.
gurts	Obsolete	Groatts.
guru		A spiritual teacher, guide, or confessor amoung the Hindoos.
gush		To issue with violence and rapidity, as a fluid; to rush forth as a fluid from confinement; to flow copiously.
gusher	Colloquial	One who gushes.
gushing		Rushing forth with violence, as a fluid; flowing copiously; as, gushing waters.
gushingly		In a gushing manner; copiously.
gusset		A small piece of cloth inserted in a garment, for the purpose of strengthening some part or giving it a tapering enlargement.
gust		A sudden squall; a violent blast of wind; a sudden and brief rushing or driving of the wind.
gustable		Capable of being tasted; tastable.
gustard		The great bustard.
gustation		The act of tasting.
gustatory		Pertaining to, or subservient to, the sense of taste; as, the gustatory nerve which supplies the front of the tongue.
gustful	Obsolete	Tasteful; well-tasted.
gustless		Tasteless; insipid.
gusto		Nice or keen appreciation or enjoyment; relish; taste; fancy.
gustoso		Tasteful; in a tasteful, agreeable manner.
gusty		Subject to, or characterized by, gusts or squalls; windy; stormy; tempestuous.
gut		A narrow passage of water; as, the Gut of Canso.
gutta		(Arch.) One of a series of ornaments, in the form of a frustum of a cone, attached to the lower part of the triglyphs, and also to the lower faces of the mutules, in the Doric order; -- called also campana, and drop.
gutta-percha		A concrete juice produced by various trees found in the Malayan archipelago, especially by the Isonandra, or Dichopsis, Gutta.
guttate		Spotted, as if discolored by drops.
guttated		Besprinkled with drops, or droplike spots.
guttatrap		The inspissated juice of a tree of the genus Artocarpus (A. incisa, or breadfruit tree), sometimes used in making birdlime, on account of its glutinous quality.
gutter		A channel at the eaves of a roof for conveying away the rain; an eaves channel; an eaves trough.
guttersnipe		(a) A small poster, suitable for a curbstone. (b) A curbstone broker.
guttifer		A plant that exudes gum or resin.
guttiferous		(a) Yielding gum or resinous substances. (b) Pertaining to a natural order of trees and shrubs (Guttiferæ) noted for their abounding in a resinous sap.
guttiform		Drop-shaped, as a spot of color.
guttle	Obsolete	To put into the gut; to swallow greedily; to gorge; to gormandize.
guttler	Obsolete	A greedy eater; a glutton.
guttulous	Obsolete	In droplike form.
guttural		Of or pertaining to the throat; formed in the throat; relating to, or characteristic of, a sound formed in the throat.
gutturalism		The quality of being guttural; as, the gutturalism of A Earle.
gutturality		The quality of being guttural.
gutturalize		To speak gutturally; to give a guttural sound to.
gutturally		In a guttural manner.
gutturalness		The quality of being guttural.
gutturine	Obsolete	Pertaining to the throat.
gutturize		To make in the throat; to gutturalize.
gutturo-		A combining form denoting relation to the throat; as, gutturo- nasal, having both a guttural and a nasal character; gutturo-palatal.
gutty		Charged or sprinkled with drops.
gutwort		A plant, Globularia Alypum, a violent purgative, found in Africa.
guy		A rope, chain, or rod attached to anything to steady it; as: a rope to steady or guide an object which is being hoisted or lowered; a rope which holds in place the end of a boom, spar, or yard in a ship…
guyle	Obsolete	To guile.
guze		A roundlet of tincture sanguine, which is blazoned without mention of the tincture.
guzzle		To swallow liquor greedily; to drink much or frequently.
guzzler		An immoderate drinker.
