gyall		See Gayal — a southern Asiatic species of wild cattle (Bibos frontalis).	
gyb	Obsolete	See Jib — (Naut.) A triangular sail set upon a stay or halyard extending from the foremast or fore-topmast to the bowsprit or the jib boom.	
gybe	Obsolete	See Jib. See Gibe.	
gye	Obsolete	To guide; to govern.	
gyle		Fermented wort used for making vinegar.	
gymnal		Same as Gimmal.	
gymnasiarch		An Athenian officer who superintended the gymnasia, and provided the oil and other necessaries at his own expense.	Latin gymnasiarchus.
gymnasium		A place or building where athletic exercises are performed; a school for gymnastics.	Latin gymnasium, from Greek γυμνάσιον.
gymnast		One who teaches or practices gymnastic exercises; the manager of a gymnasium; an athlete.	Greek γυμναστής.
gymnastic	Obsolete	Pertaining to athletic exercises intended for health, defense, or diversion; -- said of games or exercises, as running, leaping, wrestling, throwing the discus, the javelin, etc.; also…	
gymnastical		Pertaining to athletic exercises intended for health, defense, or diversion; -- said of games or exercises, as running, leaping, wrestling, throwing the discus, the javelin, etc.; also…	
gymnastically		In a gymnastic manner.	
gymnastics		Athletic or disciplinary exercises; the art of performing gymnastic exercises; also, disciplinary exercises for the intellect or character.	Greek γυμνασία.
gymnic	Obsolete	Athletic; gymnastic.	Latin gymnicus, from Greek γυμνικός.
gymnical	Obsolete	Athletic; gymnastic.	
gymnite		A hydrous silicate of magnesia.	
gymnoblastea		The Athecata; -- so called because the medusoid buds are not inclosed in a capsule.	
gymnoblastic		Of or pertaining to the Gymnoblastea.	
gymnocarpous		Naked-fruited, the fruit either smooth or not adherent to the perianth.	
gymnochroa		A division of Hydroidea including the hydra. See Hydra.	
gymnocladus		A genus of leguminous plants; the Kentucky coffee tree.	
gymnocopa		A group of transparent, free-swimming Annelida, having setae only in the cephalic appendages.	
gymnocyte		(Biol.) A cytode without a proper cell wall, but with a nucleus.	
gymnocytode		A cytode without either a cell wall or a nucleus.	
gymnodont		One of a group of plectognath fishes (Gymnodontes), having the teeth and jaws consolidated into one or two bony plates, on each jaw, as the diodonts and tetradonts.	
gymnogen		One of a class of plants, so called by Lindley, because the ovules are fertilized by direct contact of the pollen.	
gymnoglossa		A division of gastropods in which the odontophore is without teeth.	
gymnolaema		An order of Bryozoa, having no epistome.	
gymnolaemata		An order of Bryozoa, having no epistome.	
gymnonoti		The order of fishes which includes the Gymnotus or electrical eel.	
gymnopaedic		Having young that are naked when hatched; psilopædic; -- said of certain birds.	
gymnophiona		An order of Amphibia, having a long, annulated, snakelike body. See Ophiomorpha.	
gymnophthalmata		A group of acalephs, including the naked-eyed medusæ; the hydromedusæ.	
gymnoplast		A cell or mass of protoplasm devoid of an envelope, as a white blood corpuscle.	
gymnorhinal		Having unfeathered nostrils, as certain birds.	
gymnosomata		One of the orders of Pteropoda.	
gymnosophist		One of a sect of philosophers, said to have been found in India by Alexander the Great, who went almost naked, denied themselves the use of flesh, renounced bodily pleasures, and employed themselves in the contemplation of nature.	French gymnosophiste, from Latin gymnosophistae, from Greek γυμνοσοφισταί.
gymnosophy		The doctrines of the Gymnosophists.	
gymnosperm		A plant that bears naked seeds (i. e., seeds not inclosed in an ovary), as the common pine and hemlock.	
gymnospermous		(a) Having naked seeds, or seeds not inclosed in a capsule or other vessel.	
gymnotoka		The Athecata.	
gymnotus		A genus of South American fresh-water fishes, including the Gymnotus electricus, or electric eel.	
gyn	Obsolete	To begin See Gin.	
gynaeceum		The part of a large house, among the ancients, exclusively appropriated to women.	
gynaecian		The same as Gynecian.	
gynaecium		The part of a large house, among the ancients, exclusively appropriated to women.	
gynaecophore		A ventral canal or groove, in which the males of some dioecious trematodes carry the female.	
gynander		A plant having the stamens inserted in the pistil.	
gynandria		A class of plants in the Linnaean system, whose stamens grow out of, or are united with, the pistil.	
gynandrian		Having stamens inserted in the pistil; belonging to the class Gynandria.	
gynandromorph		An animal affected with gynandromorphism,	
gynandromorphism		An abnormal condition of certain animals, in which one side has the external characters of the male, and the other those of the female.	
gynandromorphous		Affected, with gynandromorphism.	
gynandrous		Having stamens inserted in the pistil; belonging to the class Gynandria.	
gynantherous		Pertaining to an abnormal condition of the flower, in which the stamens are converted into pistils.	
gynarchy		Government by a woman.	
gyneceum		See Gynæceum.	
gynecian		Of or relating to women.	
gynecocracy		Government by a woman, female power; gyneocracy.	
gynecological		Of or pertaining to gynecology.	
gynecology		The science which treats of the structure and diseases of women. -- Gyn`e*col"o*gist.	
gyneocracy		See Gynecocracy — government by a woman, female power; gyneocracy.	
gyneolatry		The adoration or worship of woman.	
gynephobia		Hatred of women; repugnance to the society of women.	
gynno	Obsolete	To begin. See Gin.	
gynobase		A dilated base or receptacle, supporting a multilocular ovary.	
gynobasic		Pertaining to, or having, a gynobase.	
gynocracy		Female government; gynecocracy.	
gynodioecious		Dioecious, but having some hermaphrodite or perfect flowers on an individual plant which bears mostly pistillate flowers.	
gynoecium		The pistils of a flower, taken collectively. See Illust. of Carpophore.	
gynophore		(Bot.) The pedicel raising the pistil or ovary above the stamens, as in the passion flower.	
gyp		A college servant; -- so called in Cambridge, England; at Oxford called a scout.	
gypse	Obsolete	See Gypsum — a mineral consisting of the hydrous sulphate of lime (calcium).	
gypseous		Resembling or containing gypsum; partaking of the qualities of gypsum.	
gypsey		A gypsy. See Gypsy.	
gypsiferous		Containing gypsum.	
gypsine		Gypseous.	
gypsography		The act or art of engraving on gypsum.	
gypsoplast		A cast taken in plaster of Paris, or in white lime.	
gypsum		A mineral consisting of the hydrous sulphate of lime (calcium).	Latin gypsum, from Greek γύψος.
gypsy		One of a vagabond race, whose tribes, coming originally from India, entered Europe in 14th or 15th centry, and are now scattered over Turkey, Russia, Hungary, Spain, England, etc., living by theft, fortune telling…	
gypsyism		The arts and practices or habits of gypsies; deception; cheating; flattery.	
gypsywort		A labiate plant (the Lycopus Europæus).	
gyracanthus		A genus of fossil fishes, found in Devonian and carboniferous strata; -- so named from their round, sculptured spines.	
gyral		Moving in a circular path or way; whirling; gyratory.	
gyrant		Gyrating.	
gyrate		Winding or coiled round; curved into a circle; taking a circular course.	
gyration		The act of turning or whirling, as around a fixed center; a circular or spiral motion; motion about an axis; rotation; revolution.	
gyratory		Moving in a circle, or spirally; revolving; whirling around.	
gyre	Obsolete	A circular motion, or a circle described by a moving body; a turn or revolution; a circuit.	Latin gyrus, from Greek γῦρος.
gyreful	Obsolete	Abounding in gyres.	
gyrencephala		The higher orders of Mammalia, in which the cerebrum is convoluted. -- Gyr a*lous, a.	
gyrfalcon		One of several species and varieties of large Arctic falcons, esp. Falco rusticolus and the white species F.	Old French gerfaucon.
gyri		See Gyrus — a convoluted ridge between grooves; a convolution; as, the gyri of the brain; the gyri of brain coral.	
gyrland	Obsolete	To garland.	
gyro-pigeon		A flying object simulating a pigeon in flight, when projected from a spring trap.	
gyrodus		A genus of extinct oölitic fishes, having rounded teeth in several rows adapted for crushing.	
gyrogonite		The petrified fruit of the Chara hispida, a species of stonewort. See Stonewort.	
gyroidal		(Crystallog.) Having the planes arranged spirally, so that they incline all to the right (or left) of a vertical line; -- said of certain hemihedral forms.	
gyrolepis		A genus of ganoid fishes, found in strata of the new red sandetone, and the lias bone beds.	
gyroma		A turning round.	
gyromancy		A kind of divination performed by drawing a ring or circle, and walking in or around it.	
gyron		A subordinary of triangular form having one of its angles at the fess point and the opposite aide at the edge of the escutcheon.	
gyronny		Covered with gyrons, or divided so as to form several gyrons; - - said of an escutcheon.	French gironné.
gyropigeon		A flying object simulating a pigeon in flight, when projected from a spring trap.	
gyroscope		A rotating wheel, mounted in a ring or rings, for illustrating the dynamics of rotating bodies, the composition of rotations, etc. It was devised by Professor W.	
gyroscopic		Pertaining to the gyroscope; resembling the motion of the gyroscope.	
gyrose		Turned round like a crook, or bent to and fro.	
gyrostat		A modification of the gyroscope, consisting essentially of a fly wheel fixed inside a rigid case to which is attached a thin flange of metal for supporting the instrument.	
gyrostatic		Of or pertaining to the gyrostat or to gyrostatics.	
gyrostatics		The doctrine or theory of the gyrostat, or of the phenomena of rotating bodies.	
gyrus		A convoluted ridge between grooves; a convolution; as, the gyri of the brain; the gyri of brain coral.	Latin gyrus, from Greek γῦρος.
gyte	Scots	Delirious; senselessly extravagant; as, the man is clean gyte.	
gyve		A shackle; especially, one to confine the legs; a fetter.	
