ha		An exclamation denoting surprise, joy, or grief.
ha-ha		A sunk fence; a fence, wall, or ditch, not visible till one is close upon it.
haaf		The deepsea fishing for cod, ling, and tusk, off the Shetland Isles.
haak		A sea fish. See Hake.
haar	Scots	A fog; esp., a fog or mist with a chill wind.
habendum		That part of a deed which follows the part called the premises, and determines the extent of the interest or estate granted; -- so called because it begins with the word Habendum.
haberdash		To deal in small wares.
haberdasher		A dealer in drapery goods of various descriptions, as laces, silks, trimmings, etc.
haberdashery		The goods and wares sold by a haberdasher; also (Fig.), trifles.
haberdine		A cod salted and dried.
habergeon		Properly, a short hauberk, but often used loosely for the hauberk.
habilatory		Of or pertaining to clothing; wearing clothes.
habile	Obsolete	Fit; qualified; also, apt.
habiliment		A garment; an article of clothing.
habilimented		Clothed.
habilitate	Obsolete	Qualified or entitled.
habilitation	Obsolete	Equipment; qualification.
hability	Obsolete	Ability; aptitude.
habit		The usual condition or state of a person or thing, either natural or acquired, regarded as something had, possessed, and firmly retained; as, a religious habit; his habit is morose; elms have a spreading habit; esp.…
habitability		Habitableness.
habitable		Capable of being inhabited; that may be inhabited or dwelt in; as, the habitable world. -- Hab it*a*bly, adv.
habitan		General met an emissary … sent … to ascertain the feelings of the habitans or French yeomanry.
habitance	Obsolete	Dwelling; abode; residence.
habitancy		Same as Inhabitancy.
habitant		Etym: An inhabitant or resident; -- a name applied to and denoting farmers of French descent or origin in Canada, especially in the Province of Quebec; -- usually in plural.
habitat		(Biol.) The natural abode, locality or region of an animal or plant.
habitation		The act of inhabiting; state of inhabiting or dwelling, or of being inhabited; occupancy.
habitator	Obsolete	A dweller; an inhabitant.
habited		Clothed; arrayed; dressed; as, he was habited like a shepherd.
habitual		According to habit; established by habit; customary; constant; as, the habiual practice of sin.
habituate		To make accustomed; to accustom; to familiarize.
habituation		The act of habituating, or accustoming; the state of being habituated.
habitude		Habitual attitude; usual or accustomed state with reference to something else; established or usual relations.
habitue		One who habitually frequents a place; as, an habitué of a theater.
habiture	Obsolete	Habitude.
habitus		Habitude; mode of life; general appearance.
hable	Obsolete	See Habile — fit; qualified; also, apt.
habnab	Obsolete	By chance.
hachure		A short line used in drawing and engraving, especially in shading and denoting different surfaces, as in map drawing.
hacienda		A large estate where work of any kind is done, as agriculture, manufacturing, mining, or raising of animals; a cultivated farm, with a good house, in distinction from a farming establishment with rude huts for herdsmen, etc.…
hack		A frame or grating of various kinds; as, a frame for drying bricks, fish, or cheese; a rack for feeding cattle; a grating in a mill race, etc.
hackamore		A halter consisting of a long leather or rope strap and headstall, -- used for leading or tieing a pack animal.
hackberry		A genus of trees (Celtis) related to the elm, but bearing drupes with scanty, but often edible, pulp.
hackbolt		The greater shearwater or hagdon. See Hagdon.
hackbuss		Same as Hagbut.
hackee		The chipmunk; also, the chickaree or red squirrel.
hacker		One who, or that which, hacks. Specifically: A cutting instrument for making notches; esp., one used for notching pine trees in collecting turpentine; a hack.
hackery		A cart with wooden wheels, drawn by bullocks.
hackle		A comb for dressing flax, raw silk, etc.; a hatchel.
hackly		(Min.) Having fine, short, and sharp points on the surface; as, the hackly fracture of metallic iron.
hackman		The driver of a hack or carriage for public hire.
hackmatack		The American larch (Larix Americana), a coniferous tree with slender deciduous leaves; also, its heavy, close-grained timber.
hackney		A horse for riding or driving; a nag; a pony.
hackneyman		A man who lets horses and carriages for hire.
hackster	Obsolete	A bully; a bravo; a ruffian; an assassin.
hacqueton	Obsolete	Same as Acton.
had		See Have — to possess, as something which appertains to, is connected with, or affects, one.
hadder	Obsolete	Heather; heath.
haddie	Scots	The haddock.
haddock		A marine food fish (Melanogrammus æglefinus), allied to the cod, inhabiting the northern coasts of Europe and America.
hade		(Mining) The inclination or deviation from the vertical of any mineral vein.
hades		The nether world (according to classical mythology, the abode of the shades, ruled over by Hades or Pluto); the invisible world; the grave.
hadj		The pilgrimage to Mecca, performed by Mohammedans.
hadji		A Mohammedan pilgrim to Mecca; -- used among Orientals as a respectful salutation or a title of honor.
hadrosaurus		An American herbivorous dinosaur of great size, allied to the iguanodon.
haecceity		Literally, this-ness.
haema-		Combining forms indicating relation or resemblance to blood, association with blood; as, hæmapod, hæmatogenesis, hæmoscope.
haemachrome		Hematin.
haemacyanin		A substance found in the blood of the octopus, which gives to it its blue color.
haemacytometer		An apparatus for determining the number of corpuscles in a given quantity of blood.
haemad		Toward the hæmal side; on the hæmal side of; -- opposed to neurad.
haemadrometer		Same as Hemadrometer.
haemadrometry		Same as Hemadrometry.
haemadromograph		An instrument for registering the velocity of the blood.
haemadromometer		Same as Hemadrometer.
haemadromometry		Same as Hemadrometry.
haemadynameter		Same as Hemadynamometer.
haemadynamics		Same as Hemadynamics.
haemadynamometer		Same as Hemadynamometer.
haemal		Pertaining to the blood or blood vessels; also, ventral. See Hemal.
haemaphaein		A brownish substance sometimes found in the blood, in cases of jaundice.
haemapod		An hæmapodous animal.
haemapodous		Having the limbs on, or directed toward, the ventral or hemal side, as in vertebrates; -- opposed to neuropodous.
haemapoietic		Bloodforming; as, the hæmapoietic function of the spleen.
haemapophysis		Same as Hemapophysis. -- Hæm`a*po*phys"i*al, a.
haemastatics		Same as Hemastatics.
haematachometer		A form of apparatus (somewhat different from the hemadrometer) for measuring the velocity of the blood.
haematachometry		The measurement of the velocity of the blood.
haematemesis		Same as Hematemesis.
haematic		Of or pertaining to the blood; sanguine; brownish red.
haematin		Same as Hematin.
haematinometer		Same as Hematinometer.
haematinometric		Same as Hematinometric.
haematite		Same as Hematite.
haematitic		Of a blood-red color; crimson; (Bot.) brownish red.
haemato-		Combining forms indicating relation or resemblance to blood, association with blood; as, hæmapod, hæmatogenesis, hæmoscope.
haematoblast		One of the very minute, disk-shaped bodies found in blood with the ordinary red corpuscles and white corpuscles; a third kind of blood corpuscle, supposed by some to be an early stage in the development of the red corpuscles…
haematocrya		The cold-blooded vertebrates.
haematocryal		Cold-blooded.
haematocrystallin		Same as Hematocrystallin.
haematodynamometer		Same as Hemadynamometer.
haematogenesis		(a) The origin and development of blood. (b) The transformation of venous arterial blood by respiration; hematosis.
haematogenic		Relating to hæmatogenesis.
haematogenous		Originating in the blood.
haematoglobulin		Same as Hematoglobin.
haematoid		Same as Hematoid.
haematoidin		Same as Hematoidin.
haematoin		A substance formed from the hematin of blood, by removal of the iron through the action of concentrated sulphuric acid.
haematolin		See Hæmatoin.
haematology		The science which treats of the blood.
haematolysis		Dissolution of the red blood corpuscles with diminished coagulability of the blood; hæmolysis. -- Hæm`a*to*lyt"ic (#), a.
haematometer		(a) Same as Hemadynamometer. (b) An instrument for determining the number of blood corpuscles in a given quantity of blood.
haematophilina		A division of Cheiroptera, including the bloodsucking bats. See Vampire.
haematoplast		Same as Hæmatoblast.
haematoplastic		Blood formative; -- applied to a substance in early fetal life, which breaks up gradually into blood vessels.
haematoporphyrin		See Hæmatoin.
haematosac		A vascular sac connected, beneath the brain, in many fishes, with the infundibulum.
haematoscope		A hæmoscope.
haematosin		Hematin.
haematosis		Same as Hematosis.
haematotherma		Same as Hematotherma.
haematothermal		Warm-blooded; homoiothermal.
haematothorax		Same as Hemothorax.
haematoxylin		The coloring principle of logwood.
haematoxylon		A genus of leguminous plants containing but a single species, the H.
haematozooen		A parasite inhabiting the blood; esp.: (a) Certain species of nematodes of the genus Filaria, sometimes found in the blood of man, the horse, the dog, etc. (b) The trematode, Bilharzia hæmatobia…
haematozoon		A parasite inhabiting the blood; esp.: (a) Certain species of nematodes of the genus Filaria, sometimes found in the blood of man, the horse, the dog, etc. (b) The trematode, Bilharzia hæmatobia…
haemin		Same as Hemin.
haemo-		Combining forms indicating relation or resemblance to blood, association with blood; as, hæmapod, hæmatogenesis, hæmoscope.
haemochrome		Same as Hæmachrome.
haemochromogen		A body obtained from hemoglobin, by the action of reducing agents in the absence of oxygen.
haemochromometer		An apparatus for measuring the amount of hemoglobin in a fluid, by comparing it with a solution of known strength and of normal color.
haemocyanin		Same as Hæmacyanin.
haemocytolysis		See Hæmocytotrypsis.
haemocytometer		See Hæmacytometer.
haemocytotrypsis		A breaking up of the blood corpuscles, as by pressure, in distinction from solution of the corpuscles, or hæmcytolysis.
haemodromograph		Same as Hæmadromograph.
haemodromometer		Same as Hemadrometer.
haemodynameter		Same as Hemadynamics.
haemodynamics		Same as Hemadynamics.
haemoglobin		Same as Hemoglobin.
haemoglobinometer		Same as Hemochromometer.
haemol		A dark brown powder containing iron, prepared by the action of zinc dust as a reducing agent upon the coloring matter of the blood, used medicinally as a hematinic.
haemolutein		See Hematoidin — a crystalline or amorphous pigment, free from iron, formed from hematin in old blood stains, and in old hemorrhages in the body.
haemolysis		Same as Hæmatolysis, Hæmatolytic.
haemolytic		Same as Hæmatolysis, Hæmatolytic.
haemomanometer		Same as Hemadynamometer.
haemometer		Same as Hemadynamometer.
haemony		A plant described by Milton as
haemoplastic		Same as Hæmatoplastic.
haemorrhoidal		Same as Hemorrhoidal.
haemoscope		An instrument devised by Hermann, for regulating and measuring the thickness of a layer of blood for spectroscopic examination.
haemostatic		Same Hemostatic.
haemotachometer		Same as Hæmatachometer.
haemotachometry		Same as Hæmatachometry.
haffle		To stammer; to speak unintelligibly; to prevaricate.
haft		A handle; that part of an instrument or vessel taken into the hand, and by which it is held and used; -- said chiefly of a knife, sword, or dagger; the hilt.
hafter	Obsolete	A caviler; a wrangler.
hag		An ugly old woman.
hag-ridden		Ridden by a hag or witch; hence, afflicted with nightmare.
hag-taper		The great woolly mullein (Verbascum Thapsus).
hagberry	Scots	A plant of the genus Prunus (P.
hagborn		Born of a hag or witch.
hagbut		A harquebus, of which the but was bent down or hooked for convenience in taking aim.
hagbutter		A soldier armed with a hagbut or arquebus.
hagdon		One of several species of sea birds of the genus Puffinus; esp., P. major, the greater shearwarter, and P.
hagfish		See Hag, 4.
haggada		A story, anecdote, or legend in the Talmud, to explain or illustrate the text of the Old Testament.
haggard		Etym: Having the expression of one wasted by want or suffering; hollow-eyed; having the features distorted or wasted, or anxious in appearance; as, haggard features, eyes.
haggardly		In a haggard manner.
hagged		Like a hag; lean; ugly.
haggis		A Scotch pudding made of the heart, liver, lights, etc., of a sheep or lamb, minced with suet, onions, oatmeal, etc., highly seasoned, and boiled in the stomach of the same animal; minced head and pluck.
haggish		Like a hag; ugly; wrinkled.
haggishly		In the manner of a hag.
haggle		To cut roughly or hack; to cut into small pieces; to notch or cut in an unskillful manner; to make rough or mangle by cutting; as, a boy haggles a stick of wood.
haggler		One who haggles or is difficult in bargaining.
hagiarchy		A sacred government; by holy orders of men.
hagiocracy		Government by a priesthood; hierarchy.
hagiographa		The last of the three Jewish divisions of the Old Testament, or that portion not contained in the Law and the Prophets.
hagiographal		, Pertaining to the hagiographa, or to sacred writings.
hagiographer		One of the writers of the hagiographa; a writer of lives of the saints.
hagiography		Same Hagiographa.
hagiolatry		The invocation or worship of saints.
hagiologist		One who treats of the sacred writings; a writer of the lives of the saints; a hagiographer.
hagiology		The history or description of the sacred writings or of sacred persons; a narrative of the lives of the saints; a catalogue of saints.
hagioscope		An opening made in the interior walls of a cruciform church to afford a view of the altar to those in the transepts; -- called, in architecture, a squint.
hagseed		The offspring of a hag.
hagship		The state or title of a hag.
haguebut		See Hagbut — a harquebus, of which the but was bent down or hooked for convenience in taking aim.
hah		Same as Ha.
haidingerite		A mineral consisting of the arseniate of lime; -- so named in honor of W.
haiduck		Formerly, a mercenary foot soldier in Hungary, now, a halberdier of a Hungarian noble, or an attendant in German or Hungarian courts.
haik		A large piece of woolen or cotton cloth worn by Arabs as an outer garment.
haikal		The central chapel of the three forming the sanctuary of a Coptic church.
haikwan		Chinese maritime customs.
hail		Small roundish masses of ice precipitated from the clouds, where they are formed by the congelation of vapor.
hail-fellow		An intimate companion.
hailse	Obsolete	To greet; to salute.
hailshot	Obsolete	Small shot which scatter like hailstones.
hailstone		A single particle of ice falling from a cloud; a frozen raindrop; a pellet of hail.
hailstorm		A storm accompanied with hail; a shower of hail.
haily		Of hail — small roundish masses of ice precipitated from the clouds, where they are formed by the congelation of vapor.
hain	Colloquial	To inclose for mowing; to set aside for grass.
hair		The collection or mass of filaments growing from the skin of an animal, and forming a covering for a part of the head or for any part or the whole of the body.
hair-brown		Of a clear tint of brown, resembling brown human hair.
hair-salt		A variety of native Epsom salt occurring in silky fibers.
hairbell		See Harebell — a small, slender, branching plant (Campanula rotundifolia), having blue bell-shaped flowers; also, Scilla nutans, which has similar flowers; -- called also bluebell.
hairbird		The chipping sparrow.
hairbrained		See Harebrained — wild; giddy; volatile; heedless.
hairbreadth		Having the breadth of a hair; very narrow; as, a hairbreadth escape.
hairbrush		A brush for cleansing and smoothing the hair.
haircloth		Stuff or cloth made wholly or in part of hair.
hairdresser		One who dresses or cuts hair; a barber.
haired		Having hair.
hairiness		The state of abounding, or being covered, with hair.
hairless		Destitute of hair.
hairpin		A pin, usually forked, or of bent wire, for fastening the hair in place, -- used by women.
hairsplitter		One who makes excessively nice or needless distinctions in reasoning; one who quibbles.
hairsplitting		Making excessively nice or trivial distinctions in reasoning; subtle. -- n.
hairspring		The slender recoil spring which regulates the motion of the balance in a timepiece.
hairstreak		A butterfly of the genus Thecla; as, the green hairstreak (T. rubi).
hairtail		Any species of marine fishes of the genus Trichiurus; esp., T. lepterus of Europe and America.
hairworm		A nematoid worm of the genus Gordius, resembling a hair. See Gordius.
hairy		Bearing or covered with hair; made of or resembling hair; rough with hair; rough with hair; rough with hair; hirsute.
haitian		See Haytian — of pertaining to Hayti. -- n.
haje		The Egyptian asp or cobra (Naja haje.) It is related to the cobra of India, and like the latter has the power of inflating its neck into a hood.
hake	English dialect	A drying shed, as for unburned tile.
haketon	Obsolete	Same as Acton.
hakim		A wise man; a physician, esp. a Mohammedan.
halacha		The general term for the Hebrew oral or traditional law; one of two branches of exposition in the Midrash.
halation		An appearance as of a halo of light, surround the edges of dark object
halberd		An ancient long-handled weapon, of which the head had a point and several long, sharp edges, curved or straight, and sometimes additional points.
halberd-shaped		Hastate.
halberdier		One who is armed with a halberd.
halcyon		Pertaining to, or resembling, the halcyon, which was anciently said to lay her eggs in nests on or near the sea during the calm weather about the winter solstice.
halcyonian		Halcyon; calm.
halcyonoid		See Alcyonoid — like or pertaining to the Alcyonaria. -- n.
hale	Obsolete	Sound; entire; healthy; robust; not impaired; as, a hale body.
halesia		A genus of American shrubs containing several species, called snowdrop trees, or silver-bell trees.
half		Consisting of a moiety, or half; as, a half bushel; a half hour; a half dollar; a half view.
half-and-half		A mixture of two malt liquors, esp. porter and ale, in about equal parts.
half-blooded		Proceeding from a male and female of different breeds or races; having only one parent of good stock; as, a half-blooded sheep.
half-boot		A boot with a short top covering only the ankle. See Cocker, and Congress boot, under Congress.
half-bound		Having only the back and corners in leather, as a book.
half-bred		Imperfectly acquainted with the rules of good-breeding; not well trained.
half-breed		Half-blooded.
half-brother		A brother by one parent, but not by both.
half-caste		One born of a European parent on the one side, and of a Hindoo or Mohammedan on the other.
half-clammed	Obsolete	Half-filled.
half-cracked	Colloquial	Half-demented; half-witted.
half-deck		(Zoöl.) A shell of the genus Crepidula; a boat shell. See Boat shell.
half-decked		Partially decked.
half-faced		Showing only part of the face; wretched looking; meager.
half-fish	English dialect	A salmon in its fifth year of growth.
half-hatched		Imperfectly hatched; as, half-hatched eggs.
half-heard		Imperfectly or partly heard to the end.
half-hearted		Wanting in heart or spirit; ungenerous; unkind.
half-hourly		Done or happening at intervals of half an hour.
half-learned		Imperfectly learned.
half-length		Of half the whole or ordinary length, as a picture.
half-mast		A point some distance below the top of a mast or staff; as, a flag a half-mast (a token of mourning, etc.).
half-moon		The moon at the quarters, when half its disk appears illuminated.
half-penny		An English coin of the value of half a penny; also, the value of half a penny.
half-pike		A short pike, sometimes carried by officers of infantry, sometimes used in boarding ships; a spontoon.
half-port		One half of a shutter made in two parts for closing a porthole.
half-ray		A straight line considered as drawn from a center to an indefinite distance in one direction, the complete ray being the whole line drawn to an indefinite distance in both directions.
half-read		Informed by insufficient reading; superficial; shallow.
half-sighted		Seeing imperfectly; having weak discernment.
half-sister		A sister by one parent only.
half-strained		Half-bred; imperfect.
half-sword		Half the length of a sword; close fight.
half-timbered		Constructed of a timber frame, having the spaces filled in with masonry; -- said of buildings.
half-tone		(Fine Arts) (a) An intermediate or middle tone in a painting, engraving, photograph, etc.; a middle tint, neither very dark nor very light.
half-tongue		A jury, for the trial of a fore foreigner, composed equally of citizens and aliens.
half-wit		A foolish; a dolt; a blockhead; a dunce.
half-witted		Weak in intellect; silly.
half-yearly		Two in a year; semiannual. -- adv.
halfbeak		Any slender, marine fish of the genus Hemirhamphus, having the upper jaw much shorter than the lower; -- called also balahoo.
halfcock	Colloquial	To set the cock of (a firearm) at the first notch.
halfen	Obsolete	Wanting half its due qualities.
halfendeal	Obsolete	Half; by the part.
halfer		A male fallow deer gelded.
halfness		The quality of being half; incompleteness.
halfpace		A platform of a staircase where the stair turns back in exactly the reverse direction of the lower flight.
halfway		In the middle; at half the distance; imperfectly; partially; as, he halfway yielded.
halibut		A large, northern, marine flatfish (Hippoglossus vulgaris), of the family Pleuronectidæ.
halichondriae		An order of sponges, having simple siliceous spicules and keratose fibers; -- called also Keratosilicoidea.
halicore		Same as Dugong.
halidom		Holy doom; the Last Day.
halieutics		A treatise upon fish or the art of fishing; ichthyology.
halimas	Obsolete	The feast of All Saints; Hallowmas.
haliographer		One who writes about or describes the sea.
haliography		Description of the sea; the science that treats of the sea.
haliotis		A genus of marine shells; the ear-shells. See Abalone.
haliotoid		Like or pertaining to the genus Haliotis; ear-shaped.
halisauria		The Enaliosauria.
halite		Native salt; sodium chloride.
halituous		Produced by, or like, breath; vaporous.
halk	Obsolete	A nook; a corner.
hall		A building or room of considerable size and stateliness, used for public purposes; as, Westminster Hall, in London.
hall-mark		The official stamp of the Goldsmiths' Company and other assay offices, in the United Kingdom, on gold and silver articles, attesting their purity.
hallage		A fee or toll paid for goods sold in a hall.
halleluiah		Praise ye Jehovah; praise ye the Lord; -- an exclamation used chiefly in songs of praise or thanksgiving to God, and as an expression of gratitude or adoration.
hallelujah		Praise ye Jehovah; praise ye the Lord; -- an exclamation used chiefly in songs of praise or thanksgiving to God, and as an expression of gratitude or adoration.
hallelujatic		Pertaining to, or containing, hallelujahs.
halliard		See Halyard.
hallidome		Same as Halidom.
hallier		A kind of net for catching birds.
halloa		See Halloo — a loud exclamation; a call to invite attention or to incite a person or an animal; a shout.
halloo		A loud exclamation; a call to invite attention or to incite a person or an animal; a shout.
hallow		To make holy; to set apart for holy or religious use; to consecrate; to treat or keep as sacred; to reverence. vi. 9.
halloween	Scots	The evening preceding Allhallows or All Saints' Day.
hallowmas		The feast of All Saints, or Allhallows.
halloysite		A claylike mineral, occurring in soft, smooth, amorphous masses, of a whitish color.
hallstatt		Of or pert. to Hallstatt, Austria, or the Hallstatt civilization. -- Hallstatt, or Hallstattian, civilization, a prehistoric civilization of central Europe…
hallstattian		Of or pert. to Hallstatt, Austria, or the Hallstatt civilization. -- Hallstatt, or Hallstattian, civilization, a prehistoric civilization of central Europe…
hallucal		Of or pertaining to the hallux.
hallucinate		To wander; to go astray; to err; to blunder; -- used of mental processes.
hallucination		The act of hallucinating; a wandering of the mind; error; mistake; a blunder.
hallucinator		One whose judgment and acts are affected by hallucinations; one who errs on account of his hallucinations.
hallucinatory		Partaking of, or tending to produce, hallucination.
hallux		The first, or preaxial, digit of the hind limb, corresponding to the pollux in the fore limb; the great toe; the hind toe of birds.
halm		Same as Haulm.
halma		The long jump, with weights in the hands, -- the most important of the exercises of the Pentathlon.
halmas	Obsolete	The feast of All Saints; Hallowmas.
halo		A luminous circle, usually prismatically colored, round the sun or moon, and supposed to be caused by the refraction of light through crystals of ice in the atmosphere.
haloed		Surrounded with a halo; invested with an ideal glory; glorified.
halogen		An electro-negative element or radical, which, by combination with a metal, forms a haloid salt; especially, chlorine, bromine, and iodine; sometimes, also, fluorine and cyanogen.
halogenous		Of the nature of a halogen.
haloid		Resembling salt; -- said of certain binary compounds consisting of a metal united to a negative element or radical, and now chiefly applied to the chlorides, bromides, iodides…
halomancy		See Alomancy — divination by means of salt.
halometer		An instrument for measuring the forms and angles of salts and crystals; a goniometer.
halones		Alternating transparent and opaque white rings which are seen outside the blastoderm, on the surface of the developing egg of the hen and other birds.
halophyte		A plant found growing in salt marshes, or in the sea.
haloscope		An instrument for exhibition or illustration of the phenomena of halos, parhelia, and the like.
halotrichite		An iron alum occurring in silky fibrous aggregates of a yellowish white color.
haloxyline		An explosive mixture, consisting of sawdust, charcoal, niter, and ferrocyanide of potassium, used as a substitute for gunpowder.
halpace		See Haut pas.
hals	Obsolete	The neck or throat.
halse	Obsolete	To embrace about the neck; to salute; to greet.
halsening	Obsolete	Sounding harshly in the throat; inharmonious; rough.
halser		See Hawser — a large rope made of three strands each containing many yarns.
halt		To hold one's self from proceeding; to hold up; to cease progress; to stop for a longer or shorter period; to come to a stop; to stand still.
halter		One who halts or limps A strong strap or cord. Especially: (a) A rope or strap, with or without a headstall, for leading or tying a horse.
halter-sack	Obsolete	A term of reproach, implying that one is fit to be hanged.
halteres		Balancers; the rudimentary hind wings of Diptera.
haltingly		In a halting or limping manner.
halvans		Impure ore; dirty ore.
halve		To divide into two equal parts; as, to halve an apple; to be or form half of.
halved		Appearing as if one side, or one half, were cut away; dimidiate.
halves		pl. of Half — consisting of a moiety, or half; as, a half bushel; a half hour; a half dollar; a half view.
halwe	Obsolete	A saint.
halysites		A genus of Silurian fossil corals; the chain corals. See Chain coral, under Chain.
ham		(Anat.) The region back of the knee joint; the popliteal space; the hock.
hamadryad		(Zoöl.) A large venomous East Indian snake (Orhiophagus bungarus), allied to the cobras.
hamadryas		The sacred baboon of Egypt (Cynocephalus Hamadryas).
hamal		In Turkey and other Oriental countries, a porter or burden bearer; specif., in Western India, a palanquin bearer.
hamamelis		A genus of plants which includes the witch-hazel (Hamamelis Virginica), a preparation of which is used medicinally.
hamate		Hooked; bent at the end into a hook; hamous.
hamated		Hooked, or set with hooks; hamate.
hamatum		See Unciform — having the shape of a hook; being of a curved or hooked from; hooklike.
hamble	Obsolete	To hamstring.
hamburg		A commercial city of Germany, near the mouth of the Elbe.
hamel		Same as Hamele.
hamesecken		The felonious seeking and invasion of a person in his dwelling house.
hamesucken		The felonious seeking and invasion of a person in his dwelling house.
hamfatter		A low-grade actor or performer.
hamiform		Hook-shaped.
haminura		A large edible river fish (Erythrinus macrodon) of Guiana.
hamite		A fossil cephalopod of the genus Hamites, related to the ammonites, but having the last whorl bent into a hooklike form.
hamitic		Pertaining to Ham or his descendants.
hamlet		A small village; a little cluster of houses in the country.
hamleted		Confined to a hamlet.
hammer		An instrument for driving nails, beating metals, and the like, consisting of a head, usually of steel or iron, fixed crosswise to a handle.
hammer-beam		A member of one description of roof truss, called hammer-beam truss, which is so framed as not to have a tiebeam at the top of the wall.
hammer-dressed		Having the surface roughly shaped or faced with the stonecutter's hammer; -- said of building stone.
hammer-harden		To harden, as a metal, by hammering it in the cold state.
hammer-less		Without a visible hammer; -- said of a gun having a cock or striker concealed from sight, and out of the way of an accidental touch.
hammerable		Capable of being formed or shaped by a hammer.
hammercloth		The cloth which covers a coach box.
hammerer		One who works with a hammer.
hammerhead		(Zoöl.) A shark of the genus Sphyrna or Zygæna, having the eyes set on projections from the sides of the head, which gives it a hammer shape.
hammerkop		A bird of the Heron family; the umber.
hammerman		A hammerer; a forgeman.
hammochrysos		A stone with spangles of gold color in it.
hammock		A swinging couch or bed, usually made of netting or canvas about six feet wide, suspended by clews or cords at the ends.
hamose		Having the end hooked or curved.
hamous		Having the end hooked or curved.
hamper		A large basket, usually with a cover, used for the packing and carrying of articles; as, a hamper of wine; a clothes hamper; an oyster hamper, which contains two bushels.
hamshackle		To fasten (an animal) by a rope binding the head to one of the fore legs; as, to hamshackle a horse or cow; hence, to bind or restrain; to curb.
hamster		A small European rodent (Cricetus frumentarius).
hamstring		One of the great tendons situated in each side of the ham, or space back of the knee, and connected with the muscles of the back of the thigh.
hamular		Hooked; hooklike; hamate; as, the hamular process of the sphenoid bone.
hamulate		Furnished with a small hook; hook-shaped.
hamule		A little hook.
hamulose		Bearing a small hook at the end.
hamulus		(Anat.) A hook, or hooklike process.
han	Obsolete	To have; have.
hanap	Obsolete	A rich goblet, esp. one used on state occasions.
hanaper		A kind of basket, usually of wickerwork, and adapted for the packing and carrying of articles; a hamper.
hance		(Naut.) A sudden fall or break, as the fall of the fife rail down to the gangway.
hanch		(Naut.) A sudden fall or break, as the fall of the fife rail down to the gangway.
hand		That part of the fore limb below the forearm or wrist in man and monkeys, and the corresponding part in many other animals; manus; paw.
hand-hole		A small hole in a boiler for the insertion of the hand in cleaning, etc. Hand-hole plate, the cover of a hand-hole.
hand-tight		As tight as can be made by the hand.
hand-winged		Having wings that are like hands in the structure and arrangement of their bones; -- said of bats.
handball		A ball for throwing or using with the hand.
handbarrow		A frame or barrow, without a wheel, carried by hand.
handbill		A loose, printed sheet, to be distributed by hand.
handbook		A book of reference, to be carried in the hand; a manual; a guidebook.
handbreadth		A space equal to the breadth of the hand; a palm.
handcart		A cart drawn or pushed by hand.
handcloth		A handkerchief.
handcraft		Same as Handicraft.
handcraftsman		A handicraftsman.
handcuff		A fastening, consisting of an iron ring around the wrist, usually connected by a chain with one on the other wrist; a manacle; -- usually in the plural.
handed		With hands joined; hand in hand.
hander		One who hands over or transmits; a conveyer in succession.
handfast	Obsolete	Hold; grasp; custody; power of confining or keeping.
handfastly	Obsolete	In a handfast or publicly pledged manner.
handfish		The frogfish.
handful		As much as the hand will grasp or contain.
handicap		An allowance of a certain amount of time or distance in starting, granted in a race to the competitor possessing inferior advantages; or an additional weight or other hindrance imposed upon the one possessing superior advantages…
handicapper		One who determines the conditions of a handicap.
handicraft		A trade requiring skill of hand; manual occupation; handcraft.
handicraftsman		A man skilled or employed in handcraft.
handily		In a handy manner; skillfully; conveniently.
handiness		The quality or state of being handy.
handiron	Obsolete	See Andrion.
handiwork		Work done by the hands; hence, any work done personally.
handkercher	Obsolete	A handkerchief.
handkerchief		A piece of cloth, usually square and often fine and elegant, carried for wiping the face or hands.
handle		To touch; to feel with the hand; to use or hold with the hand.
handleable		Capable of being handled.
handless		Without a hand.
handling		A touching, controlling, managing, using, etc., with the hand or hands, or as with the hands.
handmade		Manufactured by hand; as, handmade shoes.
handmaid		A maid that waits at hand; a female servant or attendant.
handmaiden		A maid that waits at hand; a female servant or attendant.
handsaw		A saw used with one hand.
handsel		A sale, gift, or delivery into the hand of another; especially, a sale, gift, delivery, or using which is the first of a series, and regarded as on omen for the rest; a first installment; an earnest…
handsome		Agreeable to the eye or to correct taste; having a pleasing appearance or expression; attractive; having symmetry and dignity; comely; -- expressing more than pretty, and less than beautiful; as, a handsome man or woman…
handsomely		In a handsome manner.
handsomeness		The quality of being handsome.
handspike		A bar or lever, generally of wood, used in a windlass or capstan, for heaving anchor, and, in modified forms, for various purposes.
handspring		A somersault made with the assistance of the hands placed upon the ground.
handwheel		Any wheel worked by hand; esp., one the rim of which serves as the handle by which a valve, car brake, or other part is adjusted.
handwriting		The cast or form of writing peculiar to each hand or person; chirography.
handy		Skillful in using the hand; dexterous; ready; adroit.
handy-dandy		A child's play, one child guessing in which closed hand the other holds some small object, winning the object if right and forfeiting an equivalent if wrong; hence, forfeit.
handyfight		A fight with the hands; boxing.
handygripe		Seizure by, or grasp of, the hand; also, close quarters in fighting.
handystroke		A blow with the hand.
handywork		See Handiwork — work done by the hands; hence, any work done personally.
hang		To suspend; to fasten to some elevated point without support from below; -- often used with up or out; as, to hang a coat on a hook; to hang up a sign; to hang out a banner.
hang-by		A dependent; a hanger-on; -- so called in contempt.
hangbird		The Baltimore oriole (Icterus galbula); -- so called because its nest is suspended from the limb of a tree.
hangdog		A base, degraded person; a sneak; a gallows bird., Low; sneaking; ashamed.
hanger		One who hangs, or causes to be hanged; a hangman.
hanger-on		One who hangs on, or sticks to, a person, place, or service; a dependent; one who adheres to others' society longer than he is wanted.
hanging		Requiring, deserving, or foreboding death by the halter.
hangman		One who hangs another; esp., one who makes a business of hanging; a public executioner; -- sometimes used as a term of reproach, without reference to office.
hangmanship		The office or character of a hangman.
hangnail		A small piece or silver of skin which hangs loose, near the root of finger nail.
hangnest		A nest that hangs like a bag or pocket.
hank		A parcel consisting of two or more skeins of yarn or thread tied together.
hanker		To long (for) with a keen appetite and uneasiness; to have a vehement desire; -- usually with for or after; as, to hanker after fruit; to hanker after the diversions of the town.
hankeringly		In a hankering manner.
hankey-pankey	Colloquial	Professional cant; the chatter of conjurers to divert attention from their tricks; hence, jugglery.
hanoverian		Of or pertaining to Hanover or its people, or to the House of Hanover in England.
hansa		See 2d Hanse.
hansard		An official report of proceedings in the British Parliament; -- so called from the name of the publishers.
hanse		That part of an elliptical or many-centered arch which has the shorter radius and immediately adjoins the impost.
hanseatic		Pertaining to the Hanse towns, or to their confederacy.
hansel		See Handsel — a sale, gift, or delivery into the hand of another; especially, a sale, gift, delivery, or using which is the first of a series, and regarded as on omen for the rest; a first installment…
hanselines	Obsolete	A sort of breeches.
hansom		A light, low, two-wheeled covered carriage with the driver's seat elevated behind, the reins being passed over the top.
hanukka		The Jewish Feast of the Dedication, instituted by Judas Maccabæus, his brothers, and the whole congregation of Israel, in 165 b. c.…
hanukkah		The Jewish Feast of the Dedication, instituted by Judas Maccabæus, his brothers, and the whole congregation of Israel, in 165 b. c.…
hanuman		See Hoonoomaun — an indian monkey. See Entellus.
hap		To clothe; to wrap.
haphazard		Extra hazard; chance; accident; random.
haphtarah		One of the lessons from the Nebiim (or Prophets) read in the Jewish synagogue on Sabbaths, feast days, fasts, and the ninth of Ab, at the end of the service, after the parashoth, or lessons from the Law.
hapless		Without hap or luck; luckless; unfortunate; unlucky; unhappy; as, hapless youth; hapless maid.
haplessly		In a hapless, unlucky manner.
haplomi		An order of freshwater fishes, including the true pikes, cyprinodonts, and blindfishes.
haplostemonous		Having but one series of stamens, and that equal in number to the proper number of petals; isostemonous.
haply		By hap, chance, luck, or accident; perhaps; it may be.
happed	Scots	Wrapped; covered; cloaked.
happen		To come by chance; to come without previous expectation; to fall out.
happily		By good fortune; fortunately; luckily.
happiness		Good luck; good fortune; prosperity.
happy		Favored by hap, luck, or fortune; lucky; fortunate; successful; prosperous; satisfying desire; as, a happy expedient; a happy effort; a happy venture; a happy omen.
hapuku		A large and valuable food fish (Polyprion prognathus) of New Zealand.
haquebut		See Hagbut — a harquebus, of which the but was bent down or hooked for convenience in taking aim.
hara-kiri		Suicide, by slashing the abdomen, formerly practiced in Japan, and commanded by the government in the cases of disgraced officials; disembowelment; -- also written, but incorrectly, hari-kari.
harangue		A speech addressed to a large public assembly; a popular oration; a loud address a multitude; in a bad sense, a noisy or pompous speech; declamation; ranting.
harangueful		Full of harangue.
haranguer		One who harangues, or is fond of haranguing; a declaimer.
harass		To fatigue; to tire with repeated and exhausting efforts; esp., to weary by importunity, teasing, or fretting; to cause to endure excessive burdens or anxieties…
harasser		One who harasses.
harassment		The act of harassing, or state of being harassed; worry; annoyance; anxiety.
harberous	Obsolete	Harborous.
harbinger		One who provides lodgings; especially, the officer of the English royal household who formerly preceded the court when traveling, to provide and prepare lodgings.
harbor		A station for rest and entertainment; a place of security and comfort; a refuge; a shelter. fair harbour that them seems.
harborage		Shelter; entertainment.
harborer		One who, or that which, harbors.
harborless		Without a harbor; shelterless.
harborough	Obsolete	A shelter..
harborous	Obsolete	Hospitable.
harbrough	Obsolete	A shelter..
hard		Not easily penetrated, cut, or separated into parts; not yielding to pressure; firm; solid; compact; -- applied to material bodies, and opposed to soft; as, hard wood; hard flesh; a hard apple.
hard-favored		Hard-featured; ill-looking; as, Vulcan was hard-favored.
hard-favoredness		Coarseness of features.
hard-featured		Having coarse, unattractive or stern features.
hard-fisted		Having hard or strong hands; as, a hard-fisted laborer.
hard-fought		contested; as, a hard-fought battle.
hard-handed		Having hard hands, as a manual laborer.
hard-headed		Having sound judgment; sagacious; shrewd. -- Hard"-head`ed*ness, n.
hard-hearted		Unsympathetic; inexorable; cruel; pitiless. -- Hard"-heart`ed*ness, n.
hard-labored		Wrought with severe labor; elaborate; studied.
hard-mouthed		Not sensible to the bit; not easily governed; as, a hard- mouthed horse.
hard-shell		Unyielding; insensible to argument; uncompromising; strict.
hard-tack		A name given by soldiers and sailors to a kind of hard biscuit or sea bread.
hard-visaged		Of a harsh or stern countenance; hard-featured.
hardbake		A sweetmeat of boiled brown sugar or molasses made with almonds, and flavored with orange or lemon juice, etc. Thackeray.
hardbeam		A tree of the genus Carpinus, of compact, horny texture; hornbeam.
harden		To make hard or harder; to make firm or compact; to indurate; as, to harden clay or iron.
hardened		Made hard, or compact; made unfeeling or callous; made obstinate or obdurate; confirmed in error or vice.
hardener		One who, or that which, hardens; specif., one who tempers tools.
hardening		Making hard or harder.
harder		A South African mullet, salted for food.
harderian		A term applied to a lachrymal gland on the inner side of the orbit of many animals which have a third eyelid, or nictitating membrane.
hardfavoredness		Coarseness of features.
hardfern		A species of fern (Lomaria borealis), growing in Europe and Northwestern America.
hardhack		A very astringent shrub (Spiræa tomentosa), common in pastures.
hardhead	Dialect	(Zoöl.) (a) The menhaden. See Menhaden. (b) Block's gurnard (Trigla gurnardus) of Europe.
hardihead	Obsolete	Hardihood.
hardihood		Boldness, united with firmness and constancy of mind; bravery; intrepidity; also, audaciousness; impudence.
hardily		Boldly; stoutly; resolutely.
hardiment	Obsolete	Hardihood; boldness; courage; energetic action.
hardiness		Hardihood; boldness; firmness; assurance.
hardish		Somewhat hard.
hardly		In a hard or difficult manner; with difficulty.
hardness		The quality or state of being hard, literally or figuratively.
hardock		See Hordock — an unidentified plant mentioned by Shakespeare, perhaps equivalent to burdock.
hardpan		The hard substratum.
hards		The refuse or coarse part of fiax; tow.
hardship		That which is hard to hear, as toil, privation, injury, injustice, etc. Swift.
hardspun		Firmly twisted in spinning.
hardtail		See Jurel — a yellow carangoid fish of the Atlantic and Gulf coasts (Caranx chrysos), most abundant southward, where it is valued as a food fish; -- called also hardtail, horse crevallé, jack…
hardware		Ware made of metal, as cutlery, kitchen utensils, and the like; ironmongery.
hardwareman		One who makes, or deals in, hardware.
hardy		Bold; brave; stout; daring; resolue; intrepid.
hare		(Zoöl.) A rodent of the genus Lepus, having long hind legs, a short tail, and a divided upper lip.
hare-hearted		Timorous; timid; easily frightened.
harebell		A small, slender, branching plant (Campanula rotundifolia), having blue bell-shaped flowers; also, Scilla nutans, which has similar flowers; -- called also bluebell.
harebrained		Wild; giddy; volatile; heedless.
harefoot		(Zoöl.) A long, narrow foot, carried (that is, produced or extending) forward; -- said of dogs.
harehound		See Harrier — one of a small breed of hounds, used for hunting hares.
hareld		The long-tailed duck. See Old Squaw.
harelip		A lip, commonly the upper one, having a fissure of perpendicular division like that of a hare. -- Hare"lipped`, a.
harem		The apartments or portion of the house allotted to females in Mohammedan families.
harengiform		Herring-shaped.
harfang		The snowy owl.
haricot		A ragout or stew of meat with beans and other vegetables.
harier		See Harrier — one of a small breed of hounds, used for hunting hares.
harikari		See Hara-kiri — suicide, by slashing the abdomen, formerly practiced in Japan, and commanded by the government in the cases of disgraced officials; disembowelment; -- also written, but incorrectly…
hariolation	Obsolete	Prognostication; soothsaying.
harish		Like a hare.
hark		To listen; to hearken.
harken		To hearken.
harl		A filamentous substance; especially, the filaments of flax or hemp.
harle		The red-breasted merganser.
harlequin		A buffoon, dressed in party-colored clothes, who plays tricks, often without speaking, to divert the bystanders or an audience; a merry-andrew; originally, a droll rogue of Italian comedy.
harlequinade		A play or part of play in which the harlequin is conspicuous; the part of a harlequin.
harlock		Probably a corruption either of charlock or hardock.
harlot		A woman who prostitutes her body for hire; a prostitute; a common woman; a strumpet.
harlotize	Obsolete	To harlot.
harlotry		The trade or practice of prostitution; habitual or customary lewdness.
harm		Injury; hurt; damage; detriment; misfortune.
harmaline		An alkaloid found in the plant Peganum harmala.
harmattan		A dry, hot wind, prevailing on the Atlantic coast of Africa, in December, January, and February, blowing from the interior or Sahara.
harmel		A kind of rue (Ruta sylvestris) growing in India.
harmful		Full of harm; injurious; hurtful; mischievous. --Harm ful*ness, n.
harmine		An alkaloid accompanying harmaline (in the Peganum harmala), and obtained from it by oxidation.
harmless		Free from harm; unhurt; as, to give bond to save another harmless.
harmonic		Concordant; musical; consonant; as, harmonic sounds.
harmonica		A musical instrument, consisting of a series of hemispherical glasses which, by touching the edges with the dampened finger, give forth the tones.
harmonical		Concordant; musical; consonant; as, harmonic sounds.
harmonically		In an harmonical manner; harmoniously.
harmonicon		A small, flat, wind instrument of music, in which the notes are produced by the vibration of free metallic reeds.
harmonics		The doctrine or science of musical sounds.
harmonious		Adapted to each other; having parts proportioned to each other; symmetrical.
harmoniphon		An obsolete wind instrument with a keyboard, in which the sound, which resembled the oboe, was produced by the vibration of thin metallic plates, acted upon by blowing through a tube.
harmonist		One who shows the agreement or harmony of corresponding passages of different authors, as of the four evangelists.
harmonite		One of a religious sect, founded in Würtemburg in the last century, composed of followers of George Rapp, a weaver.
harmonium		A musical instrument, resembling a small organ and especially designed for church music, in which the tones are produced by forcing air by means of a bellows so as to cause the vibration of free metallic reeds.
harmonization		The act of harmonizing.
harmonize		To agree in action, adaptation, or effect on the mind; to agree in sense or purport; as, the parts of a mechanism harmonize.
harmonizer		One who harmonizes.
harmonometer		An instrument for measuring the harmonic relations of sounds.
harmony		The just adaptation of parts to each other, in any system or combination of things, or in things, or things intended to form a connected whole…
harmost		A governor or prefect appointed by the Spartans in the cities subjugated by them.
harmotome		A hydrous silicate of alumina and baryta, occurring usually in white cruciform crystals; cross-stone.
harness		Originally, the complete dress, especially in a military sense, of a man or a horse; hence, in general, armor.
harnesser		One who harnesses.
harns	Scots	The brains.
harp		A musical instrument consisting of a triangular frame furnished with strings and sometimes with pedals, held upright, and played with the fingers.
harpa		A genus of marine univalve shells; the harp shells; -- so called from the form of the shells, and their ornamental ribs.
harpagon	Obsolete	A grappling iron.
harper		A player on the harp; a minstrel.
harping		Pertaining to the harp; as, harping symphonies.
harpings		The fore parts of the wales, which encompass the bow of a vessel, and are fastened to the stem.
harpist		A player on the harp; a harper.
harpoon		A spear or javelin used to strike and kill large fish, as whales; a harping iron.
harpooneer		An harpooner.
harpooner		One who throws the harpoon.
harpress		A female harper.
harpsichon	Obsolete	A harpsichord.
harpsichord		A harp-shaped instrument of music set horizontally on legs, like the grand piano, with strings of wire, played by the fingers, by means of keys provided with quills, instead of hammers, for striking the strings.
harpy		(Gr. Myth.) A fabulous winged monster, ravenous and filthy, having the face of a woman and the body of a vulture, with long claws, and the face pale with hunger.
harquebus		A firearm with match holder, trigger, and tumbler, made in the second half of the 15th century. the barrel was about forty inches long.
harquebuse		A firearm with match holder, trigger, and tumbler, made in the second half of the 15th century. the barrel was about forty inches long.
harrage	Obsolete	To harass; to plunder from.
harre	Obsolete	A hinge.
harridan		A worn-out strumpet; a vixenish woman; a hag.
harrier		One of a small breed of hounds, used for hunting hares.
harrow		An implement of agriculture, usually formed of pieces of timber or metal crossing each other, and set with iron or wooden teeth.
harrower	Obsolete	One who harrows.
harry		To strip; to lay waste; as, the Northmen came several times and harried the land.
harsh		Rough; disagreeable; grating; esp.:(a) To the touch. (b) To the taste.
harshly		In a harsh manner; gratingly; roughly; rudely.
harshness		The quality or state of being harsh.
harslet		See Haslet — the edible viscera, as the heart, liver, etc., of a beast, esp. of a hog.
hart		A stag; the male of the red deer. See the Note under Buck.
hartbeest		A large South African antelope (Alcelaphus caama), formerly much more abundant than it is now.
harten	Obsolete	To hearten; to encourage; to incite.
hartford		The Hartford grape, a variety of grape first raised at Hartford, Connecticut, from the Northern fox grape.
hartshorn		The horn or antler of the hart, or male red deer.
hartwort		A coarse umbelliferous plant of Europe (Tordylium maximum).
harum-scarum	Colloquial	Wild; giddy; flighty; rash; thoughtless.
haruspication		See Haruspicy — the art or practices of haruspices. See Aruspicy.
haruspice		A diviner of ancient Rome.
haruspicy		The art or practices of haruspices. See Aruspicy.
harvest		The gathering of a crop of any kind; the ingathering of the crops; also, the season of gathering grain and fruits, late summer or early autumn.
harvest-home		The gathering and bringing home of the harvest; the time of harvest.
harvester		One who harvests; a machine for cutting and gathering grain; a reaper.
harvesting		, from Harvest, v. t.
harvestless		Without harvest; lacking in crops; barren.
harvestman		A man engaged in harvesting.
harvestry		The act of harvesting; also, that which is harvested.
hary	Obsolete	To draw; to drag; to carry off by vio Chaucer.
has		3d pers. sing. pres. of Have.
hase		See Haze, v. t.
hash		That which is hashed or chopped up; meat and vegetables, especially such as have been already cooked, chopped into small pieces and mixed.
hasheesh		A slightly acrid gum resin produced by the common hemp (Cannabis saltiva), of the variety Indica, when cultivated in a warm climate; also, the tops of the plant, from which the resinous product is obtained.
hashish		A slightly acrid gum resin produced by the common hemp (Cannabis saltiva), of the variety Indica, when cultivated in a warm climate; also, the tops of the plant, from which the resinous product is obtained.
hask	Obsolete	A basket made of rushes or flags, as for carrying fish.
haslet		The edible viscera, as the heart, liver, etc., of a beast, esp. of a hog.
hasp		A clasp, especially a metal strap permanently fast at one end to a staple or pin, while the other passes over a staple, and is fastened by a padlock or a pin; also, a metallic hook for fastening a door.
hassock		A rank tuft of bog grass; a tussock.
hast	Archaic	, 2d pers. sing. pres. of.
hastate		Shaped like the head of a halberd; triangular, with the basal angles or lobes spreading; as, a hastate leaf.
hastated		Shaped like the head of a halberd; triangular, with the basal angles or lobes spreading; as, a hastate leaf.
haste		Celerity of motion; speed; swiftness; dispatch; expedition; -- applied only to voluntary beings, as men and other animals.
hasten		To press; to drive or urge forward; to push on; to precipitate; to accelerate the movement of; to expedite; to hurry.
hastener		One who hastens.
hastile		Same as Hastate.
hastily		In haste; with speed or quickness; speedily; nimbly.
hastiness		The quality or state of being hasty; haste; precipitation; rashness; quickness of temper.
hastings		Early fruit or vegetables; especially, early pease.
hastive	Obsolete	Forward; early; -- said of fruits.
hasty		Involving haste; done, made, etc., in haste; as, a hasty sketch.
hatable		Capable of being, or deserving to be, hated; odious; detestable.
hatband		A band round the crown of a hat; sometimes, a band of black cloth, crape, etc., worn as a badge of mourning.
hatbox		A box for a hat.
hatch		To cross with lines in a peculiar manneHatching.
hatch-boat		A vessel whose deck consists almost wholly of movable hatches; -- used mostly in the fisheries.
hatchel		An instrument with long iron teeth set in a board, for cleansing flax or hemp from the tow, hards, or coarse part; a kind of large comb; -- called also hackle and heckle.
hatcheler		One who uses a hatchel.
hatcher		One who hatches, or that which hatches; a hatching apparatus; an incubator.
hatchery		A house for hatching fish, etc.
hatchet		A small ax with a short handle, to be used with one hand.
hatchettine		Mineral t
hatchettite		Mineral t
hatching		A mode of execution in engraving, drawing, and miniature painting, in which shading is produced by lines crossing each other at angles more or less acute; -- called also crosshatching.
hatchment		(Her.) A sort of panel, upon which the arms of a deceased person are temporarily displayed, -- usually on the walls of his dwelling.
hatchure		Same as Hachure.
hatchway		A square or oblong opening in a deck or floor, affording passage from one deck or story to another; the entrance to a cellar.
hate		To have a great aversion to, with a strong desire that evil should befall the person toward whom the feeling is directed; to dislike intensely; to detest; as, to hate one's enemies; to hate hypocrisy.
hateful	Archaic or r	Manifesting hate or hatred; malignant; malevolent.
hatel	Obsolete	Hateful; detestable.
hater		One who hates.
hatless		Having no hat.
hatrack		A hatstand; hattree.
hatred		Strong aversion; intense dislike; hate; an affection of the mind awakened by something regarded as evil.
hatstand		A stand of wood or iron, with hooks or pegs upon which to hang hats, etc.
hatte	Obsolete	pres. & imp. sing. & pl. of Hote, to be called. See Hote.
hatted		Covered with a hat.
hatter	Obsolete	To tire or worry; -- out.
hatteria		A New Zealand lizard, which, in anatomical character, differs widely from all other existing lizards.
hatti-sherif		A irrevocable Turkish decree countersigned by the sultan.
hatting		The business of making hats; also, stuff for hats.
hattree		A hatstand.
haubergeon		See Habergeon — properly, a short hauberk, but often used loosely for the hauberk.
hauberk		A coat of mail; especially, the long coat of mail of the European Middle Ages, as contrasted with the habergeon, which is shorter and sometimes sleeveless.
hauerite		Native sulphide of manganese a reddish brown or brownish black mineral.
haugh	English dialect	A low-lying meadow by the side of a river.
haught	Obsolete	High; elevated; hence, haughty; proud.
haughtily		In a haughty manner; arrogantly.
haughtiness		The quality of being haughty; disdain; arrogance.
haughty		Disdainfully or contemptuously proud; arrogant; overbearing.
haul		To pull or draw with force; to drag.
haulabout		A bargelike vessel with steel hull, large hatchways, and coal transporters, for coaling war vessels from its own hold or from other colliers.
haulage		Act of hauling; as, the haulage of cars by an engine; charge for hauling.
hauler		One who hauls.
haulm		The denuded stems or stalks of such crops as buckwheat and the cereal grains, beans, etc.; straw.
hauls		See Hals — the neck or throat.
haulse		See Halse — to embrace about the neck; to salute; to greet.
hault	Obsolete	Lofty; haughty.
haum		See Haulm, stalk.
haunce	Obsolete	To enhance.
haunch		The hip; the projecting region of the lateral parts of the pelvis and the hip joint; the hind part.
haunched		Having haunches.
haunt		To frequent; to resort to frequently; to visit pertinaciously or intrusively; to intrude upon.
haunted		Inhabited by, or subject to the visits of, apparitions; frequented by a ghost.
haunter		One who, or that which, haunts.
haurient		In pale, with the head in chief; -- said of the figure of a fish, as if rising for air.
hausen		A large sturgeon (Acipenser huso) from the region of the Black Sea.
hausse		A kind of graduated breech sight for a small arm, or a cannon.
haustellata		An artificial division of insects, including all those with a sucking proboscis.
haustellate		Provided with a haustellum, or sucking proboscis. -- n.
haustellum		The sucking proboscis of various insects. See Lepidoptera, and Diptera.
haustorium		One of the suckerlike rootlets of such plants as the dodder and ivy.
haut	Obsolete	Haughty.
hautboy		(Mus.) A wind instrument, sounded through a reed, and similar in shape to the clarinet, but with a thinner tone.
hautboyist		A player on the hautboy.
hautein	Obsolete	Haughty; proud.
hauteur		Haughty manner or spirit; haughtiness; pride; arrogance.
hautgout		High relish or flavor; high seasoning.
hautpas		A raised part of the floor of a large room; a platform for a raised table or throne.
hauynite		A blue isometric mineral, characteristic of some volcani
havana		Of or pertaining to Havana, the capital of the island of Cuba; as, an Havana cigar; -- formerly sometimes written Havannah. -- n.
havanese		Of or pertaining to Havana, in Cuba. -- n. sing. & pl. A native or inhabitant, or the people, of Havana.
have		To possess, as something which appertains to, is connected with, or affects, one.
haveless	Obsolete	Having little or nothing.
havelock		A light cloth covering for the head and neck, used by soldiers as a protection from sunstroke.
haven		A bay, recess, or inlet of the sea, or the mouth of a river, which affords anchorage and shelter for shipping; a harbor; a port.
havenage		Harbor dues; port dues.
havened		Sheltered in a haven.
havener	Obsolete	A harbor master.
haver	English dialect	A possessor; a holder.
haversack	English dialect	A bag for oats or oatmeal.
haversian		Pertaining to, or discovered by, Clopton Havers, an English physician of the seventeenth century.
havier		A castrated deer.
havildar		In the British Indian armies, a noncommissioned officer of native soldiers, corresponding to a sergeant.
having		Possession; goods; estate.
havior	Obsolete	Behavior; demeanor.
havoc		Wide and general destruction; devastation; waste.
haw		A hedge; an inclosed garden or yard.
haw-haw		See Ha-ha — a sunk fence; a fence, wall, or ditch, not visible till one is close upon it.
hawaiian		Belonging to Hawaii or the Sandwich Islands, or to the people of Hawaii. -- n.
hawebake		Probably, the baked berry of the hawthorn tree, that is, coarse fare. See 1st Haw,
hawfinch		The common European grosbeak (Coccothraustes vulgaris); -- called also cherry finch, and coble.
hawhaw	Colloquial	To laugh boisterously.
hawk		One of numerous species and genera of rapacious birds of the family Falconidæ.
hawk-eyed		Having a keen eye; sharpsighted; discerning.
hawkbill		A sea turtle (Eretmochelys imbricata), which yields the best quality of tortoise shell; -- called also caret.
hawkbit		The fall dandelion (Leontodon autumnale).
hawked		Curved like a hawk's bill; crooked.
hawker	Obsolete	One who sells wares by crying them in the street; hence, a peddler or a packman.
hawkey		See Hockey — a game in which two parties of players, armed with sticks curved or hooked at the end, attempt to drive any small object (as a ball or a bit of wood) toward opposite goals.
hawkweed		(a) A plant of the genus Hieracium; -- so called from the ancient belief that birds of prey used its juice to strengthen their vision.
hawm	English dialect	See Haulm, straw.
hawse		(Naut.) (a) The situation of the cables when a vessel is moored with two anchors, one on the starboard, the other on the port bow.
hawser		A large rope made of three strands each containing many yarns.
hawser-laid		Made in the manner of a hawser.
hawthorn		A thorny shrub or tree (the Cratægus oxyacantha), having deeply lobed, shining leaves, small, roselike, fragrant flowers, and a fruit called haw.
hay		A net set around the haunt of an animal, especially of a rabbit.
hay-cutter		A machine in which hay is chopped short, as fodder for cattle.
haybird		(a) The European spotted flycatcher. (b) The European blackcap.
haybote		An allowance of wood to a tenant for repairing his hedges or fences; hedgebote.
haycock		A conical pile or hear of hay in the field.
hayfield		A field where grass for hay has been cut; a meadow.
hayfork		A fork for pitching and tedding hay.
hayloft		A loft or scaffold for hay.
haymaker		One who cuts and cures hay.
haymaking		The operation or work of cutting grass and curing it for hay.
haymow		A mow or mass of hay laid up in a barn for preservation.
hayrack		A frame mounted on the running gear of a wagon, and used in hauling hay, straw, sheaves, etc.; -- called also hay rigging.
hayrake		A rake for collecting hay; especially, a large rake drawn by a horse or horses.
hayrick		A heap or pile of hay, usually covered with thatch for preservation in the open air.
haystack		A stack or conical pile of hay in the open air.
haystalk		A stalk of hay.
haythorn		Hawthorn.
haytian		Of pertaining to Hayti. -- n.
hayward		An officer who is appointed to guard hedges, and to keep cattle from breaking or cropping them, and whose further duty it is to impound animals found running at large.
hazard		A game of chance played with dice.
hazardable		Liable to hazard or chance; uncertain; risky.
hazarder		One who hazards or ventures.
hazardize	Obsolete	A hazardous attempt or situation; hazard.
hazardous		Exposed to hazard; dangerous; risky.
hazardry		Playing at hazard; gaming; gambling.
haze		Light vapor or smoke in the air which more or less impedes vision, with little or no dampness; a lack of transparency in the air; hence, figuratively, obscurity; dimness.
hazel		(Bot.) A shrub or small tree of the genus Corylus, as the C. avellana, bearing a nut containing a kernel of a mild, farinaceous taste; the filbert.
hazeless		Destitute of haze.
hazelly		Of the color of the hazelnut; of a light brown.
hazelnut		The nut of the hazel.
hazelwort		The asarabacca.
hazily		In a hazy manner; mistily; obscurely; confusedly.
haziness		The quality or state of being hazy.
hazle	Obsolete	To make dry; to dry.
hazy		Thick with haze; somewhat obscured with haze; not clear or transparent.
