he		The man or male being (or object personified to which the masculine gender is assigned), previously designated; a pronoun of the masculine gender, usually referring to a specified subject already indicated.
head		The anterior or superior part of an animal, containing the brain, or chief ganglia of the nervous system, the mouth, and in the higher animals, the chief sensory organs; poll; cephalon.
head-cheese		A dish made of portions of the head, or head and feet, of swine, cut up fine, seasoned, and pressed into a cheeselike mass.
head-hunter		A member of any tribe or race of savages who have the custom of decapitating human beings and preserving their heads as trophies.
head-lugged		Lugged or dragged by the head.
headache		Pain in the head; ceph
headachy	Colloquial	Afflicted with headache.
headband		A fillet; a band for the head. iii. 20.
headboard		A board or boarding which marks or forms the head of anything; as, the headboard of a bed; the headboard of a grave.
headborough		The chief of a frankpledge, tithing, or decennary, consisting of ten families; -- called also borsholder, boroughhead, boroughholder, and sometimes tithingman.
headborrow		The chief of a frankpledge, tithing, or decennary, consisting of ten families; -- called also borsholder, boroughhead, boroughholder, and sometimes tithingman.
headdress		A covering or ornament for the head; a headtire.
headed		Furnished with a head (commonly as denoting intellectual faculties); -- used in composition; as, clear-headed, long-headed, thick-headed; a many-headed monster.
header		One who, or that which, heads nails, rivets, etc., esp. a machine for heading.
headfirst		With the head foremost.
headfish		The sunfish (Mola).
headforemost		With the head foremost.
headgear		Apparatus above ground at the mouth of a mine or deep well.
headily		In a heady or rash manner; hastily; rashly; obstinately.
headiness		The quality of being heady.
heading		The act or state of one who, or that which, heads; formation of a head.
headland		A cape; a promontory; a point of land projecting into the sea or other expanse of water.
headless		Having no head; beheaded; as, a headless body, neck, or carcass.
headlight		A light, with a powerful reflector, placed at the head of a locomotive, or in front of it, to throw light on the track at night, or in going through a dark tunnel.
headline		(Print.) The line at the head or top of a page.
headlong		With the head foremost; as, to fall headlong.
headman		A head or leading man, especially of a village community.
headmost		Most advanced; most forward; as, the headmost ship in a fleet.
headnote		A note at the head of a page or chapter; in law reports, an abstract of a case, showing the principles involved and the opinion of the court.
headpan	Obsolete	The brainpan.
headpiece		A cap of defense; especially, an open one, as distinguished from the closed helmet of the Middle Ages.
headquarters		The quarters or place of residence of any chief officer, as the general in command of an army, or the head of a police force; the place from which orders or instructions are issued; hence, the center of authority or order.
headrace		See Race, a water course.
headroom		See Headway, 2.
headrope		That part of a boltrope which is sewed to the upper edge or head of a sail.
headsail		Any sail set forward of the foremast.
headshake		A significant shake of the head, commonly as a signal of denial.
headship		Authority or dignity; chief place.
headsman		An executioner who cuts off heads.
headspring		Fountain; source.
headstall		That part of a bridle or halter which encompasses the head.
headstock		A part (usually separate from the bed or frame) for supporting some of the principal working parts of a machine; as: (a) The part of a lathe that holds the revolving spindle and its attachments; -- also called poppet head…
headstone		The principal stone in a foundation; the chief or corner stone.
headstrong		Not easily restrained; ungovernable; obstinate; stubborn.
headstrongness		Obstinacy.
headtire		A headdress. 1 Edras iii. 6.
headwater		The source and upper part of a stream; -- commonly used in the plural; as, the headwaters of the Missouri.
headway		The progress made by a ship in motion; hence, progress or success of any kind.
headwork		Mental labor.
heady		Willful; rash; precipitate; hurried on by will or passion; ungovernable.
heal		To make hale, sound, or whole; to cure of a disease, wound, or other derangement; to restore to soundness or health.
healable		Capable of being healed.
healall		A common herb of the Mint family (Brunela vulgaris), destitute of active properties, but anciently thought a panacea.
heald		A heddle.
healer		One who, or that which, heals.
healful	Obsolete	Tending or serving to heal; healing.
healing		Tending to cure; soothing; mollifying; as, the healing art; a healing salve; healing words.
healingly		So as to heal or cure.
health		The state of being hale, sound, or whole, in body, mind, or soul; especially, the state of being free from physical disease or pain.
healthful		Full of health; free from illness or disease; well; whole; sound; healthy; as, a healthful body or mind; a healthful plant.
healthfully		In health; wholesomely.
healthfulness		The state of being healthful.
healthily		In a healthy manner.
healthiness		The state of being healthy or healthful; freedom from disease.
healthless		Without health, whether of body or mind; in firm.
healthlessness		The state of being health
healthsome		Wholesome; salubrious.
healthward		In the direction of health; as, a healthward tendency.
healthy		Being in a state of health; enjoying health; hale; sound; free from disease; as, a healthy chid; a healthy plant.
heam		The afterbirth or secundines of a beast.
heap		A crowd; a throng; a multitude or great number of persons.
heaper		One who heaps, piles, or amasses.
heapy		Lying in heaps.
hear		To perceive by the ear; to apprehend or take cognizance of by the ear; as, to hear sounds; to hear a voice; to hear one call.
heard		imp. & p. p. of Hear.
hearer		One who hears; an auditor.
hearing		The act or power of perceiving sound; perception of sound; the faculty or sense by which sound is perceived; as, my hearing is good.
hearken		To listen; to lend the ear; to attend to what is uttered; to give heed; to hear, in order to obey or comply.
hearkener		One who hearkens; a listener.
hearsal	Obsolete	Rehearsal.
hearsay		Report; rumor; fame; common talk; something heard from another.
hearse		A hind in the year of its age.
hearsecloth		A cloth for covering a coffin when on a bier; a pall.
hearselike		Suitable to a funeral.
heart		(Anat.) A hollow, muscular organ, which, by contracting rhythmically, keeps up the circulation of the blood.
heart-eating		Preying on the heart.
heart-robbing		Depriving of thought; ecstatic.
heart-spoon	Obsolete	A part of the breastbone.
heart-whole		Having the heart or affections free; not in love.
heart-wounded		Wounded to the heart with love or grief.
heartache		Sorrow; anguish of mind; mental pang.
heartbreak		Crushing sorrow or grief; a yielding to such grief.
heartbreaking		Causing overpowering sorrow.
heartbroken		Overcome by crushing sorrow; deeply grieved.
heartburn		An uneasy, burning sensation in the stomach, often attended with an inclination to vomit.
heartburned		Having heartburn.
heartburning		Causing discontent.
heartdear		Sincerely beloved.
heartdeep		Rooted in the heart.
hearted		Having a heart; having (such) a heart (regarded as the seat of the affections, disposition, or character).
heartedness		Earnestness; sincerity; heartiness.
hearten		To encourage; to animate; to incite or stimulate the courage of; to embolden.
heartener		One who, or that which, heartens, animates, or stirs up.
heartfelt		Hearty; sincere.
heartgrief		Heartache; sorrow.
hearth		The pavement or floor of brick, stone, or metal in a chimney, on which a fire is made; the floor of a fireplace; also, a corresponding part of a stove.
hearthstone		Stone forming the hearth; hence, the fireside; home.
heartily		From the heart; with all the heart; with sincerity.
heartiness		The quality of being hearty; as, the heartiness of a greeting.
heartless		Destitute of courage; spiritless; despodent.
heartlet		A little heart.
heartlings	Obsolete	An exclamation used in addressing a familiar acquaintance.
heartpea		Same as Heartseed.
heartquake		Trembling of the heart; trepidation; fear.
heartrending		Causing intense grief; overpowering with anguish; very distressing.
heartseed		A climbing plant of the genus Cardiospermum, having round seeds which are marked with a spot like a heart.
heartshaped		Having the shape of a heart; cordate.
heartsick		Sick at heart; extremely depressed in spirits; very despondent.
heartsome	Scots	Merry; cheerful; lively.
heartstricken		Shocked; dismayed.
heartstrike		To affect at heart; to shock.
heartstring		A nerve or tendon, supposed to brace and sustain the heart.
heartstruck		Driven to the heart; infixed in the mind.
heartswelling		Rankling in, or swelling, the heart.
heartwood		The hard, central part of the trunk of a tree, consisting of the old and matured wood, and usually differing in color from the outer layers.
hearty		Pertaining to, or proceeding from, the heart; warm; cordial; bold; zealous; sincere; willing; also, energetic; active; eager; as, a hearty welcome; hearty in supporting the government.
heartyhale	Obsolete	Good for the heart.
heat		A force in nature which is recognized in various effects, but especially in the phenomena of fusion and evaporation, and which, as manifested in fire, the sun's rays, mechanical action, chemical combination, etc.…
heater		One who, or that which, heats.
heath		(Bot.) (a) A low shrub (Erica, or Calluna, vulgaris), with minute evergreen leaves, and handsome clusters of pink flowers.
heathclad		Clad or crowned with heath.
heathen		An individual of the pagan or unbelieving nations, or those which worship idols and do not acknowledge the true God; a pagan; an idolater.
heathendom		That part of the world where heathenism prevails; the heathen nations, considered collectively.
heathenesse	Obsolete	Heathendom.
heathenish		Of or pertaining to the heathen; resembling or characteristic of heathens.
heathenishly		In a heathenish manner.
heathenishness		The state or quality of being heathenish.
heathenism		The religious system or rites of a heathen nation; idolatry; paganism.
heathenize		To render heathen or heathenish.
heathenness		State of being heathen or like the heathen.
heathenry		The state, quality, or character of the heathen.
heathery		Heathy; abounding in heather; of the nature of heath.
heathy		Full of heath; abounding with heath; as, heathy land; heathy hills.
heating		That heats or imparts heat; promoting warmth or heat; exciting action; stimulating; as, heating medicines or applications.
heatingly		In a heating manner; so as to make or become hot or heated.
heatless		Destitute of heat; cold.
heave		To cause to move upward or onward by a lifting effort; to lift; to raise; to hoist; -- often with up; as, the wave heaved the boat on land.
heaven		The expanse of space surrounding the earth; esp., that which seems to be over the earth like a great arch or dome; the firmament; the sky; the place where the sun, moon, and stars appear; -- often used in the plural in this sense.
heavenize		To render like heaven or fit for heaven.
heavenliness		The state or quality of being heavenly.
heavenly		Pertaining to, resembling, or inhabiting heaven; celestial; not earthly; as, heavenly regions; heavenly music.
heavenly-minded		Having the thoughts and affections placed on, or suitable for, heaven and heavenly objects; devout; godly; pious.
heavenlyminded		Having the thoughts and affections placed on, or suitable for, heaven and heavenly objects; devout; godly; pious.
heavenward		Toward heaven.
heaver		One who, or that which, heaves or lifts; a laborer employed on docks in handling freight; as, a coal heaver.
heaves		A disease of horses, characterized by difficult breathing, with heaving of the flank, wheezing, flatulency, and a peculiar cough; broken wind.
heavily		In a heavy manner; with great weight; as, to bear heavily on a thing; to be heavily loaded.
heavily-traveled		subject to much traffic or travel; as, the region's most heavily traveled highways.
heaviness		The state or quality of being heavy in its various senses; weight; sadness; sluggishness; oppression; thickness.
heaving		A lifting or rising; a swell; a panting or deep sighing.
heavisome		Heavy; dull.
heavy		Having the heaves.
heavy-armed		Wearing heavy or complete armor; carrying heavy arms.
heavy-haded		Clumsy; awkward.
heavy-headed		Dull; stupid. & Fl.
hebdomad		A week; a period of seven days.
hebdomadal		Consisting of seven days, or occurring at intervals of seven days; weekly.
hebdomadally		In periods of seven days; weekly.
hebdomadary		Consisting of seven days, or occurring at intervals of seven days; weekly.
hebdomatical	Obsolete	Weekly; hebdomadal.
hebe		(Zoöl.) An African ape; the hamadryas.
hebenon	Obsolete	See Henbane — a plant of the genus Hyoscyamus (H. niger).
hebetate		To render obtuse; to dull; to blunt; to stupefy; as, to hebetate the intellectual faculties.
hebetation		The act of making blunt, dull, or stupid.
hebete	Obsolete	Dull; stupid.
hebetude		Dullness; stupidity.
hebraic		Of or pertaining to the Hebrews, or to the language of the Hebrews.
hebraically		After the manner of the Hebrews or of the Hebrew language.
hebraism		A Hebrew idiom or custom; a peculiar expression or manner of speaking in the Hebrew language.
hebraist		One versed in the Hebrew language and learning.
hebraistic		Pertaining to, or resembling, the Hebrew language or idiom.
hebraistically		In a Hebraistic sense or form.
hebraize		To convert into the Hebrew idiom; to make Hebrew or Hebraistic.
hebrew		An appellative of Abraham or of one of his descendants, esp. in the line of Jacob; an Israelite; a Jew.
hebrewess		An Israelitish woman.
hebrician		A Hebraist.
hebridean		Of or pertaining to the islands called Hebrides, west of Scotland. -- n.
hebridian		Of or pertaining to the islands called Hebrides, west of Scotland. -- n.
hecatomb		A sacrifice of a hundred oxen or cattle at the same time; hence, the sacrifice or slaughter of any large number of victims.
hecatompedon		A name given to the old Parthenon at Athens, because measuring 100 Greek feet, probably in the width across the stylobate.
hecdecane		A white, semisolid, spermaceti-like hydrocarbon, C16H34, of the paraffin series, found dissolved as an important ingredient of kerosene, and so called because each molecule has sixteen atoms of carbon; -- called also hexadecane.
heck	English dialect	A rack for cattle to feed at.
heckerism		(a) The teaching of Isaac Thomas Hecker (1819-88), which interprets Catholicism as promoting human aspirations after liberty and truth, and as the religion best suited to the character and institutions of the American people.
heckimal		The European blue titmouse (Parus coeruleus).
heckle		Same as Hackle.
hectare		A measure of area, or superficies, containing a hundred ares, or 10,000 square meters, and equivalent to 2.471 acres.
hectic		Habitual; constitutional; pertaining especially to slow waste of animal tissue, as in consumption; as, a hectic type in disease; a hectic flush.
hectocotylized		Changed into a hectocotylus; having a hectocotylis.
hectocotylus		One of the arms of the male of most kinds of cephalopods, which is specially modified in various ways to effect the fertilization of the eggs.
hectogram		A measure of weight, containing a hundred grams, or about 3.527 ounces avoirdupois.
hectogramme		The same as Hectogram.
hectograph		A contrivance for multiple copying, by means of a surface of gelatin softened with glycerin.
hectoliter		A measure of liquids, containing a hundred liters; equal to a tenth of a cubic meter, nearly 26
hectolitre		A measure of liquids, containing a hundred liters; equal to a tenth of a cubic meter, nearly 26
hectometer		A measure of length, equal to a hundred meters.
hectometre		A measure of length, equal to a hundred meters.
hector		A bully; a blustering, turbulent, insolent, fellow; one who vexes or provokes.
hectorism		The disposition or the practice of a hector; a bullying.
hectorly		Resembling a hector; blustering; insolent; taunting.
hectostere		A measure of solidity, containing one hundred cubic meters, and equivalent to 3531.66 English or 3531.05 United States cubic feet.
heddle		One of the sets of parallel doubled threads which, with mounting, compose the harness employed to guide the warp threads to the lathe or batten in a loom.
heddle-eye		The eye or loop formed in each heddle to receive a warp thread.
heddling		The act of drawing the warp threads through the heddle-eyes of a weaver's harness; the harness itself.
hederaceous		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, ivy.
hederal		Of or pertaining to ivy.
hederic		Pertaining to, or derived from, the ivy (Hedera); as, hederic acid, an acid of the acetylene series.
hederiferous		Producing ivy; ivy-bearing.
hederose		Pertaining to, or of, ivy; full of ivy.
hedge		To inclose or separate with a hedge; to fence with a thickly set line or thicket of shrubs or small trees; as, to hedge a field or garden.
hedgeborn		Born under a hedge; of low birth.
hedgebote		Same as Haybote.
hedgehog		(Zoöl.) A small European insectivore (Erinaceus Europæus), and other allied species of Asia and Africa, having the hair on the upper part of its body mixed with prickles or spines.
hedgeless		Having no hedge.
hedgepig		A young hedgehog.
hedger		One who makes or mends hedges; also, one who hedges, as, in betting.
hedgerow		A row of shrubs, or trees, planted for inclosure or separation of fields.
hedonic		Of or relating to Hedonism or the Hedonic sect.
hedonics		That branch of moral philosophy which treats of the relation of duty to pleasure; the science of practical, positive enjoyment or pleasure.
hedonism		The doctrine of the Hedonic sect.
hedonist		One who believes in hedonism.
hedonistic		Same as Hedonic, 2.
heed		To mind; to regard with care; to take notice of; to attend to; to observe.
heedful		Full of heed; regarding with care; cautious; circumspect; attentive; vigilant.
heedless		Without heed or care; inattentive; careless; thoughtless; unobservant.
heedy	Obsolete	Heedful. -- Heed i*ness, n.
heel		To lean or tip to one side, as a ship; as, the ship heels aport; the boat heeled over when the squall struck it.
heelball		A composition of wax and lampblack, used by shoemakers for polishing, and by antiquaries in copying inscriptions.
heeler		A cock that strikes well with his heels or spurs.
heelless		Without a heel.
heelpath		The bank of a canal opposite, and corresponding to, that of the towpath; berm.
heelpiece		A piece of armor to protect the heels.
heelpost		(Naut.) The post supporting the outer end of a propeller shaft.
heelspur		A slender bony or cartilaginous process developed from the heel bone of bats.
heeltap		One of the segments of leather in the heel of a shoe.
heeltool		A tool used by turners in metal, having a bend forming a heel near the cutting end.
heemraad		In Holland, and, until the 19th century, also in Cape Colony, a council to assist a local magistrate in the government of rural districts; hence, also, a member of such a council.
heep	Obsolete	The hip of the dog-rose.
heer	Obsolete	A yarn measure of six hundred yards or of a spindle. See Spindle.
heft	Colloquial	Weight; ponderousness.
hefty	Colloquial	Moderately heavy.
hegelian		Pertaining to Hegelianism. -- n.
hegelianism		The system of logic and philosophy set forth by Hegel, a German writer (1770-1831).
hegelism		The system of logic and philosophy set forth by Hegel, a German writer (1770-1831).
hegemonic		Leading; controlling; ruling; predominant.
hegemonical		Leading; controlling; ruling; predominant.
hegemony		Leadership; preponderant influence or authority; -- usually applied to the relation of a government or state to its neighbors or confederates.
hegge	Obsolete	A hedge.
hegira		The flight of Mohammed from Mecca, September 13, A.
heifer		A young cow.
heigh-ho		An exclamation of surprise, joy, dejection, uneasiness, weariness, etc. Shak.
height		The condition of being high; elevated position.
heighten		To make high; to raise higher; to elevate.
heightener		One who, or that which, heightens.
heinous		Hateful; hatefully bad; flagrant; odious; atrocious; giving great great offense; -- applied to deeds or to character.
heir		One who inherits, or is entitled to succeed to the possession of, any property after the death of its owner; one on whom the law bestows the title or property of another at the death of the latter.
heirdom		The state of an heir; succession by inheritance.
heiress		, A female heir.
heirless		Destitute of an heir.
heirloom		Any furniture, movable, or personal chattel, which by law or special custom descends to the heir along with the inheritance; any piece of personal property that has been in a family for several generations.
heirship	Scots	The state, character, or privileges of an heir; right of inheriting.
hejira		See Hegira — the flight of Mohammed from Mecca, September 13, A.
hektare		Same as Hectare, Hectogram, Hectoliter, and Hectometer.
hektogram		Same as Hectare, Hectogram, Hectoliter, and Hectometer.
hektograph		See Hectograph — a contrivance for multiple copying, by means of a surface of gelatin softened with glycerin.
hektoliter		Same as Hectare, Hectogram, Hectoliter, and Hectometer.
hektometer		Same as Hectare, Hectogram, Hectoliter, and Hectometer.
helamys		See Jumping hare, under Hare.
helcoplasty		The act or process of repairing lesions made by ulcers, especially by a plastic operation.
held		imp. & p. p. of Hold.
hele	Obsolete	Health; welfare.
helena		See St. Elmo's fire, under Saint.
helenin		A neutral organic substance found in the root of the elecampane (Inula helenium), and extracted as a white crystalline or oily material, with a slightly bitter taste.
heliac		Heliacal.
heliacal		Emerging from the light of the sun, or passing into it; rising or setting at the same, or nearly the same, time as the sun.
heliacally		In a heliacal manner.
helianthin		An artificial, orange dyestuff, analogous to tropaolin, and like it used as an indicator in alkalimetry; -- called also methyl orange.
helianthoid		Of or pertaining to the Helianthoidea.
helianthoidea		An order of Anthozoa; the Actinaria.
helical		Of or pertaining to, or in the form of, a helix; spiral; as, a helical staircase; a helical spring. -- Hel"i*cal*ly, adv.
helichrysum		A genus of composite plants, with shining, commonly white or yellow, or sometimes reddish, radiated involucres, which are often called
heliciform		Having the form of a helix; spiral.
helicin		A glucoside obtained as a white crystalline substance by partial oxidation of salicin, from a willow (Salix Helix of Linnæus.)
helicine		Curled; spiral; helicoid; -- applied esp. to certain arteries of the penis.
helicograph		An instrument for drawing spiral lines on a plane.
helicoid		Spiral; curved, like the spire of a univalve shell.
helicoidal		Same as Helicoid. -- Hel`i*coid"al*ly, adv.
helicon		A mountain in Boeotia, in Greece, supposed by the Greeks to be the residence of Apollo and the Muses.
heliconia		One of numerous species of Heliconius, a genus of tropical American butterflies.
heliconian		(Zoöl.) Like or pertaining to the butterflies of the genus Heliconius.
helicotrema		The opening by which the two scalæ communicate at the top of the cochlea of the ear.
helio-		A combining form from Gr. "h`lios the sun.
heliocentric		pertaining to the sun's center, or appearing to be seen from it; having, or relating to, the sun as a center; -- opposed to geocentrical.
heliocentrical		pertaining to the sun's center, or appearing to be seen from it; having, or relating to, the sun as a center; -- opposed to geocentrical.
heliochrome		A photograph in colors.
heliochromic		Pertaining to, or produced by, heliochromy.
heliochromy		The art of producing photographs in color.
heliogram		A message transmitted by a heliograph.
heliograph		A picture taken by heliography; a photograph.
heliographic		Of or pertaining to heliography or a heliograph; made by heliography.
heliography		Photography.
heliogravure		The process of photographic engraving.
heliolater		A worshiper of the sun.
heliolatry		Sun worship. See Sabianism.
heliolite		A fossil coral of the genus Heliolites, having twelve-rayed cells.
heliometer		An instrument devised originally for measuring the diameter of the sun; now employed for delicate measurements of the distance and relative direction of two stars too far apart to be easily measured in the field of view of an…
heliometric		Of or pertaining to the heliometer, or to heliometry.
heliometrical		Of or pertaining to the heliometer, or to heliometry.
heliometry		The apart or practice of measuring the diameters of heavenly bodies, their relative distances, etc. See Heliometer.
heliopora		An East Indian stony coral now known to belong to the Alcyonaria; -- called also blue coral.
helioscope		A telescope or instrument for viewing the sun without injury to the eyes, as through colored glasses, or with mirrors which reflect but a small portion of light. -- He`li*o*scop`ic, a.
heliostat		An instrument consisting of a mirror moved by clockwork, by which a sunbeam is made apparently stationary, by being steadily directed to one spot during the whole of its diurnal period; also, a geodetic heliotrope.
heliotrope		(Bot.) A plant of the genus Heliotropium; -- called also turnsole and girasole.
heliotroper		The person at a geodetic station who has charge of the heliotrope.
heliotropic		Manifesting heliotropism; turning toward the sun.
heliotropism		The phenomenon of turning toward the light, seen in many leaves and flowers.
heliotype		A picture obtained by the process of heliotypy.
heliotypic		Relating to, or obtained by, heliotypy.
heliotypy		A method of transferring pictures from photographic negatives to hardened gelatin plates from which impressions are produced on paper as by lithography.
heliozoa		An order of fresh-water rhizopods having a more or less globular form, with slender radiating pseudopodia; the sun animalcule.
helium		A gaseous element found in the atmospheres of the sun and earth and in some rare minerals.
helix		(Geom.) A nonplane curve whose tangents are all equally inclined to a given plane.
hell		The place of the dead, or of souls after death; the grave; -- called in Hebrew sheol, and by the Greeks hades.
hell-cat		A witch; a hag.
hell-diver		The dabchick.
hell-haunted		Haunted by devils; hellish.
hellanodic		A judge or umpire in games or combats.
hellbender		A large North American aquatic salamander (Protonopsis horrida or Menopoma Alleghaniensis).
hellborn		Born in or of hell.
hellbred		Produced in hell.
hellbrewed		Prepared in hell.
hellbroth		A composition for infernal purposes; a magical preparation.
helldoomed		Doomed to hell.
hellebore		(Bot.) A genus of perennial herbs (Helleborus) of the Crowfoot family, mostly having powerfully cathartic and even poisonous qualities.
helleborein		A poisonous glucoside accompanying helleborin in several species of hellebore, and extracted as a white crystalline substance with a bittersweet taste.
helleborin		A poisonous glucoside found in several species of hellebore, and extracted as a white crystalline substance with a sharp tingling taste.
helleborism		The practice or theory of using hellebore as a medicine.
hellene		A native of either ancient or modern Greece; a Greek.
hellenian		Of or pertaining to the Hellenes, or Greeks.
hellenic		Of or pertaining to the Hellenes, or inhabitants of Greece; Greek; Grecian.
hellenism		A phrase or form of speech in accordance with genius and construction or idioms of the Greek language; a Grecism.
hellenist		One who affiliates with Greeks, or imitates Greek manners; esp., a person of Jewish extraction who used the Greek language as his mother tongue, as did the Jews of Asia Minor, Greece, Syria, and Egypt…
hellenistic		Pertaining to the Hellenists.
hellenistical		Pertaining to the Hellenists.
hellenistically		According to the Hellenistic manner or dialect.
hellenize		To use the Greek language; to play the Greek; to Grecize.
hellenotype		See Ivorytype — a picture produced by superposing a very light print, rendered translucent by varnish, and tinted upon the back, upon a stronger print…
hellespont		A narrow strait between Europe and Asia, now called the Daradanelles.
hellespontine		Of or pertaining to the Hellespont.
hellgamite		The aquatic larva of a large American winged insect (Corydalus cornutus), much used a fish bait by anglers; the dobson.
hellgramite		The aquatic larva of a large American winged insect (Corydalus cornutus), much used a fish bait by anglers; the dobson.
hellhag		A hag of or fit for hell.
hellhound		A dog of hell; an agent of hell.
hellier	Obsolete	One who heles or covers; hence, a tiler, slater, or thatcher.
hellish		Of or pertaining to hell; like hell; infernal; malignant; wicked; detestable; diabolical. -- Hell ish*ness, n.
hellkite		A kite of infernal breed.
hello		See Halloo — a loud exclamation; a call to invite attention or to incite a person or an animal; a shout.
hellward		Toward hell.
helly		Hellish.
helm		See Haulm, straw.
helmage		Guidance; direction.
helmed		Covered with a helmet.
helmet		(Armor) A defensive covering for the head. See Casque, Headpiece, Morion, Sallet, and Illust. of Beaver.
helmet-shaped		Shaped like a helmet; galeate. See Illust. of Galeate.
helmeted		Wearing a helmet; furnished with or having a helmet or helmet- shaped part; galeate.
helminth		An intestinal worm, or wormlike intestinal parasite; one of the Helminthes.
helminthagogue		A vermifuge.
helminthes		One of the grand divisions or branches of the animal kingdom.
helminthiasis		A disease in which worms are present in some part of the body.
helminthic		Of or relating to worms, or Helminthes; expelling worms. -- n.
helminthite		One of the sinuous tracks on the surfaces of many stones, and popularly considered as worm trails.
helminthoid		Wormlike; vermiform.
helminthologic		Of or pertaining to helminthology.
helminthological		Of or pertaining to helminthology.
helminthologist		One versed in helminthology.
helminthology		The natural history, or study, of worms, esp. parasitic worms.
helmless		Destitute of a helmet.
helmsman		The man at the helm; a steersman.
helmwind	English dialect	A wind attending or presaged by the cloud called helm.
helot		A slave in ancient Sparta; a Spartan serf; hence, a slave or serf.
helotism		The condition of the Helots or slaves in Sparta; slavery.
helotry		The Helots, collectively; slaves; bondsmen.
help		To furnish with strength or means for the successful performance of any action or the attainment of any object; to aid; to assist; as, to help a man in his work; to help one to remember…
helper		One who, or that which, helps, aids, assists, or relieves; as, a lay helper in a parish.
helpful		Furnishing help; giving aid; assistant; useful; salutary.
helpless		Destitute of help or strength; unable to help or defend one's self; needing help; feeble; weak; as, a helpless infant.
helpmate		A helper; a companion; specifically, a wife.
helpmeet		A wife; a helpmate.
helter-skelter	Colloquial	In hurry and confusion; without definite purpose; irregularly.
helve		(Iron Working) (a) The lever at the end of which is the hammer head, in a forge hammer.
helvetian		Same as Helvetic. -- n.
helvetic		Of or pertaining to the Helvetii, the ancient inhabitant of the Alps, now Switzerland, or to the modern states and inhabitant of the Alpine regions; as, the Helvetic confederacy; Helvetic states.
helvine		A mineral of a yellowish color, consisting chiefly of silica, glucina, manganese, and iron, with a little sulphur.
helvite		A mineral of a yellowish color, consisting chiefly of silica, glucina, manganese, and iron, with a little sulphur.
hem		The edge or border of a garment or cloth, doubled over and sewed, to strengthen raveling.
hema-		Same as Hæma-.
hemachate		A species of agate, sprinkled with spots of red jasper.
hemachrome		Same as Hæmachrome.
hemacite		A composition made from blood, mixed with mineral or vegetable substances, used for making buttons, door knobs, etc.
hemadrometer		An instrument for measuring the velocity with which the blood moves in the arteries.
hemadrometry		The act of measuring the velocity with which the blood circulates in the arteries; hæmotachometry.
hemadromometer		An instrument for measuring the velocity with which the blood moves in the arteries.
hemadromometry		The act of measuring the velocity with which the blood circulates in the arteries; hæmotachometry.
hemadynamics		The principles of dynamics in their application to the blood; that part of science which treats of the motion of the blood.
hemadynamometer		An instrument by which the pressure of the blood in the arteries, or veins, is measured by the height to which it will raise a column of mercury; -- called also a hæmomanometer.
hemal		Relating to the blood or blood vessels; pertaining to, situated in the region of, or on the side with, the heart and great blood vessels; -- opposed to neural.
hemaphaein		Same as Hæmaphæin.
hemapophysis		The second element in each half of a hemal arch, corresponding to the sternal part of a rib.
hemastatic		Same as Hemostatic.
hemastatical		Same as Hemostatic.
hemastatics		Laws relating to the equilibrium of the blood in the blood vessels.
hematachometer		Same as Hæmatachometer.
hematein		A reddish brown or violet crystalline substance, C16H12O6, got from hematoxylin by partial oxidation, and regarded as analogous to the phthaleins.
hematemesis		A vomiting of blood.
hematherm		A warm-blooded animal.
hemathermal		Warm-blooded; hematothermal.
hematic		Same as Hæmatic.
hematin		(Physiol. Chem.) A bluish black, amorphous substance containing iron and obtained from blood.
hematinic		Any substance, such as an iron salt or organic compound containing iron, which when ingested tends to increase the hemoglobin contents of the blood.
hematinometer		A form of hemoglobinometer.
hematinometric		Relating to the measurement of the amount of hematin or hemoglobin contained in blood, or other fluids.
hematinon		A red consisting of silica, borax, and soda, fused with oxide of copper and iron, and used in enamels, mosaics, etc.
hematite		An important ore of iron, the sesquioxide, so called because of the red color of the powder.
hematitic		Of or pertaining to hematite, or resembling it.
hemato		See Hæma-.
hematocele		A tumor filled with blood.
hematocrya		The cold-blooded vertebrates, that is, all but the mammals and birds; -- the antithesis to Hematotherma.
hematocrystallin		See Hemoglobin — the normal coloring matter of the red blood corpuscles of vertebrate animals.
hematoid		Resembling blood.
hematoidin		A crystalline or amorphous pigment, free from iron, formed from hematin in old blood stains, and in old hemorrhages in the body.
hematology		The science which treats of the blood.
hematoma		A circumscribed swelling produced by an effusion of blood beneath the skin.
hematophilia		A condition characterized by a tendency to profuse and uncontrollable hemorrhage from the slightest wounds.
hematosin		The hematin of blood.
hematosis		(a) Sanguification; the conversion of chyle into blood. (b) The arterialization of the blood in the lungs; the formation of blood in general; hæmatogenesis.
hematotherma		The warm-blooded vertebrates, comprising the mammals and birds; -- the antithesis to hematocrya.
hematothermal		Warm-blooded.
hematoxylin		Hæmatoxylin.
hematuria		Passage of urine mingled with blood.
hemautography		The obtaining of a curve similar to a pulse curve or sphygmogram by allowing the blood from a divided artery to strike against a piece of paper.
hemelytron		One of the partially thickened anterior wings of certain insects, as of many Hemiptera, the earwigs, etc.
hemelytrum		One of the partially thickened anterior wings of certain insects, as of many Hemiptera, the earwigs, etc.
hemeralopia		A disease of the eyes, in consequence of which a person can see clearly or without pain only by daylight or a strong artificial light; day sight.
hemerobian		A neuropterous insect of the genus Hemerobius, and allied genera.
hemerobid		Of relating to the hemerobians.
hemerocallis		A genus of plants, some species of which are cultivated for their beautiful flowers; day lily.
hemi-		A prefix signifying half.
hemi-demi-semiquaver		A short note, equal to one fourth of a semiquaver, or the sixty-fourth part of a whole note.
hemialbumin		Same as Hemialbumose.
hemialbumose		An albuminous substance formed in gastric digestion, and by the action of boiling dilute acids on albumin.
hemianaesthesia		Anæsthesia upon one side of the body.
hemibranchi		An order of fishes having an incomplete or reduced branchial apparatus.
hemicardia		A lateral half of the heart, either the right or left.
hemicarp		One portion of a fruit that spontaneously divides into halves.
hemicerebrum		A lateral half of the cerebrum.
hemicollin		See Semiglutin — a peptonelike body, insoluble in alcohol, formed by boiling collagen or gelatin for a long time in water.
hemicrania		A pain that affects only one side of the head.
hemicrany		Hemicranis.
hemicycle		A half circle; a semicircle.
hemidactyl		Any species of Old World geckoes of the genus Hemidactylus.
hemiditone		The lesser third.
hemigamous		Having one of the two florets in the same spikelet neuter, and the other unisexual, whether male or female; -- said of grasses.
hemiglyph		The half channel or groove in the edge of the triglyph in the Doric order.
hemihedral		Having half of the similar parts of a crystals, instead of all; consisting of half the planes which full symmetry would require, as when a cube has planes only on half of its eight solid angles…
hemihedrism		The property of crystallizing hemihedrally.
hemihedron		A solid hemihedrally derived.
hemiholohedral		Presenting hemihedral forms, in which half the sectants have the full number of planes.
hemimellitic		Having half as many (three) carboxyl radicals as mellitic acid; -- said of an organic acid.
hemimetabola		Those insects which have an incomplete metamorphosis.
hemimetabolic		Having an incomplete metamorphosis, the larvæ differing from the adults chiefly in laking wings, as in the grasshoppers and cockroaches.
hemimorphic		Having the two ends modified with unlike planes; -- said of a crystal.
hemin		A substance, in the form of reddish brown, microscopic, prismatic crystals, formed from dried blood by the action of strong acetic acid and common salt; -- called also Teichmann's crystals.
hemina		(Med.) A measure equal to about ten fluid ounces.
hemionus		A wild ass found in Thibet; the kiang.
hemiopia		A defect of vision in consequence of which a person sees but half of an object looked at.
hemiopsia		A defect of vision in consequence of which a person sees but half of an object looked at.
hemiorthotype		Same as Monoclinic.
hemipeptone		A product of the gastric and pancreatic digestion of albuminous matter.
hemiplegia		A palsy that affects one side only of the body. -- Hem`i"pleg"ic, a.
hemiplegy		Hemiplegia.
hemipode		Any bird of the genus Turnix.
hemiprotein		An insoluble, proteid substance, described by Schützenberger, formed when albumin is heated for some time with dilute sulphuric acid.
hemipter		One of the Hemiptera.
hemiptera		An order of hexapod insects having a jointed proboscis, including four sharp stylets (mandibles and maxillæ), for piercing.
hemipteral		Of or pertaining to the Hemiptera.
hemipteran		One of the Hemiptera; an hemipter.
hemipterous		Of or pertaining to the Hemiptera.
hemisect		To divide along the mesial plane.
hemisection		A division along the mesial plane; also, one of the parts so divided.
hemisphere		A half sphere; one half of a sphere or globe, when divided by a plane passing through its center.
hemispheric		Containing, or pertaining to, a hemisphere; as, a hemispheric figure or form; a hemispherical body.
hemispherical		Containing, or pertaining to, a hemisphere; as, a hemispheric figure or form; a hemispherical body.
hemispheroid		A half of a spheroid.
hemispheroidal		Resembling, or approximating to, a hemisphere in form.
hemispherule		A half spherule.
hemistich		Half a poetic verse or line, or a verse or line not completed.
hemistichal		Pertaining to, or written in, hemistichs; also, by, or according to, hemistichs; as, a hemistichal division of a verse.
hemisystole		Contraction of only one ventricle of the heart.
hemitone		See Semitone — half a tone; -- the name commonly applied to the smaller intervals of the diatonic scale.
hemitropal		Turned half round; half inverted.
hemitrope		Half turned round; half inverted; (Crystallog.) having a twinned structure.
hemitropous		Turned half round; half inverted.
hemitropy		Twin composition in crystals.
hemlock		(Bot.) The name of several poisonous umbelliferous herbs having finely cut leaves and small white flowers, as the Cicuta maculata, bulbifera, and virosa, and the Conium maculatum.
hemmel	English dialect	A shed or hovel for cattle.
hemmer		One who, or that which, hems with a needle. Specifically: (a) An attachment to a sewing machine, for turning under the edge of a piece of fabric, preparatory to stitching it down.
hemo-		Same as Hæma-, Hæmo-.
hemoglobin		The normal coloring matter of the red blood corpuscles of vertebrate animals.
hemoglobinometer		Same as Hæmochromometer.
hemophilia		See Hematophilia — a condition characterized by a tendency to profuse and uncontrollable hemorrhage from the slightest wounds.
hemoptysis		The expectoration of blood, due usually to hemorrhage from the mucous membrane of the lungs.
hemorrhage		Any discharge of blood from the blood vessels.
hemorrhagic		Pertaining or tending to a flux o
hemorrhoidal		Of or pertaining to, or of the nature of, hemorrhoids.
hemorrhoids		Livid and painful swellings formed by the dilation of the blood vessels around the margin of, or within, the anus, from which blood or mucus is occasionally discharged; piles; emerods.
hemostatic		(Med.) Of or relating to stagnation of the blood.
hemothorax		An effusion of blood into the cavity of the pleura.
hemp		(Bot.) A plant of the genus Cannabis (C. sativa), the fibrous skin or bark of which is used for making cloth and cordage.
hempen		Made of hemp; as, a hempen cord.
hempy		Like hemp.
hemself	Obsolete	Themselves; -- used reflexively.
hemselve	Obsolete	Themselves; -- used reflexively.
hemselven	Obsolete	Themselves; -- used reflexively.
hemstitch		To ornament at the head of a broad hem by drawing out a few parallel threads, and fastening the cross threads in successive small clusters; as, to hemstitch a handkerchief.
hemstitched		Having a broad hem separated from the body of the article by a line of open work; as, a hemistitched handkerchief.
hemuse	English dialect	The roebuck in its third year.
hen		The female of the domestic fowl; also, the female of grouse, pheasants, or any kind of birds; as, the heath hen; the gray hen.
hen-hearted		Cowardly; timid; chicken-hearted.
henbane		A plant of the genus Hyoscyamus (H. niger).
henbit		A weed of the genus Lamium (L. amplexicaule) with deeply crenate leaves.
hence		From this place; away.
henceforth		From this time forward; henceforward.
henceforward		From this time forward; henceforth.
henchboy	Obsolete	A page; a servant.
henchman		An attendant; a servant; a follower.
hencoop		A coop or cage for hens.
hende	Obsolete	Skillful; dexterous; clever.
hendecagon		A plane figure of eleven sides and eleven angles.
hendecane		A hydrocarbon, C11H24, of the paraffin series; -- so called because it has eleven atoms of carbon in each molecule.
hendecasyllabic		Pertaining to a line of eleven syllables.
hendecasyllable		A metrical line of eleven syllables.
hendecatoic		Undecylic; pertaining to, or derived from, hendecane; as, hendecatoic acid.
hendiadys		A figure in which the idea is expressed by two nouns connected by and, instead of by a noun and limiting adjective; as, we drink from cups and gold, for golden cups.
hendy		See Hende — skillful; dexterous; clever.
henfish		(a) A marine fish; the sea bream. (b) A young bib. See Bib, n., 2.
henhouse		A house or shelter for fowls.
henhussy		A cotquean; a man who intermeddles with women's concerns.
heniquen		See Jeniquen — a mexican name for the Sisal hemp (Agave rigida, var.
henna		(Bot.) A thorny tree or shrub of the genus Lawsonia (L. alba).
hennery		An inclosed place for keeping hens.
hennotannic		Pertaining to, or designating, a brown resinous substance resembling tannin, and extracted from the henna plant; as, hennotannic acid.
henogenesis		Same as Ontogeny.
henogeny		Same as Ontogeny.
henotheism		Primitive religion in which each of several divinities is regarded as independent, and is worshiped without reference to the rest.
henotic		Harmonizing; irenic.
henpeck		To subject to petty authority; -- said of a wife who thus treats her husband.
henroost		A place where hens roost.
henry		The unit of electric induction; the induction in a circuit when the electro-motive force induced in this circuit is one volt, while the inducing current varies at the rate of one ampère a second.
hent	Obsolete	To seize; to lay hold on; to catch; to get.
henware		A coarse, blackish seaweed. See Badderlocks.
henxman	Obsolete	Henchman.
hep		See Hip, the fruit of the dog-rose.
hepar		(Old Chem.) Liver of sulphur; a substance of a liver-brown color, sometimes used in medicine.
hepatic		Of or pertaining to the liver; as, hepatic artery; hepatic diseases.
hepatica		(Bot.) A genus of pretty spring flowers closely related to Anemone; squirrel cup.
hepatical		Hepatic.
hepatite		A variety of barite emitting a fetid odor when rubbed or heated.
hepatitis		Inflammation of the liver.
hepatization		Etym: (Med.) Conversion into a substance resembling the liver; a state of the lungs when gorged with effused matter, so that they are no longer pervious to the air.
hepatize		To impregnate with sulphureted hydrogen gas, formerly called hepatic gas.
hepato-pancreas		A digestive gland in Crustacea, Mollusca, etc., usually called the liver, but different from the liver of vertebrates.
hepatocele		Hernia of the liver.
hepatocystic		Of or pertaining to the liver and gall bladder; as, the hepatocystic ducts.
hepatogastric		See Gastrohepatic — pertaining to the stomach and liver; hepatogastric; as, the gastrohepatic, or lesser, omentum.
hepatogenic		Arising from the liver; due to a condition of the liver; as, hepatogenic jaundice.
hepatogenous		Arising from the liver; due to a condition of the liver; as, hepatogenic jaundice.
hepatology		The science which treats of the liver; a treatise on the liver.
hepatorenal		Of or pertaining to the liver and kidneys; as, the hepatorenal ligament.
hepatoscopy		Divination by inspecting the liver of animals.
heppelwhite		Designating a light and elegant style developed in England under George III., chiefly by Messrs.
heppen	Obsolete	Neat; fit; comfortable.
hepper		A young salmon; a parr.
hepta		A combining form from Gr. "epta`, seven.
heptad		An atom which has a valence of seven, and which can be theoretically combined with, substituted for, or replaced by, seven monad atoms or radicals; as, iodine is a heptad in iodic acid.
heptade		The sum or number of seven.
heptaglot		A book in seven languages.
heptagon		A plane figure consisting of seven sides and having seven angles.
heptagonal		Having seven angles or sides.
heptagynia		A Linnæan order of plants having seven pistils.
heptagynian		Having seven pistils.
heptagynous		Having seven pistils.
heptahedron		A solid figure with seven sides.
heptamerous		Consisting of seven parts, or having the parts in sets of sevens.
heptandria		A Linnæan class of plants having seven stamens.
heptandrian		Having seven stamens.
heptandrous		Having seven stamens.
heptane		Any one of several isometric hydrocarbons, C7H16, of the paraffin series (nine are possible, four are known); -- so called because the molecule has seven carbon atoms.
heptangular		Having seven angles.
heptaphyllous		Having seven leaves.
heptarch		Same as Heptarchist.
heptarchic		Of or pertaining to a heptarchy; constituting or consisting of a heptarchy.
heptarchist		A ruler of one division of a heptarchy.
heptarchy		A government by seven persons; also, a country under seven rulers.
heptaspermous		Having seven seeds.
heptastich		A composition consisting of seven lines or verses.
heptateuch		The first seven books of the Testament.
heptavalent		Having seven units of attractive force or affinity; -- said of heptad elements or radicals.
heptene		Same as Heptylene.
heptine		Any one of a series of unsaturated metameric hydrocarbons, C7H12, of the acetylene series.
heptoic		Pertaining to, or derived from, heptane; as, heptoic acid.
heptone		A liquid hydrocarbon, C7H10, of the valylene series.
heptyl		A compound radical, C7H15, regarded as the essential radical of heptane and a related series of compounds.
heptylene		A colorless liquid hydrocarbon, C7H14, of the ethylene series; also, any one of its isomers.
heptylic		Pertaining to, or derived from, heptyl or heptane; as, heptylic alcohol.
her	Obsolete	The form of the objective and the possessive case of the personal pronoun she; as, I saw her with her purse out.
heracleonite		A follower of Heracleon of Alexandria, a Judaizing Gnostic, in the early history of the Christian church.
herakline		A picrate compound, used as an explosive in blasting.
herald		(Antiq.) An officer whose business was to denounce or proclaim war, to challenge to battle, to proclaim peace, and to bear messages from the commander of an army.
heraldic		Of or pertaining to heralds or heraldry; as, heraldic blazoning; heraldic language.
heraldically		In an heraldic manner; according to the rules of heraldry.
heraldry		The art or office of a herald; the art, practice, or science of recording genealogies, and blazoning arms or ensigns armorial; also, of marshaling cavalcades, processions, and public ceremonies.
heraldship		The office of a herald.
herapathite		The sulphate of iodoquinine, a substance crystallizing in thin plates remarkable for their effects in polarizing light.
heraud	Obsolete	A herald.
herb		A plant whose stem does not become woody and permanent, but dies, at least down to the ground, after flowering.
herb-woman		A woman that sells herbs.
herbaceous		Of or pertaining to herbs; having the nature, texture, or characteristics, of an herb; as, herbaceous plants; an herbaceous stem.
herbage		Herbs collectively; green food beasts; grass; pasture.
herbaged		Covered with grass.
herbal		A book containing the names and descriptions of plants.
herbalism		The knowledge of herbs.
herbalist		One skilled in the knowledge of plants; a collector of, or dealer in, herbs, especially medicinal herbs.
herbar	Obsolete	An herb.
herbarian		A herbalist.
herbarist	Obsolete	A herbalist.
herbarium		A collection of dried specimens of plants, systematically arranged.
herbarize		See Herborize — to search for plants, or new species of plants, with a view to classifying them.
herbary		A garden of herbs; a cottage garden.
herber	Obsolete	A garden; a pleasure garden.
herbergage	Obsolete	Harborage; lodging; shelter; harbor.
herbergeour	Obsolete	A harbinger.
herbergh	Obsolete	A harbor.
herberwe	Obsolete	A harbor.
herbescent		Growing into herbs.
herbid	Obsolete	Covered with herbs.
herbiferous		Bearing herbs or vegetation.
herbist		A herbalist.
herbivora		An extensive division of Mammalia.
herbivore		One of the Herbivora.
herbivorous		Eating plants; of or pertaining to the Herbivora.
herbless		Destitute of herbs or of vegetation.
herblet		A small herb.
herborist		A herbalist.
herborization		The act of herborizing.
herborize		To search for plants, or new species of plants, with a view to classifying them.
herborough	Obsolete	A harbor.
herbose		Abounding with herbs.
herbous		Abounding with herbs.
herby		Having the nature of, pertaining to, or covered with, herbs or herbage.
hercogamous		Not capable of self-fertilization; -- said of hermaphrodite flowers in which some structural obstacle forbids autogamy.
herculean		Requiring the strength of Hercules; hence, very great, difficult, or dangerous; as, an Herculean task.
hercules		(Gr. Myth.) A hero, fabled to have been the son of Jupiter and Alcmena, and celebrated for great strength, esp. for the accomplishment of his twelve great tasks or
hercynian		Of or pertaining to an extensive forest in Germany, of which there are still portions in Swabia and the Hartz mountains.
herd		A number of beasts assembled together; as, a herd of horses, oxen, cattle, camels, elephants, deer, or swine; a particular stock or family of cattle.
herdbook		A book containing the list and pedigrees of one or more herds of choice breeds of cattle; -- also called herd record, or herd register.
herder		A herdsman.
herderite		A rare fluophosphate of glucina, in small white crystals.
herdess		A shepherdess; a female herder.
herdgroom	Obsolete	A herdsman.
herdic		A kind of low-hung cab.
herdman		The owner or keeper of a herd or of herds; one employed in tending a herd of cattle.
herdsman		The owner or keeper of a herd or of herds; one employed in tending a herd of cattle.
herdswoman		A woman who tends a herd.
here		In this place; in the place where the speaker is; -- opposed to Ant: there.
here-at		At, or by reason of, this; as, he was offended hereat.
herea-bout		About this place; in this vicinity.
hereabouts		About this place; in this vicinity.
hereafter		In time to come; in some future time or state.
hereafterward	Obsolete	Hereafter.
hereby	Obsolete	Close by; very near.
hereditability		State of being hereditable.
hereditable		Capable of being inherited. See Inheritable.
hereditably		By inheritance.
hereditament		Any species of property that may be inherited; lands, tenements, anything corporeal or incorporeal, real, personal, or mixed, that may descend to an heir.
hereditarily		By inheritance; in an hereditary manner.
hereditary		Descended, or capable of descending, from an ancestor to an heir at law; received or passing by inheritance, or that must pass by inheritance; as, an hereditary estate or crown.
heredity		Hereditary transmission of the physical and psychical qualities of parents to their offspring; the biological law by which living beings tend to repeat their characteristics in their descendants.
hereford		One of a breed of cattle originating in Herefordshire, England.
herehence	Obsolete	From hence.
herein		In this.
hereinafter		In the following part of this (writing, document, speech, and the like).
hereinbefore		In the preceding part of this (writing, document, book, etc.).
hereinto		Into this.
heremit	Obsolete	A hermit.
heremite	Obsolete	A hermit.
heremitical		Of or pertaining to a hermit; solitary; secluded from society.
heren	Obsolete	Made of hair.
hereof		Of this; concerning this; from this; hence.
hereon		On or upon this; hereupon.
hereout	Obsolete	Out of this.
heresiarch		A leader in heresy; the chief of a sect of heretics.
heresiarchy		A chief or great heresy.
heresiographer		One who writes on heresies.
heresiography		A treatise on heresy.
heresy		An opinion held in opposition to the established or commonly received doctrine, and tending to promote a division or party, as in politics, literature, philosophy, etc.; -- usually, but not necessarily, said in reproach.
heretic		One who holds to a heresy; one who believes some doctrine contrary to the established faith or prevailing religion.
heretical		Containing heresy; of the nature of, or characterized by, heresy.
heretically		In an heretical manner.
hereticate		To decide to be heresy or a heretic; to denounce as a heretic or heretical.
heretification		The act of hereticating or pronouncing heretical.
hereto		To this; hereunto.
heretoch		The leader or commander of an army; also, a marshal.
heretofore		Up to this time; hitherto; before; in time past.
heretog		The leader or commander of an army; also, a marshal.
hereunto		Unto this; up to this time; hereto.
hereupon		On this; hereon.
herewith		With this.
herie	Obsolete	To praise; to worship.
heriot		Formerly, a payment or tribute of arms or military accouterments, or the best beast, or chattel, due to the lord on the death of a tenant; in modern use, a customary tribute of goods or chattels to the lord of the fee…
heriotable		Subject to the payment of a heriot.
herisson		A beam or bar armed with iron spikes, and turning on a pivot; - - used to block up a passage.
heritability		The state of being heritable.
heritable		Capable of being inherited or of passing by inheritance; inheritable.
heritage		That which is inherited, or passes from heir to heir; inheritance.
heritance		Heritage; inheritance.
heritor	Scots	A proprietor or landholder in a parish.
herl		Same as Harl, 2.
herling	English dialect	The young of the sea trout.
herma		See Hermes, 2.
hermaphrodeity		Hermaphrodism.
hermaphrodism		See Hermaphroditism — the union of the two sexes in the same individual, or the combination of some of their characteristics or organs in one individual.
hermaphrodite		An individual which has the attributes of both male and female, or which unites in itself the two sexes; an animal or plant having the parts of generation of both sexes…
hermaphroditic		Partaking of the characteristics of both sexes; characterized by hermaphroditism. -- Her*maph`ro*dit"ic*al*ly, adv.
hermaphroditical		Partaking of the characteristics of both sexes; characterized by hermaphroditism. -- Her*maph`ro*dit"ic*al*ly, adv.
hermaphroditism		The union of the two sexes in the same individual, or the combination of some of their characteristics or organs in one individual.
hermeneutic		Unfolding the signification; of or pertaining to interpretation; exegetical; explanatory; as, hermeneutic theology, or the art of expounding the Scriptures; a hermeneutic phrase.
hermeneutical		Unfolding the signification; of or pertaining to interpretation; exegetical; explanatory; as, hermeneutic theology, or the art of expounding the Scriptures; a hermeneutic phrase.
hermeneutically		According to the principles of interpretation; as, a verse of Scripture was examined hermeneutically.
hermeneutics		The science of interpretation and explanation; exegesis; esp., that branch of theology which defines the laws whereby the meaning of the Scriptures is to be ascertained.
hermes		(Archæology) Originally, a boundary stone dedicated to Hermes as the god of boundaries, and therefore bearing in some cases a head, or head and shoulders…
hermetic		Of, pertaining to, or taught by, Hermes Trismegistus; as, hermetic philosophy.
hermetical		Of, pertaining to, or taught by, Hermes Trismegistus; as, hermetic philosophy.
hermetically		In an hermetical manner; chemically.
hermit		A person who retires from society and lives in solitude; a recluse; an anchoret; especially, one who so lives from religious motives.
hermitage		The habitation of a hermit; a secluded residence.
hermitary		A cell annexed to an abbey, for the use of a hermit.
hermitess		A female hermit.
hermitical		Pertaining to, or suited for, a hermit.
hermodactyl		A heart-shaped bulbous root, about the size of a finger, brought from Turkey, formerly used as a cathartic.
hermogenian		A disciple of Hermogenes, and heretical teacher who lived in Africa near the close of the second century.
hern		A heron; esp., the common European heron.
hernani		A thin silk or woolen goods, for women's dresses, woven in various styles and colors.
herne	Obsolete	A corner.
hernia		A protrusion, consisting of an organ or part which has escaped from its natural cavity, and projects through some natural or accidental opening in the walls of the latter; as, hernia of the brain, of the lung, or of the bowels.
hernial		Of, or connected with, hernia.
herniotomy		A cutting for the cure or relief of hernia; celotomy.
hernshaw	Obsolete	Heronshaw.
hero		(Myth.) An illustrious man, supposed to be exalted, after death, to a place among the gods; a demigod, as Hercules.
herodian		One of a party among the Jews, composed of partisans of Herod of Galilee.
herodiones		A division of wading birds, including the herons, storks, and allied forms.
heroelogist		One who treats of heroes.
heroess	Obsolete	A heroine.
heroic		Of or pertaining to, or like, a hero; of the nature of heroes; distinguished by the existence of heroes; as, the heroic age; an heroic people; heroic valor.
heroicness		Heroism.
heroicomic		Combining the heroic and the ludicrous; denoting high burlesque; as, a heroicomic poem.
heroicomical		Combining the heroic and the ludicrous; denoting high burlesque; as, a heroicomic poem.
heroine		A woman of an heroic spirit.
heroism		The qualities characteristic of a hero, as courage, bravery, fortitude, unselfishness, etc.; the display of such qualities.
herologist		One who treats of heroes.
heron		Any wading bird of the genus Ardea and allied genera, of the family Ardeidæ.
heroner		A hawk used in hunting the heron.
heronry		A place where herons breed.
heronsew	Obsolete	A heronshaw.
heronshaw		A heron.
heroship		The character or personality of a hero.
herpes		An eruption of the skin, taking various names, according to its form, or the part affected; especially, an eruption of vesicles in small distinct clusters, accompanied with itching or tingling, including shingles, ringworm…
herpetic		Pertaining to, or resembling, the herpes; partaking of the nature of herpes; as, herpetic eruptions.
herpetism		See Dartrous diathesis, under Dartrous.
herpetologic		Pertaining to herpetology.
herpetological		Pertaining to herpetology.
herpetologist		One versed in herpetology, or the natural history of reptiles.
herpetology		The natural history of reptiles; that branch of zoölogy which relates to reptiles, including their structure, classification, and habits.
herpetotomist		One who dissects, or studies the anatomy of, reptiles.
herpetotomy		The anatomy or dissection of reptiles.
herr		A title of respect given to gentlemen in Germany, equivalent to the English Mister.
herrenhaus		See Legislature, Austria, Prussia.
herring		One of various species of fishes of the genus Clupea, and allied genera, esp. the common round or English herring (C. harengus) of the North Atlantic.
herringbone		Pertaining to, or like, the spine of a herring; especially, characterized by an arrangement of work in rows of parallel lines, which in the alternate rows slope in different directions.
herrnhuter		One of the Moravians; -- so called from the settlement of Herrnhut (the Lord's watch) made, about 1722, by the Moravians at the invitation of Nicholas Lewis, count of Zinzendorf, upon his estate in the circle of Bautzen.
hers		See the Note under Her, pr.
hersal	Obsolete	Rehearsal.
herschel		See Uranus — (Gr. Myth.) The son or husband of Gaia (Earth), and father of Chronos (Time) and the Titans.
herschelian		Of or relating to Sir William Herschel; as, the Herschelian telescope.
herse		(Fort.) A kind of gate or portcullis, having iron bars, like a harrow, studded with iron spikes.
herself		An emphasized form of the third person feminine pronoun; -- used as a subject with she; as, she herself will bear the blame; also used alone in the predicate, either in the nominative or objective case; as, it is herself…
hersillon		A beam with projecting spikes, used to make a breach impassable.
herte	Obsolete	A heart.
hertely	Obsolete	Hearty; heartily.
hertzian		Of or pert. to the German physicist Heinrich Hertz.
hery	Obsolete	To worship; to glorify; to praise.
herzog		A member of the highest rank of nobility in Germany and Austria, corresponding to the British duke.
hesitancy		The act of hesitating, or pausing to consider; slowness in deciding; vacillation; also, the manner of one who hesitates.
hesitant		Not prompt in deciding or acting; hesitating.
hesitantly		With hesitancy or doubt.
hesitate		To stop or pause respecting decision or action; to be in suspense or uncertainty as to a determination; as, he hesitated whether to accept the offer or not; men often hesitate in forming a judgment.
hesitatingly		With hesitation or doubt.
hesitation		The act of hesitating; suspension of opinion or action; doubt; vacillation.
hesitative		Showing, or characterized by, hesitation. in his mild, hesitative way.
hesitatory		Hesitating.
hesp	Scots	A measure of two hanks of linen thread.
hesper		The evening; Hesperus.
hesperetin		A white, crystalline substance having a sweetish taste, obtained by the decomposition of hesperidin, and regarded as a complex derivative of caffeic acid.
hesperian	Poetic	Western; being in the west; occidental.
hesperid		Same as 3d Hesperian.
hesperidene		An isomeric variety of terpene from orange oil.
hesperides		The garden producing the golden apples.
hesperidin		A glucoside found in ripe and unripe fruit (as the orange), and extracted as a white crystalline substance.
hesperidium		A large berry with a thick rind, as a lemon or an orange.
hesperornis		A genus of large, extinct, wingless birds from the Cretaceous deposits of Kansas, belonging to the Odontornithes.
hesperus	Poetic	Venus when she is the evening star; Hesper. 2.
hessian		A mercenary or venal person.
hessite		A lead-gray sectile mineral.
hest	Archaic	Command; precept; injunction. See Behest.
hestern	Obsolete	Pertaining to yesterday. See Yester, a.
hesternal	Obsolete	Pertaining to yesterday. See Yester, a.
hesychast		One of a mystical sect of the Greek Church in the fourteenth century; a quietist.
hetaera		A female paramour; a mistress, concubine, or harlot. -- He*tæ ric (#), a.
hetaira		A female paramour; a mistress, concubine, or harlot. -- He*tæ ric (#), a.
hetairism		A supposed primitive state of society, in which all the women of a tribe were held in common.
hetarism		A supposed primitive state of society, in which all the women of a tribe were held in common.
hetchel		Same as Hatchel.
hete	Obsolete	Variant of Hote.
heteracanth		Having the spines of the dorsal fin unsymmetrical, or thickened alternately on the right and left sides.
heterarchy	Obsolete	The government of an alien.
heterauxesis		Unequal growth of a cell, or of a part of a plant.
hetero-		A combining form signifying other, other than usual, different; as, heteroclite, heterodox, heterogamous.
heterocarpism		The power of producing two kinds of reproductive bodies, as in Amphicarpæa, in which besides the usual pods, there are others underground.
heterocarpous		Characterized by heterocarpism.
heterocephalous		Bearing two kinds of heads or capitula; -- said of certain composite plants.
heterocera		A division of Lepidoptera, including the moths, and hawk moths, which have the antennæ variable in form.
heterocercal		Having the vertebral column evidently continued into the upper lobe of the tail, which is usually longer than the lower one, as in sharks.
heterocercy		Unequal development of the tail lobes of fishes; the possession of a heterocercal tail.
heterochromous		Having the central florets of a flower head of a different color from those of the circumference.
heterochronism		In evolution, a deviation from the typical sequence in the formation of organs or parts.
heterochrony		In evolution, a deviation from the typical sequence in the formation of organs or parts.
heteroclite		Deviating from ordinary forms or rules; irregular; anomalous; abnormal.
heteroclitic		Deviating from ordinary forms or rules; irregular; anomalous; abnormal.
heteroclitical		Deviating from ordinary forms or rules; irregular; anomalous; abnormal.
heteroclitous	Obsolete	Heteroclitic.
heterocyst		A cell larger than the others, and of different appearance, occurring in certain algæ related to nostoc.
heterodactyl		Heterodactylous. -- n.
heterodactylae		A group of birds including the trogons.
heterodactylous		Having the first and second toes turned backward, as in the trogons.
heterodont		Having the teeth differentiated into incisors, canines, and molars, as in man; -- opposed to homodont.
heterodox		Contrary to, or differing from, some acknowledged standard, as the Bible, the creed of a church, the decree of a council, and the like; not orthodox; heretical; -- said of opinions, doctrines, books, etc.…
heterodoxal		Not orthodox.
heterodoxy		An opinion or doctrine, or a system of doctrines, contrary to some established standard of faith, as the Scriptures, the creed or standards of a church, etc.; heresy.
heterodromous		(Bot.) Having spirals of changing direction.
heteroecious		Passing through the different stages in its life history on an alternation of hosts, as the common wheat-rust fungus (Puccinia graminis), and certain other parasitic fungi; -- contrasted with autocious. -- Het`er*o"cism (#), n.
heterogamous		(a) The condition of having two or more kinds of flowers which differ in regard to stamens and pistils, as in the aster.
heterogamy		(Bot.) The process of fertilization in plants by an indirect or circuitous method; -- opposed to orthogamy.
heterogangliate		Having the ganglia of the nervous system unsymmetrically arranged; -- said of certain invertebrate animals.
heterogene	Obsolete	Heterogenous.
heterogeneal		Heterogeneous.
heterogeneity		The state of being heterogeneous; contrariety.
heterogeneous		Differing in kind; having unlike qualities; possessed of different characteristics; dissimilar; -- opposed to homogeneous, and said of two or more connected objects, or of a conglomerate mass…
heterogenesis		(Biol.) Spontaneous generation, so called.
heterogenetic		Relating to heterogenesis; as, heterogenetic transformations.
heterogenist		One who believes in the theory of spontaneous generation, or heterogenesis.
heterogenous		Of or pertaining to heterogenesis; heterogenetic.
heterogeny		Heterogenesis.
heterogonous		Characterized by heterogony. -- Het`er*og"o*nous*ly, adv.
heterogony		The condition of having two or more kinds of flowers, different as to the length of their stamens and pistils.
heterographic		Employing the same letters to represent different sounds in different words or syllables; -- said of methods of spelling; as, the ordinary English orthography is heterographic.
heterography		That method of spelling in which the same letters represent different sounds in different words, as in the ordinary English orthography; e. g., g in get and in ginger.
heterogynous		Having females very unlike the males in form and structure; -- as certain insects, the males of which are winged, and the females wingless.
heterologous		Characterized by heterology; consisting of different elements, or of like elements in different proportions; different; -- opposed to homologous; as, heterologous organs.
heterology		(Biol.) The absence of correspondence, or relation, in type of structure; lack of analogy between parts, owing to their being composed of different elements, or of like elements in different proportions…
heteromera		A division of Coleoptera, having heteromerous tarsi.
heteromerous		(Chem & Crystallog.) Unrelated in chemical composition, though similar or indentical in certain other respects; as, borax and augite are homoemorphous, but heteromerous.
heteromorphic		Deviating from the normal, perfect, or mature form; having different forms at different stages of existence, or in different individuals of the same species…
heteromorphism		The state or quality of being heteromorphic.
heteromorphous		Heteromorphic.
heteromorphy		The state or quality of being heteromorphic.
heteromyaria		A division of bivalve shells, including the marine mussels, in which the two adductor muscles are very unequal.
heteronereis		A free-swimming, dimorphic, sexual form of certain species of Nereis.
heteronomous		Subject to the law of another.
heteronomy		Subordination or subjection to the law of another; political subjection of a community or state; -- opposed to autonomy.
heteronym		That which is heteronymous; a thing having a different name or designation from some other thing; -- opposed to homonym.
heteronymous		Having different names or designations; standing in opposite relations.
heteroousian		Having different essential qualities; of a different nature.
heteroousious		See Heteroousian — having different essential qualities; of a different nature.
heteropathic		Of or pertaining to the method of heteropathy; allopathic.
heteropathy		That mode of treating diseases, by which a morbid condition is removed by inducing an opposite morbid condition to supplant it; allopathy.
heteropelmous		Having each of the two flexor tendons of the toes bifid, the branches of one going to the first and second toes; those of the other, to the third and fourth toes.
heterophagi		Altrices.
heterophemist		One liable to the fault of heterophemy.
heterophemy		The unconscious saying, in speech or in writing, of that which one does not intend to say; -- frequently the very reverse of the thought which is present to consciousness.
heterophony		An abnormal state of the voice.
heterophyllous		Having leaves of more than one shape on the same plant.
heteroplasm		An abnormal formation foreign to the economy, and composed of elements different from those are found in it in its normal condition.
heteroplastic		Producing a different type of organism; developing into a different form of tissue, as cartilage which develops into bone.
heteropod		One of the Heteropoda. -- a.
heteropoda		An order of pelagic Gastropoda, having the foot developed into a median fin.
heteropodous		Of or pertaining to the Heteropoda.
heteropter		One of the Heteroptera.
heteroptera		A suborder of Hemiptera, in which the base of the anterior wings is thickened.
heteroptics		False optics.
heteroscian		One who lives either north or south of the tropics, as contrasted with one who lives on the other side of them; -- so called because at noon the shadows always fall in opposite directions (the one northward, the other southward).
heterosis		A figure of speech by which one form of a noun, verb, or pronoun, and the like, is used for another, as in the sentence:
heterosomati		An order of fishes, comprising the flounders, halibut, sole, etc., having the body and head asymmetrical, with both eyes on one side.
heterosporic		Producing two kinds of spores unlike each other.
heterosporous		Producing two kinds of spores unlike each other.
heterostyled		Having styles of two or more distinct forms or lengths.
heterostylism		The condition of being heterostyled.
heterotactous		Relating to, or characterized by, heterotaxy.
heterotaxy		Variation in arrangement from that existing in a normal form; heterogenous arrangement or structure, as, in botany, the deviation in position of the organs of a plant, from the ordinary or typical arrangement.
heterotopism		(Med.) A deviation from the natural position; -- a term applied in the case of organs or growths which are abnormal in situation.
heterotopy		(Med.) A deviation from the natural position; -- a term applied in the case of organs or growths which are abnormal in situation.
heterotricha		A division of ciliated Infusoria, having fine cilia all over the body, and a circle of larger ones around the anterior end.
heterotropal		Having the embryo or ovule oblique or transverse to the funiculus; amphitropous.
heterotropous		Having the embryo or ovule oblique or transverse to the funiculus; amphitropous.
hething	Obsolete	Contempt; scorn.
hetman		A Cossack headman or general.
heugh	Scots	A crag; a cliff; a glen with overhanging sides.
heuk	Obsolete	Variant of Huke.
heulandite		A mineral of the Zeolite family, often occurring in amygdaloid, in foliated masses, and also in monoclinic crystals with pearly luster on the cleavage face.
heuristic		Serving to discover or find out.
heved	Obsolete	The head.
hew		To cut with an ax; to fell with a sharp instrument; -- often with down, or off.
hewe	Obsolete	A domestic servant; a retainer.
hewer		One who hews.
hewhole		The European green woodpecker. See Yaffle.
hewn		Felled, cut, or shaped as with an ax; roughly squared; as, a house built of hewn logs.
hex-		A prefix or combining form, used to denote six, sixth, etc.; as, hexatomic, hexabasic.
hex-androus		Having six stamens.
hexa		A prefix or combining form, used to denote six, sixth, etc.; as, hexatomic, hexabasic.
hexabasic		Having six hydrogen atoms or six radicals capable of being replaced or saturated by bases; -- said of acids; as, mellitic acid is hexabasic.
hexacapsular		Having six capsules or seed vessels.
hexachord		A series of six notes, with a semitone between the third and fourth, the other intervals being whole tones.
hexacid		Having six atoms or radicals capable of being replaced by acids; hexatomic; hexavalent; -- said of bases; as, mannite is a hexacid base.
hexactinellid		Having six-rayed spicules; belonging to the Hexactinellinæ.
hexactinelline		Belonging to the Hexactinellinæ, a group of sponges, having six-rayed siliceous spicules.
hexactinia		The Anthozoa.
hexad		An atom whose valence is six, and which can be theoretically combined with, substituted for, or replaced by, six monad atoms or radicals; as, sulphur is a hexad in sulphuric acid.
hexadactylous		Having six fingers or toes.
hexade		A series of six numbers.
hexadecane		See Hecdecane — a white, semisolid, spermaceti-like hydrocarbon, C16H34, of the paraffin series, found dissolved as an important ingredient of kerosene…
hexagon		A plane figure of six angles.
hexagonal		Having six sides and six angles; six-sided.
hexagonally		In an hexagonal manner.
hexagony	Obsolete	A hexagon.
hexagram		(a) A figure composed of two equal triangles intersecting so that each side of one triangle is parallel to a side of the other, and the six points coincide with those of a hexagon.
hexagynia		A Linnæan order of plants having six pistils.
hexagynian		Having six pistils.
hexagynous		Having six pistils.
hexahedral		In the form of a hexahedron; having six sides or faces.
hexahedron		A solid body of six sides or faces.
hexahemeron		A term of six days.
hexamerous		In six parts; in sixes.
hexameter		A verse of six feet, the first four of which may be either dactyls or spondees, the fifth must regularly be a dactyl, and the sixth always a spondee.
hexametric		Consisting of six metrical feet.
hexametrical		Consisting of six metrical feet.
hexametrist		One who writes in hexameters.
hexandria		A Linnæan class of plants having six stamens.
hexandrian		Having six stamens.
hexane		Any one of five hydrocarbons, C6H14, of the paraffin series.
hexangular		Having six angles or corners.
hexapetalous		Having six petals.
hexaphyllous		Having six leaves or leaflets.
hexapla		A collection of the Holy Scriptures in six languages or six versions in parallel columns; particularly, the edition of the Old Testament published by Origen, in the 3d century.
hexapod		Having six feet. -- n. (Zoöl.) An animal having six feet; one of the Hexapoda.
hexapoda		The true, or six-legged, insects; insects other than myriapods and arachnids.
hexapodous		Having six feet; belonging to the Hexapoda.
hexapterous		Having six processes.
hexastich		A poem consisting of six verses or lines.
hexastichon		A poem consisting of six verses or lines.
hexastyle		Having six columns in front; -- said of a portico or temple. -- n.
hexateuch		The first six books of the Old Testament.
hexatomic		(a) Having six atoms in the molecule. (b) Having six replaceable radicals.
hexavalent		Having a valence of six; -- said of hexads.
hexdecyl		The essential radical, C16H33, of hecdecane.
hexdecylic		Pertaining to, or derived from, hexdecyl or hecdecane; as, hexdecylic alcohol.
hexeikosane		A hydrocarbon, C26H54, resembling paraffine; -- so called because each molecule has twenty-six atoms of carbon.
hexene		Same as Hexylene.
hexicology		The science which treats of the complex relations of living creatures to other organisms, and to their surrounding conditions generally.
hexine		A hydrocarbon, C6H10, of the acetylene series, obtained artificially as a colorless, volatile, pungent liquid; -- called also hexoylene.
hexoctahedron		A solid having forty-eight equal triangular faces.
hexoic		Pertaining to, or derived from, hexane; as, hexoic acid.
hexone		A liquid hydrocarbon, C6H8, of the valylene series, obtained from distillation products of certain fats and gums.
hexose		Any member of a group of sugars containing six carbon atoms in the molecule.
hexyl		A compound radical, C6H13, regarded as the essential residue of hexane, and a related series of compounds.
hexylene		A colorless, liquid hydrocarbon, C6H12, of the ethylene series, produced artificially, and found as a natural product of distillation of certain coals; also, any one several isomers of hexylene proper.
hexylic		Pertaining to, or derived from, hexyl or hexane; as, hexylic alcohol.
hey		An exclamation of joy, surprise, or encouragement.
heyday		An expression of frolic and exultation, and sometimes of wonder.
heydeguy	Obsolete	A kind of country-dance or round.
heyne	Obsolete	A wretch; a rascal.
