hiation	Obsolete	Act of gaping.	
hiatus		An opening; an aperture; a gap; a chasm; esp., a defect in a manuscript, where some part is lost or effaced; a space where something is wanting; a break.	Latin hiatus.
hibernacle		That which serves for protection or shelter in winter; winter quarters; as, the hibernacle of an animal or a plant.	
hibernaculum		(Bot.) A winter bud, in which the rudimentary foliage or flower, as of most trees and shrubs in the temperate zone, is protected by closely overlapping scales.	
hibernal		Belonging or relating to winter; wintry; winterish.	Latin hibernalis.
hibernate		To winter; to pass the season of winter in close quarters, in a torpid or lethargic state, as certain mammals, reptiles, and insects.	Latin hibernatus.
hibernation		The act or state of hibernating.	Latin hibernatio.
hibernian		Of or pertaining to Hibernia, now Ireland; Irish. -- n.	
hibernianism		An idiom or mode of speech peculiar to the Irish.	
hibernicism		An idiom or mode of speech peculiar to the Irish.	
hiberno-celtic		The native language of the Irish; that branch of the Celtic languages spoken by the natives of Ireland.	
hibiscus		A genus of plants (herbs, shrubs, or trees), some species of which have large, showy flowers.	Latin hibiscus.
hiccough		A modified respiratory movement; a spasmodic inspiration, consisting of a sudden contraction of the diaphragm, accompanied with closure of the glottis, so that further entrance of air is prevented…	
hickory		An American tree of the genus Carya, of which there are several species.	
hicksite		A member or follower of the party, headed by Elias Hicks, which, because of a change of views respecting the divinity of Christ and the Atonement…	
hickup		See Hiccough — a modified respiratory movement; a spasmodic inspiration, consisting of a sudden contraction of the diaphragm, accompanied with closure of the glottis…	
hickwall	English dialect	The lesser spotted woodpecker (Dendrocopus minor) of Europe.	
hickway	English dialect	The lesser spotted woodpecker (Dendrocopus minor) of Europe.	
hid		imp. & p. p. of Hide. See Hidden.	
hidage		A tax formerly paid to the kings of England for every hide of land.	
hidalgo		A title, denoting a Spanish nobleman of the lower class.	
hidden		from Hide.	
hiddenite		An emerald-green variety of spodumene found in North Carolina; lithia emerald, -- used as a gem.	
hiddenly		In a hidden manner.	
hide		To conceal, or withdraw from sight; to put out of view; to secrete.	Middle English hiden.
hidebound		Having the skin adhering so closely to the ribs and back as not to be easily loosened or raised; -- said of an animal.	
hideous		Frightful, shocking, or offensive to the eyes; dreadful to behold; as, a hideous monster; hideous looks.	Middle English hidous, from Old French hidous.
hider		One who hides or conceals.	
hiding	Colloquial	The act of hiding or concealing, or of withholding from view or knowledge; concealment.	
hidrosis		(Physiol.) Excretion of sweat; perspiration.	
hidrotic		Causing perspiration; diaphoretic or sudorific.	
hie	Rare	To hasten; to go in haste; -- also often with the reciprocal pronoun.	Old English higian.
hierapicra		A warming cathartic medicine, made of aloes and canella bark.	
hierarch		One who has high and controlling authority in sacred things; the chief of a sacred order; as, princely hierarchs.	
hierarchal		Pertaining to a hierarch.	
hierarchic		Pertaining to a hierarch.	
hierarchical		Pertaining to a hierarchy. -- Hi`er*arch`ic*al*ly, adv.	
hierarchism		The principles or authority of a hierarchy.	
hierarchy		Dominion or authority in sacred things.	Middle English ierarchie.
hieratic		Consecrated to sacred uses; sacerdotal; pertaining to priests.	Latin hieraticus, from Greek ἱερατικός.
hierocracy		Government by ecclesiastics; a hierarchy.	
hieroglyph		A sacred character; a character in picture writing, as of the ancient Egyptians, Mexicans, etc. Specifically, in the plural, the picture writing of the ancient Egyptian priests.	
hieroglyphic		A sacred character; a character in picture writing, as of the ancient Egyptians, Mexicans, etc. Specifically, in the plural, the picture writing of the ancient Egyptian priests.	
hieroglyphical		Emblematic; expressive of some meaning by characters, pictures, or figures; as, hieroglyphic writing; a hieroglyphic obelisk.	
hieroglyphically		In hieroglyphics.	
hieroglyphist		One versed in hieroglyphics.	
hierogram		A form of sacred or hieratic writing.	
hierogrammatic		Written in, or pertaining to, hierograms; expressive of sacred writing.	
hierogrammatist		A writer of hierograms; also, one skilled in hieroglyphics.	
hierographic		Of or pertaining to sacred writing.	
hierographical		Of or pertaining to sacred writing.	
hierography		Sacred writing.	
hierolatry		The worship of saints or sacred things.	
hierologic		Pertaining to hierology.	
hierological		Pertaining to hierology.	
hierologist		One versed in, or whostudies, hierology.	
hierology		A treatise on sacred things; especially, the science which treats of the ancient writings and inscriptions of the Egyptians, or a treatise on that science.	
hieromancy		Divination by observing the objects offered in sacrifice.	
hieromartyr		A priest who becomes a martyr.	
hieromnemon		The sacred secretary or recorder sent by each state belonging to the Amphictyonic Council, along with the deputy or minister.	Greek ἱερομνήμων.
hieron		A consecrateo place; esp., a temple.	Greek ἱερόν.
hieronymite		See Jeronymite — one belonging of the mediæval religious orders called Hermits of St. Jerome.	
hierophant		The presiding priest who initiated candidates at the Eleusinian mysteries; hence, one who teaches the mysteries and duties of religion.	Greek ἱεροφάντης.
hierophantic		Of or relating to hierophants or their teachings.	
hieroscopy		Divination by inspection of entrails of victims offered in sacrifice.	
hierotheca		A receptacle for sacred objects.	
hierourgy	Obsolete	A sacred or holy work or worship.	
hifalutin		See Highfaluting — high-flown, bombastic language.	
hig-taper		A plant of the genus Verbascum (V.	
higgle		To hawk or peddle provisions.	
higgledy-piggledy	Colloquial	In confusion; topsy-turvy.	
higgler		One who higgles.	
high		Elevated above any starting point of measurement, as a line, or surface; having altitude; lifted up; raised or extended in the direction of the zenith; lofty; tall; as, a high mountain, tower, tree; the sun is high.	Middle English high.
high-blown		Inflated, as with conceit.	
high-bred		Bred in high life; of pure blood.	
high-built		Of lofty structure; tall.	
high-church		Of or pertaining to, or favoring, the party called the High Church, or their doctrines or policy.	
high-churchism		The principles of the high-church party.	
high-churchman		One who holds high-church principles.	
high-churchman-ship		The state of being a high-churchman.	
high-colored		Having a strong, deep, or glaring color; flushed.	
high-embowed		Having lofty arches.	
high-fed		Pampered; fed luxuriously.	
high-finished		Finished with great care; polished.	
high-flown		Elevated; proud.	
high-go	Low	A spree; a revel.	
high-handed		Overbearing; oppressive; arbitrary; violent; as, a high-handed act.	
high-hearted		Full of courage or nobleness; high-souled. -- High"-heart`ed*ness, n.	
high-hoe		The European green woodpecker or yaffle.	
high-holder	Dialect	The flicker; -- called also high-hole.	
high-low		A laced boot, ankle high.	
high-mettled		Having abundance of mettle; ardent; full of fire; as, a high- mettled steed.	
high-minded		Having, or characterized by, honorable pride; of or pertaining to elevated principles and feelings; magnanimous; -- opposed to mean.	
high-mindedness		The quality of being highminded; nobleness; magnanimity.	
high-palmed		Having high antlers; bearing full-grown antlers aloft.	
high-pressure		Having or involving a pressure greatly exceeding that of the atmosphere; -- said of steam, air, water, etc., and of steam, air, or hydraulic engines, water wheels, etc.	
high-priesthood		The office, dignity, or position of a high priest.	
high-priestship		High-priesthood.	
high-principled		Possessed of noble or honorable principles.	
high-proof		Highly rectified; very strongly alcoholic; as, high-proof spirits.	
high-raised		Elevated; raised aloft; upreared.	
high-reaching		Reaching high or upward; hence, ambitious; aspiring.	
high-red		Of a strong red color.	
high-seasoned		Enriched with spice and condiments; hence, exciting; piquant.	
high-sighted		Looking upward; supercilious.	
high-souled		Having a high or noble spirit; honorable.	
high-sounding		Pompous; noisy; ostentatious; as, high-sounding words or titles.	
high-spirited		Full of spirit or natural fire; haughty; courageous; impetuous; not brooking restraint or opposition.	
high-stepper	Colloquial	A horse that moves with a high step or proud gait; hence, a person having a proud bearing.	
high-stomached	Obsolete	Having a lofty spirit; haughty.	
high-strung		Strung to a high pitch; spirited; sensitive; as, a high-strung horse.	
high-swelling		Inflated; boastful.	
high-toned		Elevated; high-principled; honorable.	
high-top		A ship's masthead.	
high-wrought		Worked up, or swollen, to a high degree; as, a highwrought passion.	
highbinder		A ruffian; one who hounds, or spies upon, another; app. esp. to the members of certain alleged societies among the Chinese.	
highborn		Of noble birth.	
highboy		One who lives high; also, in politics, a highflyer.	
higher-up	Slang	A superior officer or official; -- used chiefly in pl.	
highering		Rising higher; ascending.	
highfaluting		High-flown, bombastic language.	
highflier		One who is extravagant in pretensions, opinions, or manners.	
highflying		Extravagant in opinions or ambition.	
highland		Elevated or mountainous land; (often in the pl.) an elevated region or country; as, the Highlands of Scotland.	
highlander		An inhabitant of highlands, especially of the Highlands of Scotland.	
highlandry		Highlanders, collectively.	
highly		In a high manner, or to a high degree; very much; as, highly esteemed.	Middle English hiȝly.
highmen	Obsolete	Loaded dice so contrived as to turn up high numbers.	
highmost	Obsolete	Highest.	
highness		The state of being high; elevation; loftiness.	
highroad		A highway; a much travele	
hight		A variant of Height.	
hightener		That which heightens.	
highth	Obsolete	Variant of Height.	Old English heahþu.
highty-tighty		Hoity-toity.	
highway		A road or way open to the use of the public; a main road or thoroughfare.	Middle English heiȝwai.
highwayman		One who robs on the public road; a highway robber.	
higre	Obsolete	See Eagre — a wave, or two or three successive waves, of great height and violence, at flood tide moving up an estuary or river; -- commonly called the bore.	
hijera		See Hegira — the flight of Mohammed from Mecca, September 13, A.	
hijra		See Hegira — the flight of Mohammed from Mecca, September 13, A.	Arabic هجرة.
hike	Dialect	To hike one's self; specif., to go with exertion or effort; to tramp; to march laboriously.	
hilal		Of or pertaining to a hilum.	Arabic هلال‎.
hilar		Belonging to the hilum.	
hilarious		Mirthful; noisy; merry.	Latin hilaris, from Greek ἱλαρός.
hilarity		Boisterous mirth; merriment; jollity.	Latin hilaritas.
hilding	Obsolete	A base, menial wretch. -- a.	
hile	Obsolete	To hide. See Hele.	
hill		A natural elevation of land, or a mass of earth rising above the common level of the surrounding land; an eminence less than a mountain.	
hilliness		The state of being hilly.	
hilling		The act or process of heaping or drawing earth around plants.	
hillock		A small hill.	
hillside		The side or declivity of a hill.	
hilltop		The top of a hill.	
hilly		Abounding with hills; uneven in surface; as, a hilly country.	
hilt		A handle; especially, the handle of a sword, dagger, or the like.	Old English hilt.
hilted		Having a hilt; -- used in composition; as, basket-hilted, cross-hilted.	
hilum		(Bot.) The eye of a bean or other seed; the mark or scar at the point of attachment of an ovule or seed to its base or support; -- called also hile.	Latin hilum.
hilus		Same as Hilum, 2.	
him		Friends who have given him the most sympathy.	
himalayan		Of or pertaining to the Himalayas, the great mountain chain in Hindostan.	
himself		An emphasized form of the third person masculine pronoun; -- used as a subject usually with he; as, he himself will bear the blame; used alone in the predicate, either in the nominative or objective case; as…	
himselve	Obsolete	Themselves. See Hemself.	
himselven	Obsolete	Themselves. See Hemself.	
himyaric		Pertaining to Himyar, an ancient king of Yemen, in Arabia, or to his successors or people; as, the Himjaritic characters, language, etc.…	
himyaritic		Pertaining to Himyar, an ancient king of Yemen, in Arabia, or to his successors or people; as, the Himjaritic characters, language, etc.…	
hin		A Hebrew measure of liquids, containing three quarts, one pint, one gill, English measure.	
hind		(Zoöl.) The female of the red deer, of which the male is the stag.	Old English higna.
hindberry	English dialect	The raspberry.	
hindbrain		The posterior of the three principal divisions of the brain, including the epencephalon and metencephalon.	
hinder		Of or belonging to that part or end which is in the rear, or which follows; as, the hinder part of a wagon; the hinder parts of a horse.	Old English hindrian.
hinderance		Same as Hindrance.	
hinderer		One who, or that which, hinders.	
hinderest	Obsolete	Hindermost; -- superl. of Hind, a.	
hinderling	Obsolete	A worthless, base, degenerate person or animal.	Middle English hinderling, from Old English hinderling.
hindermost		Furthest in or toward the rear; last. xxxiii. 2.	
hindgut		The posterior part of the alimentary canal, including the rectum, and sometimes the large intestine also.	
hindi		The name given by Europeans to that form of the Hindustani language which is chiefly spoken by native Hindoos.	Persian هندی.
hindmost		Furthest in or toward the rear; last. xxxiii. 2.	
hindoo		A native inhabitant of Hindostan.	
hindooism		The religious doctrines and rites of the Hindoos; Brahmanism.	
hindoostanee		Of or pertaining to the Hindoos or their language. -- n.	
hindrance		The act of hindering, or the state of being hindered.	
hindu		A native inhabitant of Hindostan.	
hinduism		The religious doctrines and rites of the Hindoos; Brahmanism.	
hindustani		Of or pertaining to the Hindoos or their language. -- n.	
hine	Obsolete	A servant; a farm laborer; a peasant; a hind.	
hinge		The hook with its eye, or the joint, on which a door, gate, lid, etc., turns or swings; a flexible piece, as a strip of leather, which serves as a joint to turn on.	Middle English henge.
hinged		Furnished with hinges.	
hingeless		Without a hinge or joint.	
hink		A reaping hook.	
hinniate	Obsolete	To neigh; to whinny.	
hinny	Obsolete	To neigh; to whinny.	
hint		To bring to mind by a slight mention or remote allusion; to suggest in an indirect manner; as, to hint a suspicion.	
hinterland		The land or region lying behind the coast district.	
hintingly		In a hinting manner.	
hip		The projecting region of the lateral parts of one side of the pelvis and the hip joint; the haunch; the huckle.	Middle English hepe.
hip-roofed		Having a hip roof.	
hipe		A throw in which the wrestler lifts his opponent from the ground, swings him to one side, knocks up his nearer thigh from the back with the knee, and throws him on his back.	
hiphalt		Lame in the hip.	
hippa		A genus of marine decapod crustaceans, which burrow rapidly in the sand by pushing themselves backward; -- called also bait bug.	
hipparion		An extinct genus of Tertiary mammals allied to the horse, but three-toed, having on each foot a small lateral hoof on each side of the main central one.	
hippe		A genus of marine decapod crustaceans, which burrow rapidly in the sand by pushing themselves backward; -- called also bait bug.	
hipped	Colloquial	Somewhat hypochondriac; melancholy. See Hyppish.	
hippish	Colloquial	Somewhat hypochondriac; melancholy. See Hyppish.	
hippobosca		A genus of dipterous insects including the horsefly or horse tick. -- Hip`po*bos"can, a.	
hippocamp		See Hippocampus — (Zoöl.) A genus of lophobranch fishes of several species in which the head and neck have some resemblance to those of a horse; -- called also sea horse.	
hippocampal		Of or pertaining to the hippocampus.	
hippocampus		(Zoöl.) A genus of lophobranch fishes of several species in which the head and neck have some resemblance to those of a horse; -- called also sea horse.	Latin hippocampus, from Greek ἱππόκαμπος.
hippocentaur		Same as Centaur.	
hippocras		A cordial made of spiced wine, etc.	Old French ipocras.
hippocrates		A famous Greek physician and medical writer, born in Cos, about 460 B.	
hippocratic		Of or pertaining to Hippocrates, or to his teachings.	
hippocratism		The medical philosophy or system of Hippocrates.	
hippocrene		A fountain on Mount Helicon in Boeotia, fabled to have burst forth when the ground was struck by the hoof of Pegasus.	
hippocrepian		One of an order of fresh-water Bryozoa, in which the tentacles are on a lophophore, shaped like a horseshoe.	
hippocrepiform		Shaped like a horseshoe.	
hippodame	Obsolete	A fabulous sea monster.	
hippodrome		(Gr. Antiq.) A place set apart for equestrian and chariot races.	Latin hippodromos, from Greek ἱππόδρομος.
hippogriff		A fabulous winged animal, half horse and half griffin.	
hippolith		A concretion, or kind of bezoar, from the intestines of the horse.	
hippopathology		The science of veterinary medicine; the pathology of the horse.	
hippophagi		Eaters of horseflesh.	
hippophagism		Hippophagy.	
hippophagist		One who eats horseflesh.	
hippophagous		Feeding on horseflesh; -- said of certain nomadic tribes, as the Tartars.	
hippophagy		The act or practice of feeding on horseflesh.	
hippophile		One who loves horses.	
hippopotamus		A large, amphibious, herbivorous mammal (Hippopotamus amphibius), common in the rivers of Africa.	
hippotomy		Anatomy of the horse.	
hipps	Colloquial	See Hyp, n.	
hippuric		Obtained from the urine of horses; as, hippuric acid.	
hippurite		A fossil bivalve mollusk of the genus Hippurites, of many species, having a conical, cup-shaped under valve, with a flattish upper valve or lid.	
hipshot		Having the hip dislocated; hence, having one hip lower than the other.	
hir		See Here, pron.	
hircic		Of, pertaining to, or derived from, mutton suet; -- applied by Chevreul to an oily acid which was obtained from mutton suet, and to which he attributed the peculiar taste and smell of that substance.	
hircin		Hircic acid. See Hircic.	
hircine		Goatlike; of or pertaining to a goat or the goats.	
hircinous		Goatlike; of or pertaining to a goat or the goats.	
hire		See Here, pron.	
hireless		Without hire.	
hireling		One who is hired, or who serves for wages; esp., one whose motive and interest in serving another are wholly gainful; a mercenary.	
hirer		One who hires.	
hires	Obsolete	Hers; theirs. See Here, pron.	
hirling	English dialect	The young of the sea trout.	
hirs	Obsolete	Hers; theirs. See Here, pron.	
hirsute		Rough with hair; set with bristles; shaggy.	Latin hirsutus.
hirsuteness		Hairiness.	
hirtellous		Pubescent with minute and somewhat rigid hairs.	
hirudine		Of or pertaining to the leeches.	
hirudinea		An order of Annelida, including the leeches; -- called also Hirudinei.	
hirudo		A genus of leeches, including the common medicinal leech. See Leech.	
hirundine		Like or pertaining to the swallows.	
hirundo		A genus of birds including the swallows and martins.	
his		Belonging or pertaining to him; -- used as a pronominal adjective or adjective pronoun; as, tell John his papers are ready; formerly used also for its, but this use is now obsolete.	
hisingerite		A soft black, iron ore, nearly earthy, a hydrous silicate of iron.	
hispanic		Of or pertaining to Spain or its language; as, Hispanic words.	
hispanicism		A Spanish idiom or mode of speech.	
hispanicize		To give a Spanish form or character to; as, to Hispanicize Latin words.	
hispid		Rough with bristles or minute spines.	
hispidulous		Minutely hispid.	
hiss		To make with the mouth a prolonged sound like that of the letter s, by driving the breath between the tongue and the teeth; to make with the mouth a sound like that made by a goose or a snake when angered; esp.…	
hissing	Archaic	The occasion of contempt; the object of scorn and derision.	
hissingly		With a hissing sound.	
hist		Hush; be silent; -- a signal for silence.	
histiology		Same as Histology.	
histogenesis		(a) The formation and development of organic tissues; histogeny; -- the opposite of histolysis.	
histogenetic		Tissue-producing; connected with the formation and development of the organic tissues.	
histogeny		Same as Histogenesis.	
histographer		One who describes organic tissues; an histologist.	
histographical		Of or pertaining to histography.	
histography		A description of, or treatise on, organic tissues.	
histohaematin		One of a class of respiratory pigments, widely distributed in the animal kingdom, capable of ready oxidation and reduction.	
histoid		Resembling the normal tissues; as, histoid tumors.	
histologic		Pertaining to histology, or to the microscopic structure of the tissues of living organisms. -- His`to*log"ic*al*ly, adv.	
histological		Pertaining to histology, or to the microscopic structure of the tissues of living organisms. -- His`to*log"ic*al*ly, adv.	
histologist		One versed in histology.	
histology		That branch of biological science, which treats of the minute (microscopic) structure of animal and vegetable tissues; -- called also histiology.	
histolysis		The decay and dissolution of the organic tissues and of the blood.	
histolytic		Of or pertaining to histolysis, or the degeneration of tissues.	
histonomy		The science which treats of the laws relating to organic tissues, their formation, development, functions, etc.	
histophyly		The tribal history of cells, a division of morphophyly.	
historial	Obsolete	Historical.	
historian		One versed or well informed in history.	French historien.
historic		Of or pertaining to history, or the record of past events; as, an historical poem; the historic page. -- His*tor i*ty, n.	
historical		Of or pertaining to history, or the record of past events; as, an historical poem; the historic page. -- His*tor i*ty, n.	
historically		In the manner of, or in accordance with, history.	
historicize		To record or narrate in the manner of a history; to chronicle.	
historied		Related in history.	
historier	Obsolete	An historian.	
historiette		Historical narration on a small scale; a brief recital; a story.	
historify		To record in or as history.	
historiographer		An historian; a writer of history; especially, one appointed or designated to write a history; also, a title bestowed by some governments upon historians of distinction.	
historiographership		The office of an historiographer.	
historiography		The art of employment of an historiographer.	
historiology		A discourse on history.	
historionomer		One versed in the phenomena of history and the laws controlling them.	
historize		To relate as history; to chronicle; to historicize.	
history		A learning or knowing by inquiry; the knowledge of facts and events, so obtained; hence, a formal statement of such information; a narrative; a description; a written record; as, the history of a patient's case…	
histotomy		The dissection of organic tissues.	
histozyme		A soluble ferment occurring in the animal body, to the presence of which many normal decompositions and synthetical processes are supposed to be due.	
histrion		A player.	
histrionic		Of or relating to the stage or a stageplayer; befitting a theatre; theatrical; -- sometimes in a bad sense. -- His`tri*on"ic*al*ly, adv.	Latin histrionicus.
histrionical		Of or relating to the stage or a stageplayer; befitting a theatre; theatrical; -- sometimes in a bad sense. -- His`tri*on"ic*al*ly, adv.	
histrionicism		The histronic art; stageplaying.	
histrionism		Theatrical representation; acting; affectation.	
histrionize		To act; to represent on the stage, or theatrically.	
hit		To reach with a stroke or blow; to strike or touch, usually with force; especially, to reach or touch (an object aimed at).	Middle English hitten, from Old English hittan.
hitch		To become entangled or caught; to be linked or yoked; to unite; to cling.	
hitchel		See Hatchel — an instrument with long iron teeth set in a board, for cleansing flax or hemp from the tow, hards, or coarse part; a kind of large comb; -- called also hackle and heckle.	
hithe		A port or small haven; -- used in composition; as, Lambhithe, now Lambeth.	Old English hyþ.
hither		To this place; -- used with verbs signifying motion, and implying motion toward the speaker; correlate of hence and thither; as, to come or bring hither.	Old English hider.
hithermost		Nearest on this side.	
hitherto		To this place; to a prescribed limit.	
hitherward		Toward this place; hither.	
hitter		One who hits or strikes; as, a hard hitter.	
hittite		A member of an ancient people (or perhaps group of peoples) whose settlements extended from Armenia westward into Asia Minor and southward into Palestine.	
hive		A box, basket, or other structure, for the reception and habitation of a swarm of honeybees.	Middle English hyfe, from Old English hyf.
hiveless		Destitute of a hive.	
hiver		One who collects bees into a hive.	
hives		(a) The croup. (b) An eruptive disease (Varicella globularis), allied to the chicken pox.	
hizz	Obsolete	To hiss.	
