ho		Halloo! attend! -- a call to excite attention, or to give notice of approach.	Middle English ho.
hoa		Halloo! attend! -- a call to excite attention, or to give notice of approach.	
hoar		White, or grayish white: as, hoar frost; hoar cliffs.	Middle English hore, from Old English har.
hoard		See Hoarding, 2.	Old English hord.
hoarder		One who hoards.	
hoarding		(Arch.) A screen of boards inclosing a house and materials while builders are at work.	Old French hourd.
hoared	Obsolete	Moldy; musty.	
hoarfrost		The white particles formed by the congelation of dew; white frost.	
hoarhound		Same as Horehound.	
hoariness		The state of being hoary.	
hoarse		Having a harsh, rough, grating voice or sound, as when affected with a cold; making a rough, harsh cry or sound; as, the hoarse raven.	
hoarsely		With a harsh, grating sound or voice.	
hoarsen		To make hoarse.	
hoarseness		Harshness or roughness of voice or sound, due to mucus collected on the vocal cords, or to swelling or looseness of the cords.	
hoarstone		A stone designating the Halliwell.	
hoary		White or gray with age; hoar; as, hoary hairs.	
hoatzin		Same as Hoazin.	Nahuatl languages huactzin.
hoax		A deception for mockery or mischief; a deceptive trick or story; a practical joke.	
hoaxer		One who hoaxes.	
hoazin		A remarkable South American bird (Opisthocomus cristatus); the crested touraco.	
hob		The flat projection or iron shelf at the side of a fire grate, where things are put to be kept warm.	
hobandnob		Same as Hobnob.	
hobanob		Same as Hobnob.	
hobbism		The philosophical system of Thomas Hobbes, an English materialist (	
hobbist		One who accepts the doctrines of Thomas Hobbes.	
hobble		To walk lame, bearing chiefly on one leg; to walk with a hitch or hop, or with crutches.	
hobblebush		A low bush (Viburnum lantanoides) having long, straggling branches and handsome flowers.	
hobbledehoy	Colloquial	A youth between boy and man; an awkward, gawky young fellow.	
hobbler		One who hobbles.	
hobbletehoy	Colloquial	A youth between boy and man; an awkward, gawky young fellow.	
hobblingly		With a limping step.	
hobbly		Rough; uneven; causing one to hobble; as a hobbly road.	
hobby		A small, strong-winged European falcon (Falco subbuteo), formerly trained for hawking.	
hobbyhorse		A strong, active horse, of a middle size, said to have been originally from Ireland; an ambling nag.	
hobbyhorsical	Colloquial	Pertaining to, or having, a hobby or whim; eccentric; whimsical.	
hobgoblin		A frightful goblin; an imp; a bugaboo; also, a name formerly given to the household spirit, Robin Goodfellow.	
hobiler	Obsolete	A light horseman. See 2d Hobbler.	
hobit		A small mortar on a gun carriage, in use before the howitzer.	
hobnail		A short, sharp-pointed, large-headed nail, -- used in shoeing houses and for studding the soles of heavy shoes.	
hobnailed		See with hobnails, as a shoe.	
hobnob		Have or have not; -- a familiar invitation to reciprocal drinking.	
hobo		A professional tramp; one who spends his life traveling from place to place, esp. by stealing rides on trains, and begging for a living. -- Ho"bo*ism (#), n.	
hobornob		See Hobnob — have or have not; -- a familiar invitation to reciprocal drinking.	
hoboy	Obsolete	A hautboy or oboe.	
hocco		The crested curassow; -- called also royal pheasant. See Curassow.	
hochepot	Obsolete	Hotchpot.	
hock		A Rhenish wine, of a light yellow color, either sparkling or still.	Middle English hoch.
hockamore	Obsolete	A Rhenish wine. See Hock.	
hockday		A holiday commemorating the expulsion of the Danes, formerly observed on the second Tuesday after Easter; -- called also hocktide.	
hockey		A game in which two parties of players, armed with sticks curved or hooked at the end, attempt to drive any small object (as a ball or a bit of wood) toward opposite goals.	
hockherb		The mallow.	
hockle		To hamstring; to hock; to hough.	
hocus		To adulterate; to drug; as, liquor is said to be hocused for the purpose of stupefying the drinker.	
hocus-pocus		A term used by jugglers in pretended incantations.	
hocuspocus		A term used by jugglers in pretended incantations.	
hod		A kind of wooden tray with a handle, borne on the shoulder, for carrying mortar, brick, etc.	
hoddengray	Scots	Applied to coarse cloth made of undyed wool, formerly worn by Scotch peasants.	
hoddy		See Dun crow, under Dun, a.	
hoddydoddy	Obsolete	An awkward or foolish person.	
hodgepodge		A mixed mass; a medley. See Hotchpot.	
hodiern		Of this day; belonging to the present day.	Latin hodiernus.
hodiernal		Of this day; belonging to the present day.	
hodman		A man who carries a hod; a mason's tender.	
hodmandod		See Dodman — (Zoöl.) Any shellfish which casts its shell, as a lobster.	
hodograph		A curve described by the moving extremity of a line the other end of which is fixed, this line being constantly parallel to the direction of motion of, and having its length constantly proportional to the velocity of…	
hodometer		See Odometer — an instrument attached to the wheel of a vehicle, to measure the distance traversed; also, a wheel used by surveyors, which registers the miles and rods traversed.	
hoe		A tool chiefly for digging up weeds, and arranging the earth about plants in fields and gardens.	Middle English howe, from Anglo-Norman houe.
hoecake		A cake of Indian meal, water, and salt, baked before the fire or in the ashes; -- so called because often cooked on a hoe.	
hoemother		The basking or liver shark; -- called also homer. See Liver shark, under Liver.	
hoful	Obsolete	Careful; wary.	
hog		(Zoöl.) A quadruped of the genus Sus, and allied genera of Suidæ; esp., the domesticated varieties of S. scrofa, kept for their fat and meat, called, respectively, lard and pork; swine; porker; specifically, a castrated boar…	
hogback		(Arch.) An upward curve or very obtuse angle in the upper surface of any member, as of a timber laid horizontally; -- the opposite of camber.	
hogchain		A chain or tie rod, in a boat or barge, to prevent the vessel from hogging.	
hogchoker		An American sole (Achirus lineatus, or A. achirus), related to the European sole, but of no market value.	
hogcote		A shed for swine; a sty.	
hogfish		(a) A large West Indian and Florida food fish (Lachnolæmus). (b) The pigfish or sailor's choice.	
hogframe		A trussed frame extending fore and aft, usually above deck, and intended to increase the longitudinal strength and stiffness.	
hogged		Broken or strained so as to have an upward curve between the ends. See Hog, v. i.	
hogger		A stocking without a foot, worn by coal miners at work.	
hogger-pipe		The upper terminal pipe of a mining pump.	
hogger-pump		The for pump in the pit.	
hoggerel		A sheep of the second year.	
hoggerpipe		The upper terminal pipe of a mining pump.	
hoggery		Hoggish character or manners; selfishness; greed; beastliness.	
hogget		A young boar of the second year.	
hogging		Drooping at the ends; arching;-in distinction from sagging.	
hoggish		Swinish; gluttonous; filthy; selfish. -- Hog gish*ness, n.	
hogh	Obsolete	A hill; a cliff.	
hogherd		A swineherd.	
hogmanay	Scots	The old name, in Scotland, for the last day of the year, on which children go about singing, and receive a dole of bread or cakes; also, the entertainment given on that day to a visitor, or the gift given to an applicant.	
hognosesnake		A harmless North American snake of the genus Heterodon, esp. H. platyrhynos; -- called also puffing adder, blowing adder, and sand viper.	
hognut		(a) The pignut. See Hickory. (b) In England, the Bunium flexuosum, a tuberous plant.	
hogo	Obsolete	High flavor; strong scent.	
hogpen		A pen or sty for hogs.	
hogreeve		A civil officer charged with the duty of impounding hogs running at large.	
hogringer		One who puts rings into the snouts of hogs.	
hogscore	Scots	A distance lime brawn across the rink or course between the middle line and the tee.	
hogshead		An English measure of capacity, containing 63 wine gallons, or about 52	Middle English hoggeshed.
hogskin		Leather tanned from a hog's skin.	
hogsty		A pen, house, or inclosure, for hogs.	
hogweed		(a) A common weed (Ambrosia artemisiæge). See Ambrosia, 3. (b) In England, the Heracleum Sphondylium.	
hoiden		A rude, bold girl; a romp.	
hoidenhood		State of being a hoiden.	
hoidenish		Like, or appropriate to, a hoiden.	
hoise	Obsolete	To hoist.	
hoist		To raise; to lift; to elevate; esp., to raise or lift to a desired elevation, by means of tackle, as a sail, a flag, a heavy package or weight.	
hoistaway		A mechanical lift. See Elevator.	
hoistway		An opening for the hoist, or	
hoit	Obsolete	To leap; to caper; to romp noisily.	
hoity-toity		Thoughtless; giddy; flighty; also, haughty; patronizing; as, to be in hoity-toity spirits, or to assume hoity-toity airs; used also as an exclamation, denoting surprise or disapprobation, with some degree of contempt.	
hokeday		Same as Hockday.	
hoker	Obsolete	Scorn; derision; abusive talk. -- Ho"ker*ly, adv.	
holarctic		Of or pert. to the arctic regions collectively; specif. (Zoögeography), designating a realm or region including the northern parts of the Old and the New World.	
holaspidean		Having a single series of large scutes on the posterior side of the tarsus; -- said of certain birds.	
holcad		A large ship of burden, in ancient Greece.	
hold		The whole interior portion of a vessel below the lower deck, in which the cargo is stowed.	Middle English holden, from Old English healdan.
holdback		Check; hindrance; restraint; obstacle.	
holder		One who is employed in the hold of a vessel.	
holder-forth		One who speaks in public; an haranguer; a preacher.	
holdfast		Something used to secure and hold in place something else, as a long fiat-headed nail, a catch a hook, a clinch, a clamp, etc.; hence, a support.	
holding		The act or state of sustaining, grasping, or retaining.	
hole		A hollow place or cavity; an excavation; a pit; an opening in or through a solid body, a fabric, etc.; a perforation; a rent; a fissure.	
holethnic		Of or pertaining to a holethnos or parent race.	
holethnos		A parent stock or race of people, not yet divided into separate branches or tribes.	
holibut		See Halibut — a large, northern, marine flatfish (Hippoglossus vulgaris), of the family Pleuronectidæ.	
holidam		See Halidom — holy doom; the Last Day.	
holiday		A consecrated day; religious anniversary; a day set apart in honor of some person, or in commemoration of some event.	
holily		Piously; with sanctity; in a holy manner.	
holiness		The state or quality of being holy; perfect moral integrity or purity; freedom from sin; sanctity; innocence.	
holing		Undercutting in a bed of coal, in order to bring down the upper mass.	
holla		Hollo. See Hollo, v. i.	
holland		A kind of linen first manufactured in Holland; a linen fabric used for window shades, children's garments, etc.; as, brown or unbleached hollands.	
hollandaise		A sauce consisting essentially of a seasoned emulsion of butter and yolk of eggs with a little lemon juice or vinegar.	
hollander		A native or one of the people of Holland; a Dutchman.	
hollandish		Relating to Holland; Dutch.	
hollands		pl. See Holland — a kind of linen first manufactured in Holland; a linen fabric used for window shades, children's garments, etc.; as, brown or unbleached hollands.	
hollo		Ho there; stop; attend; hence, a loud cry or a call to attract attention; a halloo.	
holloa		Same as Hollo.	
hollow		Having an empty space or cavity, natural or artificial, within a solid substance; not solid; excavated in the interior; as, a hollow tree; a hollow sphere.	Middle English holow.
hollow-hearted		Insincere; deceitful; not sound and true; having a cavity or decayed spot within.	
hollow-horned		Having permanent horns with a bony core, as cattle.	
hollowly		Insincerely; deceitfully.	
hollowness		State of being hollow.	
holluschickie		A young male fur seal, esp. one from three to six years old; -- called also bachelor, because prevented from breeding by the older full-grown males.	
holly		(Bot.) A tree or shrub of the genus Ilex.	Middle English holly.
hollyhock		A species of Althæa (A. rosea), bearing flowers of various colors; -- called also rose mallow.	
holm		A common evergreen oak, of Europe (Quercus Ilex); -- called also ilex, and holly.	Old Norse holmr.
holmia		An oxide of holmium.	
holmium		A rare element said to be contained in gadolinite. -- Hol"mic, a.	Latin Holmia.
holmos		A name given to a vase having a rounded body; esp.: (a) A closed vessel of nearly spherical form on a high stem or pedestal.	
holo-		A combining form fr.	Greek ὅλος.
holoblast		an ovum composed entirely of germinal matter. See Meroblast.	
holoblastic		Undergoing complete segmentation; composed entirely of germinal matter, the whole of the yolk undergoing fission; -- opposed to meroblastic.	
holocaust		A burnt sacrifice; an offering, the whole of which was consumed by fire, among the Jews and some pagan nations.	French holocauste, from Latin holocaustum, from Greek ὁλόκαυστος.
holocephali		An order of elasmobranch fishes, including, among living species, only the chimæras; -- called also Holocephala.	
holocryptic		Wholly or completely concealing; incapable of being deciphered.	
holocrystalline		Completely crystalline; -- said of a rock like granite, all the constituents of which are crystalline.	
holograph		A document, as a letter, deed, or will, wholly in the handwriting of the person from whom it proceeds and whose act it purports to be.	
holographic		Of the nature of a holograph; pertaining to holographs.	
holohedral		Having all the planes required by complete symmetry, -- in opposition to hemihedral.	
holohemihedral		Presenting hemihedral forms, in which all the sectants have halt the whole number of planes.	
holometabola		Those insects which have a complete metamorphosis; metabola.	
holometabolic		Having a complete metamorphosis;-said of certain insects, as the butterflies and bees.	
holometer		An instrument for making of angular measurements.	
holophanerous		Same as Holometabolic.	
holophotal		Causing no loss of light; -- applied to reflectors which throw back the rays of light without perceptible loss.	
holophote		A lamp with lenses or reflectors to collect the rays of light and throw them in a given direction; -- used in lighthouses.	
holophrastic		Expressing a phrase or sentence in a single word, -- as is the case in the aboriginal languages of America.	
holophytic		Wholly or distinctively vegetable.	
holorhinal		Having the nasal bones contiguous.	
holosiderite		Meteoric iron; a meteorite consisting of metallic iron without stony matter.	
holostean		Pertaining to the Holostei.	
holostei		An extensive division of ganoids, including the gar pike, bowfin, etc.; the bony ganoids.	
holosteric		Wholly solid; -- said of a barometer constructed of solid materials to show the variations of atmospheric pressure without the use of liquids, as the aneroid.	
holostomata		An artificial division of gastropods, including those that have an entire aperture.	
holostomate		Same as Holostomatous.	
holostomatous		Having an entire aperture; -- said of many univalve shells.	
holostome		One of the Holostomata.	
holostraca		A division of phyllopod Crustacea, including those that are entirely covered by a bivalve shell.	
holothure		A holothurian.	Latin holothuria.
holothurioidea		One of the classes of echinoderms.	
holotricha		A group of ciliated Infusoria, having cilia all over the body.	
holour	Obsolete	A whoremonger.	Old French holier.
holp	Obsolete	imp. & p. p. of Help.	
holpen	Obsolete	imp. & p. p. of Help.	Middle English holpen.
holsom	Obsolete	Wholesome.	
holstein		One of a breed of cattle, originally from Schleswig-Holstein, valued for the large amount of milk produced by the cows.	
holster		A leather case for a pistol, carried by a horseman at the bow of his saddle.	
holstered		Bearing holsters.	
holt		A piece of woodland; especially, a woody hill.	Middle English holt, from Old English holt.
holy		Set apart to the service or worship of God; hallowed; sacred; reserved from profane or common use; holy vessels; a holy priesthood.	Middle English holi.
holyday		A religious festival.	
holystone		A stone used by seamen for scrubbing the decks of ships.	
homacanth		Having the dorsal fin spines symmetrical, and in the same line; -- said of certain fishes.	
homage		Respect or reverential regard; deference; especially, respect paid by external action; obeisance.	Middle English homage, from Old French homage.
homageable		Subject to homage.	
homager		One who does homage, or holds land of another by homage; a vassal.	
homalographic		Same as Homolographic.	
homaloid		Flat; even; -- a term applied to surfaces and to spaces, whether real or imagined, in which the definitions, axioms, and postulates of Euclid respecting parallel straight lines are assumed to hold true.	
homaloidal		Flat; even; -- a term applied to surfaces and to spaces, whether real or imagined, in which the definitions, axioms, and postulates of Euclid respecting parallel straight lines are assumed to hold true.	
homarus		A genus of decapod Crustacea, including the common lobsters. -- Hom"a*roid, a.	
homatropine		An alkaloid, prepared from atropine, and from other sources.	
homaxonial		Relating to that kind of homology or symmetry, the mathematical conception of organic form, in which all axes are equal.	
home		See Homelyn — the european sand ray (Raia maculata); -- called also home, mirror ray, and rough ray.	Middle English home.
home-bound		Kept at home.	
home-bred		Bred at home; domestic; not foreign.	
home-coming		Return home.	
home-driven		Driven to the end, as a nail; driven close.	
home-dwelling		Keeping at home.	
home-felt		Felt in one's own breast; inward; private.	
home-keeping		Staying at home; not gadding.	
home-speaking		Direct, forcible, and effective speaking.	
homeborn		Native; indigenous; not foreign.	
homefield		Afield adjacent to its owner's home.	
homeless		Destitute of a home. -- Home"less*ness, n.	
homelike		Like a home; comfortable; cheerful; cozy; friendly.	
homelily		Plainly; inelegantly.	
homeliness		Plainness; want of elegance or beauty.	
homeling		A person or thing belonging to a home or to a particular country; a native; as, a word which is a homeling.	
homely		Plain; unpretending; rude in appearance; unpolished; as, a homely garment; a homely house; homely fare; homely manners.	Middle English hom.
homelyn		The European sand ray (Raia maculata); -- called also home, mirror ray, and rough ray.	
homemade		Made at home; of domestic manufacture; made either in a private family or in one's own country.	
homeopath		A practitioner of homeopathy.	
homeopathic		Of or pertaining to homeopathy; according to the principles of homeopathy.	
homeopathically		According to the practice of homeopathy.	
homeopathist		A believer in, or practitioner of, homeopathy.	
homeopathy		The art of curing, founded on resemblances; the theory and its practice that disease is cured (tuto, cito…	
homer		A carrier pigeon remarkable for its ability to return home from a distance.	
homeric		Of or pertaining to Homer, the most famous of Greek poets; resembling the poetry of Homer.	
homesick		Pining for home; in a nostalgic condition. -- Home"sick`ness, n.	
homespun		Spun or wrought at home; of domestic manufacture; coarse; plain.	
homestall		Place of a home; homestead.	
homestead		The home place; a home and the inclosure or ground immediately connected with it.	
homesteader	Dialect	One who has entered upon a portion of the public land with the purpose of acquiring ownership of it under provisions of the homestead law, so called; one who has acquired a homestead in this manner.	
homeward		Being in the direction of home; as, the homeward way.	
homewards		Toward home; in the direction of one's house, town, or country.	
homicidal		Pertaining to homicide; tending to homicide; murderous.	
homicide		The killing of one human being by another.	
homiform	Obsolete	In human form.	
homilete		A homilist.	
homiletic		Of or pertaining to familiar intercourse; social; affable; conversable; companionable.	
homiletical		Of or pertaining to familiar intercourse; social; affable; conversable; companionable.	
homiletics		The art of preaching; that branch of theology which treats of homilies or sermons, and the best method of preparing and delivering them.	Greek ὁμιλητική.
homilist		One who prepares homilies; one who preaches to a congregation.	
homilite		A borosilicate of iron and lime, near datolite in form and composition.	
homily		A discourse or sermon read or pronounced to an audience; a serious discourse.	Greek ὁμιλία.
homing		Home-returning; -- used specifically of carrier pigeons.	
hominy		Maize hulled and broken, and prepared for food by being boiled in water.	
homish		Like a home or a home circle.	
hommock		A small eminence of a conical form, of land or of ice; a knoll; a hillock.	
hommocky		Filled with hommocks; piled in the form of hommocks; -- said of ice.	
homo-		A combining form from Gr. "omo`s, one and the same, common, joint.	
homocategoric		Belonging to the same category of individuality; -- a morphological term applied to organisms so related.	
homocentric		Having the same center.	
homocercal		Having the tail nearly or quite symmetrical, the vertebral column terminating near its base; -- opposed to heterocercal.	
homocercy		The possession of a homocercal tail.	
homocerebrin		A body similar to, or identical with, cerebrin.	
homochromous		Having all the florets in the same flower head of the same color.	
homodemic		A morphological term signifying development, in the case of multicellular organisms, from the same unit deme or unit of the inferior orders of individuality.	
homodermic		Relating to homodermy; originating from the same germ layer.	
homodermy		Homology of the germinal layers.	
homodont		Having all the teeth similar in front, as in the porpoises; -- opposed to heterodont.	
homodromal		(Bot.) Running in the same direction; -- said of stems twining round a support, or of the spiral succession of leaves on stems and their branches.	
homodromous		(Bot.) Running in the same direction; -- said of stems twining round a support, or of the spiral succession of leaves on stems and their branches.	
homodynamic		Homodynamous.	
homodynamous		Pertaining to, or involving, homodynamy; as, successive or homodynamous parts in plants and animals.	
homodynamy		The homology of metameres. See Metamere.	
homoeomeria		The state or quality of being homogeneous in elements or first principles; likeness or identity of parts.	
homoeomeric		Pertaining to, or characterized by, sameness of parts; receiving or advocating the doctrine of homogeneity of elements or first principles.	
homoeomerical		Pertaining to, or characterized by, sameness of parts; receiving or advocating the doctrine of homogeneity of elements or first principles.	
homoeomerous		Having the main artery of the leg parallel with the sciatic nerve; -- said of certain birds.	
homoeomery	Obsolete	Same as Homoeomeria.	
homoeomorphism		A near similarity of crystalline forms between unlike chemical compounds.	
homoeomorphous		Manifesting homoeomorphism.	
homoeopathic		Same as Homeopathic, Homeopathist, Homeopathy.	
homoeopathist		Same as Homeopathic, Homeopathist, Homeopathy.	
homoeopathy		Same as Homeopathic, Homeopathist, Homeopathy.	
homoeothermal		See Homoiothermal — maintaining a uniform temperature; hæmatothermal; homothermic; -- applied to warm-bodied animals…	
homoeozoic		Pertaining to, or including, similar forms or kinds of life; as, homoeozoic belts on the earth's surface.	
homogamous		Having all the flowers alike; -- said of such composite plants as Eupatorium, and the thistels.	
homogamy		The condition of being homogamous.	
homogangliate		Having the ganglia of the nervous system symmetrically arranged, as in certain invertebrates; -- opposed to heterogangliate.	
homogene	Obsolete	Homogeneous.	
homogeneal		Homogeneous.	
homogenealness		Homogeneousness.	
homogeneity		Same as Homogeneousness.	
homogeneous		Of the same kind of nature; consisting of similar parts, or of elements of the like nature; -- opposed to heterogeneous; as, homogeneous particles, elements, or principles; homogeneous bodies.	Latin homogeneus, from Greek ὁμογενής.
homogeneousness		Sameness 9kind or nature; uniformity of structure or material.	
homogenesis		That method of reproduction in which the successive generations are alike, the offspring, either animal or plant, running through the same cycle of existence as the parent; gamogenesis; -- opposed to heterogenesis.	
homogenetic		Homogenous; -- applied to that class of homologies which arise from similarity of structure, and which are taken as evidences of common ancestry.	
homogenous		Having a resemblance in structure, due to descent from a common progenitor with subsequent modification; homogenetic; -- applied both to animals and plants.	
homogeny		(Biol.) The correspondence of common descent; -- a term used to supersede homology by Lankester…	
homogonous		Having all the flowers of a plant alike in respect to the stamens and pistils.	
homogony		The condition of having homogonous flowers.	
homograph		One of two or more words identical in orthography, but having different derivations and meanings; as, fair, n., a market, and fair, a., beautiful.	
homographic		Employing a single and separate character to represent each sound; -- said of certain methods of spelling words.	
homography		That method of spelling in which every sound is represented by a single character, which indicates that sound and no other.	
homoioptoton		A figure in which the several parts of a sentence end with the same case, or inflection generally.	
homoiothermal		Maintaining a uniform temperature; hæmatothermal; homothermic; -- applied to warm-bodied animals, because they maintain a nearly uniform temperature in spite of the great variations in the surrounding air…	
homoiousian		One of the semi-Arians of the 4th century, who held that the Son was of like, but not the same, essence or substance with the Father; -- opposed to homoousian.	
homologate		To approve; to allow; to confirm; as, the court homologates a proceeding.	
homologation		Confirmation or ratification (as of something otherwise null and void), by a court or a grantor.	
homological		Pertaining to homology; having a structural affinity proceeding from, or base upon, that kind of relation termed homology. -- Ho`mo*log"ic*al*ly, adv.	
homologinic		Pertaining to, or characterized by, homology; as, homologinic qualities, or differences.	
homologize		To determine the homologies or structural relations of.	
homologon		See Homologue — that which is homologous to something else; as, the corresponding sides, etc., of similar polygons are the homologues of each other…	
homologoumena		Those books of the New Testament which were acknowledged as canonical by the early church; -- distinguished from antilegomena.	
homologous		Having the same relative position, proportion, value, or structure. Especially: (a) (Geom.) Corresponding in relative position and proportion.	
homolographic		Preserving the mutual relations of parts, especially as to size and form; maintaining relative proportion.	
homologue		That which is homologous to something else; as, the corresponding sides, etc., of similar polygons are the homologues of each other; the members or terms of an homologous series in chemistry are the homologues of each other…	French homologue, from Greek ὁμόλογος.
homology		The quality of being homologous; correspondence; relation; as, the homologyof similar polygons.	
homomallous		Uniformly bending or curving to one side; -- said of leaves which grow on several sides of a stem.	
homomorphic		Characterized by homomorphism.	
homomorphism		(Bot.) The possession, in one species of plants, of only one kind of flowers; -- opposed to heteromorphism, dimorphism, and trimorphism.	
homomorphous		Characterized by homomorphism.	
homomorphy		Similarity of form; resemblance in external characters, while widely different in fundamental structure; resemblance in geometric ground form.	
homonomous		Of or pertaining to homonomy.	
homonomy		The homology of parts arranged on transverse axes.	
homonym		A word having the same sound as another, but differing from it in meaning; as the noun bear and the verb bear.	
homonymous		Having the same name or designation; standing in the same relation; -- opposed to heteronymous.	
homonymously		In an homonymous manner; so as to have the same name or relation.	
homonymy		Sameness of name or designation; identity in relations.	
homooergan		Same as Homoplast.	
homoorgan		Same as Homoplast.	
homoousian		One of those, in the 4th century, who accepted the Nicene creed, and maintained that the Son had the same essence or substance with the Father; -- opposed to homoiousian.	
homophone		A letter or character which expresses a like sound with another.	
homophonic		(Mus.) (a) Originally, sounding alike; of the same pitch; unisonous; monodic.	
homophonous		(Mus.) (a) Originally, sounding alike; of the same pitch; unisonous; monodic.	
homophony		(Mus.) (a) Sameness of sound; unison. (b) Plain harmony, as opposed to polyphony.	
homophylic		Relating to homophily.	
homophyly		That form of homology due to common ancestry (phylogenetic homology), in opposition to homomorphy, to which genealogic basis is wanting.	
homoplasmy		Resemblance between different plants or animals, in external shape, in general habit, or in organs, which is not due to descent from a common ancestor, but to similar surrounding circumstances.	
homoplast		One of the plastids composing the idorgan of Haeckel; -- also called homoörgan.	
homoplastic		Of or pertaining to homoplasty; as, homoplasticorgans; homoplastic forms.	
homoplasty		The formation of homologous tissues.	
homoplasy		See Homogeny — (Biol.) The correspondence of common descent; -- a term used to supersede homology by Lankester…	
homopolic		In promorphology, pertaining to or exhibiting that kind of organic form, in which the stereometric ground form is a pyramid, with similar poles.	
homopter		One of the Homoptera.	
homoptera		A suborder of Hemiptera, in which both pairs of wings are similar in texture, and do not overlap when folded, as in the cicada.	
homopteran		An homopter.	
homopterous		Of or pertaining to the Homoptera.	
homostyled		Having only one form of pistils; -- said of the flowers of some plants.	
homosystemic		Developing, in the case of multicellular organisms, from the same embryonic systems into which the secondary unit (gastrula or plant enbryo) differentiates.	
homotaxia		Same as Homotaxis.	
homotaxial		Relating to homotaxis.	
homotaxic		Relating to homotaxis.	
homotaxis		Similarly in arrangement of parts; -- the opposite of heterotaxy.	
homotaxy		Same as Homotaxis.	
homothermic		Warm-blooded; homoiothermal; hæmatothermal.	
homothermous		Warm-blooded; homoiothermal; hæmatothermal.	
homotonous		Of the same tenor or tone; equable; without variation.	Latin homotonus.
homotropal		Turned in the same direction with something else.	
homotropous		Turned in the same direction with something else.	
homotypal		Of the same type of structure; pertaining to a homotype; as, homotypal parts.	
homotype		That which has the same fundamental type of structure with something else; thus, the right arm is the homotype of the right leg; one arm is the homotype of the other, etc. Owen.	
homotypic		Same as Homotypal.	
homotypical		Same as Homotypal.	
homotypy		A term suggested by Haeckel to be instead of serial homology. See Homotype.	
homunculus		A little man; a dwarf; a manikin.	Latin homunculus.
hone		To pine; to lament; to long.	
honest		Decent; honorable; suitable; becoming.	Old French honeste, from Latin honestus.
honestation	Obsolete	The act of honesting; grace; adornment.	
honestetee	Obsolete	Honesty; honorableness.	
honestly		In an honest manner; as, a contract honestly made; to live honestly; to speak honestly.	
honesty		The quality or state of being honest; probity; fairness and straightforwardness of conduct, speech, etc.; integrity; sincerity; truthfulness; freedom from fraud or guile.	
honewort		An umbelliferous plant of the genus Sison (S.Amomum); -- so called because used to cure a swelling called a hone.	
honey		A sweet viscid fluid, esp. that collected by bees from flowers of plants, and deposited in the cells of the honeycomb.	Middle English honig, from Old English hunig.
honey-bag		The receptacle for honey in a honeybee.	
honey-mouthed		Soft to sweet in speech; persuasive.	
honey-sweet		Sweet as honey.	
honey-tongued		Sweet speaking; persuasive; seductive.	
honeybee		Any bee of the genus Apis, which lives in communities and collects honey, esp. the common domesticated hive bee (Apis mellifica), the Italian bee (A. ligustica), and the Arabiab bee (A. fasciata).	
honeyberry		(a) An Old World hackberry (Celtis australis). (b) In the West Indies, the genip (Melicocca bijuga).	
honeybird		The honey guide.	
honeycomb		A mass of hexagonal waxen cells, formed by bees, and used by them to hold their honey and their eggs.	
honeycombed		Formed or perforated like a honeycomb.	
honeydew		A sweet, saccharine substance, found on the leaves of trees and other plants in small drops, like dew.	
honeyed		Covered with honey.	
honeyless		Destitute of honey.	
honeymoon		The first month after marriage.	
honeystone		See Mellite — a mineral of a honey color, found in brown coal, and partly the result of vegetable decomposition; honeystone.	
honeysucker		See Honey eater, under Honey.	
honeysuckle		One of several species of flowering plants, much admired for their beauty, and some for their fragrance.	
honeysuckled		Covered with honeysuckles.	
honeyware		See Badderlocks — a large black seaweed (Alaria esculenta) sometimes eaten in Europe; -- also called murlins, honeyware, and henware.	
honeywort		A European plant of the genus Cerinthe, whose flowers are very attractive to bees.	
hong	Obsolete	A mercantile establishment or factory for foreign trade in China, as formerly at Canton; a succession of offices connected by a common passage and used for business or storage.	
honied		See Honeyed — covered with honey.	
honk		The cry of a wild goose. -- Honk"ing, n.	
honor		Esteem due or paid to worth; high estimation; respect; consideration; reverence; veneration; manifestation of respect or reverence.	
honorable		Worthy of honor; fit to be esteemed or regarded; estimable; illustrious.	
honorableness		The state of being honorable; eminence; distinction.	
honorably		In an honorable manner; in a manner showing, or consistent with, honor.	
honorarium		A fee offered to professional men for their services; as, an honorarium of one thousand dollars.	
honorary		A fee offered to professional men for their services; as, an honorarium of one thousand dollars.	
honorer		One who honors.	
honorific		Conferring honor; tending to honor.	
honorless		Destitute of honor; not honored.	
hont	Obsolete	See under Hunt.	
honved		The Hungarian army in the revolutionary war of 1848-49.	
honvedseg		See Army organization, above.	
hoo		Hurrah! -- an exclamation of triumphant joy.	Middle English hoo.
hood		A covering or garment for the head or the head and shoulders, often attached to the body garment; especially: (a) A soft covering for the head, worn by women, which leaves only the face exposed.	
hoodcap		See Hooded seal, under Hooded.	
hooded		Covered with a hood.	
hoodless		Having no hood.	
hoodlum	Colloquial	A young rowdy; a rough, lawless fellow.	
hoodman	Obsolete	The person blindfolded in the game called hoodman-blind.	
hoodman-blind		An old term for blindman's buff.	
hoodoo	Colloquial	One who causes bad luck.	
hoodwink		To blind by covering the eyes.	
hoody		The hooded crow; also, in Scotland, the hooded gull.	
hoof		The horny substance or case that covers or terminates the feet of certain animals, as horses, oxen, etc. On burnished hooves his war horse trode.	Old English hof.
hoofbound		Having a dry and contracted hoof, which occasions pain and lameness.	
hoofed		Furnished with hoofs.	
hoofless		Destitute of hoofs.	
hook		A piece of metal, or other hard material, formed or bent into a curve or at an angle, for catching, holding, or sustaining anything; as, a hook for catching fish; a hook for fastening a gate; a boat hook, etc.	Middle English hoke, from Old English hoc.
hook-billed		Having a strongly curved bill.	
hook-nosed		Having a hooked or aquiline nose.	
hookah		A pipe with a long, flexible stem, so arranged that the smoke is cooled by being made to pass through water.	Urdu حقہ, from Arabic حقة.
hooked		Having the form of a hookl curvated; as, the hooked bill of a bird.	
hookedness		The state of being bent like a hook; incurvation.	
hooker		One who, or that which, hooks.	
hookey		See Hockey — a game in which two parties of players, armed with sticks curved or hooked at the end, attempt to drive any small object (as a ball or a bit of wood) toward opposite goals.	
hooklet		A little hook.	
hooky		Full of hooks; pertaining to hooks.	
hoolock		A small black gibbon (Hylobates hoolock), found in the mountains of Assam.	
hoonoomaun		An Indian monkey. See Entellus.	
hoop		A pliant strip of wood or metal bent in a circular form, and united at the ends, for holding together the staves of casks, tubs, etc.	Middle English hoop.
hooper		One who hoops casks or tubs; a cooper.	
hoopoe		A European bird of the genus Upupa (U. epops), having a beautiful crest, which it can erect or depress at pleasure.	
hoopoo		A European bird of the genus Upupa (U. epops), having a beautiful crest, which it can erect or depress at pleasure.	
hoosier		A nickname given to an inhabitant of the State of Indiana.	
hoot		To cry out or shout in contempt.	
hoove		A disease in cattle consisting in inflammation of the stomach by gas, ordinarily caused by eating too much green food; tympany; bloating.	
hooven		Affected with hoove; as, hooven, or hoven, cattle.	
hop		To move by successive leaps, as toads do; to spring or jump on one foot; to skip, as birds do. hopping from spray to spray.	Middle English hoppen, from Old English hoppian.
hop-thumb		See Hop-o'-my-thumb.	
hopbind		The climbing stem of the hop.	
hopbine		The climbing stem of the hop.	
hope	Scots	A small bay; an inlet; a haven.	Middle English hopen, from Old English hopian.
hopeful		Full of hope, or agreeable expectation; inclined to hope; expectant.	
hopeite		A hydrous phosphate of zinc in transparent prismatic crystals.	
hopeless		Destitute of hope; having no expectation of good; despairing.	
hoper		One who hopes.	
hopingly		In a hopeful manner.	
hoplite	Colloquial	A heavy-armed infantry soldier.	Greek ὁπλίτης.
hopped		Impregnated with hops.	
hopper		One who, or that which, hops.	
hopperdozer		An appliance for the destruction of insects, consisting of a shallow iron box, containing kerosene or coated with tar or other sticky substance, which may be mounted on wheels.	
hopperings		Gravel retaining in the hopper of a cradle.	
hoppestere		An unexplained epithet used by Chaucer in reference to ships.	
hoppet	English dialect	A hand basket; also, a dish used by miners for measuring ore.	
hopping		The act of one who, or that which, hops; a jumping, frisking, or dancing.	
hopple		To impede by a hopple; to tie the feet of (a horse or a cow) loosely together; to hamper; to hobble; as, to hopple an unruly or straying horse.	
hopplebush		Same as Hobblebush.	
hoppo		(a) A collector of customs, as at Canton; an overseer of commerce. (b) A tribunal or commission having charge of the revenue derived from trade and navigation.	
hopscotch		A child's game, in which a player, hopping on one foot, drives a stone from one compartment to another of a figure traced or scotched on the ground; -- called also hoppers.	
hopyard		A field where hops are raised.	
horal		Of or pertaining to an hour, or to hours.	
horary		Of or pertaining to an hour; noting the hours.	
horatian		Of or pertaining to Horace, the Latin poet, or resembling his style.	
horde		A wandering troop or gang; especially, a clan or tribe of a nomadic people migrating from place to place for the sake of pasturage, plunder, etc.; a predatory multitude.	
hordeic		Pertaining to, or derived from, barley; as, hordeic acid, an acid identical or isomeric with lauric acid.	
hordein		A peculiar starchy matter contained in barley.	
hordeolum		A small tumor upon the eyelid, resembling a grain of barley; a sty.	
hordock		An unidentified plant mentioned by Shakespeare, perhaps equivalent to burdock.	
horehound		A plant of the genus Marrubium (M. vulgare), which has a bitter taste, and is a weak tonic, used as a household remedy for colds, coughing, etc. Fetid horehound, or Black horehound…	Old English harhune.
horizon		The circle which bounds that part of the earth's surface visible to a spectator from a given point; the apparent junction of the earth and sky.	Greek ὁρίζων.
horizontal		Pertaining to, or near, the horizon.	
horizontality		The state or quality of being horizontal.	
horizontally		In a horizontal direction or position; on a level; as, moving horizontally.	
hormogonium		A chain of small cells in certain algæ, by which the plant is propogated.	
hormone		A chemical substance formed in one organ and carried in the circulation to another organ on which it exerts a stimulating effect; thus, according to Starling…	Greek ὁρμῶν.
horn		A hard, projecting, and usually pointed organ, growing upon the heads of certain animals, esp. of the ruminants, as cattle, goats, and the like.	Old English horn.
horn-mad		Quite mad; -- raving crazy.	
hornbeak		A fish. See Hornfish.	
hornbeam		A tree of the genus Carpinus (C.	
hornbill		Any bird of the family Bucerotidæ, of which about sixty species are known, belonging to numerous genera.	
hornblende		The common black, or dark green or brown, variety of amphibole. (See Amphibole.) It belongs to the aluminous division of the species, and is also characterized by its containing considerable iron.	German Hornblende.
hornblendic		Composed largely of hornblende; resembling or relating to hornblende.	
hornblower		One who, or that which, blows a horn.	
hornbook		The first book for children, or that from which in former times they learned their letters and rudiments; -- so called because a sheet of horn covered the small, thin board of oak, or the slip of paper, on which the alphabet…	
hornbug		A large nocturnal beetle of the genus Lucanus (as L. capreolus, and L. dama), having long, curved upper jaws, resembling a sickle.	
horned		Furnished with a horn or horns; furnished with a hornlike process or appendage; as, horned cattle; having some part shaped like a horn.	
hornedness		The condition of being horned.	
hornel	Scots	The European sand eel.	
horner		One who works or deal in horn or horns.	
hornet	Colloquial	A large, strong wasp.	Middle English hernet, from Old English hyrnetu.
hornfish		The garfish or sea needle.	
hornfoot		Having hoofs; hoofed.	
hornify	Obsolete	To horn; to cuckold.	
horning		Appearance of the moon when increasing, or in the form of a crescent.	
hornish		Somewhat like horn; hard.	
hornito		A low, oven-shaped mound, common in volcanic regions, and emitting smoke and vapors from its sides and summit.	
hornless		Having no horn.	
hornotine		A yearling; a bird of the year.	
hornowl		See Horned Owl.	
hornpike	English dialect	The garfish.	
hornpipe		(a) An instrument of music formerly popular in Wales, consisting of a wooden pipe, with holes at intervals.	
hornpout		See Horned pout, under Horned.	
hornsnake		A harmless snake (Farancia abacura), found in the Southern United States.	
hornstone		A siliceous stone, a variety of quartz, closely resembling flint, but more brittle; -- called also chert.	
horntail		Any one of family (Uroceridæ) of large hyminopterous insects, allied to the sawflies.	
hornwork		An outwork composed of two demibastions joined by a curtain.	
hornwort		An aquatic plant (Ceratophyllum), with finely divided leaves.	
hornwrack		A bryozoan of the genus Flustra.	
horny		Having horns or hornlike projections.	
horny-handed		Having the hands horny and callous from labor.	
hornyhead		Any North American river chub of the genus Hybopsis, esp. H. biguttatus.	
horography		An account of the hours.	
horologe		An instrument indicating the time of day; a timepiece of any kind; a watch, clock, or dial.	Latin horologium, from Greek ώρολόγιον.
horologer		A maker or vender of clocks and watches; one skilled in horology.	
horological		Relating to a horologe, or to horology.	
horologiographer		A maker of clocks, watches, or dials.	
horologiographic		Of or pertaining to horologiography.	
horologiography		An account of instruments that show the hour.	
horologist		One versed in horology.	
horology		The science of measuring time, or the principles and art of constructing instruments for measuring and indicating portions of time, as clocks, watches, dials, etc.	Latin horologia.
horometer		An instrument for measuring time.	
horometrical		Belonging to horometry.	
horometry		The art, practice, or method of measuring time by hours and subordinate divisions.	
horopter		The line or surface in which are situated all the points which are seen single while the point of sight, or the adjustment of the eyes, remains unchanged.	
horopteric		Of or pertaining to the horopter.	
horoscope		(Astrol.) (a) The representation made of the aspect of the heavens at the moment of a person's birth, by which the astrologer professed to foretell the events of the person's life; especially…	Latin horoscopus, from Greek ὡροσκόπος.
horoscoper		One versed in horoscopy; an astrologer.	
horoscopist		One versed in horoscopy; an astrologer.	
horoscopy		The art or practice of casting horoscopes, or observing the disposition of the stars, with a view to prediction events.	
horrendous	Obsolete	Fearful; frightful.	Latin horrendus.
horrent		Standing erect, as bristles; covered with bristling points; bristled; bristling.	
horrible		Exciting, or tending to excite, horror or fear; dreadful; terrible; shocking; hideous; as, a horrible sight; a horrible story; a horrible murder.	
horribleness		The state or quality of being horrible; dreadfulness; hideousness.	
horribly		In a manner to excite horror; dreadfully; terribly.	
horrid		Fitted to excite horror; dreadful; hideous; shocking; hence, very offensive.	Latin horridus.
horridly		In a horrid manner.	
horridness		The quality of being horrid.	
horrific		Causing horror; frightful.	Latin horrificus.
horrification		That which causes horror.	
horrify		To cause to feel horror; to strike or impress with horror; as, the sight horrified the beholders.	
horripilation		A real or fancied bristling of the hair of the head or body, resulting from disease, terror, chilliness, etc.	
horrisonant	Obsolete	Horrisonous.	
horrisonous	Obsolete	Sounding dreadfully; uttering a terrible sound.	
horror		A shaking, shivering, or shuddering, as in the cold fit which precedes a fever; in old medical writings, a chill of less severity than a rigor, and more marked than an algor.	Latin horror.
horror-sticken		Struck with horror; horrified.	
horror-struck		Horror-stricken; horrified.	
horse		(Zoöl.) A hoofed quadruped of the genus Equus; especially, the domestic horse (E. caballus), which was domesticated in Egypt and Asia at a very early period.	Middle English horse.
horse-chestnut		(a) The large nutlike seed of a species of Æsculus (Æ.	
horse-drench		A dose of physic for a horse.	
horse-jockey		A professional rider and trainer of race horses.	
horse-leech		(Zoöl.) A large blood-sucking leech (Hæmopsis vorax), of Europe and Northern Africa.	
horse-leechery		The business of a farrier; especially, the art of curing the diseases of horses.	
horse-litter		A carriage hung on poles, and borne by and between two horses.	
horse-radish		A plant of the genus Nasturtium (N.	
horseback		An extended ridge of sand, gravel, and bowlders, in a half- stratified condition.	
horsefish		(a) The moonfish (Selene setipinnis). (b) The sauger.	
horseflesh	Colloquial	Horses, generally; the qualities of a horse; as, he is a judge of horseflesh.	
horsefly		(Zoöl.) Any dipterous fly of the family Tabanidæ, that stings horses, and sucks their blood.	
horsefoot		(Zoöl.) The Limulus or horseshoe crab.	
horsehair		A hair of a horse, especially one from the mane or tail; the hairs of the mane or tail taken collectively; a fabric or tuft made of such hairs.	
horsehead		The silver moonfish (Selene vomer).	
horsehide		Leather made of the hide of a horse.	
horseknop		Knapweed.	
horselaugh		A loud, boisterous laugh; a guffaw.	
horseless		Being without a horse; specif., not requiring a horse; -- said of certain vehicles in which horse power has been replaced by electricity, steam, etc.; as, a horseless carriage or truck.	
horseman		A rider on horseback; one skilled in the management of horses; a mounted man.	
horsemanship		The act or art of riding, and of training and managing horses; manege.	
horsemint		(a) A coarse American plant of the Mint family (Monarda punctata). (b) In England, the wild mint (Mentha sylvestris).	
horsenail		A thin, pointed nail, with a heavy flaring head, for securing a horsehoe to the hoof; a horsehoe nail.	
horseplay		Rude, boisterous play.	
horsepond		A pond for watering horses.	
horserake		A rake drawn by a horse.	
horseshoe		A shoe for horses, consisting of a narrow plate of iron in form somewhat like the letter U, nailed to a horse's hoof.	
horseshoeing		The act or employment of shoeing horses.	
horseshoer		One who shoes horses.	
horsetail		(Bot.) A leafless plant, with hollow and rushlike stems.	
horseweed		A composite plant (Erigeron Canadensis), which is a common weed.	
horsewhip		A whip for horses.	
horsewoman		A woman who rides on horseback.	
horsewood		A West Indian tree (Calliandra latifolia) with showy, crimson blossoms.	
horseworm		The larva of a botfly.	
horsiness		The condition or quality of being a horse; that which pertains to a horse.	
horsly	Obsolete	Horselike.	
horsy	Colloquial	Pertaining to, or suggestive of, a horse, or of horse racing; as, horsy manners; garments of fantastically horsy fashions.	
hortation		The act of exhorting, inciting, or giving advice; exhortation.	Latin hortatio.
hortative	Obsolete	Giving exhortation; advisory; exhortative.	Latin hortātīvus.
hortatory		Giving exhortation or advise; encouraging; exhortatory; inciting; as, a hortatory speech.	Latin hortor.
hortensial	Obsolete	Fit for a garden.	Latin hortensius.
horticultor		One who cultivates a garden.	
horticultural		Of or pertaining to horticulture, or the culture of gardens or orchards.	
horticulture		The cultivation of a garden or orchard; the art of cultivating gardens or orchards.	
horticulturist		One who practices horticulture.	
hortulan	Obsolete	Belonging to a garden.	
hortyard	Obsolete	An orchard.	
hosanna		A Hebrew exclamation of praise to the Lord, or an invocation of blessings.	Latin osanna.
hose		Close-fitting trousers or breeches, as formerly worn, reaching to the knee.	Middle English hose, from Old English hose.
hosen	Archaic	See Hose — close-fitting trousers or breeches, as formerly worn, reaching to the knee.	
hosier		One who deals in hose or stocking, or in goods knit or woven like hose.	
hosiery		Stockings, in general; goods knit or woven like hose.	
hospice		A convent or monastery which is also a place of refuge or entertainment for travelers on some difficult road or pass, as in the Alps; as, the Hospice of the Great St. Bernard.	French hospice, from Old French hospise, from Latin hospitium.
hospitable		Receiving and entertaining strangers or guests with kindness and without reward; kind to strangers and guests; characterized by hospitality.	
hospitableness		The quality of being hospitable; hospitality.	
hospitably		In a hospitable manner.	
hospitage	Obsolete	Hospitality.	Latin hospitagium.
hospital	Obsolete	A place for shelter or entertainment; an inn.	Old French hospital, from Latin hospitalis.
hospitaler		One residing in a hospital, for the purpose of receiving the poor, the sick, and strangers.	
hospitalism		A vitiated condition of the body, due to long confinement in a hospital, or the morbid condition of the atmosphere of a hospital.	
hospitality		The act or practice of one who is hospitable; reception and entertainment of strangers or guests without reward, or with kind and generous liberality.	French hospitalité, from Latin hospitalitas.
hospitalize		To render (a building) unfit for habitation, by long continued use as a hospital.	
hospitate	Obsolete	To receive hospitality; to be a guest.	
hospitium	Obsolete	An inn; a lodging; a hospice.	
hospodar		A title borne by the princes or governors of Moldavia and Wallachia before those countries were united as Roumania.	
host		The consecrated wafer, believed to be the body of Christ, which in the Mass is offered as a sacrifice; also, the bread before consecration.	Old French hoste.
hostage		A person given as a pledge or security for the performance of the conditions of a treaty or stipulations of any kind, on the performance of which the person is to be released.	Old French hostage, from Latin hospitalis.
hostel	Obsolete	A small, unendowed college in Oxford or Cambridge.	
hosteler	Obsolete	A student in a hostel, or small unendowed collede in Oxford or Cambridge.	
hostelry	Archaic	An inn; a lodging house.	
hostess		A female host; a woman who hospitably entertains guests at her house.	Middle English hostesse, from Middle French hostesse, from Old French ostesce.
hostess-ship		The character, personality, or office of a hostess.	
hostie	Obsolete	The consecrated wafer; the host.	
hostile	Colloquial	Belonging or appropriate to an enemy; showing the disposition of an enemy; showing ill will and malevolence, or a desire to thwart and injure; occupied by an enemy or enemies; inimical; unfriendly; as, a hostile force…	
hostilely		In a hostile manner.	
hostility		State of being hostile; public or private enemy; unfriendliness; animosity.	Latin hostilitas.
hostilize	Obsolete	To make hostile; to cause to become an enemy.	
hosting		An encounter; a battle.	
hostler		The person who has the care of horses at an inn or stable; hence, any one who takes care of horses; a groom; -- so called because the innkeeper formerly attended to this duty in person.	
hostless	Obsolete	Inhospitable.	
hostry	Obsolete	A hostelry; an inn or lodging house.	Old French hosterie.
hot		Having much sensible heat; exciting the feeling of warmth in a great degree; very warm; -- opposed to cold, and exceeding warm in degree; as, a hot stove; hot water or air.	Old English hat.
hot-blooded		Having hot blood; excitable; high-spirited; irritable; ardent; passionate.	
hot-brained		Ardent in temper; violent; rash; impetuous; as, hot-brained youth.	
hot-head		A violent, passionate person; a hasty or impetuous person; as, the rant of a hot-head.	
hot-headed		Fiery; violent; rash; hasty; impetuous; vehement.	
hot-livered		Of an excitable or irritable temperament; irascible.	
hot-mouthed		Headstrong.	
hot-short		More or less brittle when heated; as, hot-short iron.	
hot-spirited		Having a fierly spirit; hot-headed.	
hotbed		(Gardening) A bed of earth heated by fermenting manure or other substances, and covered with glass, intended for raising early plants, or for nourishing exotics.	
hotchpot		A mingled mass; a confused mixture; a stew of various ingredients; a hodgepodge.	
hotchpotch		A mingled mass; a confused mixture; a stew of various ingredients; a hodgepodge.	
hotcockles		A childish play, in which one covers his eyes, and guesses who strikes him or his hand placed behind him.	
hote	Obsolete	To command; to enjoin.	Middle English hoten, from Old English hatan.
hotel		A house for entertaining strangers or travelers; an inn or public house, of the better class.	French hôtel, from Old French hostel, from Latin hospitale.
hotel-de-ville		A city hall or townhouse.	
hotel-dieu		A hospital.	
hoten		of Hote — to command; to enjoin.	
hotfoot	Colloquial	In haste; foothot.	
hothouse		A house kept warm to shelter tender plants and shrubs from the cold air; a place in which the plants of warmer climates may be reared, and fruits ripened.	
hotly		In a hot or fiery manner; ardently; vehemently; violently; hastily; as, a hotly pursued.	
hotness		The quality or state of being hot.	
hotpress		To apply to, in conjunction with mechanical pressure, for the purpose of giving a smooth and glosay surface, or to express oil, etc.; as, to hotpress paper, linen, etc.	
hotpressed		Pressed while heat is applied. See Hotpress, v. t.	
hotspur		A rash, hot-headed man.	
hotspurred		Violent; impetuous; headstrong.	
hottentot		(Ethnol.) One of a degraded and savage race of South Africa, with yellowish brown complexion, high cheek bones, and wooly hair growing in tufts.	
hottentotism		A term employed to describe one of the varieties of stammering.	
houdah		See Howdah — a seat or pavilion, generally covered, fastened on the back of an elephant, for the rider or riders.	
hough		(a) The joint in the hind limb of quadrupeds between the leg and shank, or tibia and tarsus, and corresponding to the ankle in man.	Middle English howe, from Anglo-Norman houe.
houlet		An owl. See Howlet.	
hoult	Obsolete	A piece of woodland; a small wood. See Holt.	
hound		(Zoöl.) A variety of the domestic dog, usually having large, drooping ears, esp. one which hunts game by scent, as the foxhound, bloodhound, deerhound, but also used for various breeds of fleet hunting dogs, as the greyhound…	Middle English honde, from Old English hund.
houndfish		Any small shark of the genus Galeus or Mustelus, of which there are several species, as the smooth houndfish (G. canis), of Europe and America; -- called also houndshark, and dogfish.	
hounding		The act of one who hounds.	
houp	Obsolete	See Hoopoe — a european bird of the genus Upupa (U. epops), having a beautiful crest, which it can erect or depress at pleasure.	
hour		The twenty-fourth part of a day; sixty minutes.	Middle English houre, from Anglo-Norman houre, from Old French houre, from Latin hora, from Greek ὥρα.
hourglass		An instrument for measuring time, especially the interval of an hour.	
houri		A nymph of paradise; -- so called by the Mohammedans.	French houri.
hourly		Happening or done every hour; occurring hour by hour; frequent; often repeated; renewed hour by hour; continual.	
hours		Goddess of the seasons, or of the hours of the day.	
housage		A fee for keeping goods in a house.	
house		A structure intended or used as a habitation or shelter for animals of any kind; but especially, a building or edifice for the habitation of man; a dwelling place, a mansion.	Middle English hous.
housebote		Wood allowed to a tenant for repairing the house and for fuel.	
housebreaker		One who is guilty of the crime of housebreaking.	
housebreaking		The act of breaking open and entering, with a felonious purpose, the dwelling house of another, whether done by day or night.	
housebuilder		One whose business is to build houses; a housewright.	
housecarl		A household servant; also, one of the bodyguard of King Canute.	
household		Those who dwell under the same roof and compose a family.	Middle English houshold.
householder		The master or head of a family; one who occupies a house with his family.	
housekeeper		One who occupies a house with his family; a householder; the master or mistress of a family.	Finnish keeper.
housekeeping		The state of being occupying a dwelling house as a householder.	
housel	Archaic	The eucharist.	Middle English houselen, from Old English huslian.
houseleek		A succulent plant of the genus Sempervivum (S. tectorum), originally a native of subalpine Europe, but now found very generally on old walls and roofs.	
houseless		Destitute of the shelter of a house; shelterless; homeless; as, a houseless wanderer.	
houselessness		The state of being houseless.	
houseline		A small line of three strands used for seizing; -- called also housing.	
houseling		Same as Housling.	
housemaid		A female servant employed to do housework, esp. to take care of the rooms.	
housemate		One who dwells in the same house with another.	
houseroom		Room or place in a house; as, to give any one houseroom.	
housewarming		A feast or merry-making made by or for a family or business firm on taking possession of a new house or premises.	
housewife		The wife of a householder; the mistress of a family; the female head of a household.	
housewifely		Pertaining or appropriate to a housewife; domestic; economical; prudent.	
housewifery		The business of the mistress of a family; female management of domestic concerns.	
housewive		To manage with skill and economy, as a housewife or other female manager; to economize.	
housework		The work belonging to housekeeping; especially, kitchen work, sweeping, scrubbing, bed making, and the like.	
housewright		A builder of houses.	
housing		The act of putting or receiving under shelter; the state of dwelling in a habitation.	Middle English housinge.
housling		Sacramental; as, housling fire.	
houss	Obsolete	A saddlecloth; a housing.	
houstonia		A genus of small rubiaceous herbs, having tetramerous salveform blue or white flower.	
houtou		A beautiful South American motmot.	
houve	Obsolete	A head covering of various kinds; a hood; a coif; a cap.	
houyhnhnm		One of the race of horses described by Swift in his imaginary travels of Lemuel Gulliver.	
hove	Obsolete	of Heave — to cause to move upward or onward by a lifting effort; to lift; to raise; to hoist; -- often with up; as, the wave heaved the boat on land.	Middle English hoven, from Old English gehafen.
hovel		An open shed for sheltering cattle, or protecting produce, etc., from the weather.	Middle English hovel.
hoveler	English dialect	One who assists in saving life and property from a wreck; a coast boatman.	
hoveling		A method of securing a good draught in chimneys by covering the top, leaving openings in the sides, or by carrying up two of the sides higher than the other two.	
hoven		Affected with hoove; as, hooven, or hoven, cattle. p. p. of Heave.	Middle English hoven, from Old English gehafen.
hover		To hang fluttering in the air, or on the wing; to remain in flight or floating about or over a place or object; to be suspended in the air above something.	Old English hoveren.
hover-hawk		The kestrel.	
hoverer		A device in an incubator for protecting the young chickens and keeping them warm.	
hoveringly		In a hovering manner.	
how		In what manner or way; by what means or process.	Old Norse haugr.
howadji		A merchant; -- so called in the East because merchants were formerly the chief travelers.	
howbeit		Be it as it may; nevertheless; notwithstanding; although; albeit; yet; but; however.	
howdah		A seat or pavilion, generally covered, fastened on the back of an elephant, for the rider or riders.	
howdy	English dialect	A midwife.	
howel		A tool used by coopers for smoothing and chamfering rheir work, especially the inside of casks.	
howell		The upper stage of a porcelian furnace.	
however		In whetever manner, way, or degree.	
howitz	Obsolete	A howitzer.	
howitzer	Obsolete	(a) A gun so short that the projectile, which was hollow, could be put in its place by hand; a kind of mortar.	Dutch houwitser.
howker		Same as Hooker.	
howl		To utter a loud, protraced, mournful sound or cry, as dogs and wolves often do.	
howler		(Zoöl.) Any South American monkey of the genus Mycetes.	
howlet		An owl; an owlet.	
howp	Obsolete	To cry out; to whoop.	
howso	Obsolete	Howsoever.	
howsoever		In what manner soever; to whatever degree or extent; however.	
howve	Obsolete	A hood. See Houve.	
hox	Obsolete	To hock; to hamstring. See Hock.	
hoy		A small coaster vessel, usually sloop-rigged, used in conveying passengers and goods from place to place, or as a tender to larger vessels in port.	German hui.
hoyden		Same as Hoiden.	
hoyman		One who navigates a hoy.	
