huanaco		See Guanaco — a south American mammal (Auchenia huanaco), allied to the llama, but of larger size and more graceful form, inhabiting the southern Andes and Patagonia.
huaracho		A kind of sandal worn by Indians and the lower classes generally; --usually used in pl.
hub		The central part, usually cylindrical, of a wheel; the nave. See Illust. of Axle box.
hubble-bubble		A tobacco pipe, so arranged that the smoke passes through water, making a bubbling noise, whence its name.
hubbub		A loud noise of many confused voices; a tumult; uproar.
hubby		Full of hubs or protuberances; as, a road that has been frozen while muddy is hubby.
hubner		A mineral of brownish black color, occurring in columnar or foliated masses.
huch		A large salmon (Salmo, or Salvelinus, hucho) inhabiting the Danube; -- called also huso, and bull trout.
huchen		A large salmon (Salmo, or Salvelinus, hucho) inhabiting the Danube; -- called also huso, and bull trout.
huck	Obsolete	To higgle in trading.
huckaback		A kind of linen cloth with raised figures, used for towelings.
huckle		The hip; the haunch.
huckle-backed		Round-shoulded.
huckleberry		(a) The edible black or dark blue fruit of several species of the American genus Gaylussacia, shrubs nearly related to the blueberries (Vaccinium), and formerly confused with them.
huckster		A retailer of small articles, of provisions, and the like; a peddler; a hawker.
hucksterage		The business of a huckster; small dealing; peddling.
hucksterer		A huckster.
huckstress		A female huckster.
hud	English dialect	A huck or hull, as of a nut.
huddle		To press together promiscuously, from confusion, apprehension, or the like; to crowd together confusedly; to press or hurry in disorder; to crowd.
huddler		One who huddles things together.
hudge		An iron bucket for hoisting coal or ore.
hudibrastic		Similar to, or in the style of, the poem by Samuel Butler; in the style of doggerel verse.
hudsonian		Of or pertaining to Hudson's Bay or to the Hudson River; as, the Hudsonian curlew.
hue		Color or shade of color; tint; dye.
huebner		A mineral of brownish black color, occurring in columnar or foliated masses.
hued		Having color; -- usually in composition; as, bright-hued; many- hued.
hueless		Destitute of color.
huer		One who cries out or gives an alarm; specifically, a balker; a conder.
huff		To swell; to enlarge; to puff up; as, huffed up with air.
huffcap	Obsolete	A blusterer; a bully. -- a.
huffer		A bully; a blusterer.
huffiness		The state of being huffish; petulance; bad temper.
huffingly		Blusteringly; arrogantly.
huffish		Disposed to be blustering or arrogant; petulant. -- Huff ish*ness, n.
huffy		Puffed up; as, huffy bread.
hug		To press closely within the arms; to clasp to the bosom; to embrace.
huge		Very large; enormous; immense; excessive; -- used esp. of material bulk, but often of qualities, extent, etc.; as, a huge ox; a huge space; a huge difference. -- Huge ness, n.
hugger	Obsolete	One who hugs or embraces.
hugger-mugger		Secret; clandestine; sly.
huguenot		A French Protestant of the period of the religious wars in France in the 16th century.
huguenotism		The religion of the Huguenots in France.
huisher	Obsolete	See Usher — an officer or servant who has the care of the door of a court, hall, chamber, or the like; hence, an officer whose business it is to introduce strangers, or to walk before a person of rank.
huke	Obsolete	An outer garment worn in Europe in the Middle Ages.
hulan		See Uhlan — one of a certain description of militia among the Tartars.
hulch	Obsolete	A hunch.
hulchy	Obsolete	Swollen; gibbous.
hulk		The body of a ship or decked vessel of any kind; esp., the body of an old vessel laid by as unfit for service.
hulking		Bulky; unwiedly.
hulky		Bulky; unwiedly.
hull		The outer covering of anything, particularly of a nut or of grain; the outer skin of a kernel; the husk.
hullabaloo	Colloquial	A confused noise; uproar; tumult.
hulled		Deprived of the hulls.
huller		One who, or that which, hulls; especially, an agricultural machine for removing the hulls from grain; a hulling machine.
hullo		See Hollo — ho there; stop; attend; hence, a loud cry or a call to attract attention; a halloo.
hully		Having or containing hulls.
huloist		See Hyloist — same as Hylotheist.
hulotheism		See Hylotheism — the doctrine of belief that matter is God, or that there is no God except matter and the universe; pantheism.
hulver		Holly, an evergreen shrub or tree.
hum		To make a low, prolonged sound, like that of a bee in flight; to drone; to murmur; to buzz; as, a top hums.
human	Colloquial	Belonging to man or mankind; having the qualities or attributes of a man; of or pertaining to man or to the race of man; as, a human voice; human shape; human nature; human sacrifices.
humanate	Obsolete	Indued with humanity.
humane		Having the feelings and inclinations creditable to man; having a disposition to treat other human beings or animals with kindness; kind; benevolent.
humanics		The study of human nature.
humanify		To make human; to invest with a human personality; to incarnate.
humanism		Human nature or disposition; humanity. looked almost like a being who had rejected with indifference the attitude of sex for the loftier quality of abstract humanism.
humanist		One of the scholars who in the field of literature proper represented the movement of the Renaissance, and early in the 16th century adopted the name Humanist as their distinctive title.
humanistic		Of or pertaining to humanity; as, humanistic devotion.
humanitarian		(Philos.) Content with right affections and actions toward man; ethical, as distinguished from religious; believing in the perfectibility of man's nature without supernatural aid.
humanitarianism		(Philos.) The doctrine that man's obligations are limited to, and dependent alone upon, man and the human relations.
humanitian	Obsolete	A humanist.
humanity		The quality of being human; the peculiar nature of man, by which he is distinguished from other beings.
humanization		The act of humanizing.
humanize		To render human or humane; to soften; to make gentle by overcoming cruel dispositions and rude habits; to refine or civilize.
humanizer		One who renders humane.
humankind		Mankind.
humanly		In a human manner; after the manner of men; according to the knowledge or wisdom of men; as, the present prospects, humanly speaking, promise a happy issue.
humanness		The quality or state of being human.
humate		A salt of humic acid.
humation		Interment; inhumation.
humbird		Humming bird.
humble		Near the ground; not high or lofty; not pretentious or magnificent; unpretending; unassuming; as, a humble cottage.
humblebee		The bumblebee.
humblehead	Obsolete	Humble condition or estate; humility.
humbleness		The quality of being humble; humility; meekness.
humbler		One who, or that which, humbles some one.
humbles		Entrails of a deer.
humblesse	Obsolete	Humbleness; abasement; low obeisance.
humbly		With humility; lowly.
humbug		An imposition under fair pretenses; something contrived in order to deceive and mislead; a trick by cajolery; a hoax.
humbugger		One who humbugs.
humbuggery		The practice of imposition.
humdrum		Monotonous; dull; commonplace.
humect	Obsolete	To moisten; to wet.
humectant	Obsolete	Diluent. -- n.
humectate	Obsolete	To moisten; to wet.
humectation	Obsolete	A moistening.
humective	Obsolete	Tending to moisten.
humeral		Of or pertaining to the humerus, or upper part of the arm; brachial.
humerus		(a) The bone of the brachium, or upper part of the arm or fore limb. (b) The part of the limb containing the humerus; the brachium.
humic		Pertaining to, or derived from, vegetable mold; as, humic acid. See Humin.
humicubation	Obsolete	The act or practice of lying on the ground.
humid		Containing sensible moisture; damp; moist; as, a humidair or atmosphere; somewhat wet or watery; as, humid earth; consisting of water or vapor.
humidity		Moisture; dampness; a moderate degree of wetness, which is perceptible to the eye or touch; -- used especially of the atmosphere, or of anything which has absorbed moisture from the atmosphere, as clothing.
humidness		Humidity.
humifuse		Spread over the surface of the ground; procumbent.
humiliant		Humiliating; humbling.
humiliate		To reduce to a lower position in one's own eyes, or in the eyes of others; to humble; to mortify.
humiliation		The act of humiliating or humbling; abasement of pride; mortification.
humility		The state or quality of being humble; freedom from pride and arrogance; lowliness of mind; a modest estimate of one's own worth; a sense of one's own unworthiness through imperfection and sinfulness; self-abasement; humbleness.
humin		A bitter, brownish yellow, amorphous substance, extracted from vegetable mold, and also produced by the action of acids on certain sugars and carbohydrates; -- called also humic acid, ulmin, gein, ulmic or geic acid, etc.
humiri		A fragrant balsam obtained from Brazilian trees of the genus Humirium.
humite		A mineral of a transparent vitreous brown color, found in the ejected masses of Vesuvius.
hummel	Scots	To separate from the awns; -- said of barley.
hummeler		One who, or a machine which, hummels.
hummer		One who, or that which, hums; one who applauds by humming.
humming		Emitting a murmuring sound; droning; murmuring; buzzing.
hummock		A rounded knoll or hillock; a rise of ground of no great extent, above a level surface.
hummocking		The process of forming hummocks in the collision of Arctic ice.
hummocky		Abounding in hummocks.
hummum		A sweating bath or place for sweating.
humor		Moisture, especially, the moisture or fluid of animal bodies, as the chyle, lymph, etc.; as, the humors of the eye, etc.
humoral		Pertaining to, or proceeding from, the humors; as, a humoral fever.
humoralism		(Med.) The state or quality of being humoral.
humoralist		One who favors the humoral pathology or believes in humoralism.
humorism		(Med.) The theory founded on the influence which the humors were supposed to have in the production of disease; Galenism.
humorist		(Med.) One who attributes diseases of the state of the humors.
humoristic		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a humorist.
humorize		To humor.
humorless		Destitute of humor.
humorous		Subject to be governed by humor or caprice; irregular; capricious; whimsical.
humorously		Capriciously; whimsically.
humorousness		Moodiness; capriciousness.
humorsome		Moody; whimsical; capricious.
humorsomely		Pleasantly; humorously.
humorsomeness		Quality of being humorsome.
hump		A protuberance; especially, the protuberance formed by a crooked back.
hump-shouldered		Having high, hunched shoulders.
humpback		A crooked back; a humped back.
humpbacked		Having a humped back.
humped		Having a hump, as the back.
humph		An exclamation denoting surprise, or contempt, doubt, etc.
humpless		Without a hump.
humpy		Full of humps or bunches; covered with protuberances; humped.
humstrum		An instrument out of tune or rudely constructed; music badly played.
humulin		An extract of hops.
humus		That portion of the soil formed by the decomposition of animal or vegetable matter.
hun		One of a warlike nomadic people of Northern Asia who, in the 5th century, under Atilla, invaded and conquered a great part of Europe.
hunch		A lump; a thick piece; as, a hunch of bread.
hunchback		A back with a hunch or hump; also, a hunchbacked person.
hunchbacked		Having a humped back.
hundred		The product of ten mulitplied by ten, or the number of ten times ten; a collection or sum, consisting of ten times ten units or objects; five score.
hundreder		(Law) A person competent to serve on a jury, in an action for land in the hundred to which he belongs.
hundredfold		A hundred times as much or as many.
hundredth		Coming last of a hundred successive individuals or units.
hundredweight		A denomination of weight, containing 100, 112, or 120 pounds avoirdupois, according to differing laws or customs.
hung		of Hang — to suspend; to fasten to some elevated point without support from below; -- often used with up or out; as, to hang a coat on a hook; to hang up a sign; to hang out a banner.
hungarian		Of or pertaining to Hungary or to the people of Hungary. -- n.
hungary		A country in Central Europe, now a part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire.
hunger		An uneasy sensation occasioned normally by the want of food; a craving or desire for food.
hunger-bit	Obsolete	Pinched or weakened by hunger.
hunger-bitten	Obsolete	Pinched or weakened by hunger.
hunger-starve	Obsolete	To starve with hunger; to famish.
hungered	Obsolete	Hungry; pinched for food.
hungerer		One who hungers; one who longs.
hungerly	Obsolete	Wanting food; starved.
hungred	Archaic	Hungered; hungry.
hungrily		In a hungry manner; voraciously.
hungry		Feeling hunger; having a keen appetite; feeling uneasiness or distress from want of food; hence, having an eager desire.
hunk	Colloquial	A large lump or piece; a hunch; as, a hunk of bread.
hunker		Originally, a nickname for a member of the conservative section of the Democratic party in New York; hence, one opposed to progress in general; a fogy.
hunkerism		Excessive conservatism; hostility to progress.
hunkers	Scots	In the phrase on one's hunkers, in a squatting or crouching position.
hunks		A covetous, sordid man; a miser; a niggard.
hunky	Slang	All right; in a good condition; also, even; square.
hunt		To search for or follow after, as game or wild animals; to chase; to pursue for the purpose of catching or killing; to follow with dogs or guns for sport or exercise; as, to hunt a deer.
hunt-counter	Obsolete	A worthless dog that runs back on the scent; a blunderer.
hunte	Obsolete	A hunter.
hunter		One who hunts wild animals either for sport or for food; a huntsman.
hunterian		Discovered or described by John Hunter, an English surgeon; as, the Hunterian chancre.
hunting		The pursuit of game or of wild animals.
huntress		A woman who hunts or follows the chase; as, the huntress Diana.
huntsman		One who hunts, or who practices hunting.
huntsmanship	Obsolete	The art or practice of hunting, or the qualification of a hunter.
hurden	English dialect	A coarse kind of linen; -- called also harden.
hurdle		A movable frame of wattled twigs, osiers, or withes and stakes, or sometimes of iron, used for inclosing land, for folding sheep and cattle, for gates, etc.; also, in fortification, used as revetments, and for other purposes.
hurdlework		Work after manner of a hurdle.
hurds		The coarse part of flax or hemp; hards.
hurdy-gurdy		A stringled instrument, lutelike in shape, in which the sound is produced by the friction of a wheel turned by a crank at the end, instead of by a bow, two of the strings being tuned as drones, while two or more, tuned in unison…
hurkaru		In India, a running footman; a messenger.
hurl		To send whirling or whizzing through the air; to throw with violence; to drive with great force; as, to hurl a stone or lance.
hurlbat	Obsolete	See Whirlbat — anything moved with a whirl, as preparatory for a blow, or to augment the force of it; -- applied by poets to the cestus of ancient boxers.
hurlbone		See Whirlbone — (a) The huckle bone. (b) The patella, or kneepan.
hurler		One who hurls, or plays at hurling.
hurling		The act of throwing with force.
hurlwind	Obsolete	A whirlwind.
hurly		Noise; confusion; uproar.
hurly-burly		Tumult; bustle; confusion.
huron-iroquous		A linguistic group of warlike North American Indians, belonging to the same stock as the Algonquins, and including several tribes, among which were the Five Nations.
huronian		Of or pertaining to certain non-fossiliferous rocks on the borders of Lake Huron, which are supposed to correspond in time to the latter part of the Archæan age.
hurons		; sing. Huron. (Ethnol.) A powerful and warlike tribe of North American Indians of the Algonquin stock.
hurr	Obsolete	To make a rolling or burring sound.
hurra		A word used as a shout of joy, triumph, applause, encouragement, or welcome.
hurrah	Colloquial	A word used as a shout of joy, triumph, applause, encouragement, or welcome.
hurricane		A violent storm, characterized by extreme fury and sudden changes of the wind, and generally accompanied by rain, thunder, and lightning; -- especially prevalent in the East and West Indies.
hurricano	Obsolete	A waterspout; a hurricane.
hurried		Urged on; hastened; going or working at speed; as, a hurried writer; a hurried life.
hurrier		One who hurries or urges.
hurries		A staith or framework from which coal is discharged from cars into vessels.
hurry		To hasten; to impel to greater speed; to urge on.
hurry-skurry	Obsolete	Confusedly; in a bustle.
hurryingly		In a hurrying manner.
hurst		A wood or grove; -- a word used in the composition of many names, as in Hazlehurst.
hurt		(a) A band on a trip-hammer helve, bearing the trunnions. (b) A husk. See Husk, 2.
hurter		A bodily injury causing pain; a wound, bruise, or the like.
hurtful		Tending to impair or damage; injurious; mischievous; occasioning loss or injury; as, hurtful words or conduct.
hurtle		To meet with violence or shock; to clash; to jostle.
hurtleberry		See Whortleberry — (a) In England, the fruit of Vaccinium Myrtillus; also, the plant itself.
hurtless		Doing no injury; harmless; also, unhurt; without injury or harm.
husband		One who manages or directs with prudence and economy; a frugal person; an economist.
husbandable		Capable of being husbanded, or managed with economy.
husbandage		The commission or compensation allowed to a ship's husband.
husbandless		Destitute of a husband.
husbandly		Frugal; thrifty.
husbandman		A farmer; a cultivator or tiller of the ground.
husbandry		Care of domestic affairs; economy; domestic management; thrift.
hush		To still; to silence; to calm; to make quiet; to repress the noise or clamor of.
husher	Obsolete	An usher.
hushing		The process of washing ore, or of uncovering mineral veins, by a heavy discharge of water from a reservoir; flushing; -- also called booming.
husk		The external covering or envelope of certain fruits or seeds; glume; hull; rind; in the United States, especially applied to the covering of the ears of maize.
husked		Covered with a husk.
huskily		In a husky manner; dryly.
huskiness		The state of being husky.
husking		The act or process of stripping off husks, as from Indian corn.
husky		Abounding with husks; consisting of husks.
huso		(a) A large European sturgeon (Acipenser huso), inhabiting the region of the Black and Caspian Seas.
hussar		Originally, one of the national cavalry of Hungary and Croatia; now, one of the light cavalry of European armies.
hussite		A follower of John Huss, the Bohemian reformer, who was adjudged a heretic and burnt alive in 1415.
hussy		A worthless woman or girl; a forward wench; a jade; -- used as a term of contempt or reproach.
hustings		A court formerly held in several cities of England; specif., a court held in London, before the lord mayor, recorder, and sheriffs, to determine certain classes of suits for the recovery of lands within the city.
hustle		To shake together in confusion; to push, jostle, or crowd rudely; to handle roughly; as, to hustle a person out of a room.
huswife		A female housekeeper; a woman who manages domestic affairs; a thirfty woman.
huswifely		Like a huswife; capable; economical; prudent. -- adv.
huswifery		The business of a housewife; female domestic economy and skill.
hut		A small house, hivel, or cabin; a mean lodge or dwelling; a slightly built or temporary structure.
hutch		To place in huts; to live in huts; as, to hut troops in winter quarters.
hutchunsonian		A follower of John Hutchinson of Yorkshire, England, who believed that the Hebrew Scriptures contained a complete system of natural science and of theology.
huttonian		Relating to what is now called the Plutonic theory of the earth, first advanced by Dr. James Hutton.
huttoning		Forcible manipulation of a dislocated, stiff, or painful joint.
huxter		See Huckster — a retailer of small articles, of provisions, and the like; a peddler; a hawker.
huyghenian		Pertaining to, or invented by, Christian Huyghens, a Dutch astronomer of the seventeenth century; as, the Huyghenian telescope.
huzz	Obsolete	To buzz; to murmur.
huzza		A word used as a shout of joy, exultation, approbation, or encouragement.
