hyacine	Obsolete	A hyacinth.
hyacinth		(Bot.) (a) A bulbous plant of the genus Hyacinthus, bearing beautiful spikes of fragrant flowers.
hyacinthian		Hyacinthine.
hyacinthine		Belonging to the hyacinth; resemblingthe hyacinth; in color like the hyacinth.
hyades		A cluster of five stars in the face of the constellation Taurus, supposed by the ancients to indicate the coming of rainy weather when they rose with the sun.
hyads		A cluster of five stars in the face of the constellation Taurus, supposed by the ancients to indicate the coming of rainy weather when they rose with the sun.
hyaena		Same as Hyena.
hyalea		A pteroid of the genus Cavolina. See Pteropoda, and Illustration in Appendix.
hyalescence		The process of becoming, or the state of being, transparent like glass.
hyaline		Glassy; resembling glass; consisting of glass; transparent, like crystal.
hyalite		A pellucid variety of opal in globules looking like colorless gum or resin; -- called also Müller's glass.
hyalograph		An instrument for tracing designs on glass.
hyalography		Art of writing or engraving on glass.
hyaloid		Resembling glass; vitriform; transparent; hyaline; as, the hyaloid membrane, a very delicate membrane inclosing the vitreous humor of the eye.
hyalonema		A genus of hexactinelline sponges, having a long stem composed of very long, slender, transparent, siliceous fibres twisted together like the strands of a color.
hyalophane		A species of the feldspar group containing barium. See Feldspar.
hyalospongia		An order of vitreous sponges, having glassy six-rayed, siliceous spicules; -- called also Hexactinellinæ.
hyalotype		A photographic picture copied from the negative on glass; a photographic transparency.
hybernacle		See Hibernacle, Hibernate, Hibernation.
hybernate		See Hibernacle, Hibernate, Hibernation.
hybernation		See Hibernacle, Hibernate, Hibernation.
hyblaean		Pertaining to Hybla, an ancient town of Sicily, famous for its bees.
hybodont		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, an extinct genus of sharks (Hybodus), especially in the form of the teeth, which consist of a principal median cone with smaller lateral ones.
hybodus		An extinct genus of sharks having conical, compressed teeth.
hybrid		The offspring of the union of two distinct species; an animal or plant produced from the mixture of two species.
hybridism		The state or quality of being hybrid.
hybridist		One who hybridizes.
hybridity		Hybridism.
hybridizable		Capable of forming a hybrid, or of being subjected to a hybridizing process; capable of producing a hybrid by union with another species or stock.
hybridization		The act of hybridizing, or the state of being hybridized.
hybridize		To render hybrid; to produce by mixture of stocks.
hybridizer		One who hybridizes.
hybridous		Same as Hybrid.
hydage		A land tax. See Hidage.
hydantoic		Pertaining to, or derived from, hydantoin. See Glycoluric.
hydantoin		A derivative of urea, C3H4N2O2, obtained from allantion, as a white, crystalline substance, with a sweetish taste; -- called also glycolyl urea.
hydatid		A membranous sac or bladder filled with a pellucid fluid, found in various parts of the bodies of animals, but unconnected with the tissues.
hydatiform		Resembling a hydatid.
hydatoid		Resembling water; watery; aqueous; hyaloid.
hydr-		A combining form from Gr. Hydra).
hydra		Hence: A multifarious evil, or an evil having many sources; not to be overcome by a single effort.
hydra-tainted		Dipped in the gall of the fabulous hydra; poisonous; deadly.
hydrachnid		An aquatic mite of the genus Hydrachna.
hydracid		An acid containing hydrogen; -- sometimes applied to distinguish acids like hydrochloric, hydrofluoric, and the like, which contain no oxygen, from the oxygen acids or oxacids.
hydracrylic		Pertaining to, or designating, an isomeric variety of lastic acid that breaks down into acrylic acid and water.
hydractinian		Any species or marine hydroids, of the genus Hydractinia and allied genera.
hydraemia		An abnormally watery state of the blood; anæmia.
hydragogue		Causing a discharge of water; expelling serum effused into any part of the body, as in dropsy. -- n.
hydramide		One of a group of crystalline bodies produced by the action of ammonia on certain aldehydes.
hydramine		One of a series of artificial, organic bases, usually produced as thick viscous liquids by the action of ammonia on ethylene oxide.
hydrangea		A genus of shrubby plants bearing opposite leaves and large heads of showy flowers, white, or of various colors.
hydrant		A discharge pipe with a valve and spout at which water may be drawn from the mains of waterworks; a water plug.
hydranth		One of the nutritive zooids of a hydroid colony.
hydrargochloride	Obsolete	A compound of the bichloride of mercury with another chloride.
hydrargyrate		Of or pertaining to mercury; containing, or impregnated with, mercury.
hydrargyrism		A diseased condition produced by poisoning with hydrargyrum, or mercury; mercurialism.
hydrargyrum		Quicksilver; mercury.
hydrarthrosis		An effusion of watery liquid into the cavity of a joint.
hydrastine		An alkaloid, found in the rootstock of the golden seal (Hydrastis Canadensis), and extracted as a bitter, white, crystalline substance.
hydrate		(a) A compound formed by the union of water with some other substance, generally forming a neutral body, as certain crystallized salts.
hydrated		Formed into a hydrate; combined with water.
hydration		The act of becoming, or state of being, a hydrate.
hydraulic		Of or pertaining to hydraulics, or to fluids in motion; conveying, or acting by, water; as, an hydraulic clock, crane, or dock.
hydraulical		Hydraulic.
hydraulicon		An ancient musical instrument played by the action of water; a water organ.
hydraulics		That branch of science, or of engineering, which treats of fluids in motion, especially of water, its action in rivers and canals, the works and machinery for conducting or raising it, its use as a prime mover, and the like.
hydrazine		Any one of a series of nitrogenous bases, resembling the amines and produced by the reduction of certain nitroso and diazo compounds; as, methyl hydrazine, phenyl hydrazine, etc. They are derivatives of hydrazine proper, H2N.NH2…
hydrencephsloid		Same as Hydrocephaloid.
hydria		A water jar; esp., one with a large rounded body, a small neck, and three handles.
hydriad		A water nymph.
hydric		Pertaining to, or containing, hydrogen; as, hydric oxide.
hydride		A compound of the binary type, in which hydrogen is united with some other element.
hydriform		Having the form or structure of a hydra.
hydrina		The group of hydroids to which the fresh-water hydras belong.
hydriodate		Same as Hydriodide.
hydriodic		Pertaining to, or derived from, hydrogen and iodine; -- said of an acid produced by the combination of these elements.
hydriodide		A compound of hydriodic acid with a base; -- distinguished from an iodide, in which only the iodine combines with the base.
hydro-		A combining form from Gr. Hydra).
hydro-aeroplane		An aëroplane with a boatlike or other understructure that enables it to travel on, or to rise from the surface of, a body of water by its own motive power.
hydro-electric		Pertaining to, employed in, or produced by, the evolution of electricity by means of a battery in which water or steam is used.
hydro-extractor		An apparatus for drying anything, as yarn, cloth, sugar, etc., by centrifugal force; a centrifugal.
hydrobarometer		An instrument for determining the depth of the sea water by its pressure.
hydrobilirubin		A body formed from bilirubin, identical with urobilin.
hydrobiplane		A hydro-aëroplane having two supporting planes.
hydrobranchiata		An extensive artificial division of gastropod mollusks, including those that breathe by gills, as contrasted with the Pulmonifera. -- Hy`dro*bran"chi*ate, a.
hydrobromate		Same as Hydrobromide.
hydrobromic		Composed of hydrogen and bromine; as, hydrobromic acid.
hydrobromide		A compound of hydrobromic acid with a base; -- distinguished from a bromide, in which only the bromine unites with the base.
hydrocarbon		A compound containing only hydrogen and carbon, as methane, benzene, etc.; also, by extension, any of their derivatives.
hydrocarbonaceous		Of the nature, or containing, hydrocarbons.
hydrocarbonate	Obsolete	(a) (Old Chem.) A hydrocarbon. (b) (Chem.) A hydrous carbonate, as malachite.
hydrocarbostyril		A white, crystalline, nitrogenous hydrocarbon, C9H9NO, obtained from certain derivatives of cinnamic acid and closely related to quinoline and carbostyril.
hydrocarburet	Obsolete	Carbureted hydrogen; also, a hydrocarbon.
hydrocaulus		The hollow stem of a hydroid, either simple or branched. See Illust. of Gymnoblastea and Hydroidea.
hydrocele		A collection of serous fluid in the areolar texture of the scrotum or in the coverings, especially in the serous sac, investing the testicle or the spermatic cord; dropsy of the testicle.
hydrocephalic		Relating to, or connected with, hydrocephalus, or dropsy of the brain.
hydrocephaloid		Resembling hydrocephalus.
hydrocephalous		Having hydrocephalus.
hydrocephalus		An accumulation of liquid within the cavity of the cranium, especially within the ventricles of the brain; dropsy of the brain.
hydrochlorate		Same as Hydrochloride.
hydrochloric		Pertaining to, or compounded of, chlorine and hydrogen gas; as, hydrochloric acid; chlorhydric.
hydrochloride		A compound of hydrochloric acid with a base; -- distinguished from a chloride, where only chlorine unites with the base.
hydrocorallia		A division of Hydroidea, including those genera that secrete a stony coral, as Millepora and Stylaster.
hydrocyanate		See Hydrocyanide — a compound of hydrocyanic acid with a base; -- distinguished from a cyanide, in which only the cyanogen so combines.
hydrocyanic		Pertaining to, or derived from the combination of, hydrogen and cyanogen.
hydrocyanide		A compound of hydrocyanic acid with a base; -- distinguished from a cyanide, in which only the cyanogen so combines.
hydrodynamic		Pertaining to, or derived from, the dynamical action of water of a liquid; of or pertaining to water power.
hydrodynamical		Pertaining to, or derived from, the dynamical action of water of a liquid; of or pertaining to water power.
hydrodynamics		That branch of the science of mechanics which relates to fluids, or, as usually limited, which treats of the laws of motion and action of nonelastic fluids, whether as investigated mathematically…
hydrodynamometer		An instrument to measure the velocity of a liquid current by the force of its impact.
hydroferricyanic		Pertaining to, or containing, or obtained from, hydrogen, ferric iron, and cyanogen; as, hydroferricyanic acid.
hydroferrocyanic		Pertaining to, or containing, or obtained from, hydrogen, ferrous iron, and cyanogen; as, hydroferrocyanic acid.
hydrofluate	Archaic	A supposed compound of hydrofluoris acid and a base; a fluoride.
hydrofluoric		Pertaining to, or containing, hydrogen and fluorine; fluohydric; as, hydrofluoric acid.
hydrofluosilicate		A salt of hydrofluosilic acid; a silicofluoride. See Silicofluoride.
hydrofluosilicic		Pertaining to, or denoting, a compound consisting of a double fluoride of hydrogen and silicon; silicofluoric.
hydrogalvanic		Pertaining to, produced by, or consisting of, electricity evolved by the action or use of fluids; as, hydrogalvanic currents.
hydrogen		A gaseous element, colorless, tasteless, and odorless, the lightest known substance, being fourteen and a half times lighter than air (hence its use in filling balloons), and over eleven thousand times lighter than water.
hydrogenate		To hydrogenize.
hydrogenation		The act of combining with hydrogen, or the state of being so combined.
hydrogenide		A binary compound containing hydrogen; a hydride. See Hydride.
hydrogenium		Hydrogen; -- called also in view of its supposed metallic nature.
hydrogenize		To combine with hydrogen; to treat with, or subject to the action of, hydrogen; to reduce; -- contrasted with oxidize.
hydrogenous		Of or pertaining to hydrogen; containing hydrogen.
hydrognosy		A treatise upon, or a history and description of, the water of the earth.
hydrogode		The negative pole or cathode.
hydrographer		One skilled in the hydrography; one who surveys, or draws maps or charts of, the sea, lakes, or other waters, with the adjacent shores; one who describes the sea or other waters.
hydrographic		Of or relating to hydrography.
hydrographical		Of or relating to hydrography.
hydrography		The art of measuring and describing the sea, lakes, rivers, and other waters, with their phenomena.
hydroguret	Obsolete	A hydride.
hydroid		Related to, or resembling, the hydra; of or pertaining to the Hydroidea. -- n.
hydroidea		An extensive order of Hydrozoa or Acalephæ.
hydrokinetic		Of or pertaining to the motions of fluids, or the forces which produce or affect such motions; -- opposed to hydrostatic.
hydrological		Of or pertaining to hydrology.
hydrologist		One skilled in hydrology.
hydrology		The science of water, its properties, phenomena, and distribution over the earth's surface.
hydrolysis		A chemical process involving the addition of the elements of water.
hydrolytic		Tending to remove or separate water; eliminating water.
hydromagnesite		A hydrous carbonate of magnesia occurring in white, early, amorphous masses.
hydromancy		Divination by means of water, -- practiced by the ancients.
hydromantic		Of or pertaining to divination by water.
hydromechanics		That branch of physics which treats of the mechanics of liquids, or of their laws of equilibrium and of motion.
hydromedusa		Any medusa or jellyfish which is produced by budding from a hydroid.
hydromel		A liquor consisting of honey diluted in water, and after fermentation called mead.
hydromellonic		See Cyamellone — a complex derivative of cyanogen, regarded as an acid, and known chiefly in its salts; -- called also hydromellonic acid.
hydrometallurgical		Of or pertaining to hydrometallurgy; involving the use of liquid reagents in the treatment or reduction of ores. -- Hy`dro*met`al*lur"gic*al*ly, adv.
hydrometallurgy		The art or process of assaying or reducing ores by means of liquid reagents.
hydrometeor		A meteor or atmospheric phenomenon dependent upon the vapor of water; -- in the pl., a general term for the whole aqueous phenomena of the atmosphere, as rain, snow, hail, etc. Nichol.
hydrometeorological		Of or pertaining to hydrometeorology, or to rain, clouds, storms, etc.
hydrometeorology		That branch of meteorology which relates to, or treats of, water in the atmosphere, or its phenomena, as rain, clouds, snow, hail, storms, etc.
hydrometer		(Physics) An instrument for determining the specific gravities of liquids, and thence the strength spirituous liquors, saline solutions, etc.
hydrometric		Of or pertaining to an hydrometer, or to the determination of the specific gravity of fluids.
hydrometrical		Of or pertaining to an hydrometer, or to the determination of the specific gravity of fluids.
hydrometrograph		An instrument for determining and recording the quantity of water discharged from a pipe, orifice, etc., in a given time.
hydrometry		The art of determining the specific gravity of liquids, and thence the strength of spirituous liquors, saline solutions, etc.
hydromica		A variety of potash mica containing water.
hydronephrosis		An accumulation of urine in the pelvis of the kidney, occasioned by obstruction in the urinary passages.
hydropath		A hydropathist.
hydropathic		Of or pertaining to hydropathy.
hydropathical		Of or pertaining to hydropathy.
hydropathist		One who practices hydropathy; a water-cure doctor.
hydropathy		The water cure; a mode of treating diseases by the copious and frequent use of pure water, both internally and externally.
hydroperitoneum		Same as Ascites.
hydrophane		A semitranslucent variety of opal that becomes translucent or transparent on immersion in water.
hydrophanous		Made transparent by immersion in water.
hydrophid		Any sea snake of the genus Hydrophys and allied genera.
hydrophlorone		A white, crystalline benzene derivative, C8H10O2, obtained by the reduction of phlorone.
hydrophobia		(a) An abnormal dread of water, said to be a symptom of canine madness; hence: (b) The disease caused by a bite form, or inoculation with the saliva of, a rabid creature, of which the chief symptoms are…
hydrophobic		Of or pertaining to hydrophobia; producing or caused by rabies; as, hydrophobic symptoms; the hydrophobic poison.
hydrophoby		See Hydrophobia — (a) An abnormal dread of water, said to be a symptom of canine madness; hence: (b) The disease caused by a bite form, or inoculation with the saliva of, a rabid creature…
hydrophora		The Hydroidea.
hydrophore		An instrument used for the purpose of obtaining specimens of water from any desired depth, as in a river, a lake, or the ocean.
hydrophyllium		One of the flat, leaflike, protective zooids, covering other zooids of certain Siphonophora.
hydrophyte		An aquatic plant; an alga.
hydrophytology		The branch of botany which treats of water plants.
hydropic		Dropsical, or resembling dropsy.
hydropical		Dropsical, or resembling dropsy.
hydropically		In a hydropical manner.
hydropiper		A species (Polygonum Hydropiper) of knotweed with acrid foliage; water pepper; smartweed.
hydroplane		A plane, or any of a number of planes, projecting from the hull of a submarine boat, which by being elevated or depressed cause the boat, when going ahead, to sink or rise, after the manner of an aëroplane.
hydropneumatic		Pertaining to, or depending upon, both liquid and gaseous substances; as, hydropneumatic apparatus for collecting gases over water or other liquids.
hydropsy		Same as Dropsy.
hydropult		A machine for throwing water by hand power, as a garden engine, a fire extinguisher, etc.
hydroquinone		A white crystalline substance, C6H4(OH)2, obtained by the reduction of quinone.
hydrorhiza		The rootstock or decumbent stem by which a hydroid is attached to other objects.
hydrosalt		(a) A salt supposed to be formed by a hydracid and a base. (b) An acid salt.
hydroscope		An instrument designed to mark the presence of water, especially in air.
hydrosoma		All the zooids of a hydroid colony collectively, including the nutritive and reproductive zooids, and often other kinds.
hydrosome		All the zooids of a hydroid colony collectively, including the nutritive and reproductive zooids, and often other kinds.
hydrosorbic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from sorbic acid when this takes up hydrogen; as, hydrosorbic acid.
hydrosphere		(Meteor.) The aqueous vapor of the entire atmosphere.
hydrostat		A contrivance or apparatus to prevent the explosion of steam boilers.
hydrostatic		Of or relating to hydrostatics; pertaining to, or in accordance with, the principles of the equilibrium of fluids.
hydrostatical		Of or relating to hydrostatics; pertaining to, or in accordance with, the principles of the equilibrium of fluids.
hydrostatically		According to hydrostatics, or to hydrostatic principles.
hydrostatician		One who is versed or skilled in hydrostatics.
hydrostatics		The branch of science which relates to the pressure and equilibrium of nonelastic fluids, as water, mercury, etc.; the principles of statics applied to water and other liquids.
hydrosulphate		Same as Hydrosulphurent.
hydrosulphide		One of a series of compounds, derived from hydrogen sulphide by the replacement of half its hydrogen by a base or basic radical; as, potassium hydrosulphide, KSH.
hydrosulphite		A saline compound of hydrosulphurous acid and a base.
hydrosulphuret	Archaic	A hydrosulphide.
hydrosulphureted		Combined with hydrogen sulphide.
hydrosulphuric		Pertaining to, or derived from, hydrogen and sulphur; as, hydrosulphuricacid, a designation applied to the solution of hydrogen sulphide in water.
hydrosulphurous		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained by the reduction of sulphurous acid.
hydrotellurate		A salt formed by the union of hydrotelluric acid and the base.
hydrotelluric		Formed by hydrogen and tellurium; as, hydrotelluric acid, or hydrogen telluride.
hydrotheca		One of the calicles which, in some Hydroidea (Thecaphora), protect the hydrants.
hydrotherapeutics		A system of treating disease by baths and mineral waters.
hydrotherapy		See Hydropathy — the water cure; a mode of treating diseases by the copious and frequent use of pure water, both internally and externally.
hydrothermal		Of or pertaining to hot water; -- used esp. with reference to the action of heated waters in dissolving, redepositing, and otherwise producing mineral changes within the crust of the globe.
hydrothorax		An accumulation of serous fluid in the cavity of the chest.
hydrotic		Causing a discharge of water or phlegm. -- n. (Med.) A hydrotic medicine.
hydrotical		Hydrotic.
hydrotrope		A device for raising water by the direct action of steam; a pulsometer.
hydrotropic		Turning or bending towards moisture, as roots.
hydrotropism		A tendency towards moisture.
hydrous		Containing water; watery.
hydroxanthane	Obsolete	A persulphocyanate.
hydroxanthic		Persulphocyanic.
hydroxide		A hydrate; a substance containing hydrogen and oxygen, made by combining water with an oxide, and yielding water by elimination.
hydroxy-		A combining form, also used adjectively, indicating hydroxyl as an ingredient.
hydroxyl		A compound radical, or unsaturated group, HO, consisting of one atom of hydrogen and one of oxygen.
hydroxylamine		A nitrogenous, organic base, NH2.OH, resembling ammonia, and produced by a modified reduction of nitric acid.
hydrozoa		The Acalephæ; one of the classes of coelenterates, including the Hydroidea, Discophora, and Siphonophora.
hydrozoal		Of or pertaining to the Hydrozoa.
hydrozooen		One of the Hydrozoa.
hydrozoon		One of the Hydrozoa.
hydruret	Obsolete	A binary compound of hydrogen; a hydride.
hydrus		A constellation of the southern hemisphere, near the south pole.
hye	Obsolete	See Hie — to hasten; to go in haste; -- also often with the reciprocal pronoun.
hyemal		Belonging to winter; done in winter.
hyemate	Obsolete	To pass the winter.
hyemation		The passing of a winter in a particular place; a wintering.
hyen	Obsolete	A hyena.
hyena		Any carnivorous mammal of the family Hyænidæ, of which three living species are known.
hyetal		Of or pertaining to rain; descriptive of the distribution of rain, or of rainy regions.
hyetograph		A chart or graphic representation of the average distribution of rain over the surface of the earth.
hyetographic		Of or pertaining to to hyetography.
hyetography		The branch of physical science which treats of the geographical distribution of rain.
hyetology		The science which treats of the precipitation of rain, snow, etc. -- Hy`e*to*log"ic*al, a.
hygeia		The goddess of health, daughter of Esculapius.
hygeian		Relating to Hygeia, the goddess of health; of or pertaining to health, or its preservation.
hygeist		One skilled in hygiena; a hygienist.
hygieist		A hygienist.
hygiene		That department of sanitary science which treats of the preservation of health, esp. of households and communities; a system of principles or rules designated for the promotion of health.
hygienic		Of or pertaining to health or hygiene; sanitary.
hygienics		The science of health; hygiene.
hygienism		Hygiene.
hygienist		One versed in hygiene.
hygiology		A treatise on, or the science of, the preservation of health.
hygrine		An alkaloid associated with cocaine in coca leaves (Erythroxylon coca), and extracted as a thick, yellow oil, having a pungent taste and odor.
hygrodeik		A form of hygrometer having wet and dry bulb thermometers, with an adjustable index showing directly the percentage of moisture in the air, etc.
hygrograph		An instrument for recording automatically the variations of the humidity of the atmosphere.
hygrology		The science which treats of the fluids of the body.
hygrometer		An instrument for measuring the degree of moisture of the atmosphere.
hygrometric		Of or pertaining to hygrometry; made with, or according to, the hygrometer; as, hygrometric observations.
hygrometrical		Of or pertaining to hygrometry; made with, or according to, the hygrometer; as, hygrometric observations.
hygrometry		That branch of physics which relates to the determination of the humidity of bodies, particularly of the atmosphere, with the theory and use of the instruments constructed for this purpose.
hygrophanous		Having such a structure as to be diaphanous when moist, and opaque when dry.
hygrophthalmic		Serving to moisten the eye; -- sometimes applied to the lachrymal ducts.
hygroplasm		The fluid portion of the cell protoplasm, in opposition to stereoplasm, the solid or insoluble portion.
hygroscope		An instrument which shows whether there is more or less moisture in the atmosphere, without indicating its amount.
hygroscopic		Of or pertaining to, or indicated by, the hygroscope; not readily manifest to the senses, but capable of detection by the hygroscope; as, glass is often covered with a film of hygroscopic moisture.
hygroscopicity		The property possessed by vegetable tissues of absorbing or discharging moisture according to circumstances.
hygrostatics		The science or art of comparing or measuring degrees of moisture.
hyke		See Haik, and Huke.
hyksos		A dynasty of Egyptian kings, often called the Shepherd kings, of foreign origin, who, according to the narrative of Manetho, ruled for about 500 years, forming the XVth and XVIth dynasties.
hylaeosaur		A large Wealden dinosaur from the Tilgate Forest, England.
hylaeosaurus		A large Wealden dinosaur from the Tilgate Forest, England.
hylarchical	Obsolete	Presiding over matter.
hyleosaur		Same as Hylæosaur.
hylic		Of or pertaining to matter; material; corporeal; as, hylic influences.
hylicist		A philosopher who treats chiefly of matter; one who adopts or teaches hylism.
hylism		A theory which regards matter as the original principle of evil.
hylobate		Any species of the genus Hylobates; a gibbon, or long-armed ape. See Gibbon.
hylodes		The piping frog (Hyla Pickeringii), a small American tree frog, which in early spring, while breeding in swamps and ditches, sings with high, shrill, but musical, notes.
hyloism		Same as Hylotheism.
hyloist		Same as Hylotheist.
hylopathism		The doctrine that matter is sentient.
hylopathist		One who believes in hylopathism.
hylophagous		Eating green shoots, as certain insects do.
hylotheism		The doctrine of belief that matter is God, or that there is no God except matter and the universe; pantheism.
hylotheist		One who believes in hylotheism.
hylozoic		Of or pertaining to hylozoism.
hylozoism		The doctrine that matter possesses a species of life and sensation, or that matter and life are inseparable.
hylozoist		A believer in hylozoism.
hymar		The wild ass of Persia.
hymen		A fold of muscous membrane often found at the orifice of the vagina; the vaginal membrane.
hymeneal		Of or pertaining to marriage; as, hymeneal rites.
hymenean		Of or pertaining to marriage; as, hymeneal rites.
hymenium		The spore-bearing surface of certain fungi, as that on the gills of a mushroom.
hymenogeny		The production of artificial membranes by contact of two fluids, as albumin and fat, by which the globules of the latter are surrounded by a thin film of the former.
hymenomycetes		One of the great divisions of fungi, containing those species in which the hymenium is completely exposed.
hymenophore		That part of a fungus which is covered with the hymenium.
hymenopter		One of the Hymenoptera.
hymenoptera		An extensive order of insects, including the bees, ants, ichneumons, sawflies, etc.
hymenopteral		Like, or characteristic of, the Hymenoptera; pertaining to the Hymenoptera.
hymenopteran		One of the Hymenoptera.
hymenopterous		Like, or characteristic of, the Hymenoptera; pertaining to the Hymenoptera.
hymn		An ode or song of praise or adoration; especially, a religious ode, a sacred lyric; a song of praise or thankgiving intended to be used in religious service; as, the Homeric hymns; Watts' hymns.
hymnal		A collection of hymns; a hymn book.
hymnic		Relating to hymns, or sacred lyrics.
hymning		Praising with hymns; singing.
hymnist		A writer of hymns.
hymnody		Hymns, considered collectively; hymnology.
hymnographer		One who writes on the subject of hymns.
hymnography		The art or act of composing hymns.
hymnologist		A composer or compiler of hymns; one versed in hymnology.
hymnology		The hymns or sacred lyrics composed by authors of a particular country or period; as, the hymnology of the eighteenth century; also, the collective body of hymns used by any particular church or religious body; as…
hyndreste	Obsolete	See Hinderest — hindermost; -- superl. of Hind, a.
hyne	Obsolete	A servant. See Hine.
hyo-		A prexif used in anatomy, and generally denoting connection with the hyoid bone or arch; as, hyoglossal, hyomandibular, hyomental, etc.
hyoganoidei		A division of ganoid fishes, including the gar pikes and bowfins. -- Hy`o*ga"noid, a.
hyoglossal		(a) Pertaining to or connecting the tongue and hyodean arch; as, the hyoglossal membrane.
hyoglossus		A flat muscle on either side of the tongue, connecting it with the hyoid bone.
hyoid		Having the form of an arch, or of the Greek letter upsilon [
hyoideal		Same as Hyoid, a.
hyoidean		Same as Hyoid, a.
hyomandibular		Pertaining both to the hyoidean arch and the mandible or lower jaw; as, the hyomandibular bone or cartilage, a segment of the hyoid arch which connects the lower jaw with the skull in fishes. -- n.
hyomental		Between the hyoid bone and the lower jaw, pertaining to them; suprahyoid; submaxillary; as, the hyomental region of the front of the neck.
hyopastron		The second lateral plate in the plastron of turtles; -- called also hyosternum.
hyoscine		An alkaloid found with hyoscyamine (with which it is also isomeric) in henbane, and extracted as a white, amorphous, semisolid substance.
hyoscyamine		An alkaloid found in henbane (Hyoscyamus niger), and regarded as its active principle.
hyoscyamus		(Bot.) A genus of poisonous plants of the Nightshade family; henbane.
hyosternal		(a) Between the hyoid bone and the sternum, or pertaining to them; infrahyoid; as, the hyosternal region of the neck.
hyosternum		See Hyoplastron.
hyostylic		Having the mandible suspended by the hyomandibular, or upper part of the hyoid arch, as in fishes, instead of directly articulated with the skull as in mammals; -- said of the skull.
hyp	Colloquial	An abbreviation of hypochonaria; -- usually in plural.
hypaethral		Exposed to the air; wanting a roof; -- applied to a building or part of a building.
hypallage		A figure consisting of a transference of attributes from their proper subjects to other.
hypallelomorph		See Allelomorph — one of the pure unit characters commonly existing singly or in pairs in the germ cells of Mendelian hybrids, and exhibited in varying proportion among the organisms themselves.
hypanthium		A fruit consisting in large part of a receptacle, enlarged below the calyx, as in the alycanthus, the rose hip, and the pear.
hypapophysis		A process, or other element, of a vertebra developed from the ventral side of the centrum, as hæmal spines, and chevron bones. -- Hy`pa*po*phys"i*al, a.
hyparterial		Situated below an artery; applied esp. to the branches of the bronchi given off below the point where the pulmonary artery crosses the bronchus.
hypaspist		A shield-bearer or armor-bearer.
hypaxial		Beneath the axis of the skeleton; subvertebral; hyposkeletal.
hype		A throw in which the wrestler lifts his opponent from the ground, swings him to one side, knocks up his nearer thigh from the back with the knee, and throws him on his back.
hyper-		A prefix signifying over, above; as, hyperphysical, hyperthyrion; also, above measure, abnormally great, excessive; as, hyperæmia, hyperbola, hypercritical, hypersecretion.
hyperaemia		A superabundance or congestion of blood in an organ or part of the body.
hyperaesthesia		A state of exalted or morbidly increased sensibility of the body, or of a part of it. -- Hy`per*æs*thet"ic, a.
hyperapophysis		A lateral and backward-projecting process on the dorsal side of a vertebra. -- Hy`per*ap`o*phys"i*al, a.
hyperaspist	Obsolete	One who holds a shield over another; hence, a defender.
hyperbatic		Of or pertaining to an hyperbaton; transposed; inverted.
hyperbaton		A figurative construction, changing or inverting the natural order of words or clauses; as, for With a violent hyperbaton to transpose the text.
hyperbola		A curve formed by a section of a cone, when the cutting plane makes a greater angle with the base than the side of the cone makes.
hyperbole		A figure of speech in which the expression is an evident exaggeration of the meaning intended to be conveyed, or by which things are represented as much greater or less, better or worse, than they really are…
hyperbolic		(Math.) Belonging to the hyperbola; having the nature of the hyperbola.
hyperbolical		(Math.) Belonging to the hyperbola; having the nature of the hyperbola.
hyperbolically		(Math.) In the form of an hyperbola.
hyperboliform		Having the form, or nearly the form, of an hyperbola.
hyperbolism		The use of hyperbole.
hyperbolist		One who uses hyperboles.
hyperbolize		To speak or write with exaggeration.
hyperboloid		A surface of the second order, which is cut by certain planes in hyperbolas; also, the solid, bounded in part by such a surface.
hyperborean		(Greek Myth.) Of or pertaining to the region beyond the North wind, or to its inhabitants.
hypercarbureted		Having an excessive proportion of carbonic acid; -- said of bicarbonates or acid carbonates.
hypercatalectic		Having a syllable or two beyond measure; as, a hypercatalectic verse.
hyperchloric		See Perchloric — pertaining to, or designating, the highest oxygen acid (HClO4), of chlorine; -- called also hyperchloric.
hyperchromatism		The condition of having an unusual intensity of color.
hypercritic		One who is critical beyond measure or reason; a carping critic; a captious censor.
hypercritical		Over critical; unreasonably or unjustly critical; carping; captious.
hypercritically		In a hypercritical manner.
hypercriticise		To criticise with unjust severity; to criticise captiously.
hypercriticism		Excessive criticism, or unjust severity or rigor of criticism; zoilism.
hyperdicrotic		Excessive dicrotic; as, a hyperdicrotic pulse.
hyperdicrotism		A hyperdicrotic condition.
hyperdicrotous		Hyperdicrotic.
hyperdulia		Veneration or worship given to the Virgin Mary as the most exalted of mere creatures; higher veneration than dulia.
hyperduly	Obsolete	Hyperdulia.
hyperesthesia		Same as Hyperæsthesia.
hypericum		A genus of plants, generally with dotted leaves and yellow flowers; -- called also St. John's-wort.
hyperinosis		A condition of the blood, characterized by an abnormally large amount of fibrin, as in many inflammatory diseases.
hyperion		The god of the sun; in the later mythology identified with Apollo, and distinguished for his beauty.
hyperkinesis		Abnormally increased muscular movement; spasm.
hyperkinetic		Of or pertaining to hyperkinesis.
hypermetamorphosis		A kind of metamorphosis, in certain insects, in which the larva itself undergoes remarkable changes of form and structure during its growth.
hypermeter		(Pros.) A verse which has a redundant syllable or foot; a hypercatalectic verse.
hypermetrical		Having a redundant syllable; exceeding the common measure.
hypermetropia		A condition of the eye in which, through shortness of the eyeball or fault of the refractive media, the rays of light come to a focus behind the retina; farsightedness; -- called also hyperopia.
hypermetropy		A condition of the eye in which, through shortness of the eyeball or fault of the refractive media, the rays of light come to a focus behind the retina; farsightedness; -- called also hyperopia.
hypermyriorama		A show or exhibition having a great number of scenes or views.
hypernoea		Abnormal breathing, due to slightly deficient arterialization of the blood; -- in distinction from eupnoea.
hyperoartia		An order of marsipobranchs including the lampreys.
hyperopia		Hypermetropia. -- Hy`per*op"tic, a.
hyperorganic		Higher than, or beyond the sphere of, the organic.
hyperorthodoxy		Orthodoxy pushed to excess.
hyperotreta		An order of marsipobranchs, including the Myxine or hagfish and the genus Bdellostoma.
hyperoxide	Obsolete	A compound having a relatively large percentage of oxygen; a peroxide.
hyperoxygenated	Obsolete	Combined with a relatively large amount of oxygen; -- said of higher oxides.
hyperoxygenized	Obsolete	Combined with a relatively large amount of oxygen; -- said of higher oxides.
hyperoxymuriate	Obsolete	A perchlorate.
hyperoxymuriatic	Obsolete	Perchloric; as, hyperoxymuriatic acid.
hyperphysical		Above or transcending physical laws; supernatural.
hyperplasia		An increase in, or excessive growth of, the normal elements of any part.
hyperplastic		(Biol.) Tending to excess of formative action.
hyperpyrexia		A condition of excessive fever; an elevation of temperature in a disease, in excess of the limit usually observed in that disease.
hypersecretion		Morbid or excessive secretion, as in catarrh.
hypersensibility		See Hyperæsthesia.
hyperspace		An imagined space having more than three dimensions.
hypersthene		An orthorhombic mineral of the pyroxene group, of a grayish or greenish black color, often with a peculiar bronzelike luster (schiller) on the cleavage surface.
hypersthenic		Composed of, or containing, hypersthene.
hyperthetical	Obsolete	Exaggerated; excessive; hyperbolical.
hyperthyrion		That part of the architrave which is over a door or window.
hypertrophic		Of or pertaining to hypertrophy; affected with, or tending to, hypertrophy.
hypertrophical		Of or pertaining to hypertrophy; affected with, or tending to, hypertrophy.
hypertrophied		Excessively developed; characterized by hypertrophy.
hypertrophy		A condition of overgrowth or excessive development of an organ or part; -- the opposite of atrophy.
hypethral		Exposed to the air; wanting a roof; -- applied to a building or part of a building.
hyphae		The long, branching filaments of which the mycelium (and the greater part of the plant) of a fungus is formed.
hyphen		A mark or short dash, thus, placed at the end of a line which terminates with a syllable of a word, the remainder of which is carried to the next line; or between the parts of many a compound word; as in fine-leaved, clear-headed.
hyphenated		United by hyphens; hyphened; as, a hyphenated or hyphened word.
hyphomycetes		One of the great division of fungi, containing those species which have naked spores borne on free or only fasciculate threads.
hypidiomorphic		Partly idiomorphic; -- said of rock a portion only of whose constituents have a distinct crystalline form. -- Hy*pid`i*o*mor"phic*al*ly, adv.
hypinosis		A diminution in the normal amount of fibrin present in the blood.
hypnagogic		Leading to sleep; -- applied to the illusions of one who is half asleep.
hypnobate		A somnambulist.
hypnocyst		A cyst in which some unicellular organisms temporarily inclose themselves, from which they emerge unchanged, after a period of drought or deficiency of food.
hypnogenic		Relating to the production of hypnotic sleep; as, the so-called hypnogenic pressure points, pressure upon which is said to cause an attack of hypnotic sleep.
hypnologist		One who is versed in hypnology.
hypnology		A treatise on sleep; the doctrine of sleep.
hypnoscope		An instrument for ascertaining the susceptibility of a person to hypnotic influences.
hypnosis		Supervention of sleep.
hypnotic		Having the quality of producing sleep; tending to produce sleep; soporific.
hypnotism		A form of sleep or somnambulism brought on by artificial means, in which there is an unusual suspension of some powers, and an unusual activity of others.
hypnotization		The act or process of producing hypnotism.
hypnotize		To induce hypnotism in; to place in a state of hypnotism.
hypnotizer		One who hypnotizes.
hypnum		The largest genus of true mosses; feather moss.
hypo	Colloquial	Hypochondria.
hypo-		A prefix signifying a less quantity, or a low state or degree, of that denoted by the word with which it is joined, or position under or beneath.
hypoarian		Of or pertaining to a hypoarion.
hypoarion		An oval lobe beneath each of the optic lobes in many fishes; one of the inferior lobes.
hypoblast		The inner or lower layer of the blastoderm; -- called also endoderm, entoderm, and sometimes hypoderm.
hypoblastic		Relating to, or connected with, the hypoblast; as, the hypoic sac.
hypobole		A figure in which several things are mentioned that seem to make against the argument, or in favor of the opposite side, each of them being refuted in order.
hypobranchial		Pertaining to the segment between the basibranchial and the ceratobranchial in a branchial arch. -- n.
hypocarp		A fleshy enlargement of the receptacle, or for the stem, below the proper fruit, as in the cashew.
hypocarpium		A fleshy enlargement of the receptacle, or for the stem, below the proper fruit, as in the cashew.
hypocarpogean		Producing fruit below the ground.
hypocaust		A furnace, esp. one connected with a series of small chambers and flues of tiles or other masonry through which the heat of a fire was distributed to rooms above.
hypochlorite		A salt of hypochlorous acid; as, a calcium hypochloride.
hypochlorous		Pertaining to, or derived from, chlorine having a valence lower than in chlorous compounds.
hypochondres		The hypochondriac regions. See Hypochondrium.
hypochondria		Hypochondriasis; melancholy; the blues.
hypochondriac		Of or pertaining to hypochondria, or the hypochondriac regions.
hypochondriacal		Same as Hypochondriac,
hypochondriacism		Hypochondriasis.
hypochondriasis		A mental disorder in which melancholy and gloomy views torment the affected person, particularly concerning his own health.
hypochondriasm		Hypochondriasis.
hypochondrium		Either of the hypochondriac regions.
hypochondry		Hypochondriasis.
hypocist		An astringent inspissated juice obtained from the fruit of a plant (Cytinus hypocistis), growing from the roots of the Cistus, a small European shrub.
hypocleidium		A median process on the furculum, or merrythought, of many birds, where it is connected with the sternum.
hypocoristic		Endearing; diminutive; as, the hypocoristic form of a name.
hypocrateriform		hypocraterimorphous; salver-shaped.
hypocraterimorphous		Salver-shaped; having a slender tube, expanding suddenly above into a bowl-shaped or spreading border, as in the blossom of the phlox and the lilac.
hypocrisy		The act or practice of a hypocrite; a feigning to be what one is not, or to feel what one does not feel; a dissimulation, or a concealment of one's real character, disposition, or motives; especially…
hypocrite		One who plays a part; especially, one who, for the purpose of winning approbation of favor, puts on a fair outside seeming; one who feigns to be other and better than he is; a false pretender to virtue or piety…
hypocritely		Hypocritically.
hypocritic		See Hypocritical — of or pertaining to a hypocrite, or to hypocrisy; as, a hypocriticalperson; a hypocritical look; a hypocritical action.
hypocritical		Of or pertaining to a hypocrite, or to hypocrisy; as, a hypocriticalperson; a hypocritical look; a hypocritical action.
hypocrystalline		Partly crystalline; -- said of rock which consists of crystals imbedded in a glassy ground mass.
hypocycloid		A curve traced by a point in the circumference of a circle which rolls on the concave side in the fixed circle.
hypodactylum		The under side of the toes.
hypoderm		Same as Hypoblast.
hypoderma		(Bot.) A layer of tissue beneath the epidermis in plants, and performing the physiological function of strengthening the epidermal tissue.
hypodermatic		Hypodermic. -- Hyp`o*der*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.
hypodermic		Of or pertaining to the parts under the skin.
hypodermis		(Biol.) Same as Hypoblast.
hypodicrotic		Exhibiting retarded dicrotism; as, a hypodicrotic pulse curve.
hypodicrotous		Exhibiting retarded dicrotism; as, a hypodicrotic pulse curve.
hypogaeic		Pertaining to, or obtained from, the peanut, or earthnut (Arachis hypogæa).
hypogastric		Of or pertaining to the hypogastrium or the hypogastric region.
hypogastrium		The lower part of the abdomen.
hypogean		Hypogeous.
hypogene		Formed or crystallized at depths the earth's surface; -- said of granite, gneiss, and other rocks, whose crystallization is believed of have taken place beneath a great thickness of overlying rocks.
hypogeous		Growing under ground; remaining under ground; ripening its fruit under ground.
hypogeum		The subterraneous portion of a building, as in amphitheaters, for the service of the games; also, subterranean galleries, as the catacombs.
hypoglossal		Under the tongue; -- applied esp., in the higher vertebrates, to the twelfth or last pair of cranial nerves, which are distributed to the base of the tongue. -- n.
hypognatous		Having the maxilla, or lower jaw, longer than the upper, as in the skimmer.
hypogyn		An hypogynous plant.
hypogynous		Inserted below the pistil or pistils; -- said of sepals, petals, and stamens; having the sepals, petals, and stamens inserted below the pistil; -- said of a flower or a plant.
hypohyal		Pertaining to one or more small elements in the hyoidean arch of fishes, between the caratohyal and urohyal. -- n.
hyponastic		Exhibiting a downward convexity caused by unequal growth.
hyponasty		Downward convexity, or convexity of the inferior surface.
hyponitrite		A salt of hyponitrous acid.
hyponitrous		Containing or derived from nitrogen having a lower valence than in nitrous compounds.
hypopharynx		An appendage or fold on the lower side of the pharynx, in certain insects.
hypophosphate		A salt of hypophosphoric acid.
hypophosphite		A salt of hypophosphorous acid.
hypophosphoric		Pertaining to, or derived from, or containing, phosphorus in a lower state of oxidation than in phosphoric compounds; as, hypophosphoric acid.
hypophosphorous		Pertaining to, or containing, phosphorus in a lower state of oxidation than in phosphoric compounds; as, hypophosphorous acid.
hypophyllous		Being or growing on the under side of a leaf, as the fruit dots of ferns.
hypophysial		Of or pertaining to the hypophysis; pituitary.
hypophysis		(Anat.) See Pituitary body, under Pituitary.
hypoplastron		The third lateral plate in the plastron of turtles; -- called also hyposternum.
hypoptilum		An accessory plume arising from the posterior side of the stem of the contour feathers of many birds; -- called also aftershaft.
hyporadius		One of the barbs of the hypoptilum, or aftershaft of a feather. See Feather.
hyporhachis		The stem of an aftershaft or hypoptilum.
hyposkeletal		Beneath the endoskeleton; hypaxial; as, the hyposkeletal muscles; -- opposed to episkeletal.
hypospadias		A deformity of the penis, in which the urethra opens upon its under surface.
hypostasis		That which forms the basis of anything; underlying principle; a concept or mental entity conceived or treated as an existing being or thing.
hypostasize		To make into a distinct substance; to conceive or treat as an existing being; to hypostatize.
hypostatic		Relating to hypostasis, or substance; hence, constitutive, or elementary.
hypostatical		Relating to hypostasis, or substance; hence, constitutive, or elementary.
hypostatically		In a hypostatic manner.
hypostatize		To make into, or regarded as, a separate and distinct substance.
hyposternum		See Hypoplastron — the third lateral plate in the plastron of turtles; -- called also hyposternum.
hypostoma		The lower lip of trilobites, crustaceans, etc.
hypostome		The lower lip of trilobites, crustaceans, etc.
hypostrophe		(a) The act of a patient turning himself. (b) A relapse, or return of a disease.
hypostyle		Resting upon columns; constructed by means of columns; -- especially applied to the great hall at Karnak.
hyposulphate		A salt of hyposulphuric acid.
hyposulphite	Obsolete	(a) A salt of what was formerly called hyposulphurous acid; a thiosulphate.
hyposulphuric		Pertaining to, or containing, sulphur in a lower state of oxidation than in the sulphuric compounds; as, hyposulphuric acid.
hyposulphurous	Obsolete	Pertaining to, or containing, sulphur, all, or a part, in a low state of oxidation.
hypotarsus		A process on the posterior side of the tarsometatarsus of many birds; the calcaneal process. -- Hy`po*tar"sal, a.
hypotenuse		The side of a right-angled triangle that is opposite to the right angle.
hypothec		A landlord's right, independently of stipulation, over the stocking (cattle, implements, etc.), and crops of his tenant, as security for payment of rent.
hypotheca		An obligation by which property of a debtor was made over to his creditor in security of his debt.
hypothecate		To subject, as property, to liability for a debt or engagement without delivery of possession or transfer of title; to pledge without delivery of possession; to mortgage, as ships, or other personal property…
hypothecation		(Law of Shipping) A contract whereby, in consideration of money advanced for the necessities of the ship, the vessel, freight, or cargo is made liable for its repayment, provided the ship arrives in safety.
hypothecator		One who hypothecates or pledges anything as security for the repayment of money borrowed.
hypothenal		Of or pertaining to the prominent part of the palm of the hand above the base of the little finger, or a corresponding part in the forefoot of an animal; as, the hypothenar eminence.
hypothenar		Of or pertaining to the prominent part of the palm of the hand above the base of the little finger, or a corresponding part in the forefoot of an animal; as, the hypothenar eminence.
hypothenusal		Of or pertaining to hypothenuse.
hypothenuse		The side of a right-angled triangle that is opposite to the right angle.
hypothesis		A supposition; a proposition or principle which is supposed or taken for granted, in order to draw a conclusion or inference for proof of the point in question; something not proved, but assumed for the purpose of argument…
hypothetic		Characterized by, or of the nature of, an hypothesis; conditional; assumed without proof, for the purpose of reasoning and deducing proof, or of accounting for some fact or phenomenon.
hypothetical		Characterized by, or of the nature of, an hypothesis; conditional; assumed without proof, for the purpose of reasoning and deducing proof, or of accounting for some fact or phenomenon.
hypothetist		One who proposes or supports an hypothesis.
hypotrachelium		Same as Gorgerin.
hypotricha		A division of ciliated Infusoria in which the cilia cover only the under side of the body.
hypotrochoid		A curve, traced by a point in the radius, or radius produced, of a circle which rolls upon the concave side of a fixed circle.
hypotyposis		A vivid, picturesque description of scenes or events.
hypoxanthin		A crystalline, nitrogenous substance, closely related to xanthin and uric acid, widely distributed through the animal body, but especially in muscle tissue; -- called also sarcin, sarkin.
hypozoic		Anterior in age to the lowest rocks which contain organic remains.
hyppish		Affected with hypochondria; hypped.
hyppogriff		See Hyppogriff.
hypsiloid		Resembling the Greek letter
hypsometer		An instrument for measuring heights by observation of barometric pressure; esp., one for determining heights by ascertaining the boiling point of water.
hypsometric		Of or pertaining to hypsometry.
hypsometrical		Of or pertaining to hypsometry.
hypsometry		That branch of the science of geodesy which has to do with the measurement of heights, either absolutely with reference to the sea level, or relatively.
hypural		Under the tail; -- applied to the bones which support the caudal fin rays in most fishes.
hyracoid		Of or pertaining to the Hyracoidea. -- n.
hyracoidea		An order of small hoofed mammals, comprising the single living genus Hyrax.
hyrax		Any animal of the genus Hyrax, of which about four species are known.
hyrcan		Of or pertaining to Hyrcania, an ancient country or province of Asia, southeast of the Caspian (which was also called the Hyracanian) Sea.
hyrcanian		Of or pertaining to Hyrcania, an ancient country or province of Asia, southeast of the Caspian (which was also called the Hyracanian) Sea.
hyrst		A wood. See Hurst.
hyson		A fragrant kind of green tea.
hyssop		A plant (Hyssopus officinalis).
hysteranthous		Having the leaves expand after the flowers have opened.
hysteresis		A lagging or retardation of the effect, when the forces acting upon a body are changed, as if from velocity or internal friction; a temporary resistance to change from a condition previously invuced, observed in magnetism…
hysteretic		Of or pert. to hysteresis. -- Hysteretic constant, the hysteretic loss in ergs per cubic centimeter per cycle.
hysteria		A nervous affection, occurring almost exclusively in women, in which the emotional and reflex excitability is exaggerated, and the will power correspondingly diminished, so that the patient loses control over the emotions…
hysteric		Of or pertaining to hysteria; affected, or troubled, with hysterics; convulsive, fitful.
hysterical		Of or pertaining to hysteria; affected, or troubled, with hysterics; convulsive, fitful.
hysterics		Hysteria.
hysteroepilepsy		A disease resembling hysteria in its nature, and characterized by the occurrence of epileptiform convulsions, which can often be controlled or excited by pressure on the ovaries…
hysterogenic		Producing hysteria; as, the hysterogenicpressure points on the surface of the body, pressure upon which is said both to produce and arrest an attack of hysteria.
hysterology		A figure by which the ordinary course of thought is inverted in expression, and the last put first; -- called also hysteron proteron.
hysterophyte		A plant, like the fungus, which lives on dead or living organic matter. -- Hys`ter*oph"y*tal, a.
hysterotomy		The Cæsarean section. See under Cæsarean.
hystricine		Like or pertaining to the porcupines.
hystricomorphous		Like, or allied to, the porcupines; -- said of a group (Hystricomorpha) of rodents.
hystrix		A genus of rodents, including the porcupine.
hythe	Obsolete	A small haven. See Hithe.
