icarian		Soaring too high for safety, like Icarus; adventurous in flight.	
ice		Water or other fluid frozen or reduced to the solid state by cold; frozen water.	Middle English is, from Old English is.
ice-built		Loaded with ice.	
iceberg		A large mass of ice, generally floating in the ocean.	German Eisberg.
icebird		An Arctic sea bird, as the Arctic fulmar.	
icebound		Totally surrounded with ice, so as to be incapable of advancing; as, an icebound vessel; also, surrounded by or fringed with ice so as to hinder easy access; as, an icebound coast.	
iced		Covered with ice; chilled with ice; as, iced water.	
icefall		A frozen waterfall, or mass of ice resembling a frozen waterfall.	
icelander		A native, or one of the Scandinavian people, of Iceland.	
icelandic		Of or pertaining to Iceland; relating to, or resembling, the Icelanders.	
iceman		A man who is skilled in traveling upon ice, as among glaciers.	
icequake		The crash or concussion attending the breaking up of masses of ice, -- often due to contraction from extreme cold.	
ichneumon		(Zoöl.) Any carnivorous mammal of the genus Herpestes, and family Viverridæ.	Latin ichneumon.
ichneumonidan		Of or pertaining to the Ichneumonidæ, or ichneumon flies. -- n.	
ichneumonides		The ichneumon flies.	
ichnite		A fossil footprint; as, the ichnites in the Triassic sandstone.	
ichnographic		Of or pertaining to ichonography; describing a ground plot.	
ichnographical		Of or pertaining to ichonography; describing a ground plot.	
ichnography		A horizontal section of a building or other object, showing its true dimensions according to a geometric scale; a ground plan; a map; also, the art of making such plans.	
ichnolite		A fossil footprint; an ichnite.	
ichnolithology		Same as Ichnology.	
ichnological		Of or pertaining to ichnology.	
ichnology		The branch of science which treats of fossil footprints.	
ichnoscopy		The search for the traces of anything.	
ichor		A thin, acrid, watery discharge from an ulcer, wound, etc.	
ichorhaemia		Infection of the blood with ichorous or putrid substances.	
ichorous		Of or like ichor; thin; watery; serous; sanious.	
ichthidin		A substance from the egg yolk of osseous fishes.	
ichthin		A nitrogenous substance resembling vitellin, present in the egg yolk of cartilaginous fishes.	
ichthulin		A substance from the yolk of salmon's egg.	
ichthus		In early Christian and eccesiastical art, an emblematic fish, or the Greek word for fish, which combined the initials of the Greek words	
ichthyic		Like, or pertaining to, fishes.	
ichthyocol		Fish glue; isinglass; a glue prepared from the sounds of certain fishes.	
ichthyocolla		Fish glue; isinglass; a glue prepared from the sounds of certain fishes.	
ichthyocoprolite		Fossil dung of fishes.	
ichthyodorulite		One of the spiny plates foundon the back and tail of certain skates.	
ichthyography		A treatise on fishes.	
ichthyoid		Somewhat like a fish; having some of the characteristics of fishes; -- said of some amphibians.	
ichthyoidal		Somewhat like a fish; having some of the characteristics of fishes; -- said of some amphibians.	
ichthyol		An oily substance prepared by the dry distillation of a bituminous mineral containing fossil fishes.	
ichthyolatry		Worship of fishes, or of fish-shaped idols.	
ichthyolite		A fossil fish, or fragment of a fish.	
ichthyologic		Of or pertaining to ichthyology.	
ichthyological		Of or pertaining to ichthyology.	
ichthyologist		One versed in, or who studies, ichthyology.	
ichthyology		The natural history of fishes; that branch of zoölogy which relates to fishes, including their structure, classification, and habits.	
ichthyomancy		Divination by the heads or the entrails of fishes.	
ichthyomorpha		The Urodela.	
ichthyomorphic		Fish-shaped; as, the ichthyomorphic idols of ancient Assyria.	
ichthyomorphous		Fish-shaped; as, the ichthyomorphic idols of ancient Assyria.	
ichthyophagist		One who eats, or subsists on, fish.	
ichthyophagous		Eating, or subsisting on, fish.	
ichthyophagy		The practice of eating, or living upon, fish.	
ichthyophthalmite		See Apophyllite — a mineral relating to the zeolites, usually occurring in square prisms or octahedrons with pearly luster on the cleavage surface.	
ichthyophthira		A division of copepod crustaceans, including numerous species parasitic on fishes.	
ichthyopsida		A grand division of the Vertebrata, including the Amphibia and Fishes.	
ichthyopterygia		See Ichthyosauria — an extinct order of marine reptiles, including Ichthyosaurus and allied forms; -- called also Ichthyopterygia.	
ichthyopterygium		The typical limb, or lateral fin, of fishes.	
ichthyornis		An extinct genus of toothed birds found in the American Cretaceous formation.	
ichthyosaur		One of the Ichthyosaura.	
ichthyosauria		An extinct order of marine reptiles, including Ichthyosaurus and allied forms; -- called also Ichthyopterygia.	
ichthyosaurian		Of or pertaining to the Ichthyosauria. -- n.	
ichthyosaurus		An extinct genus of marine reptiles; -- so named from their short, biconcave vertebræ, resembling those of fishes.	
ichthyosis		A disease in which the skin is thick, rough, and scaly; -- called also fishskin. -- Ich`thy*ot"ic, a.	
ichthyotomist		One skilled in ichthyotomy.	
ichthyotomy		The anatomy or dissection of fishes.	
ichthys		Same as Ichthus.	Greek ἰχθύς.
icicle		A pendent, and usually conical, mass of ice, formed by freezing of dripping water; as, the icicles on the eaves of a house.	Middle English isykle.
icicled		Having icicles attached.	
icily		In an icy manner; coldly.	
iciness		The state or quality of being icy or very cold; frigidity.	
icing		A coating or covering resembling ice, as of sugar and milk or white of egg; frosting.	
ickle	English dialect	An icicle.	Middle English ikil.
icon		An image or representation; a portrait or pretended portrait.	Latin icon, from Greek εἰκών.
iconical		Pertaining to, or consisting of, images, pictures, or representations of any kind.	
iconism		The formation of a figure, representation, or semblance; a delineation or description.	
iconize		To form an image or likeness of.	
iconoclasm		The doctrine or practice of the iconoclasts; image breaking.	
iconoclast		A breaker or destroyer of images or idols; a determined enemy of idol worship.	
iconoclastic		Of or pertaining to the iconoclasts, or to image breaking.	
iconodule		One who serves images; -- opposed to an iconoclast.	
iconodulist		One who serves images; -- opposed to an iconoclast.	
iconograph		An engraving or other picture or illustration for a book.	
iconographer		A maker of images.	
iconographic		Representing by means of pictures or diagrams; as, an icongraphic encyclopædia.	
iconography		The art or representation by pictures or images; the description or study of portraiture or representation, as of persons; as, the iconography of the ancients.	
iconolater		One who worships images.	
iconolatry		The worship of images as symbols; -- distinguished from idolatry, the worship of images themselves.	
iconology		The discussion or description of portraiture or of representative images.	
iconomachy		Hostility to images as objects of worship.	
iconomania		A mania or infatuation for icons, whether as objects of devotion, bric-a-brac, or curios.	
iconomical		Opposed to pictures or images as objects of worship.	
iconophilist		A student, or lover of the study, of iconography.	
icosahedral		Having twenty equal sides or faces.	
icosahedron		A solid bounded by twenty sides or faces.	Greek εἰκοσάεδρον.
icosandria		A Linnæan class of plants, having twenty or more stamens inserted in the calyx.	
icosandrian		Pertaining to the class Icosandria; having twenty or more stamens inserted in the calyx.	
icosandrous		Pertaining to the class Icosandria; having twenty or more stamens inserted in the calyx.	
icositetrahedron		A twenty-four-sided solid; a tetragonal trisoctahedron or trapezohedron.	
icteric		A remedy for the jaundice.	
icterical		Pertaining to, or affected with, jaundice.	
icteritious		Yellow; of the color of the skin when it is affected by the jaundice.	
icteritous		Yellow; of the color of the skin when it is affected by the jaundice.	
icteroid		Of a tint resembling that produced by jaundice; yellow; as, an icteroid tint or complexion.	
icterus		The jaundice.	
ictic		Pertaining to, or caused by, a blow; sudden; abrupt.	
ictus		(Pros.) The stress of voice laid upon accented syllable of a word.	
icy		Pertaining to, resembling, or abounding in, ice; cold; frosty.	
icy-pearled		Spangled with ice.	
