id		A small fresh-water cyprinoid fish (Leuciscus idus or Idus idus) of Europe.	Latin id.
idalian		Of or pertaining to Idalium, a mountain city in Cyprus, or to Venus, to whom it was sacred.	
ide		Same as Id.	
idea		The transcript, image, or picture of a visible object, that is formed by the mind; also, a similar image of any object whatever, whether sensible or spiritual.	Latin idea, from Greek ἰδέα.
ideal		Existing in idea or thought; conceptional; intellectual; mental; as, ideal knowledge.	French idéal, from Latin idealis.
idealess		Destitute of an idea.	
idealism		The quality or state of being ideal.	
idealist		One who idealizes; one who forms picturesque fancies; one given to romantic expectations.	French idéaliste, from Latin idealis.
idealistic		Of or pertaining to idealists or their theories.	
ideality		The quality or state of being ideal.	
idealization		(Fine Arts) The representation of natural objects, scenes, etc., in such a way as to show their most important characteristics; the study of the ideal.	
idealize		To make ideal; to give an ideal form or value to; to attribute ideal characteristics and excellences to; as, to idealize real life.	
idealizer		An idealist.	
ideally		In an ideal manner; by means of ideals; mentally.	
idealogic		Of or pertaining to an idealogue, or to idealization.	
idealogue		One given to fanciful ideas or theories; a theorist; a spectator.	
ideat		The actual existence supposed to correspond with an idea; the correlate in real existence to the idea as a thought or existence.	
ideate		The actual existence supposed to correspond with an idea; the correlate in real existence to the idea as a thought or existence.	
ideation		The faculty or capacity of the mind for forming ideas; the exercise of this capacity; the act of the mind by which objects of sense are apprehended and retained as objects of thought.	
ideational		Pertaining to, or characterized by, ideation.	
idem		The same; the same as above; -- often abbreviated id.	Latin idem.
identic	Obsolete	Identical.	French identique, from Latin identicus.
identical		The same; the selfsame; the very same; not different; as, the identical person or thing.	
identically		In an identical manner; with respect to identity.	
identicalness		The quality or state of being identical; sameness.	
identifiable		Capable of being identified.	
identification		The act of identifying, or proving to be the same; also, the state of being identified.	
identify		To make to be the same; to unite or combine in such a manner as to make one; to treat as being one or having the same purpose or effect; to consider as the same in any relation.	French identifier, from Latin identificare.
identism		The doctrine taught by Schelling, that matter and mind, and subject and object, are identical in the Absolute; -- called also the system or doctrine of identity.	
identity		The state or quality of being identical, or the same; sameness.	
ideo-motion		An ideo-motor movement.	
ideo-motor		Applied to those actions, or muscular movements, which are automatic expressions of dominant ideas, rather than the result of distinct volitional efforts, as the act of expressing the thoughts in speech, or in writing…	
ideogenical		Of or relating to ideology.	
ideogeny		The science which treats of the origin of ideas.	
ideogram		An original, pictorial element of writing; a kind of hieroglyph expressing no sound, but only an idea.	
ideograph		Same as Ideogram.	
ideographic		Of or pertaining to an ideogram; representing ideas by symbols, independently of sounds; as, 9 represents not the word "nine, ic*al*ly, adv.	
ideographical		Of or pertaining to an ideogram; representing ideas by symbols, independently of sounds; as, 9 represents not the word "nine, ic*al*ly, adv.	
ideographics		The system of writing in ideographic characters; also, anything so written.	
ideography		The representation of ideas independently of sounds, or in an ideographic manner, as sometimes is done in shorthand writing, etc.	
ideological		Of or pertaining to ideology.	
ideologist		One who treats of ideas; one who theorizes or idealizes; one versed in the science of ideas, or who advocates the doctrines of ideology.	
ideology		(Metaph.) A theory of the origin of ideas which derives them exclusively from sensation.	French idéologie.
ides		The fifteenth day of March, May, July, and October, and the thirteenth day of the other months.	Latin idus.
idioblast		An individual cell, differing greatly from its neighbours in regard to size, structure, or contents.	
idiocrasis		Idiocracy.	
idiocrasy		Peculiarity of constitution; that temperament, or state of constitution, which is peculiar to a person; idiosyncrasy.	
idiocratic		Peculiar in constitution or temperament; idiosyncratic.	
idiocratical		Peculiar in constitution or temperament; idiosyncratic.	
idiocy		The condition or quality of being an idiot; absence, or marked deficiency, of sense and intelligence.	
idiocyclophanous		Same as Idiophanous.	
idioelectric		Electric by virtue of its own peculiar properties; capable of becoming electrified by friction; -- opposed to anelectric. -- n.	
idiograph		A mark or signature peculiar to an individual; a trade-mark.	
idiographic		Of or pertaining to an idiograph.	
idiographical		Of or pertaining to an idiograph.	
idiolatry		Self-worship; excessive self-esteem.	
idiom		The syntactical or structural form peculiar to any language; the genius or cast of a language.	Middle French idiome.
idiomatic		Of or pertaining to, or conforming to, the mode of expression peculiar to a language; as, an idiomatic meaning; an idiomatic phrase. -- Id`i*o*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.	Greek ἰδιωματικός.
idiomatical		Of or pertaining to, or conforming to, the mode of expression peculiar to a language; as, an idiomatic meaning; an idiomatic phrase. -- Id`i*o*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.	
idiomorphic		Idiomorphous.	
idiomorphous		Having a form of its own.	
idiomuscular		Applied to a semipermanent contraction of a muscle, produced by a mechanical irritant.	
idiopathetic		Idiopathic.	
idiopathic		Pertaining to idiopathy; characterizing a disease arising primarily, and not in consequence of some other disease or injury; -- opposed to symptomatic, sympathetic, and traumatic. -- Id`i*o*path"ic*al*ly, adv.	
idiopathical		Pertaining to idiopathy; characterizing a disease arising primarily, and not in consequence of some other disease or injury; -- opposed to symptomatic, sympathetic, and traumatic. -- Id`i*o*path"ic*al*ly, adv.	
idiopathy		A peculiar, or individual, characteristic or affection.	
idiophanous		Exhibiting interference figures without the aid of a polariscope, as certain crystals.	
idioplasm		Same as Idioplasma.	
idioplasma		That portion of the cell protoplasm which is the seat of all active changes, and which carries on the function of hereditary transmission; -- distinguished from the other portion, which is termed nutritive plasma.	
idiorepulsive		Repulsive by itself; as, the idiorepulsive power of heat.	
idiosyncrasy		A peculiarity of physical or mental constitution or temperament; a characteristic belonging to, and distinguishing, an individual; characteristic susceptibility; idiocrasy; eccentricity.	
idiosyncratic		Of peculiar temper or disposition; belonging to one's peculiar and individual character.	
idiosyncratical		Of peculiar temper or disposition; belonging to one's peculiar and individual character.	
idiot		A human being destitute of the ordinary intellectual powers, whether congenital, developmental, or accidental; commonly, a person without understanding from birth; a natural fool; a natural; an innocent.	
idioted		Rendered idiotic; befooled.	
idiothermic		Self-heating; warmed, as the body of animal, by process going on within itself.	
idiotic		Pertaining to, or like, an idiot; characterized by idiocy; foolish; fatuous; as, an idiotic person, speech, laugh, or action.	
idiotical		Pertaining to, or like, an idiot; characterized by idiocy; foolish; fatuous; as, an idiotic person, speech, laugh, or action.	
idiotically		In a idiotic manner.	
idioticon		A dictionary of a peculiar dialect, or of the words and phrases peculiar to one part of a country; a glossary.	
idiotish		Like an idiot; foolish.	
idiotism		An idiom; a form, mode of expression, or signification, peculiar to a language.	
idiotize		To become stupid.	
idle		Of no account; useless; vain; trifling; unprofitable; thoughtless; silly; barren.	Old English idel.
idle-headed	Obsolete	Foolish; stupid.	
idle-pated	Obsolete	Idle-headed; stupid.	
idleness		The condition or quality of being idle (in the various senses of that word); uselessness; fruitlessness; triviality; inactivity; laziness.	
idler		One who idles; one who spends his time in inaction; a lazy person; a sluggard.	
idless	Archaic	Idleness.	
idlesse	Archaic	Idleness.	
idly		In a idle manner; ineffectually; vainly; lazily; carelessly; (Obs.) foolishly.	
ido		An artificial international language, selected by the (founded at Paris in 1901), made public in 1907…	
idocrase		Same as Vesuvianite.	
idol		An image of a divinity; a representation or symbol of a deity or any other being or thing, made or used as an object of worship; a similitude of a false god.	Greek εἴδωλον.
idolastre	Obsolete	An idolater.	
idolater		A worshiper of idols; one who pays divine honors to images, statues, or representations of anything made by hands; one who worships as a deity that which is not God; a pagan.	French idolatre, from Latin idololatra.
idolatress		A female worshiper of idols.	
idolatrical	Obsolete	Idolatrous.	
idolatrize		To worship idols; to pay idolatrous worship.	
idolatrous		Of or pertaining to idolatry; partaking of the nature of idolatry; given to idolatry or the worship of false gods; as, idolatrous sacrifices. put down the idolatrous priests. 2 Kings xxiii. 5.	
idolatrously		In a idolatrous manner.	
idolatry		The worship of idols, images, or anything which is not God; the worship of false gods.	Old French idolatrie, from Latin idolatria.
idolish	Obsolete	Idolatrous.	
idolism	Obsolete	The worship of idols.	
idolist	Obsolete	A worshiper of idols.	
idolize		To make an idol of; to pay idolatrous worship to; as, to idolize the sacred bull in Egypt.	
idolizer		One who idolizes or loves to the point of reverence; an idolater.	
idoloclast		A breaker of idols; an iconoclast.	
idolographical		Descriptive of idols.	
idolon		Appearance or image; a phantasm; a spectral image; also, a mental image or idea.	
idolous	Obsolete	Idolatrous.	
idolum		Appearance or image; a phantasm; a spectral image; also, a mental image or idea.	
idoneous		Appropriate; suitable; proper; fit; adequate.	Latin idoneus.
idorgan		A morphological unit, consisting of two or more plastids, which does not possess the positive character of the person or stock, in distinction from the physiological organ or biorgan.	
idrialine		A bituminous substance obtained from the mercury mines of Idria, where it occurs mixed with cinnabar.	
idrialite		A bituminous substance obtained from the mercury mines of Idria, where it occurs mixed with cinnabar.	
idumean		Of or pertaining to ancient Idumea, or Edom, in Western Asia. -- n.	
idyl		A short poem; properly, a short pastoral poem; as, the idyls of Theocritus; also, any poem, especially a narrative or descriptive poem, written in an eleveted and highly finished style; also, by extension…	
idyllic		Of or belonging to idyls.	
