igasuric		Pertaining to, or obtained from, nux vomica or St. Ignatius's bean; as, igasuric acid.
igasurine		An alkaloid found in nux vomica, and extracted as a white crystalline substance.
igloo		An Eskimo snow house.
igneous		Pertaining to, having the nature of, fire; containing fire; resembling fire; as, an igneous appearance.
ignescent		Emitting sparks of fire when struck with steel; scintillating; as, ignescent stones.
ignicolist		A worshiper of fire.
igniferous		Producing fire.
ignifluous	Obsolete	Flowing with fire.
ignify		To form into fire.
ignigenous		Produced by the action of fire, as lava.
ignipotence		Power over fire.
ignipotent		Presiding over fire; also, fiery.
ignite		To kindle or set on fire; as, to ignite paper or wood.
ignitible		Capable of being ignited.
ignition		The act of igniting, kindling, or setting on fire.
ignitor		One who, or that which, produces ignition; especially, a contrivance for igniting the powder in a torpedo or the like.
ignivomous		Vomiting fire.
ignobility	Obsolete	Ignobleness.
ignoble		Of low birth or family; not noble; not illustrious; plebeian; common; humble.
ignobleness		State or quality of being ignoble.
ignobly		In an ignoble manner; basely.
ignominious		Marked with ignominy; in curring public disgrace; dishonorable; shameful.
ignominiously		In an ignominious manner; disgracefully; shamefully; ingloriously.
ignominy		Public disgrace or dishonor; reproach; infamy.
ignomy		Ignominy.
ignoramus		(Law) We are ignorant; we ignore; -- being the word formerly written on a bill of indictment by a grand jury when there was not sufficient evidence to warrant them in finding it a true bill.
ignorance		The condition of being ignorant; the want of knowledge in general, or in relation to a particular subject; the state of being uneducated or uninformed.
ignorant		Destitute of knowledge; uninstructed or uninformed; untaught; unenlightened.
ignorantism		The spirit of those who extol the advantage to ignorance; obscuriantism.
ignorantist		One opposed to the diffusion of knowledge; an obscuriantist.
ignorantly		In a ignorant manner; without knowledge; inadvertently.
ignore		(Law) To throw out or reject as false or ungrounded; -- said of a bill rejected by a grand jury for want of evidence.
ignoscible	Obsolete	Pardonable.
ignote	Obsolete	Unknown.
iguana		Any species of the genus Iguana, a genus of large American lizards of the family Iguanidæ.
iguanian		Resembling, or pertaining to, the iguana.
iguanid		Same as Iguanoid.
iguanodon		A genus of gigantic herbivorous dinosaurs having a birdlike pelvis and large hind legs with three-toed feet capable of supporting the entire body.
iguanodont		Like or pertaining to the genus Iguanodon.
iguanoid		Pertaining to the Iguanidæ.
