ile	Obsolete	Ear of corn.
ileac		(Anat.) Pertaining to the ileum.
ileocaecal		Pertaining to the ileum and cæcum.
ileocolic		Pertaining to the ileum and colon; as, the ileocolic, or ileocæcal, valve, a valve where the ileum opens into the large intestine.
ileum		(Anat.) The last, and usually the longest, division of the small intestine; the part between the jejunum and large intestine.
ileus		A morbid condition due to intestinal obstruction.
ilex		(a) The holm oak (Quercus Ilex). (b) A genus of evergreen trees and shrubs, including the common holly.
iliac		(Anat.) Pertaining to, or in the region of, the ilium, or dorsal bone of the pelvis; as, the iliac artery.
iliad		A celebrated Greek epic poem, in twenty-four books, on the destruction of Ilium, the ancient Troy.
ilial		Pertaining to the ilium; iliac.
ilicic		Pertaining to, or derived from, the holly (Ilex), and allied plants; as, ilicic acid.
ilicin		The bitter principle of the holly.
ilio-		A combining form used in anatomy to denote connection with, or relation to, the ilium; as, ilio-femoral, ilio-lumbar, ilio-psoas, etc.
iliofemoral		Pertaining to the ilium and femur; as, iliofemoral ligaments.
iliolumbar		Pertaining to the iliac and lumbar regions; as, the iliolumbar artery.
iliopsoas		The great flexor muscle of the hip joint, divisible into two parts, the iliac and great psoas, -- often regarded as distinct muscles.
ilium		The dorsal one of the three principal bones comprising either lateral half of the pelvis; the dorsal or upper part of the hip bone.
ilixanthin		A yellow dye obtained from the leaves of the holly.
ilk	Archaic	Same; each; every.
ilkon	Obsolete	Each one; every one.
ilkoon	Obsolete	Each one; every one.
ill		Contrary to good, in a physical sense; contrary or opposed to advantage, happiness, etc.; bad; evil; unfortunate; disagreeable; unfavorable.
ill-boding		Boding evil; inauspicious; ill-omened.
ill-bred		Badly educated or brought up; impolite; incivil; rude. See Note under Ill, adv.
ill-favored		Wanting beauty or attractiveness; deformed; ugly; ill-looking.
ill-judged		Not well judged; unwise.
ill-lived	Obsolete	Leading a wicked life.
ill-looking		Having a bad look; threatening; ugly. See Note under Ill, adv.
ill-mannered		Impolite; rude.
ill-minded		Ill-disposed.
ill-natured		Of habitual bad temper; peevish; fractious; cross; crabbed; surly; as, an ill-natured person.
ill-nurtured		Ill-bred.
ill-omened		Having unlucky omens; inauspicious. See Note under Ill, adv.
ill-starred		Fated to be unfortunate; unlucky; as, an ill-starred man or day.
ill-tempered		Of bad temper; morose; crabbed; sour; peevish; fretful; quarrelsome.
ill-timed		Done, attempted, or said, at an unsuitable or unpropitious time.
ill-used		Misapplied; treated badly.
ill-will		. See under Ill, a.
ill-wisher		One who wishes ill to another; an enemy.
illabile	Obsolete	Incapable of falling or erring; infalliable. -- Il`la*bil"i*ty, n.
illacerable	Obsolete	Not lacerable; incapable of being torn or rent.
illacrymable	Obsolete	Incapable of weeping.
illapsable		Incapable of slipping, or of error.
illapse		To fall or glide; to pass; -- usually followed by into.
illaqueable		Capable of being insnared or entrapped.
illaqueate		To insnare; to entrap; to entangle; to catch.
illaqueation		The act of catching or insnaring.
illation		The act or process of inferring from premises or reasons; perception of the connection between ideas; that which is inferred; inference; deduction; conclusion.
illative		Relating to, dependent on, or denoting, illation; inferential; conclusive; as, an illative consequence or proposition; an illative word, as then, therefore, etc. Illative conversion (Logic)…
illatively		By inference; as an illative; in an illative manner.
illaudable	Obsolete	Not laudable; not praise-worthy; worthy of censure or disapprobation.
illecebration		Allurement.
illecebrous	Obsolete	Alluring; attractive; enticing.
illegal		Not according to, or authorized by, law; specif., contrary to, or in violation of, human law; unlawful; illicit; hence, immoral; as, an illegal act; illegal trade; illegal love.
illegality		The quality or condition of being illegal; unlawfulness; as, the illegality of trespass or of false imprisonment; also, an illegal act.
illegalize		To make or declare illegal or unlawful.
illegally		In a illegal manner; unlawfully.
illegalness		Illegality, unlawfulness.
illegibility		The state or quality of being illegible.
illegible		Incapable of being read; not legible; as, illegible handwriting; an illegible inscription. -- Il*leg i*bly, adv.
illegitimacy		The state of being illegitimate.
illegitimate		Not according to law; not regular or authorized; unlawful; improper.
illegitimately		In a illegitimate manner; unlawfully.
illegitimation		The act of illegitimating; bastardizing.
illegitimatize		To render illegitimate; to bastardize.
illesive		Not injurious; harmless.
illeviable		Not leviable; incapable of being imposed, or collected.
illiberal		Not liberal; not free or generous; close; niggardly; mean; sordid.
illiberalism		Illiberality.
illiberality		The state or quality of being illiberal; narrowness of mind; meanness; niggardliness.
illiberalize		To make illiberal.
illiberally		In a illiberal manner, ungenerously; uncharitably; parsimoniously.
illiberalness		The state of being illiberal; illiberality.
illicit		Not permitted or allowed; prohibited; unlawful; as, illicit trade; illicit intercourse; illicit pleasure.
illicitous		Illicit.
illicium		A genus of Asiatic and American magnoliaceous trees, having star-shaped fruit; star anise.
illighten	Obsolete	To enlighten.
illimitable		Incapable of being limited or bounded; immeasurable; limitless; boundless; as, illimitable space.
illimitation		State of being illimitable; want of, or freedom from, limitation.
illimited		Not limited; interminable.
illinition		A smearing or rubbing in or on; also, that which is smeared or rubbed on, as ointment or liniment.
illinois		A tribe of North American Indians, which formerly occupied the region between the Wabash and Mississippi rivers.
illiquation		The melting or dissolving of one thing into another.
illish	Obsolete	Somewhat ill.
illision		The act of dashing or striking against.
illiteracy		The state of being illiterate, or uneducated; want of learning, or knowledge; ignorance; specifically, inability to read and write; as, the illiteracy shown by the last census.
illiteral		Not literal.
illiterate		Ignorant of letters or books; unlettered; uninstructed; uneducated; as, an illiterate man, or people.
illiterature		Want of learning; illiteracy.
illness		Disease; indisposition; malady; disorder of health; sickness; as, a short or a severe illness.
illocality		Want of locality or place.
illogical		Ignorant or negligent of the rules of logic or correct reasoning; as, an illogical disputant; contrary of the rules of logic or sound reasoning; as, an illogical inference. -- Il*log ic*al*ness, n.
illtreat		To treat cruelly or improperly; to ill use; to maltreat.
illude		To play upon by artifice; to deceive; to mock; to excite and disappoint the hopes of.
illume		To throw or spread light upon; to make light or bright; to illuminate; to illumine.
illuminable		Capable of being illuminated.
illuminant		That which illuminates or affords light; as, gas and petroleum are illuminants.
illuminary		Illuminative.
illuminate		To make light; to throw light on; to supply with light, literally or figuratively; to brighten.
illuminati		Literally, those who are enlightened; -- variously applied as follows: -
illuminating		Giving or producing light; used for illumination.
illumination		The act of illuminating, or supplying with light; the state of being illuminated.
illuminatism		Illuminism.
illuminative		Tending to illuminate or illustrate; throwing light; illustrative.
illuminator		One whose occupation is to adorn books, especially manuscripts, with miniatures, borders, etc. See Illuminate, v. t., 3.
illumine		To illuminate; to light up; to adorn.
illuminee		One of the Illuminati.
illuminer		One who, or that which, illuminates.
illuminism		The principles of the Illuminati.
illuministic		Of or pertaining to illuminism, or the Illuminati.
illuminize		To initiate the doctrines or principles of the Illuminati.
illuminous		Bright; clear.
illure	Obsolete	To deceive; to entice; to lure.
illusion		An unreal image presented to the bodily or mental vision; a deceptive appearance; a false show; mockery; hallucination.
illusionable		Liable to illusion.
illusionist		One given to illusion; a visionary dreamer.
illusive		Deceiving by false show; deceitful; deceptive; false; illusory; unreal.
illusively		In a illusive manner; falsely.
illusiveness		The quality of being illusive; deceptiveness; false show.
illusory		Deceiving, or tending of deceive; fallacious; illusive; as, illusory promises or hopes.
illustrable		Capable of illustration.
illustrate		To make clear, bright, or luminous.
illustration		The act of illustrating; the act of making clear and distinct; education; also, the state of being illustrated, or of being made clear and distinct.
illustrative		Tending or designed to illustrate, exemplify, or elucidate.
illustratively		By way of illustration or elucidation.
illustrator		One who illustrates.
illustratory		Serving to illustrate.
illustrious		Possessing luster or brightness; brilliant; luminous; splendid.
illustriously		In a illustrious manner; conspicuously; eminently; famously.
illustriousness		The state or quality of being eminent; greatness; grandeur; glory; fame.
illustrous	Obsolete	Without luster.
illutation		The act or operation of smearing the body with mud, especially with the sediment from mineral springs; a mud bath.
illuxurious		Not luxurious.
ilmenite		Titanic iron. See Menaccanite.
ilmenium		A supposed element claimed to have been discovered by R.Harmann.
ilvaite		A silicate of iron and lime occurring in black prismatic crystals and columnar masses.
