image		An imitation, representation, or similitude of any person, thing, or act, sculptured, drawn, painted, or otherwise made perceptible to the sight; a visible presentation; a copy; a likeness; an effigy; a picture; a semblance.
imageable		That may be imaged.
imageless		Having no image.
imager	Obsolete	One who images or forms likenesses; a sculptor.
imagery		The work of one who makes images or visible representation of objects; imitation work; images in general, or in mass.
imaginability		Capacity for imagination.
imaginable		Capable of being imagined; conceivable.
imaginal		Characterized by imagination; imaginative; also, given to the use or rhetorical figures or imagins.
imaginant	Obsolete	Imagining; conceiving.
imaginarily		In a imaginary manner; in imagination.
imaginariness		The state or quality of being imaginary; unreality.
imaginary		Existing only in imagination or fancy; not real; fancied; visionary; ideal.
imaginate	Obsolete	Imaginative.
imagination		The imagine-making power of the mind; the power to create or reproduce ideally an object of sense previously perceived; the power to call up mental imagines.
imaginational		Pertaining to, involving, or caused by, imagination.
imaginationalism		Idealism.
imaginative		Proceeding from, and characterized by, the imagination, generally in the highest sense of the word.
imagine		To form in the mind a notion or idea of; to form a mental image of; to conceive; to produce by the imagination.
imaginer		One who forms ideas or conceptions; one who contrives.
imaginous		Imaginative.
imago		(Zoöl.) The final adult, and usually winged, state of an insect. See Illust. of Ant-lion, and Army worm.
imam		Among the Mohammedans, a minister or priest who performs the regular service of the mosque.
iman		Among the Mohammedans, a minister or priest who performs the regular service of the mosque.
imaret		A lodging house for Mohammedan pilgrims.
imaum		Among the Mohammedans, a minister or priest who performs the regular service of the mosque.
imbalm		See Embalm — to anoint all over with balm; especially, to preserve from decay by means of balm or other aromatic oils, or spices; to fill or impregnate (a dead body)…
imban		To put under a ban.
imband		To form into a band or bands.
imbank		To inclose or defend with a bank or banks. See Embank.
imbankment		The act of surrounding with a bank; a bank or mound raised for defense, a roadway, etc.; an embankment.
imbannered		Having banners.
imbar	Obsolete	To bar in; to secure.
imbargo		See Embargo — an edict or order of the government prohibiting the departure of ships of commerce from some or all of the ports within its dominions; a prohibition to sail.
imbark		See Embark — to engage, enlist, or invest (as persons, money, etc.) in any affair; as, he embarked his fortune in trade.
imbarn	Obsolete	To store in a barn.
imbase	Obsolete	See Embase — to bring down or lower, as in position, value, etc.; to debase; to degrade; to deteriorate.
imbastardize	Obsolete	To bastardize; to debase.
imbathe		To bathe; to wash freely; to immerce.
imbay		See Embay — to bathe; to soothe or lull as by bathing.
imbecile	Obsolete	Destitute of strength, whether of body or mind; feeble; impotent; esp., mentally wea; feeble-minded; as, hospitals for the imbecile and insane.
imbecilitate		To weaken, as to the body or the mind; to enfeeble.
imbecility		The quality of being imbecile; weakness; feebleness, esp. of mind.
imbed		To sink or lay, as in a bed; to deposit in a partly inclosing mass, as of clay or mortar; to cover, as with earth, sand, etc.
imbellic	Obsolete	Not warlike or martial.
imbenching	Obsolete	A raised work like a bench.
imber-goose		The loon. See Ember-goose.
imbezzle		See Embezzle — to appropriate fraudulently to one's own use, as property intrusted to one's care; to apply to one's private uses by a breach of trust; as, to embezzle money held in trust.
imbibe		To drink in; to absorb; to suck or take in; to receive as by drinking; as, a person imbibes drink, or a sponge imbibes moisture.
imbiber		One who, or that which, imbibes.
imbibition		The act or process of imbibing, or absorbing; as, the post- mortem imbibition of poisons.
imbitter		To make bitter; hence, to make distressing or more distressing; to make sad, morose, sour, or malignant.
imbitterer		One who, or that which, imbitters.
imbitterment		The act of imbittering; bitter feeling; embitterment.
imblaze		See Emblaze — to adorn with glittering embellishments.
imblazon		See Emblazon — to depict or represent; -- said of heraldic bearings. See Blazon.
imbody		To become corporeal; to assume the qualities of a material body. See Embody.
imboil		See Emboil — to boil with anger; to effervesce.
imbolden		See Embolden — to give boldness or courage to; to encourage.
imbonity	Obsolete	Want of goodness.
imborder		To furnish or inclose with a border; to form a border of.
imbosk	Obsolete	To conceal, as in bushes; to hide.
imbosom		To hold in the bosom; to cherish in the heart or affection; to embosom.
imboss		See Emboss — to arise the surface of into bosses or protuberances; particularly, to ornament with raised work.
imbosture	Obsolete	Embossed or raised work.
imbound	Obsolete	To inclose in limits; to shut in.
imbow		To make like a bow; to curve; to arch; to vault; to embow.
imbowel		See Embowel — to imbed; to hide in the inward parts; to bury.
imbower		See Embower — to cover with a bower; to shelter with trees.
imbowment		act of imbowing; an arch; a vault.
imbox		To inclose in a box.
imbracery	Obsolete	Embracery.
imbraid		See Embraid — to braid up, as hair.
imbrangle		To entangle as in a cobweb; to mix confusedly.
imbreed	Obsolete	To generate within; to inbreed.
imbricate		Bent and hollowed like a roof or gutter tile.
imbricated		Bent and hollowed like a roof or gutter tile.
imbrication		An overlapping of the edges, like that of tiles or shingles; hence, intricacy of structure; also, a pattern or decoration representing such a structure.
imbricative		Imbricate.
imbrocado		Cloth of silver or of gold.
imbrocata	Obsolete	A hit or thrust.
imbroccata	Obsolete	A hit or thrust.
imbroglio		An intricate, complicated plot, as of a drama or work of fiction.
imbrown		To make brown; to obscure; to darken; to tan; as, features imbrowned by exposure.
imbrue		To wet or moisten; to soak; to drench, especially in blood.
imbruement		The act of imbruing or state of being imbrued.
imbrute		To degrade to the state of a brute; to make brutal.
imbrutement		The act of imbruting, or the state of being imbruted.
imbue		To tinge deeply; to dye; to cause to absorb; as, clothes thoroughly imbued with black.
imbuement		The act of imbuing; the state of being imbued; hence, a deep tincture.
imburse	Obsolete	To supply or stock with money.
imbursement	Obsolete	The act of imbursing, or the state of being imbursed.
imbution	Obsolete	An imbuing.
imesatin		A dark yellow, crystalline substance, obtained by the action of ammonia on isatin.
imide		A compound with, or derivative of, the imido group; specif., a compound of one or more acid radicals with the imido group, or with a monamine; hence, also, a derivative of ammonia…
imido		Pertaining to, containing, or combined with, the radical NH, which is called the imido group.
imitability		The quality of being imitable.
imitable		Capble of being imitated or copied.
imitableness		The state or quality of being imitable; worthness of imitation.
imitancy		Tendency to imitation.
imitate		To follow as a pattern, model, or example; to copy or strive to copy, in acts, manners etc. Despise wealth and imitate a dog.
imitation		That which is made or produced as a copy; that which is made to resemble something else, whether for laudable or for fraudulent purposes; likeness; resemblance.
imitational		Pertaining to, or employed in, imitation; as, imitational propensities.
imitative		Inclined to imitate, copy, or follow; imitating; exhibiting some of the qualities or characteristics of a pattern or model; dependent on example; not original; as, man is an imitative being; painting is an imitative art.
imitator		One who imitates.
imitatorship		The state or office of an imitator.
imitatress		A woman who is an imitator.
imitatrix		An imitatress.
immaculate		Without stain or blemish; spotless; undefiled; clear; pure.
immailed		Wearing mail or armor; clad of armor.
immalleable		Not maleable.
immanacle		To manacle; to fetter; hence; to confine; to restrain from free action.
immanation		A flowing or entering in; -- opposed to emanation.
immane	Obsolete	Very great; huge; vast; also, monstrous in character; inhuman; atrocious; fierce. -- Im*mane"ly, adv.
immanence		The condition or quality of being immanent; inherence; an indwelling. is mainly concerned in enforcing the immanence of God.
immanency		The condition or quality of being immanent; inherence; an indwelling. is mainly concerned in enforcing the immanence of God.
immanent		Remaining within; inherent; indwelling; abiding; intrinsic; internal or subjective; hence, limited in activity, agency, or effect, to the subject or associated acts; -- opposed to emanant, transitory, transitive, or objective.
immanifest	Obsolete	Not manifest.
immanity		The state or quality of being immane; barbarity.
immantle		See Emmantle — to cover over with, or as with, a mantle; to put about as a protection.
immanuel		God with us; -- an appellation of the Christ.
immarcescible	Obsolete	Unfading; lasting.
immarcescibly	Obsolete	Unfadingly.
immarginate		Not having a distinctive margin or border.
immartial	Obsolete	Not martial; unwarlike.
immask		To cover, as with a mask; to disguise or conceal.
immatchable	Obsolete	Matchless; peerless.
immaterial		Not consisting of matter; incorporeal; spiritual; disembodied.
immaterialism		The doctrine that immaterial substances or spiritual being exist, or are possible.
immaterialist		One who believes in or professes, immaterialism.
immateriality		The state or quality of being immaterial or incorporeal; as, the immateriality of the soul.
immaterialize		To render immaterial or incorporeal.
immaterially		In an immaterial manner; without matter or corporeal substance.
immaterialness		The state or quality of being immaterial; immateriality.
immateriate	Obsolete	Immaterial.
immature		Not mature; unripe; not arrived at perfection of full development; crude; unfinished; as, immature fruit; immature character; immature plans.
immatured		Immature.
immaturely		In an immature manner.
immatureness		The state or quality of being immature; immaturity.
immaturity		The state or quality of being immature or not fully developed; unripeness; incompleteness.
immeability		Want of power to pass, or to permit passage; impassableness.
immeasurability		The quality of being immeasurable; immensurability.
immeasurable		Incapble of being measured; indefinitely extensive; illimitable; immensurable; vast.
immeasurableness		The state or quality of being immeasurable.
immeasurably		In an immeasurable manner or degree.
immeasured		Immeasurable.
immechanical	Obsolete	Not mechanical.
immediacy		The relation of freedom from the interventionof a medium; immediateness.
immediate		Not separated in respect to place by anything intervening; proximate; close; as, immediate contact.
immediately		In an immediate manner; without intervention of any other person or thing; proximately; directly; -- opposed to mediately; as, immediately contiguous.
immediateness		The quality or relations of being immediate in manner, place, or time; exemption from second or interventing causes.
immediatism		Immediateness.
immedicable		Not to be healed; incurable.
immelodious		Not melodious.
immemorable		Not memorable; not worth remembering.
immemorial		Extending beyond the reach of memory, record, or tradition; indefinitely ancient; as, existing from time immemorial.
immemorially		Beyond memory.
immense		Immeasurable; unlimited.
immensely		In immense manner or degree.
immenseness		The state of being immense.
immensible	Obsolete	Immeasurable.
immensity		The state or quality of being immense; inlimited or immeasurable extension; infinity; vastness in extent or bulk; greatness.
immensurability		The quality of being immensurable.
immensurable		Immeasurable.
immensurate		Unmeasured; unlimited.
immerge		To plungel into, under, or within anything especially a fuid; to dip; to immerse.
immerit		Want of worth; demerit.
immerited	Obsolete	Unmerited.
immeritous	Obsolete	Undeserving.
immersable		See Immersible — capable of being immersed.
immerse		To plunge into anything that surrounds or covers, especially into a fluid; to dip; to sink; to bury; to immerge.
immersed		Deeply plunged into anything, especially a fluid.
immersible		Capable of being immersed.
immersion		The act of immersing, or the state of being immersed; a sinking within a fluid; a dipping; as, the immersion of Achilles in the Styx.
immersionist		One who holds the doctrine that immersion is essential to Christian baptism.
immesh		To catch or entangle in, or as in, the meshes of a net. or in a web; to insnare.
immethodical		Not methodical; without method or systematic arrangement; without order or regularity; confused.
immethodically		Without method; confusedly; unsystematically.
immethodicalness		Want of method.
immethodize		To render immethodical; to destroy the method of; to confuse.
immetrical		Not metrical or rhythmical.
immew		See Emmew — to mew or coop up.
immigrant		One who immigrates; one who comes to a country for the purpose of permanent residence; -- correlative of emigrant.
immigrate		To come into a country of which one is not a native, for the purpose of permanent residence.
immigration		The act of immigrating; the passing or coming into a country for the purpose of permanent residence.
imminence		The condition or quality of being imminent; a threatening, as of something about to happen.
imminent		Threatening to occur immediately; near at hand; impending; -- said especially of misfortune or peril.
imminently		In an imminent manner.
immingle		To mingle; to mix; to unite; to blend.
imminution		A lessening; diminution; decrease.
immiscibility		Incapability of being mixed, or mingled.
immiscible		Not capable of being mixed or mingled.
immission		The act of immitting, or of sending or thrusting in; injection; -- the correlative of emission.
immit		To send in; to inject; to infuse; -- the correlative of emit.
immitigable		Not capable of being mitigated, softened, or appeased.
immitigably		In an immitigable manner.
immix		To mix; to mingle.
immixable		Not mixable.
immixed	Obsolete	Unmixed.
immixture		Freedom from mixture; purity.
immobile		Incapable of being moved; immovable; fixed; stable.
immobility		The condition or quality of being immobile; fixedness in place or state.
immobilize		To make immovable; in surgery, to make immovable (a naturally mobile part, as a joint) by the use of splints, or stiffened bandages.
immoble		See Immobile — incapable of being moved; immovable; fixed; stable.
immoderacy		Immoderateness.
immoderancy		Immoderateness; excess.
immoderate		Not moderate; exceeding just or usual and suitable bounds; excessive; extravagant; unreasonable; as, immoderate demands; immoderate grief; immoderate laughter.
immoderately		In an immoderate manner; excessively.
immoderateness		The quality of being immoderate; excess; extravagance.
immoderation		Want of moderation.
immodest		Not limited to due bounds; immoderate.
immodestly		In an immodest manner.
immodesty		Want of modesty, delicacy, or decent reserve; indecency.
immolate		To sacrifice; to offer in sacrifice; to kill, as a sacrificial victim.
immolation		The act of immolating, or the state of being immolated, or sacrificed.
immolator		One who offers in sacrifice; specifically, one of a sect of Russian fanatics who practice self-mutilatio and sacrifice.
immold	Obsolete	To mold into shape, or form.
immoment		Trifling.
immomentous		Not momentous; unimportant; insignificant.
immoral		Not moral; inconsistent with rectitude, purity, or good morals; contrary to conscience or the divine law; wicked; unjust; dishonest; vicious; licentious; as, an immoral man; an immoral deed.
immorality		The state or quality of being immoral; vice.
immorally		In an immoral manner; wickedly.
immorigerous	Obsolete	Rude; uncivil; disobedient. -- Im`mo*rig"er*ous*ness, n.
immortal		Not mortal; exempt from liability to die; undying; imperishable; lasting forever; having unlimited, or eternal, existance.
immortalist		One who holds the doctrine of the immortality of the soul.
immortality		The quality or state of being immortal; exemption from death and annihilation; unending existance; as, the immortality of the soul.
immortalization		The act of immortalizing, or state of being immortalized.
immortalize		To render immortal; to cause to live or exist forever.
immortally		In an immortal manner.
immortelle		A plant with a conspicuous, dry, unwithering involucre, as the species of Antennaria, Helichrysum, Gomphrena, etc. See Everlasting.
immortification		Failure to mortify the passions.
immould	Obsolete	To mold into shape, or form.
immovability		The quality or state of being immovable; fixedness; steadfastness; as, immovability of a heavy body; immovability of purpose.
immovable		Incapable of being moved; firmly fixed; fast; -- used of material things; as, an immovable foundatin.
immovableness		Quality of being immovable.
immovably		In an immovable manner.
immund		Unclean.
immundicity		Uncleanness; filthness.
immune		Exempt; protected by inoculation. -- Im*mu"nize, v. t.
immunity		Freedom or exemption from any charge, duty, obligation, office, tax, imposition, penalty, or service; a particular privilege; as, the immunities of the free cities of Germany; the immunities of the clergy.
immure	Obsolete	To wall around; to surround with walls.
immurement		The act iif immuring, or the state of being immured; imprsonment.
immusical		Inharmonious; unmusical; discordant.
immutability		The state or quality of being immutable; immutableness.
immutable		Not mutable; not capable or susceptible of change; unchangeable; unalterable.
immutate	Obsolete	Unchanged.
immutation		Change; alteration; mutation.
immute	Obsolete	To change or alter.
imp		A young or inferior devil; a little, malignant spirit; a puny demon; a contemptible evil worker.
imp-pole		A pole for supporting a scaffold.
impacable	Obsolete	Not to be appeased or quieted.
impackment		The state of being closely surrounded, crowded, or pressed, as by ice.
impact		To drive close; to press firmly together: to wedge into a place.
impacted		Driven together or close.
impaction		(Surg.) The driving of one fragment of bone into another so that the fragments are not movable upon each other; as, impaction of the skull or of the hip.
impaint		To paint; to adorn with colors.
impair	Obsolete	To make worse; to diminish in quantity, value, excellence, or strength; to deteriorate; as, to impair health, character, the mind, value.
impairer		One who, or that which, impairs.
impairment		The state of being impaired; injury.
impalatable		Unpalatable.
impale		To pierce with a pale; to put to death by fixing on a sharp stake. See Empale.
impalement		The act of impaling, or the state of being impaled.
impalla		The pallah deer of South Africa.
impallid	Obsolete	To make pallid; to blanch.
impalm		To grasp with or hold in the hand.
impalpability		The quality of being impalpable.
impalpable		Not palpable; that cannot be felt; extremely fine, so that no grit can be perceived by touch.
impalpably		In an impalpable manner.
impalsy		To palsy; to paralyze; to deaden.
impanate	Obsolete	Embodied in bread, esp. in the bread of the eucharist.
impanation		Embodiment in bread; the supposed real presence and union of Christ's material body and blood with the substance of the elements of the eucharist without a change in their nature; -- distinguished from transubstantiation…
impanator		One who holds the doctrine of impanation.
impanel		To enter in a list, or on a piece of parchment, called a panel; to form or enroll, as a list of jurors in a court of justice.
impanelment		The act or process of impaneling, or the state of being impaneled.
imparadise		To put in a state like paradise; to make supremely happy.
imparalleled	Obsolete	Unparalleled.
impardonable	Obsolete	Unpardonable.
imparidigitate		Having an odd number of fingers or toes, either one, three, or five, as in the horse, tapir, rhinoceros, etc.
imparipinnate		Pinnate with a single terminal leaflet.
imparisyllabic		Not consisting of an equal number of syllables; as, an imparisyllabic noun, one which has not the same number of syllables in all the cases; as, lapis, lapidis; mens, mentis.
imparity		Inequality; disparity; disproportion; difference of degree, rank, excellence, number, etc. Milton.
impark		To inclose for a park; to sever from a common; hence, to inclose or shut up.
imparl		(Law) To have time before pleading; to have delay for mutual adjustment.
imparlance		(Law) (a) Time given to a party to talk or converse with his opponent, originally with the object of effecting, if possible, an amicable adjustment of the suit.
imparsonee		Presented, instituted, and inducted into a rectory, and in full possession. -- n.
impart		To bestow a share or portion of; to give, grant, or communicate; to allow another to partake in; as, to impart food to the poor; the sun imparts warmth.
impartance		Impartation.
impartation		The act of imparting, or the thing imparted.
imparter		One who imparts.
impartial		Not partial; not favoring one more than another; treating all alike; unprejudiced; unbiased; disinterested; equitable; fair; just.
impartialist		One who is impartial.
impartiality		The quality of being impartial; freedom from bias or favoritism; disinterestedness; equitableness; fairness; as, impartiality of judgment, of treatment, etc. Impartiality strips the mind of prejudice and passion.
impartially		In an impartial manner.
impartialness		Impartiality.
impartibility		The quality of being impartible; communicability.
impartible		Capable of being imparted or communicated.
impartment		The act of imparting, or that which is imparted, communicated, or disclosed.
impassable		Incapable of being passed; not admitting a passage; as, an impassable road, mountain, or gulf.
impasse		An impassable road or way; a blind alley; cul-de-sac; fig., a position or predicament affording no escape.
impassibility		The quality or condition of being impassible; insusceptibility of injury from external things.
impassible		Incapable of suffering; inaccessible to harm or pain; not to be touched or moved to passion or sympathy; unfeeling, or not showing feeling; without sensation.
impassibleness		Impassibility.
impassion	Archaic	To move or affect strongly with passion.
impassionable		Excitable; susceptible of strong emotion.
impassionate		Strongly affected.
impassioned		Actuated or characterized by passion or zeal; showing warmth of feeling; ardent; animated; excited; as, an impassioned orator or discourse.
impassive		Not susceptible of pain or suffering; apathetic; impassible; unmoved.
impassivity		The quality of being insusceptible of feeling, pain, or suffering; impassiveness.
impastation		The act of making into paste; that which is formed into a paste or mixture; specifically, a combination of different substances by means of cements.
impaste		To knead; to make into paste; to concrete.
impasting		The laying on of colors to produce impasto.
impasto		The thickness of the layer or body of pigment applied by the painter to his canvas with especial reference to the juxtaposition of different colors and tints in forming a harmonious whole.
impasture		To place in a pasture; to foster.
impatible		Not capable of being borne; impassible.
impatience		The quality of being impatient; want of endurance of pain, suffering, opposition, or delay; eagerness for change, or for something expected; restlessness; chafing of spirit; fretfulness; passion; as…
impatiency	Obsolete	Impatience.
impatiens		A genus of plants, several species of which have very beautiful flowers; -- so called because the elastic capsules burst when touched, and scatter the seeds with considerable force.
impatient		Not patient; not bearing with composure; intolerant; uneasy; fretful; restless, because of pain, delay, or opposition; eager for change, or for something expected; hasty; passionate; -- often followed by at, for, of, and under.
impatiently		In an impatient manner.
impatronization		Absolute seignory or possession; the act of investing with such possession.
impatronize		To make lord or master; as, to impatronize one's self of a seigniory.
impave	Poetic	To pave.
impavid		Fearless. -- Im*pav"id*ly, adv.
impawn		To put in pawn; to pledge.
impeach		To charge with a crime or misdemeanor; to accuse; especially to charge (a public officer), before a competent tribunal, with misbehavior in office; to cite before a tribunal for judgement of official misconduct; to arraign; as…
impeachable		That may be impeached; liable to impeachment; chargeable with a crime.
impeacher		One who impeaches.
impeachment	Obsolete	The act of impeaching, or the state of being impeached; as: (a) Hindrance; impediment; obstruction.
impearl	Poetic	To form into pearls, or into that which resembles pearls.
impeccability		the quality of being impeccable; exemption from sin, error, or offense.
impeccable		Not liable to sin; exempt from the possibility of doing wrong. -- n.
impeccancy		Sinlessness.
impeccant		Sinless; impeccable.
impecuniosity		The state of being impecunious.
impecunious		Not having money; habitually without money; poor.
impedance		The apparent resistance in an electric circuit to the flow of an alternating current, analogous to the actual electrical resistance to a direct current, being the ratio of electromotive force to the current.
impede		To hinder; to stop in progress; to obstruct; as, to impede the advance of troops.
impedible		Capable of being impeded or hindered.
impediment		That which impedes or hinders progress, motion, activity, or effect.
impedimenta		Things which impede or hinder progress; incumbrances; baggage; specif.
impedimental		Of the nature of an impediment; hindering; obstructing; impeditive.
impedite	Obsolete	Hindered; obstructed.
impedition	Obsolete	A hindering; a hindrance.
impeditive		Causing hindrance; impeding.
impel		To drive or urge forward or on; to press on; to incite to action or motion in any way.
impellent		Having the quality of impelling.
impeller		One who, or that which, impels.
impen		To shut up or inclose, as in a pen.
impendence		The state of impending; also, that which impends.
impendency		The state of impending; also, that which impends.
impendent		Impending; threatening.
impending		Hanging over; overhanging; suspended so as to menace; imminet; threatening.
impenetrability		Quality of being impenetrable.
impenetrable		Incapable of being penetrated or pierced; not admitting the passage of other bodies; not to be entered; impervious; as, an impenetrable shield.
impenetrableness		The quality of being impenetrable; impenetrability.
impenetrably		In an impenetrable manner or state; imperviously.
impenitence		The condition of being impenitent; failure or refusal to repent; hardness of heart.
impenitency		Impenitence.
impenitent		Not penitent; not repenting of sin; not contrite; of a hard heart.
impenitently		Without repentance.
impennate		Characterized by short wings covered with feathers resembling scales, as the penguins. -- n.
impennes		An order of birds, including only the penguins, in which the wings are without quills, and not suited for flight.
impennous		Having no wings, as some insects.
impeople	Obsolete	To people; to give a population to.
imperant		Commanding.
imperate	Obsolete	Done by express direction; not involuntary; communded.
imperatival		Of or pertaining to the imperative mood.
imperative		Expressive of command; containing positive command; authoritatively or absolutely directive; commanding; authoritative; as, imperative orders.
imperatively		In an imperative manner.
imperator		A commander; a leader; an emperor; -- originally an appellation of honor by which Roman soldiers saluted their general after an important victory.
imperatorial		Commanding; imperative; authoritative.
imperatorian		Imperial.
imperatory		Imperative.
imperceivable		Imperceptible.
imperceived	Obsolete	Not perceived.
imperceptibility		The state or quality of being imperceptible.
imperceptible		Not perceptible; not to be apprehended or cognized by the souses; not discernible by the mind; not easily apprehended.
imperception		Want of perception.
imperceptive		Unable to perceive.
impercipient		Not perceiving, or not able to perceive.
imperdibility	Obsolete	The state or quality of being imperdible.
imperdible	Obsolete	Not destructible. -- Im*per"di*bly, adv.
imperfect		Not perfect; not complete in all its parts; wanting a part; deective; deficient.
imperfectibility		The state or quality of being imperfectible.
imperfectible		Incapable of being mad perfect.
imperfection		The quality or condition of being imperfect; want of perfection; incompleteness; deficiency; fault or blemish.
imperfectness		The state of being imperfect.
imperforable		Incapable of being perforated, or bored through.
imperforata		A division of Foraminifera, including those in which the shell is not porous.
imperforate		Not perforated; having no opening or aperture.
imperforated		Not perforated; having no opening or aperture.
imperforation		The state of being without perforation.
imperial		Of or pertaining to an empire, or to an emperor; as, an imperial government; imperial authority or edict.
imperialism		The power or character of an emperor; imperial authority; the spirit of empire.
imperialist		One who serves an emperor; one who favors imperialism.
imperiality		Imperial power.
imperialize		To invest with imperial authority, character, or style; to bring to the form of an empire.
imperially		In an imperial manner.
imperil		To bring into peril; to endanger.
imperilment		The act of imperiling, or the state of being imperiled.
imperious		Haughly; arrogant; overbearing; as, an imperious tyrant; an imperious manner.
imperiously		In an imperious manner.
imperiousness		The quality or state of being imperious; arrogance; haughtiness.
imperishability		The quality of being imperishable: indstructibility.
imperishable		Not perisha ble; not subject to decay; indestructible; enduringpermanently; as, an imperishable monument; imperishable renown. -- Im*per ish*a*bly, adv.
imperium		Supreme power; absolute dominion; empire.
imperiwigged		Wearing a periwig.
impermanence		Want of permanence.
impermanency		Want of permanence.
impermanent		Not permanent.
impermeability		The quality of being impermeable.
impermeable		Not permeable; not permitting passage, as of a fluid. through its substance; impervious; impenetrable; as, India rubber is impermeable to water and to air. -- Im*per me*a*bly, adv.
impermissible		Not permissible.
imperscrutable	Obsolete	Not capable of being searched out; inscrutable. -- Im`per*scru"ta*ble*ness, n.
imperseverant	Obsolete	Not persevering; fickle; thoughtless.
impersonal		Not personal; not representing a person; not having personality.
impersonality		The quality of being impersonal; want or absence of personality.
impersonally		In an impersonal manner.
impersonate		To invest with personality; to endow with the form of a living being.
impersonation		The act of impersonating; personification; investment with personality; representation in a personal form.
impersonator		One who impersonates; an actor; a mimic.
impersonification		The act of impersonating; personification; investment with personality; representation in a personal form.
imperspicuity		Want of perspicuity or clearness; vaguness; ambiguity.
imperspicuous		Not perspicuous; not clear; obscure; vague; ambeguous.
impersuadable		Not to be persuaded; obstinate; unyielding; impersuasible. -- Im`per*suad"a*ble*ness, n.
impersuasible		Not persuasible; not to be moved by persuasion; inflexible; impersuadable.
impertinence		The condition or quality of being impertnent; absence of pertinence, or of adaptedness; irrelevance; unfitness.
impertinency		Impertinence.
impertinent		Not pertinent; not pertaining to the matter in hand; having no bearing on the subject; not to the point; irrelevant; inapplicable.
impertinently		In an impertinent manner.
impertransibility		The quality or state of being impertransible.
impertransible		Incapable of being passed through.
imperturbability		The state or quality of being imperturbable.
imperturbable		Incapable of being disturbed or disconcerted; as, imperturbable gravity.
imperturbably		In an imperturbable manner; calmly.
imperturbation		Freedom from agitation of mind; calmness; quietude.
imperturbed		Not perturbed.
imperviability		The quality of being imperviable.
imperviable		Not pervious; impervious. -- Im*per"vi*a*ble*ness, n.
impervious		Not pervious; not admitting of entrance or passage through; as, a substance impervious to water or air.
impest	Obsolete	To affict with pestilence; to infect, as with plague.
impester	Obsolete	See Pester — to trouble; to disturb; to annoy; to harass with petty vexations.
impetiginous		Of the nature of, or pertaining to, impetigo.
impetigo		A cutaneous, pustular eruption, not attended with fever; usually, a kind of eczema with pustulation.
impetrable	Obsolete	Capable of being obtained or moved by petition.
impetrate	Obsolete	Obtained by entreaty.
impetration		(Old Eng. Law) The obtaining of benefice from Rome by solicitation, which benefice belonged to the disposal of the king or other lay patron of the realm.
impetrative	Obsolete	Of the nature of impetration; getting, or tending to get, by entreaty.
impetratory	Obsolete	Containing or expressing entreaty.
impetuosity		The condition or quality of being impetuous; fury; violence.
impetuous		Rushing with force and violence; moving with impetus; furious; forcible; violent; as, an impetuous wind; an impetuous torrent.
impetus		A property possessed by a moving body in virtue of its weight and its motion; the force with which any body is driven or impelled; momentum.
imphee		The African sugar cane (Holcus saccharatus), -- resembling the sorghum, or Chinese sugar cane.
impi		A body of Kaffir warriors; a body of native armed men.
impictured	Obsolete	Pictured; impressed.
impierce	Obsolete	To pierce; to penetrate.
impierceable	Obsolete	Not capable of being pierced; impenetrable.
impiety		The quality of being impious; want of piety; irreverence toward the Supreme Being; ungodliness; wickedness.
impignorate	Obsolete	To pledge or pawn.
impignoration	Obsolete	The act of pawning or pledging; the state of being pawned.
imping		(Falconry) The process of repairing broken feathers or a deficient wing.
impinge		To fall or dash against; to touch upon; to strike; to hit; to ciash with; -- with on or upon.
impingement		The act of impinging.
impingent		Striking against or upon.
impinguate	Obsolete	To fatten; to make fat.
impinguation	Obsolete	The act of making fat, or the state of being fat or fattened.
impious		Not pious; wanting piety; irreligious; irreverent; ungodly; profane; wanting in reverence for the Supreme Being; as, an impious deed; impious language.
impire	Obsolete	See Umpire — a person to whose sole decision a controversy or question between parties is referred; especially, one chosen to see that the rules of a game, as cricket, baseball, or the like…
impish		Having the qualities, or showing the characteristics, of an imp.
impishly		In the manner of an imp.
impiteous	Obsolete	Pitiless; cruel.
implacability		The quality or state of being implacable.
implacable		Not placable; not to be appeased; incapable of being pacified; inexorable; as, an implacable prince.
implacableness		The quality of being implacable; implacability.
implacably		In an implacable manner.
implacental		Without a placenta, as marsupials and monotremes. -- n.
implacentalia		A primary division of the Mammalia, including the monotremes and marsupials, in which no placenta is formed.
implant		To plant, or infix, for the purpose of growth; to fix deeply; to instill; to inculate; to introduce; as, to implant the seeds of virtue, or the principles of knowledge, in the minds of youth.
implantation		The act or process of implantating.
implate		To cover with plates; to sheathe; as, to implate a ship with iron.
implausibility		Want of plausibility; the quality of being implausible.
implausible		Not plausible; not wearing the appearance of truth or credibility, and not likely to be believed. -- Im*plau si*bly, adv.
impleach	Obsolete	To pleach; to interweave.
implead		To institute and prosecute a suit against, in court; to sue or prosecute at law; hence, to accuse; to impeach.
impleadable		Not admitting excuse, evasion, or plea; rigorous.
impleader		One who prosecutes or sues another.
impleasing	Obsolete	Unpleasing; displeasing.
impledge		To pledge.
implement		That which fulfills or supplies a want or use; esp., an instrument, toll, or utensil, as supplying a requisite to an end; as, the implements of trade, of husbandry, or of war.
implemental		Pertaining to, or characterized by, implements or their use; mechanical.
impletion		The act of filling, or the state of being full.
implex		Intricate; entangled; complicated; complex.
implexion		Act of involving, or state of being involved; involution.
impliable		Not pliable; inflexible; inyielding.
implicate		To infold; to fold together; to interweave.
implication		The act of implicating, or the state of being implicated.
implicative		Tending to implicate.
implicatively		By implication.
implicit		Tacitly comprised; fairly to be understood, though not expressed in words; implied; as, an implicit contract or agreement.
implicitly		In an implicit manner; without reserve; with unreserved confidence.
implicitness		State or quality of being implicit.
implicity	Obsolete	Implicitness.
implied		Virtually involved or included; involved in substance; inferential; tacitly conceded; -- the correlative of express, or expressed.
impliedly		By implication or inference.
imploded		Formed by implosion.
implodent		An implosive sound.
imploration		The act of imploring; earnest supplication.
implorator	Obsolete	One who implores.
imploratory		Supplicatory; entreating.
implore	Obsolete	To call upon, or for, in supplication; to beseech; to prey to, or for, earnestly; to petition with urency; to entreat; to beg; -- followed directly by the word expressing the thing sought, or the person from whom it is sought.
implorer		One who implores.
imploring		That implores; beseeching; entreating. -- Im*plor"ing*ly, adv.
implosion		A burstion inwards, as of a vessel from which the air has been exhausted; -- contrasted with explosion.
implosive		Formed by implosion. -- n.
implumed		Not plumed; without plumes or feathers; featherless.
implunge		To plunge.
impluvium		In Roman dwellings, a cistern or tank, set in the atrium or peristyle to recieve the water from the roof, by means of the compluvium; generally made ornamental with flowers and works of art around its birm.
imply		To involve in substance or essence, or by fair inference, or by construction of law, when not include virtually; as, war implies fighting.
impoison		To poison; to imbitter; to impair.
impoisoner	Obsolete	A poisoner.
impoisonment	Obsolete	The act of poisoning or impoisoning.
impolarily	Obsolete	Not according to or in, the direction of the poles.
impolarly	Obsolete	Not according to or in, the direction of the poles.
impolicy		The quality of being impolitic; inexpedience; unsuitableness to the end proposed; bads policy; as, the impolicy of fraud.
impolite		Not polite; not of polished manners; wanting in good manners; discourteous; uncivil; rude. -- Im`po*lite ness, n.
impolitic		Not politic; contrary to, or wanting in, policy; unwise; imprudent; indiscreet; inexpedient; as, an impolitic ruler, law, or measure.
impolitical	Obsolete	Impolitic. -- Im`po*lit"i*cal*ly, adv.
impoliticly		In an impolitic manner.
impoliticness		The quality of being impolitic.
imponderability		The quality or state of being imponderable; imponderableness.
imponderable		Not ponderable; without sensible or appreciable weight; incapable of being weighed.
imponderableness		The quality or state of being imponderable.
imponderous	Obsolete	Imponderable.
impone	Obsolete	To stake; to wager; to pledge.
impoofo		The eland.
impoon		The duykerbok.
impoor	Obsolete	To impoverish.
imporosity		The state or quality of being imporous; want of porosity; compactness.
imporous		Destitute of pores; very close or compact in texture; solid.
import		To bring in from abroad; to introduce from without; especially, to bring (wares or merchandise) into a place or country from a foreign country, in the transactions of commerce; -- opposed to export.
importable	Obsolete	Capable of being imported.
importance		The quality or state of being important; consequence; weight; moment; significance.
importancy	Obsolete	Importance; significance; consequence; that which is important.
important		Carrying or possessing weight or consequence; of valuable content or bearing; significant; weighty.
importantly		In an important manner.
importation		The act of carrying, conveying, or delivering.
importer		One who imports; the merchant who brings goods into a country or state; -- opposed to exporter.
importing	Obsolete	Full of meaning.
importless	Obsolete	Void of meaning.
importunable	Obsolete	Heavy; insupportable.
importunacy		The quality of being importunate; importunateness.
importunate		Troublesomely urgent; unreasonably solicitous; overpressing in request or demand; urgent; teasing; as, an impotunate petitioner, curiosity.
importunator	Obsolete	One who importunes; an importuner.
importune		To request or solicit, with urgency; to press with frequent, unreasonable, or troublesome application or pertinacity; hence, to tease; to irritate; to worry.
importunely	Obsolete	In an importune manner.
importuner		One who importunes.
importunity		The quality of being importunate; pressing or pertinacious solicitation; urgent request; incessant or frequent application; troublesome pertinacity.
importuous		Without a port or harbor.
imposable		Capable of being imposed or laid on.
imposableness		Quality of being imposable.
impose		To lay as a charge, burden, tax, duty, obligation, command, penalty, etc.; to enjoin; to levy; to inflict; as, to impose a toll or tribute.
imposement	Obsolete	Imposition.
imposer		One who imposes.
imposing		Laying as a duty; enjoining.
imposingly		In an imposing manner.
imposingness		The quality of being imposing.
imposition		The act of imposing, laying on, affixing, enjoining, inflicting, obtruding, and the like.
impossibility		The quality of being impossible; impracticability.
impossible	Obsolete	Not possible; incapable of being done, of existing, etc.; unattainable in the nature of things, or by means at command; insuperably difficult under the circumstances; absurd or impracticable; not feasible.
impossibly		Not possibly.
impost		That which is imposed or levied; a tax, tribute, or duty; especially, a duty or tax laid by goverment on goods imported into a country.
imposthumate		To apostemate; to form an imposthume or abscess.
imposthumation		The act of forming an abscess; state of being inflamed; suppuration.
imposthume		A collection of pus or purulent matter in any part of an animal body; an abscess.
impostor		One who imposes upon others; a person who assumes a character or title not his own, for the purpose of deception; a pretender. -- Deceiver; cheat; rogue.
impostorship		The condition, character, or practice of an impostor.
impostress		A woman who imposes upon or deceives others.
impostrix		A woman who imposes upon or deceives others.
impostrous		Characterized by imposture; deceitful.
imposturage		Imposture; cheating.
imposture		The act or conduct of an impostor; deception practiced under a false or assumed character; fraud or imposition; cheating.
impostured	Obsolete	Done by imposture.
imposturous		Impostrous; deceitful.
impostury	Obsolete	Imposture.
impotence		The quality or condition of being impotent; want of strength or power, animal, intellectual, or moral; weakness; feebleness; inability; imbecility.
impotency		The quality or condition of being impotent; want of strength or power, animal, intellectual, or moral; weakness; feebleness; inability; imbecility.
impotent		Not potent; wanting power, strength. or vigor. whether physical, intellectual, or moral; deficient in capacity; destitute of force; weak; feeble; infirm.
impotently		In an impotent manner.
impound		To shut up or place in an inclosure called a pound; hence, to hold in the custody of a court; as, to impound stray cattle; to impound a document for safe keeping.
impoundage		The act of impounding, or the state of being impounded.
impounder		One who impounds.
impoverish		To make poor; to reduce to poverty or indigence; as, misfortune and disease impoverish families.
impoverisher		One who, or that which, impoverishes.
impoverishment		The act of impoverishing, or the state of being impoverished; reduction to poverty.
impower		See Empower — to give authority to; to delegate power to; to commission; to authorize (having commonly a legal force); as, the Supreme Court is empowered to try and decide cases, civil or criminal…
impracticability		The state or quality of being impracticable; infeasibility.
impracticable		Not practicable; incapable of being performed, or accomplished by the means employed, or at command; impossible; as, an impracticable undertaking.
impracticableness		The state or quality of being impracticable; impracticability.
impracticably		In an impracticable manner.
impractical		Not practical.
imprecate		To call down by prayer, as something hurtful or calamitous.
imprecation		The act of imprecating, or unvoking evil upon any one; a player that a curse or calamnity may fall on any one; a curse.
imprecatory		Of the nature of, or containing, imprecation; invokingevil; as, the imprecatory psalms.
imprecision		Want of precision.
impregn	Obsolete	To impregnate; to make fruitful.
impregnability		The quality or state of being impregnable; invincibility.
impregnable		Not to be stormed, or taken by assault; incapable of being subdued; able to resist attack; unconquerable; as, an impregnable fortress; impregnable virtue.
impregnant		That which impregnates.
impregnate		To make pregnant; to cause to conceive; to render prolific; to get with child or young.
impregnation		The act of impregnating or the state of being impregnated; fecundation.
imprejudicate	Obsolete	Not prejuged; unprejudiced; impartial.
imprenable	Obsolete	Impregnable.
impreparation	Obsolete	Want of preparation.
impresa		A device on a shield or seal, or used as a bookplate or the like.
impresario		The projector, manager, or conductor, of an opera or concert company.
imprescriptibility		The quality of being imprescriptible.
imprescriptible		Not capable of being lost or impaired by neglect, by disuse, or by the claims of another founded on prescription.
imprescriptibly		In an imprescriptible manner; obviously.
imprese		A device. See Impresa.
impress		To press, stamp, or print something in or upon; to mark by pressure, or as by pressure; to imprint (that which bears the impression).
impressibility		The quality of being impressible; susceptibility.
impressible		Capable of being impressed; susceptible; sensitive. -- Im*press i*bly, adv.
impression		The act of impressing, or the state of being impressed; the communication of a stamp, mold, style, or character, by external force or by influence.
impressionability		The quality of being impressionable.
impressionable		Liable or subject to impression; capable of being molded; susceptible; impressible.
impressionableness		The quality of being impressionable.
impressionism		The theory or method of suggesting an effect or impression without elaboration of the details; -- a disignation of a recent fashion in painting and etching.
impressionist		One who adheres to the theory or method of impressionism, so called.
impressionistic		Pertaining to, or characterized by, impressionism.
impressionless		Having the quality of not being impressed or affected; not susceptible.
impressive		Making, or tending to make, an impression; having power to impress; adapted to excite attention and feeling, to touch the sensibilities, or affect the conscience; as, an impressive discourse; an impressive scene.
impressment		The act of seizing for public use, or of impressing into public service; compulsion to serve; as, the impressment of provisions or of sailors.
impressor		One who, or that which, impresses.
impressure	Obsolete	Dent; impression.
imprest		To advance on loan.
imprevalence	Obsolete	Want of prevalence.
imprevalency	Obsolete	Want of prevalence.
impreventability		The state or quality of being impreventable.
impreventable		Not preventable; invitable.
imprimatur		A license to print or publish a book, paper, etc.; also, in countries subjected to the censorship of the press, approval of that which is published.
imprimery		(a) A print; impression. (b) A printing establishment. (c) The art of printing.
impriming	Obsolete	A begining.
imprimis		In the first place; first in order.
imprint		To stamp or mark, as letters on paper, by means of type, plates, stamps, or the like; to print the mark (figures, letters, etc., upon something).
imprison		To put in prison or jail; To arrest and detain in custody; to confine.
imprisoner		One who imprisons.
imprisonment		The act of imprisoning, or the state of being imprisoned; confinement; restraint.
improbability		The quality or state of being improbable; unlikelihood; also, that which is improbable; an improbable event or result.
improbable		Not probable; unlikely to be true; not to be expected under the circumstances or in the usual course of events; as, an improbable story or event.
improbate	Obsolete	To disapprove of; to disallow.
improbation		The act of disapproving; disapprobation.
improbative		Implying, or tending to, improbation.
improbatory		Implying, or tending to, improbation.
improbity		Lack of probity; want of integrity or rectitude; dishonesty.
improficience		Want of proficiency.
improficiency		Want of proficiency.
improfitable	Obsolete	Unprofitable.
improgressive		Not progressive.
improlific	Obsolete	Not prolific.
improlificate	Obsolete	To impregnate.
imprompt		Not ready.
impromptu		Offhand; without previous study; extemporaneous; extempore; as, an impromptu verse.
improper		Not proper; not suitable; not fitted to the circumstances, design, or end; unfit; not becoming; incongruous; inappropriate; indecent; as, an improper medicine; improper thought, behavior, language, dress.
improperation	Obsolete	The act of upbraiding or taunting; a reproach; a taunt.
improperia		A series of antiphons and responses, expressing the sorrowful remonstrance of our Lord with his people; -- sung on the morning of the Good Friday in place of the usual daily Mass of the Roman ritual.
improperly		In an improper manner; not properly; unsuitably; unbecomingly.
improperty	Obsolete	Impropriety.
impropitious	Obsolete	Unpropitious; unfavorable.
improportionable	Obsolete	Not proportionable.
improportionate	Obsolete	Not proportionate.
impropriate		(Eng. Eccl. Law) To place the profits of (ecclesiastical property) in the hands of a layman for care and disbursement.
impropriation		The act of impropriating; as, the impropriation of property or tithes; also, that which is impropriated.
impropriator		One who impropriates; specifically, a layman in possession of church property.
impropriatrix		A female impropriator.
impropriety		The quality of being improper; unfitness or unsuitableness to character, time place, or circumstances; as, improperiety of behavior or manners.
improsperity	Obsolete	Want of prosperity.
improsperous	Obsolete	Not prosperous.
improvability		The state or quality of being improvable; improvableness.
improvable		Capable of being improved; susceptible of improvement; admitting of being made better; capable of cultivation, or of being advanced in good qualities.
improve		To make better; to increase the value or good qualities of; to ameliorate by care or cultivation; as, to improve land.
improvement		The act of improving; advancement or growth; promotion in desirable qualities; progress toward what is better; melioration; as, the improvement of the mind, of land, roads…
improver		One who, or that which, improves.
improvided	Obsolete	Unforeseen; unexpected; not provided against; unprepared.
improvidence		The quality of being improvident; want of foresight or thrift.
improvident		Not provident; wanting foresight or forethought; not foreseeing or providing for the future; negligent; thoughtless; as, an improvident man.
improvidentially		Improvidently.
improvidently		In a improvident manner.
improving		Tending to improve, beneficial; growing better. -- Im*prov"ing*ly, adv.
improvisate		Unpremeditated; impromptu; extempore.
improvisation		The act or art of composing and rendering music, poetry, and the like, extemporaneously; as, improvisation on the organ.
improvisatize		Same as Improvisate.
improvisator		An improviser, or improvvisatore.
improvisatore		See Improvvisatore — one who composes and sings or recites rhymes and short poems extemporaneously.
improvisatorial		Of or pertaining to improvisation or extemporaneous composition.
improvisatory		Of or pertaining to improvisation or extemporaneous composition.
improvisatrice		See Improvvisatrice — a female improvvisatore.
improvise		To compose, recite, or sing extemporaneously, especially in verse; to extemporize; also, to play upon an instrument, or to act, extemporaneously.
improviser		One who improvises.
improvision	Obsolete	Improvidence.
improviso	Obsolete	Not prepared or mediated beforehand; extemporaneous.
improvvisatore		One who composes and sings or recites rhymes and short poems extemporaneously.
improvvisatrice		A female improvvisatore.
imprudence		The quality or state of being imprudent; want to caution, circumspection, or a due regard to consequences; indiscretion; inconsideration; reshness; also, an imprudent act; as, he was guilty of an imprudence.
imprudent		Not prudent; wanting in prudence or discretion; indiscreet; injudicious; not attentive to consequence; improper. -- Im*pru"dent*ly, adv.
impuberal		Not having arrived at puberty; immature.
impuberty		The condition of not having reached puberty, or the age of ability to reproduce one's species; want of age at which the marriage contract can be legally entered into.
impudence		The quality of being impudent; assurance, accompanied with a disregard of the presence or opinions of others; shamelessness; forwardness; want of modesty.
impudency	Obsolete	Impudence.
impudent		Bold, with contempt or disregard; unblushingly forward; impertinent; wanting modesty; shameless; saucy.
impudently		In an impudent manner; with unbecoming assurance; shamelessly.
impudicity		Immodesty.
impugn		To attack by words or arguments; to contradict; to assail; to call in question; to make insinuations against; to gainsay; to oppose.
impugnable		Capable of being impugned; that may be gainsaid.
impugnation	Obsolete	Act of impugning; opposition; attack.
impugner		One who impugns.
impugnment		The act of impugning, or the state of being impugned.
impuissance		Lack of power; inability.
impuissant		Weak; impotent; feeble.
impulse		The act of impelling, or driving onward with sudden force; impulsion; especially, force so communicated as to produced motion suddenly, or immediately.
impulsion		The act of impelling or driving onward, or the state of being impelled; the sudden or momentary agency of a body in motion on another body; also, the impelling force, or impulse.
impulsive		Having the power of driving or impelling; giving an impulse; moving; impellent.
impulsively		In an impulsive manner.
impulsiveness		The quality of being impulsive.
impulsor		One who, or that which, impels; an inciter.
impunctate		Not punctuate or dotted.
impunctual		Not punctual.
impunctuality		Neglect of, or failure in, punctuality.
impune		Unpunished.
impunibly	Obsolete	Without punishment; with impunity.
impunity		Exemption or freedom from punishment, harm, or loss.
impuration	Obsolete	Defilement; obscuration.
impure		Not pure; not clean; dirty; foul; filthy; containing something which is unclean or unwholesome; mixed or impregnated extraneous substances; adulterated; as, impure water or air; impure drugs, food, etc.
impurely		In an impure manner.
impureness		The quality or condition of being impure; impurity.
impurity		The condition or quality of being impure in any sense; defilement; foulness; adulteration.
impurple		To color or tinge with purple; to make red or reddish; to purple; as, a field impurpled with blood.
imputability		The quality of being imputable; imputableness.
imputable		That may be imputed; capable of being imputed; chargeable; ascribable; attributable; referable.
imputableness		Quality of being imputable.
imputably		By imputation.
imputation		The act of imputing or charging; attribution; ascription; also, anything imputed or charged.
imputative		Transferred by imputation; that may be imputed. -- Im*put"a*tive*ly, adv.
impute		To charge; to ascribe; to attribute; to set to the account of; to charge to one as the author, responsible originator, or possessor; -- generally in a bad sense.
imputer		One who imputes.
imputrescible		Not putrescible.
imrigh		A peculiar strong soup or broth, made in Scotland.
