in		The specific signification of in is situation or place with respect to surrounding, environment, encompassment, etc. It is used with verbs signifying being, resting, or moving within limits…	Old English inne.
in-		A prefix from Eng. prep. in, also from Lat. prep. in, meaning in, into, on, among; as, inbred, inborn, inroad; incline, inject, intrude.	Latin in.
in-and-in		An old game played with four dice.	
in-going		The act of going in; entrance.	
inability		The quality or state of being unable; lack of ability; want of sufficient power, strength, resources, or capacity.	
inable		See Enable — to make able (to do, or to be, something); to confer sufficient power upon; to furnish with means, opportunities, and the like; to render competent for; to empower; to endow.	
inablement	Obsolete	See Enablement — the act of enabling, or the state of being enabled; ability.	
inabstinence	Obsolete	Want of abstinence; indulgence.	
inabstracted		Not abstracted.	
inabusively		Without abuse.	
inaccessibility		The quality or state of being inaccessible; inaccessibleness.	
inaccessible		Not accessible; not to be reached, obtained, or approached; as, an inaccessible rock, fortress, document, prince, etc. -- In`ac*cess i*bly, adv.	
inaccordant		Not accordant; discordant.	
inaccuracy		The quality of being inaccurate; want of accuracy or exactness.	
inaccurate		Not accurate; not according to truth; inexact; incorrect; erroneous; as, in inaccurate man, narration, copy, judgment, calculation, etc. The expression is plainly inaccurate.	
inaccurately		In an inaccurate manner; incorrectly; inexactly.	
inacquaintance		Want of acquaintance.	
inacquiescent		Not acquiescent or acquiescing.	
inaction		Want of action or activity; forbearance from labor; idleness; rest; inertness.	
inactive		Not active; having no power to move; that does not or can not produce results; inert; as, matter is, of itself, inactive.	
inactively		In an inactive manner.	
inactivity		The state or quality of being inactive; inertness; as, the inactivity of matter.	
inactose		A variety of sugar, found in certain plants.	
inactuate	Obsolete	To put in action.	
inactuation	Obsolete	Operation.	
inadaptation		Want of adaptation; unsuitableness.	
inadequacy		The quality or state of being inadequate or insufficient; defectiveness; insufficiency; inadequateness.	
inadequate		Not adequate; unequal to the purpose; insufficient; deficient; as, inadequate resources, power, conceptions, representations, etc. Dryden. -- In*ad e*quate*ness, n.	
inadequation	Obsolete	Want of exact correspondence.	
inadherent		(Bot.) Free; not connected with the other organs.	
inadhesion		Want of adhesion.	
inadmissibility		The state or quality of being inadmissible, or not to be received.	
inadmissible		Not admissible; not proper to be admitted, allowed, or received; as, inadmissible testimony; an inadmissible proposition, or explanation. -- In`ad*mis"si*bly, adv.	
inadvertence		The quality of being inadvertent; lack of heedfulness or attentiveness; inattention; negligence; as, many mistakes proceed from inadvertence.	
inadvertency		The quality of being inadvertent; lack of heedfulness or attentiveness; inattention; negligence; as, many mistakes proceed from inadvertence.	
inadvertent		Not turning the mind to a matter; heedless; careless; negligent; inattentive.	
inadvisable		Not advisable. -- In`ad*vis"a*ble*ness, n.	
inaffability		Want of affability or sociability; reticence.	
inaffable		Not affable; reserved in social intercourse.	
inaffectation		Freedom from affectation; naturalness.	
inaffected	Obsolete	Unaffected. -- In`af*fect"ed*ly, adv.	
inaidable		Incapable of being assisted; helpless.	
inalienability		The quality or state of being inalienable.	
inalienable		Incapable of being alienated, surrendered, or transferred to another; not alienable; as, in inalienable birthright.	
inalienableness		The quality or state of being inalienable; inalienability.	
inalienably		In a manner that forbids alienation; as, rights inalienably vested.	
inalimental	Obsolete	Affording no aliment or nourishment.	
inalterability		The quality of being unalterable or unchangeable; permanence.	
inalterable		Not alterable; incapable of being altered or changed; unalterable. -- In*al ter*a*bly, adv.	
inamiable	Obsolete	Unamiable. -- In*a"mi*a*ble*ness, n.	
inamissible		Incapable of being lost.	Latin inamissibilis.
inamorata		A woman in love; a mistress.	
inamorate		Enamored.	
inamorato		A male lover.	
inamovable		Not amovable or removable.	
inane		Without contents; empty; void of sense or intelligence; purposeless; pointless; characterless; useless. -- In*ane"ly, adv.	Latin inanis.
inangular	Obsolete	Not angular.	
inaniloquent		Given to talking inanely; loquacious; garrulous.	
inaniloquous		Given to talking inanely; loquacious; garrulous.	
inanimate	Obsolete	To animate.	
inanimated		Destitute of life; lacking animation; unanimated.	
inanimateness		The quality or state of being inanimate.	
inanimation	Obsolete	Want of animation; lifeless; dullness.	
inanitiate		To produce inanition in; to exhaust for want of nourishment.	
inanitiation		Inanition.	
inanition		The condition of being inane; emptiness; want of fullness, as in the vessels of the body; hence, specifically, exhaustion from want of food, either from partial or complete starvation…	Latin inanitio.
inanity		Inanition; void space; vacuity; emptiness.	
inantherate		Not bearing anthers; -- said of sterile stamens.	
inapathy		Sensibility; feeling; -- opposed to apathy.	
inappealable		Not admitting of appeal; not appealable.	
inappeasable		Incapable of being appeased or satisfied; unappeasable.	
inappellability		The quality of being inappellable; finality.	
inappellable		Inappealable; final.	
inappetence		Want of appetency; want of desire.	
inappetency		Want of appetency; want of desire.	
inapplicability		The quality of being inapplicable; unfitness; inapplicableness.	
inapplicable		Not applicable; incapable of being applied; not adapted; not suitable; as, the argument is inapplicable to the case.	
inapplication		Want of application, attention, or diligence; negligence; indolence.	
inapposite		Not apposite; not fit or suitable; not pertinent. -- In*ap"po*site*ly, adv.	
inappreciable		Not appreciable; too small to be perceived; incapable of being duly valued or estimated.	
inappreciation		Want of appreciation.	
inapprehensible		Not apprehensible; unintelligible; inconceivable.	
inapprehension		Want of apprehension.	
inapprehensive		Not apprehensive; regardless; unconcerned.	
inapproachable		Not approachable; unapproachable; inaccessible; unequaled. -- In`ap*proach"a*bly, adv.	
inappropriate		Not instrument (to); not appropriate; unbecoming; unsuitable; not specially fitted; -- followed by to or for. -- In`ap*pro pri*ate*ness, n.	
inapt		Unapt; not apt; unsuitable; inept. -- In*apt ness, n.	
inaptitude		Want of aptitude.	
inaquate	Obsolete	Embodied in, or changed into, water.	Latin inaquatus.
inaquation	Obsolete	The state of being inaquate.	
inarable		Not arable.	
inarch		To graft by uniting, as a scion, to a stock, without separating either from its root before the union is complete; -- also called to graft by approach.	
inarching		A method of ingrafting. See Inarch.	
inarticulate		Not uttered with articulation or intelligible distinctness, as speech or words.	
inarticulated		Not articulated; not jointed or connected by a joint.	
inarticulately		In an inarticulate manner.	
inarticulateness		The state or quality of being inarticulate.	
inarticulation		Inarticulateness.	
inartificial		Not artificial; not made or elaborated by art; natural; simple; artless; as, an inartificial argument; an inartificial character. -- In*ar`ti*fi cial*ness, n.	
inasmuch		In like degree; in like manner; seeing that; considering that; since; -- followed by as. See In as much as, under In, prep.	
inattention		Want of attention, or failure to pay attention; disregard; heedlessness; neglect.	
inattentive		Not attentive; not fixing the mind on an object; heedless; careless; negligent; regardless; as, an inattentive spectator or hearer; an inattentive habit.	
inaudibility		The quality of being inaudible; inaudibleness.	
inaudible		Not audible; incapable of being heard; silent. -- In*au di*bly, adv.	
inaugur	Obsolete	To inaugurate.	
inaugural		Pertaining to, or performed or pronounced at, an inauguration; as, an inaugural address; the inaugural exercises.	French inaugurer, from Latin augurare.
inaugurate		Invested with office; inaugurated.	French inaugurer, from Latin augurare.
inauguration		The act of inuagurating, or inducting into office with solemnity; investiture by appropriate ceremonies.	
inaugurator		One who inaugurates.	
inauguratory		Suitable for, or pertaining to, inauguration.	
inaurate		Covered with gold; gilded.	
inauration		The act or process of gilding or covering with gold.	
inauspicate	Obsolete	Inauspicious Sir G.	
inauspicious		Not auspicious; ill-omened; unfortunate; unlucky; unfavorable. -- In`aus*pi cious*ness, n.	
inauthoritative		Without authority; not authoritative.	
inbarge	Obsolete	To embark; to go or put into a barge.	
inbeaming		Shining in.	
inbeing		Inherence; inherent existence.	
inbind	Obsolete	To inclose.	
inblown	Obsolete	Blown in or into.	
inboard		(Naut.) Inside the line of a vessel's bulwarks or hull; the opposite of outboard; as, an inboard cargo; haul the boom inboard.	
inborn		Born in or with; implanted by nature; innate; as, inborn passions.	
inbreak		A breaking in; inroad; invasion.	
inbreaking		A breaking in; inroad; invasion.	
inbreathe		To infuse by breathing; to inspire.	Middle English inbrethen.
inbred		Bred within; innate; as, inbred worth.	
inbreed		To produce or generate within.	
inburning		Burning within.	
inburnt		Burnt in; ineffaceable.	
inburst		A bursting in or into.	
inc		A Japanese measure of length equal to about two and one twelfth yards.	
inca		(a) An emperor or monarch of Peru before, or at the time of, the Spanish conquest; any member of this royal dynasty, reputed to have been descendants of the sun.	
incage		To confine in, or as in, a cage; to coop up.	
incagement	Obsolete	Confinement in, or as in, cage.	
incalculability		The quality or state of being incalculable.	
incalculable		Not capable of being calculated; beyond calculation; very great. -- In*cal cu*la*bly, adv.	
incalescence		The state of being incalescent, or of growing warm.	
incalescency		Incalescence.	
incalescent		Growing warm; increasing in heat.	
incameration		The act or process of uniting lands, rights, or revenues, to the ecclesiastical chamber, i. e., to the pope's domain.	
incan		Of or pertaining to the Incas.	
incandescence		A white heat, or the glowing or luminous whiteness of a body caused by intense heat.	
incandescent		White, glowing, or luminous, with intense heat; as, incandescent carbon or platinum; hence, clear; shining; brilliant.	Latin incandescens.
incanescent		Becoming hoary or gray; canescent.	
incanous		Hoary with white pubescence.	
incantation		The act or process of using formulas sung or spoken, with occult ceremonies, for the purpose of raising spirits, producing enchantment, or affecting other magical results; enchantment.	
incantatory		Dealing by enchantment; magical.	
incanting	Obsolete	Enchanting.	
incanton		To unite to, or form into, a canton or separate community.	
incapability		The quality of being incapable; incapacity.	
incapable		Wanting in ability or qualification for the purpose or end in view; not large enough to contain or hold; deficient in physical strength, mental or moral power, etc.; not capable; as…	
incapableness		The quality or state of being incapable; incapability.	
incapably		In an incapable manner.	
incapacious		Not capacious; narrow; small; weak or foolish; as, an incapacious soul.	
incapacitate		To deprive of capacity or natural power; to disable; to render incapable or unfit; to disqualify; as, his age incapacitated him for war.	
incapacitation		The act of incapacitating or state of being incapacitated; incapacity; disqualification.	
incapacity		Want of capacity; lack of physical or intellectual power; inability.	
incapsulate		To inclose completely, as in a membrane.	
incapsulation		The process of becoming, or the state or condition of being, incapsulated; as, incapsulation of the ovum in the uterus.	
incarcerate		To imprison; to confine in a jail or priso	Latin incarceratus.
incarceration		The act of confining, or the state of being confined; imprisonment.	
incarcerator		One who incarcerates.	
incarn		To cover or invest with flesh.	
incarnadine	Obsolete	Flesh-colored; of a carnation or pale red color.	French incarnadine.
incarnate		Invested with flesh; embodied in a human nature and form; united with, or having, a human body.	Latin incarnatus.
incarnation		The act of clothing with flesh, or the state of being so clothed; the act of taking, or being manifested in, a human body and nature.	Middle English incarnacion, from Old French incarnacion, from Latin incarnatio.
incarnative		Causing new flesh to grow; healing; regenerative. -- n.	
incarnification		The act of assuming, or state of being clothed with, flesh; incarnation.	
incase		To inclose in a case; to inclose; to cover or surround with something solid.	
incasement		The act or process of inclosing with a case, or the state of being incased.	
incask		To cover with a casque or as with a casque.	
incastellated		Confined or inclosed in a castle.	
incastelled		Hoofbound.	
incatenation		The act of linking together; enchaining.	
incaution		Want of caution.	
incautious		Not cautious; not circumspect; not attending to the circumstances on which safety and interest depend; heedless; careless; as, an incautious step; an incautious remark.	
incavated		Made hollow; bent round or in.	Latin incavatus.
incavation		Act of making hollow; also, a hollow; an exvation; a depression.	
incaved		Inclosed in a cave.	
incaverned		Inclosed or shut up as in a cavern.	
incedingly		Majestically.	
incelebrity		Want of celebrity or distinction; obscurity.	
incend	Obsolete	To inflame; to excite.	Latin incendere.
incendiarism		The act or practice of maliciously setting fires; arson.	
incendiary		Any person who maliciously sets fire to a building or other valuable or other valuable property.	Latin incendiarius.
incendious	Obsolete	Promoting faction or contention; seditious; inflammatory.	
incensant		A modern term applied to animals (as a boar) when borne as raging, or with furious aspect.	
incensation		The offering of incense.	
incense		To inflame with anger; to endkindle; to fire; to incite; to provoke; to heat; to madden.	Old French encens, from Latin incensum.
incense-breathing		Breathing or exhaling incense.	
incensebreathing		Breathing or exhaling incense.	
incensed		Angered; enraged.	
incensement		Fury; rage; heat; exasperation; as, implacable incensement.	
incenser		One who instigates or incites.	
incension		The act of kindling, or the state of being kindled or on fire.	Latin incensio.
incensive		Tending to excite or provoke; inflammatory.	
incensor		A kindler of anger or enmity; an inciter.	
incensory		The vessel in which incense is burned and offered; a censer; a thurible.	
incensurable		Not censurable.	
incenter		The center of the circle inscribed in a triangle.	
incentive		Inciting; encouraging or moving; rousing to action; stimulative.	Latin incentivus.
incentively		Incitingly; encouragingly.	
inception		Beginning; commencement; initiation.	
inceptive		Beginning; expressing or indicating beginning; as, an inceptive proposition; an inceptive verb, which expresses the beginning of action; -- called also inchoative. -- In*cep"tive*ly, adv.	
inceptor		A beginner; one in the rudiments.	
inceration		The act of smearing or covering with wax.	
incerative		Cleaving or sticking like wax.	
incertain		Uncertain; doubtful; unsteady. -- In*cer"tain*ly, adv.	
incertainty	Obsolete	Uncertainty.	Old French incertaineté.
incertitude		Uncertainty; doubtfulness; doubt.	
incertum		Doubtful; not of definite form.	
incessable	Obsolete	Unceasing; continual.	
incessancy		The quality of being incessant; unintermitted continuance; unceasingness.	
incessant		Continuing or following without interruption; unceasing; unitermitted; uninterrupted; continual; as, incessant clamors; incessant pain, etc. Against the castle gate, … Which with incessant force and endless hate…	
incessantly		Unceasingly; continually.	
incession	Obsolete	Motion on foot; progress in walking.	Latin incedere.
incest		The crime of cohabitation or sexual commerce between persons related within the degrees wherein marriage is prohibited by law.	Latin incestus.
incesttuous		Guilty of incest; involving, or pertaining to, the crime of incest; as, an incestuous person or connection.	
inch	Scots	An island; -- often used in the names of small islands off the coast of Scotland, as in Inchcolm, Inchkeith, etc.	Old English ynce, from Latin uncia.
inchamber		To lodge in a chamber.	
inchangeability	Obsolete	Unchangeableness.	
inchant		See Enchant — to charm by sorcery; to act on by enchantment; to get control of by magical words and rites.	
incharitable	Obsolete	Uncharitable; unfeeling.	
incharity	Obsolete	Want of charity.	
inchase		See Enchase — to incase or inclose in a border or rim; to surround with an ornamental casing, as a gem with gold; to encircle; to inclose; to adorn.	
inchastity	Obsolete	Unchastity.	
inched		Having or measuring (so many) inches; as, a four-inched bridge.	
inchest		To put into a chest.	
inchipin		See Inchpin — the sweetbread of a deer.	
inchmeal		A piece an inch long.	
inchoate	Obsolete	Recently, or just, begun; beginning; partially but not fully in existence or operation; existing in its elements; incomplete. -- In"cho*ate*ly, adv.	Latin incohatus.
inchoation		Act of beginning; commencement; inception.	
inchoative		Expressing or pertaining to a beginning; inceptive; as, an inchoative verb. -- n.	
inchpin		The sweetbread of a deer.	
inchworm		The larva of any geometrid moth. See Geometrid.	
incicurable		Untamable.	
incide	Obsolete	To cut; to separate and remove; to resolve or break up, as by medicines.	
incidence		(Physics) The direction in which a body, or a ray of light or heat, falls on any surface.	Latin incidentia.
incidency	Obsolete	Incidence.	
incident		Falling or striking upon, as a ray of light upon a reflecting surface.	
incidental		Happening, as an occasional event, without regularity; coming without design; casual; accidental; hence, not of prime concern; subordinate; collateral; as, an incidental conversation; an incidental occurrence; incidental expenses.	
incidently	Obsolete	Incidentally.	
incinerable		Capable of being incinerated or reduced to ashes.	
incinerate	Obsolete	Reduced to ashes by burning; thoroughly consumed.	Latin incineratus.
incineration		The act of incinerating, or the state of being incinerated; cremation.	
incipience		Beginning; commencement; incipient state.	
incipiency		Beginning; commencement; incipient state.	
incipient		Beginning to be, or to show itself; commencing; initial; as, the incipient stage of a fever; incipient light of day. -- In*cip"i*ent*ly, adv.	Latin incipiens.
incircle		See Encircle — to form a circle about; to inclose within a circle or ring; to surround; as, to encircle one in the arms; the army encircled the city.	
incirclet	Obsolete	A small circle.	
incircumscriptible		Incapable of being circumscribed or limited.	
incircumscription		Condition or quality of being incircumscriptible or limitless.	
incircumspect		Not circumspect; heedless; careless; reckless; impolitic.	
incircumspection		Want of circumspection.	
incise		To cut in or into with a sharp instrument; to carve; to engrave.	
incised		Cut in; carved; engraved.	
incisely		In an incised manner.	
incision		The act of incising, or cutting into a substance.	Latin incisio.
incisive		Having the quality of incising, cutting, or penetrating, as with a sharp instrument; cutting; hence, sharp; acute; sarcastic; biting.	
incisor		One of the teeth in front of the canines in either jaw; an incisive tooth.	Latin incisor.
incisory		Having the quality of cutting; incisor; incisive.	
incisure		A cut; an incision; a gash.	Latin incisura.
incitant		Inciting; stimulating.	
incitation		That which incites to action; that which rouses or prompts; incitement; motive; incentive.	French incitation.
incitative		A provocative; an incitant; a stimulant.	
incite		To move to action; to stir up; to rouse; to spur or urge on.	Latin incitare.
incitement		That which incites the mind, or moves to action; motive; incentive; impulse.	
inciter		One who, or that which, incites.	
incitingly		So as to incite or stimulate.	
incito-motor		Inciting to motion; -- applied to that action which, in the case of muscular motion, commences in the nerve centers, and excites the muscles to contraction.	
incito-motory		Incitomotor.	
incivil	Obsolete	Uncivil; rude.	
incivility		The quality or state of being uncivil; want of courtesy; rudeness of manner; impoliteness.	Latin incivilitas.
incivilization		The state of being uncivilized; want of civilization; barbarism.	
incivilly	Obsolete	Uncivilly.	
incivism		Want of civism; want of patriotism or love to one's country; unfriendliness to one's state or government.	
inclamation	Obsolete	Exclamation.	Latin inclamatio.
inclasp		To clasp within; to hold fast to; to embrace or encircle.	
inclaudent		Not closing or shutting.	
inclavated		Set; fast; fixed.	
inclave		Resembling a series of dovetails; -- said of a line of division, such as the border of an ordinary.	
incle		Same as Inkle.	
inclemency		The state or quality of being inclement; want of clemency; want of mildness of temper; unmercifulness; severity.	
inclement		Not clement; destitute of a mild and kind temper; void of tenderness; unmerciful; severe; harsh.	Latin inclemens.
inclemently		In an inclement manner.	
inclinable		Leaning; tending.	
inclinableness		The state or quality of being inclinable; inclination.	
inclination		The act of inclining, or state of being inclined; a leaning; as, an inclination of the head.	
inclinatory		Having the quality of leaning or inclining; as, the inclinatory needle. -- In*clin"a*to*ri*ly, adv.	
incline		To deviate from a line, direction, or course, toward an object; to lean; to tend; as, converging lines incline toward each other; a road inclines to the north or south.	Old French encliner, from Latin inclino.
inclined		Having a leaning or tendency towards, or away from, a thing; disposed or moved by wish, desire, or judgment; as, a man inclined to virtue.	
incliner		One who, or that which, inclines; specifically, an inclined dial.	
inclining		Inclination; disposition.	
inclinnometer		An apparatus to determine the inclination of the earth's magnetic force to the plane of the horizon; -- called also inclination compass, and dip circle.	
inclip		To clasp; to inclose.	
incloister		To confine as in a cloister; to cloister.	
inclose		To surround; to shut in; to confine on all sides; to include; to shut up; to encompass; as, to inclose a fort or an army with troops; to inclose a town with walls.	
incloser		One who, or that which, incloses; one who fences off land from common grounds.	
inclosure		The act of inclosing; the state of being inclosed, shut up, or encompassed; the separation of land from common ground by a fence.	
incloud		To envelop as in clouds; to darken; to obscure.	
include		To confine within; to hold; to contain; to shut up; to inclose; as, the shell of a nut includes the kernel; a pearl is included in a shell.	
included		Inclosed; confined.	
includible		Capable of being included.	
inclusa		A tribe of bivalve mollusks, characterized by the closed state of the mantle which envelops the body.	
inclusion		The act of including, or the state of being included; limitation; restriction; as, the lines of inclusion of his policy.	
inclusive		Inclosing; encircling; surrounding.	
inclusively		In an inclusive manner.	
incoach		To put a coach.	
incoact	Obsolete	Not compelled; unconstrained.	
incoacted	Obsolete	Not compelled; unconstrained.	
incoagulable		Not coagulable.	
incoalescence		The state of not coalescing.	
incocted	Obsolete	Raw; indigestible.	
incoercible		Not to be coerced; incapable of being compelled or forced.	
incoexistence	Obsolete	The state of not coexisting.	
incog	Colloquial	Incognito.	
incogitable		Not cogitable; inconceivable.	
incogitance		Want of thought, or of the power of thinking; thoughtlessness; unreasonableness.	
incogitancy		Want of thought, or of the power of thinking; thoughtlessness; unreasonableness.	Latin incogitantia.
incogitant		Toughtless; inconsiderate.	
incogitantly		In an incogitant manner.	
incogitative		Not cogitative; not thinking; wanting the power of thought; as, a vegetable is an incogitative being.	
incogitativity		The quality of being incogitative; want of thought or of the power of thinking.	
incognita		A woman who is unknown or in disguise.	
incognitant	Obsolete	Ignorant.	
incognito		Without being known; in disguise; in an assumed character, or under an assumed title; -- said esp. of great personages who sometimes adopt a disguise or an assumed character in order to avoid notice.	Latin incognitus.
incognizable		Not cognizable; incapable of being recognized, known, or distinguished.	
incognizance		Failure to cognize, apprehended, or notice.	
incognizant		Not cognizant; failing to apprehended or notice.	
incognoscible		Incognizable. -- In`cog*nos i*ty, n.	
incoherence		The quality or state of being incoherent; want of coherence; want of cohesion or adherence.	
incoherency		The quality or state of being incoherent; want of coherence; want of cohesion or adherence.	
incoherent		Not coherent; wanting cohesion; loose; unconnected; physically disconnected; not fixed to each; -- said of material substances.	
incoherentific		Causing incoherence.	
incoherently		In an incoherent manner; without due connection of parts.	
incoherentness		Incoherence.	
incoincidence		The quality of being incoincident; want of coincidence.	
incoincident		Not coincident; not agreeing in time, in place, or principle.	
incolumity	Obsolete	Safety; security.	Latin incolumitas.
incomber		See Encumber — to impede the motion or action of, as with a burden; to retard with something superfluous; to weigh down; to obstruct or embarrass; as, his movements were encumbered by his mantle…	
incombine	Obsolete	To be incapable of combining; to disagree; to differ.	
incombustibility		The quality of being incombustible.	
incombustible		Not combustible; not capable of being burned, decomposed, or consumed by fire; uninflammable; as, asbestus is an incombustible substance; carbon dioxide is an incombustible gas.	
income		That which is caused to enter; inspiration; influence; hence, courage or zeal imparted.	
incomer		One who comes in.	
incoming		Coming in, succeeding, or following, as occupant or possessor; as, in incoming tenant.	
incomity		Want of comity; incivility; rudeness.	
incommensurability		The quality or state of being incommensurable.	
incommensurable		Not commensurable; having no common measure or standard of comparison; as, quantities are incommensurable when no third quantity can be found that is an aliquot part of both…	
incommensurate		Not commensurate; not admitting of a common measure; incommensurable.	
incommiscible		Not commiscible; not mixable.	
incommixture		A state of being unmixed; separateness.	
incommodate	Obsolete	To incommode.	
incommodation	Obsolete	The state of being incommoded; inconvenience.	
incommode		To give inconvenience or trouble to; to disturb or molest; to discommode; to worry; to put out; as, we are incommoded by want of room.	
incommodement	Obsolete	The act of incommoded.	
incommodious		Tending to incommode; not commodious; not affording ease or advantage; unsuitable; giving trouble; inconvenient; annoying; as, an incommodious seat; an incommodious arrangement. -- In`com*mo di*ous*ness, n.	
incommodity	Archaic	Inconvenience; trouble; annoyance; disadvantage; encumbrance.	
incommunicability		The quality or state of being incommunicable, or incapable of being imparted.	
incommunicable		Not communicable; incapable of being communicated, shared, told, or imparted, to others.	
incommunicated	Obsolete	Not communicated or imparted.	
incommunicating	Obsolete	Having no communion or intercourse with each other.	
incommunicative		Not communicative; not free or apt to impart to others in conversation; reserved; silent; as, the messenger was incommunicative; hence, not disposed to hold fellowship or intercourse with others; exclusive.	
incommutability		The quality or state of being incommutable.	
incommutable		Not commutable; not capable of being exchanged with, or substituted for, another.	
incompact		Not compact; not having the parts firmly united; not solid; incoherent; loose; discrete.	
incompacted		Not compact; not having the parts firmly united; not solid; incoherent; loose; discrete.	
incomparable		Not comparable; admitting of no comparison with others; unapproachably eminent; without a peer or equal; matchless; peerless; transcendent.	
incompared	Obsolete	Peerless; incomparable.	
incompass		See Encompass — to circumscribe or go round so as to surround closely; to encircle; to inclose; to environ; as, a ring encompasses the finger; an army encompasses a city; a voyage encompassing the world.	
incompassion	Obsolete	Want of compassion or pity.	
incompassionate		Not compassionate; void of pity or of tenderness; remorseless. -- In`com*pas sion*ate*ness, n.	
incompatibility		The quality or state of being incompatible; inconsistency; irreconcilableness.	
incompatible		Not compatible; so differing as to be incapable of harmonious combination or coexistence; inconsistent in thought or being; irreconcilably disagreeing; as, persons of incompatible tempers; incompatible colors, desires, ambition.	French incompatible.
incompatibleness		The quality or state of being incompatible; incompatibility.	
incompatibly		In an incompatible manner; inconsistently; incongruously.	
incompetence		The quality or state of being incompetent; want of physical, intellectual, or moral ability; insufficiency; inadequacy; as, the incompetency of a child hard labor, or of an idiot for intellectual efforts.	
incompetency		The quality or state of being incompetent; want of physical, intellectual, or moral ability; insufficiency; inadequacy; as, the incompetency of a child hard labor, or of an idiot for intellectual efforts.	
incompetent		Not competent; wanting in adequate strength, power, capacity, means, qualifications, or the like; incapable; unable; inadequate; unfit.	
incompetently		In an competent manner; inadequately; unsuitably.	
incompetibility		See Incompatibility — the quality or state of being incompatible; inconsistency; irreconcilableness.	
incompetible		See Incompatible — not compatible; so differing as to be incapable of harmonious combination or coexistence; inconsistent in thought or being; irreconcilably disagreeing; as, persons of incompatible tempers…	
incomplete		Not complete; not filled up; not finished; not having all its parts, or not having them all adjusted; imperfect; defective.	
incompletely		In an incomplete manner.	
incompleteness		The state of being incomplete; imperfectness; defectiveness.	
incompletion		Want of completion; incompleteness.	
incomplex		Not complex; uncompounded; simple.	
incompliable		Not compliable; not conformable.	
incompliance		The quality or state of being incompliant; unyielding temper; obstinacy.	
incompliant		Not compliant; unyielding to request, solicitation, or command; stubborn. -- In`com*pli"ant*ly, adv.	
incomposed	Obsolete	Disordered; disturbed.	
incomposite		Not composite; uncompounded; simple.	Latin incompositus.
incompossible	Obsolete	Not capable of joint existence; incompatible; inconsistent.	
incomprehense	Obsolete	Incomprehensible.	Latin incomprehensus.
incomprehensibility		The quality of being incomprehensible, or beyond the reach of human intellect; incomprehensibleness; inconceivability; inexplicability.	
incomprehensible		Not capable of being contained within limits.	Latin incomprehensibilis.
incomprehension		Want of comprehension or understanding.	
incomprehensive		Not comprehensive; not capable of including or of understanding; not extensive; limited. -- In*com`pre*hen sive*ness, n.	
incompressibility		The quality of being incompressible, or incapable of reduction in volume by pressure; -- formerly supposed to be a property of liquids.	
incompressible		Not compressible; incapable of being reduced by force or pressure into a smaller compass or volume; resisting compression; as, many liquids and solids appear to be almost incompressible. -- In`com*press"i*ble*ness, n.	
incomputable		Not computable.	
inconcealable		Not concealable.	
inconceivability		The quality of being inconceivable; inconceivableness.	
inconceivable		Not conceivable; incapable of being conceived by the mind; not explicable by the human intellect, or by any known principles or agencies; incomprehensible; as…	
inconceptible	Obsolete	Inconceivable.	
inconcerning	Obsolete	Unimportant; trifling.	
inconcinne	Obsolete	Dissimilar; incongruous; unsuitable.	
inconcinnity		Want of concinnity or congruousness; unsuitableness.	
inconcinnous	Obsolete	Not concinnous; unsuitable; discordant.	Latin inconcinnus.
inconcludent	Obsolete	Not inferring a conclusion or consequence; not conclusive.	
inconcluding	Obsolete	Inferring no consequence.	
inconclusive		Not conclusive; leading to no conclusion; not closing or settling a point in debate, or a doubtful question; as…	
inconcoct	Obsolete	Inconcocted.	
inconcocted	Obsolete	Imperfectly digested, matured, or ripened.	
inconcoction	Obsolete	The state of being undigested; unripeness; immaturity.	
inconcrete		Not concrete.	
inconcurring		Not concurring; disagreeing.	
inconcussible		Not concussible; that cannot be shaken.	
incondensability		The quality or state of being incondensable.	
incondensable		Not condensable; incapable of being made more dense or compact, or reduced to liquid form.	
incondensibility		The quality or state of being incondensable.	
incondensible		Not condensable; incapable of being made more dense or compact, or reduced to liquid form.	
incondite		Badly put together; inartificial; rude; unpolished; irregular.	Latin inconditus.
inconditional	Obsolete	Unconditional.	
inconditionate	Obsolete	Not conditioned; not limited; absolute.	
inconform	Obsolete	Unconformable.	
inconformable	Obsolete	Unconformable.	
inconformity	Obsolete	Want of conformity; nonconformity.	
inconfused	Obsolete	Not confused; distinct.	
inconfusion	Obsolete	Freedom from confusion; distinctness.	
inconfutable	Obsolete	Not confutable. -- In`con*fut"a*bly, adv.	
incongealable		Not congealable; incapable of being congealed. -- In`con*geal"a*ble*ness, n.	Latin incongelabilis.
incongenial		Not congenial; uncongenial. -- In`con*ge`ni*al"i*ty.	
incongruence		Want of congruence; incongruity.	
incongruent		Incongruous.	
incongruity		The quality or state of being incongruous; want of congruity; unsuitableness; inconsistency; impropriety.	
incongruous		Not congruous; reciprocally disagreeing; not capable of harmonizing or readily assimilating; inharmonious; inappropriate; unsuitable; not fitting; inconsistent; improper; as, an incongruous remark; incongruous behavior, action…	Latin incongruus.
inconnected		Not connected; disconnected.	
inconnection		Disconnection.	
inconnexedly	Obsolete	Not connectedly; without connection.	
inconscionable	Obsolete	Unconscionable.	
inconscious	Obsolete	Unconscious.	
inconsecutiveness		The state or quality of not being consecutive.	
inconsequence		The quality or state of being inconsequent; want of just or logical inference or argument; inconclusiveness.	
inconsequent		Not following from the premises; not regularly inferred; invalid; not characterized by logical method; illogical; arbitrary; inconsistent; of no consequence.	
inconsequential		Not regularly following from the premises; hence, irrelevant; unimportant; of no consequence.	
inconsequentiality		The state of being inconsequential.	
inconsequentness		Inconsequence.	
inconsiderable		Not considerable; unworthy of consideration or notice; unimportant; small; trivial; as, an inconsiderable distance; an inconsiderable quantity, degree, value, or sum. -- In`con*sid er*a*bly, adv.	
inconsideracy	Obsolete	Inconsiderateness; thoughtlessness.	
inconsiderate		Not considerate; not attentive to safety or to propriety; not regarding the rights or feelings of others; hasty; careless; thoughtless; heedless; as, the young are generally inconsiderate; inconsiderate conduct.	
inconsiderately		In an inconsiderate manner.	
inconsiderateness		The quality or state of being inconsiderate.	
inconsideration		Want of due consideration; inattention to consequences; inconsiderateness.	
inconsistence		Inconsistency.	
inconsistency		The quality or state of being inconsistent; discordance in respect to sentiment or action; such contrariety between two things that both can not exist or be true together; disagreement; incompatibility.	
inconsistent		Not consistent; showing inconsistency; irreconcilable; discordant; at variance, esp. as regards character, sentiment, or action; incompatible; incongruous; contradictory.	
inconsistently		In an inconsistent manner.	
inconsistentness		Inconsistency.	
inconsisting	Obsolete	Inconsistent.	
inconsolable		Not consolable; incapable of being consoled; grieved beyond susceptibility of comfort; disconsolate.	
inconsonance		Want of consonance or harmony of sound, action, or thought; disagreement.	
inconsonancy		Want of consonance or harmony of sound, action, or thought; disagreement.	
inconsonant		Not consonant or agreeing; inconsistent; discordant. -- In*con"so*nant*ly, adv.	
inconspicuous		Not conspicuous or noticeable; hardly discernible. -- In`con*spic u*ous*ness, n.	
inconstance		Inconstancy.	
inconstancy		The quality or state of being inconstant; want of constancy; mutability; fickleness; variableness.	
inconstant		Not constant; not stable or uniform; subject to change of character, appearance, opinion, inclination, or purpose, etc.; not firm; unsteady; fickle; changeable; variable; -- said of persons or things; as…	
inconstantly		In an inconstant manner.	
inconsumable		Not consumable; incapable of being consumed, wasted, or spent.	
inconsummate		Not consummated; not finished; incomplete.	
inconsumptible	Obsolete	Inconsumable.	Latin inconsumptibilis.
incontaminate		Not contaminated; pure.	
incontentation	Obsolete	Discontent.	
incontestability		The quality or state of being incontestable.	
incontestable		Not contestable; not to be disputed; that cannot be called in question or controverted; incontrovertible; indisputable; as, incontestable evidence, truth, or facts.	
incontested		Not contested.	
incontiguous		Not contiguous; not adjoining or in contact; separate.	
incontinence		Incapacity to hold; hence, incapacity to hold back or restrain; the quality or state of being incontinent; want of continence; failure to restrain the passions or appetites; indulgence of lust; lewdness.	French incontinence.
incontinency		Incapacity to hold; hence, incapacity to hold back or restrain; the quality or state of being incontinent; want of continence; failure to restrain the passions or appetites; indulgence of lust; lewdness.	
incontinent		Not continent; uncontrolled; not restraining the passions or appetites, particularly the sexual appetite; indulging unlawful lust; unchaste; lewd.	
incontinently		In an incontinent manner; without restraint, or without due restraint; -- used esp. of the passions or appetites.	
incontracted	Obsolete	Uncontracted.	
incontrollable		Not controllable; uncontrollable. -- In`con*trol"la*bly, adv.	
incontrovertibility		The state or condition of being incontrovertible.	
incontrovertible		Not controvertible; too clear or certain to admit of dispute; indisputable.	
inconvenience		The quality or condition of being inconvenient; want of convenience; unfitness; unsuitableness; inexpediency; awkwardness; as, the inconvenience of the arrangement.	
inconveniency		Inconvenience.	
inconvenient		Not becoming or suitable; unfit; inexpedient.	Middle French inconvenient, from Latin inconvenientem.
inconveniently		In an inconvenient manner; incommodiously; unsuitably; unseasonably.	
inconversable	Obsolete	Incommunicative; unsocial; reserved.	
inconversant		Not conversant; not acquainted; not versed; unfamiliar.	
inconverted		Not turned or changed about.	
inconvertibility		The quality or state of being inconvertible; not capable of being exchanged for, or converted into, something else; as, the inconvertibility of an irredeemable currency, or of lead, into gold.	
inconvertible		Not convertible; not capable of being transmuted, changed into, or exchanged for, something else; as, one metal is inconvertible into another; bank notes are sometimes inconvertible into specie.	
inconvertibleness		Inconvertibility.	
inconvertibly		In an inconvertible manner.	
inconvincible		Not convincible; incapable of being convinced.	
inconvincibly		In a manner not admitting of being convinced.	
incony	Obsolete	Unlearned; artless; pretty; delicate.	
incooerdinate		Not coördinate.	
incooerdination		Want of coördination; lack of harmonious adjustment or action.	
incoordinate		Not coördinate.	
incoordination		Want of coördination; lack of harmonious adjustment or action.	
incoronate		Crowned.	
incorporal	Obsolete	Immaterial; incorporeal; spiritual.	Latin incorporalis.
incorporality	Obsolete	Incorporeality.	
incorporally	Obsolete	Incorporeally.	
incorporate		Not consisting of matter; not having a material body; incorporeal; spiritual.	
incorporated		United in one body; formed into a corporation; made a legal entity.	
incorporation		The act of incorporating, or the state of being incorporated.	
incorporative		Incorporating or tending to incorporate; as, the incorporative languages (as of the Basques, North American Indians, etc. ) which run a whole phrase into one word.	
incorporator		One of a number of persons who gets a company incorporated; one of the original members of a corporation.	
incorporeal		Not corporeal; not having a material body or form; not consisting of matter; immaterial.	
incorporealism		Existence without a body or material form; immateriality.	
incorporealist		One who believes in incorporealism.	
incorporeality		The state or quality of being incorporeal or bodiless; immateriality; incorporealism.	
incorporeally		In an incorporeal manner.	
incorporeity		The quality of being incorporeal; immateriality.	
incorpse		To incorporate.	
incorrect		Not correct; not according to a copy or model, or to established rules; inaccurate; faulty.	
incorrection	Obsolete	Want of correction, restraint, or discipline.	
incorrectly		Not correctly; inaccurately; not exactly; as, a writing incorrectly copied; testimony incorrectly stated.	
incorrectness		The quality of being incorrect; want of conformity to truth or to a standard; inaccuracy; inexactness; as incorrectness may in defect or in redundance.	
incorrespondence		Want of correspondence; disagreement; disproportion.	
incorrespondency		Want of correspondence; disagreement; disproportion.	
incorresponding		Not corresponding; disagreeing.	
incorrigibility		The state or quality of being incorrigible.	
incorrigible		Not corrigible; incapable of being corrected or amended; bad beyond correction; irreclaimable; as, incorrigible error.	
incorrigibleness		Incorrigibility.	
incorrigibly		In an incorrigible manner.	
incorrodible		Incapable of being corroded, consumed, or eaten away.	
incorrupt		Not affected with corruption or decay; unimpaired; not marred or spoiled.	
incorrupted	Obsolete	Uncorrupted.	
incorruptibility		The quality of being incorruptible; incapability of corruption.	
incorruptible		Not corruptible; incapable of corruption, decay, or dissolution; as, gold is incorruptible.	
incorruptibleness		The quality or state of being incorruptible.	
incorruptibly		In an incorruptible manner.	
incorruption		The condition or quality of being incorrupt or incorruptible; absence of, or exemption from, corruption.	
incorruptive		Incorruptible; not liable to decay.	Latin incorruptivus.
incorruptly		Without corruption.	
incorruptness		Freedom or exemption from decay or corruption.	
incrassate		To make thick or thicker; to thicken; especially, in pharmacy, to thicken (a liquid) by the mixture of another substance, or by evaporating the thinner parts.	
incrassated		Made thick or thicker; thickened; inspissated.	
incrassation		The act or process of thickening or making thick; the process of becoming thick or thicker.	
incrassative		Having the quality of thickening; tending to thicken.	
increasable		Capable of being increased.	
increase		To become greater or more in size, quantity, number, degree, value, intensity, power, authority, reputation, wealth; to grow; to augment; to advance; -- opposed to decrease.	
increaseful		Full of increase; abundant in produce.	
increasement		Increase.	
increaser		One who, or that, increases.	
increasingly		More and more.	
increate		To create within.	
increated		Uncreated; self-existent.	
incredibility		The quality or state of being incredible; incredibleness.	
incredible		Not credible; surpassing belief; too extraordinary and improbable to admit of belief; unlikely; marvelous; fabulous.	Latin incredibilis.
incredibleness		Incredibility.	
incredibly		In an incredible manner.	
incredited	Obsolete	Uncredited.	
incredulity		The state or quality of being i Of every species of incredulity, religious unbelief is the most irrational.	
incredulous		Not credulous; indisposed to admit or accept that which is related as true, skeptical; unbelieving.	Latin incredulus.
incredulously		In an incredulous manner; with incredulity.	
incredulousness		Incredulity.	
incremable		Incapable of being burnt; incombustibe.	
incremate		To consume or reduce to ashes by burning, as a dead body; to cremate.	
incremation		Burning; esp., the act of burning a dead body; cremation.	
increment		The act or process of increasing; growth in bulk, guantity, number, value, or amount; augmentation; enlargement.	Latin incrementum.
incremental		Pertaining to, or resulting from, the process of growth; as, the incremental lines in the dentine of teeth.	
increpate	Obsolete	To chide; to rebuke; to reprove.	
increpation	Obsolete	A chiding; rebuke; reproof.	Latin increpatio.
increscent		Increasing; growing; augmenting; swelling; enlarging.	
increst		To adorn with a crest.	
incriminate		To accuse; to charge with a crime or fault; to criminate.	
incrimination		The act of incriminating; crimination.	
incriminatory		Of or pertaining to crimination; tending to incriminate; criminatory.	
incroyable		A French fop or dandy of the time of the Directory; hence, any fop.	
incruental	Obsolete	Unbloody; not attended with blood; as, an incruental sacrifice.	Latin incruentus.
incrust		To cover or line with a crust, or hard coat; to form a crust on the surface of; as, iron incrusted with rust; a vessel incrusted with salt; a sweetmeat incrusted with sugar.	
incrustate		Incrusted.	
incrustation		The act of incrusting, or the state of being incrusted.	
incrustment		Incrustation.	
incrystallizable		Not crystallizable; incapable of being formed into crystals.	
incubate		To sit, as on eggs for hatching; to brood; to brood upon, or keep warm, as eggs, for the purpose of hatching.	Latin incubatus.
incubation		A sitting on eggs for the purpose of hatching young; a brooding on, or keeping warm, (eggs) to develop the life within, by any process.	Latin incubationem.
incubative		Of or pertaining to incubation, or to the period of incubation.	
incubator		That which incubates, especially, an apparatus by means of which eggs are hatched by artificial heat.	
incubatory		Serving for incubation.	
incube	Obsolete	To fix firmly, as in cube; to secure or place firmly.	
incubiture	Obsolete	Incubation.	
incubous		Having the leaves so placed that the upper part of each one covers the base of the leaf next above it, as in hepatic mosses of the genus Frullania.	
incubus		A demon; a fiend; a lascivious spirit, supposed to have sexual intercourse with women by night.	Latin incubus.
inculcate		To teach and impress by frequent repetitions or admonitions; to urge on the mind; as, Christ inculcates on his followers humility.	Latin inculcatus.
inculcation		A teaching and impressing by frequent repetitions.	
inculcator		One who inculcates.	
inculk	Obsolete	To inculcate.	
inculp	Obsolete	To inculpate.	
inculpable		Faultless; blameless; innocent.	
inculpableness		Blamelessness; faultlessness.	
inculpably		Blamelessly.	
inculpate		To blame; to impute guilt to; to accuse; to involve or implicate in guilt.	Latin inculpare.
inculpation		Blame; censure; crimination.	
inculpatory		Imputing blame; criminatory; compromising; implicating.	
incult		Untilled; uncultivated; crude; rude; uncivilized.	Latin incultus.
incultivated	Obsolete	Uncultivated.	
incultivation	Obsolete	Want of cultivation.	
inculture	Obsolete	Want or neglect of cultivation or culture.	
incumbency		The state of being incumbent; a lying or resting on something.	
incumbent		Lying; resting; reclining; recumbent; superimposed; superincumbent.	
incumbently		In an incumbent manner; so as to be incumbent.	
incumber		See Encumber — to impede the motion or action of, as with a burden; to retard with something superfluous; to weigh down; to obstruct or embarrass; as, his movements were encumbered by his mantle…	
incumbition		Incubation.	
incumbrance		A burdensome and troublesome load; anything that impedes motion or action, or renders it difficult or laborious; clog; impediment; hindrance; check.	
incumbrancer		One who holds Kent.	
incumbrous	Obsolete	Cumbersome; troublesome.	
incunabulum		A work of art or of human industry, of an early epoch; especially, a book printed before A.	Latin incunabula.
incur		To meet or fall in with, as something inconvenient, harmful, or onerous; to put one's self in the way of; to expose one's self to; to become liable or subject to; to bring down upon one's self; to encounter; to contract; as…	
incurability		The state of being uncurable; irremediableness.	
incurable		Not capable of being cured; beyond the power of skill or medicine to remedy; as, an incurable disease.	
incurableness		The state of being incurable; incurability.	
incurably		In a manner that renders cure impracticable or impossible; irremediably.	
incuriosity		Want of curiosity or interest; inattentiveness; indifference.	
incurious		Not curious or inquisitive; without care for or interest in; inattentive; careless; negligent; heedless.	
incuriously		In an curious manner.	
incuriousness		Unconcernedness; incuriosity.	
incurrence		The act of incurring, bringing on, or subjecting one's self to (something troublesome or burdensome); as, the incurrence of guilt, debt, responsibility, etc.	
incurrent		Characterized by a current which flows inward; as, the incurrent orifice of lamellibranch Mollusca.	Latin incurrens.
incursion		A running into; hence, an entering into a territory with hostile intention; a temporary invasion; a predatory or harassing inroad; a raid.	
incursive		Making an incursion; invasive; aggressive; hostile.	
incurtain	Obsolete	To curtain.	
incurvate		Curved; bent; crooked.	
incurvation		The state of being bent or curved; curvature.	
incurve		To bend; to curve; to make crooked.	
incurved		Bending gradually toward the axis or center, as branches or petals.	
incurvity		A state of being bent or curved; incurvation; a bending inwards.	
incus		(Anat.) One of the small bones in the tympanum of the ear; the anvil bone.	Latin incus.
incuse		Cut or stamped in, or hollowed out by engraving.	Latin incusus.
incuss		To form, or mold, by striking or stamping, as a coin or medal.	
incute	Obsolete	To strike or stamp in.	
incyst		See Encyst — to inclose in a cyst.	
incysted		See Encysted — inclosed in a cyst, or a sac, bladder, or vesicle; as, an encysted tumor.	
indagate	Obsolete	To seek or search out.	Latin indagatus.
indagation	Obsolete	Search; inquiry; investigation.	Latin indagationem.
indagative	Obsolete	Searching; exploring; investigating.	
indagator	Obsolete	A searcher; an explorer; an investigator.	
indamage		See Endamage — to bring loss or damage to; to harm; to injure.	
indamaged	Obsolete	Not damaged.	
indart		To pierce, as with a dart.	
indazol		A nitrogenous compound, C7H6N2, analogous to indol, and produced from a diazo derivative or cinnamic acid.	
inde	Obsolete	Azure-colored; of a bright blue color.	
indear		See Endear — to make dear or beloved.	
indebt		To bring into debt; to place under obligation; -- chiefly used in the participle indebted.	Middle English endetten.
indebted		Brought into debt; being under obligation; held to payment or requital; beholden.	
indebtedness		The state of being indebted.	
indebtment		Indebtedness.	
indecence	Obsolete	See Indecency — the quality or state of being indecent; want of decency, modesty, or good manners; obscenity.	
indecency		The quality or state of being indecent; want of decency, modesty, or good manners; obscenity.	
indecent		Not decent; unfit to be seen or heard; offensive to modesty and delicacy; as, indecent language.	
indecently		In an indecent manner.	
indeciduate		(Anat.) Having no decidua; nondeciduate.	
indeciduous		Not deciduous or falling, as the leaves of trees in autumn; lasting; evergreen; persistent; permanent; perennial.	
indecimable		Not decimable, or liable to be decimated; not liable to the payment of tithes.	
indecipherable		Not decipherable; incapable of being deciphered, explained, or solved. -- In`de*ci"pher*a*bly, adv.	
indecision		Want of decision; want of settled purpose, or of firmness; indetermination; wavering of mind; irresolution; vacillation; hesitation.	French indécision.
indecisive		Not decisive; not bringing to a final or ultimate issue; as, an indecisive battle, argument, answer.	
indecisively		Without decision.	
indecisiveness		The state of being indecisive; unsettled state.	
indeclinable		Not declinable; not varied by inflective terminations; as, nihil (nothing), in Latin, is an indeclinable noun. -- n.	
indeclinably		Without variation.	
indecomposable		Not decomposable; incapable or difficult of decomposition; not resolvable into its constituents or elements.	
indecomposableness		Incapableness of decomposition; stability; permanence; durability.	
indecorous		Not decorous; violating good manners; contrary to good breeding or etiquette; unbecoming; improper; out of place; as, indecorous conduct.	
indecorously		In an indecorous manner.	
indecorousness		The quality of being indecorous; want of decorum.	
indecorum		Want of decorum; impropriety of behavior; that in behavior or manners which violates the established rules of civility, custom, or etiquette; indecorousness.	Latin indecorum.
indeed		In reality; in truth; in fact; verily; truly; -- used in a variety of sense.	Middle English indede.
indefatigability		The state of being indefatigable.	
indefatigable		Incapable of being fatigued; not readily exhausted; unremitting in labor or effort; untiring; unwearying; not yielding to fatigue; as, indefatigable exertions, perseverance, application.	Latin indefatigabilis.
indefatigableness		Indefatigable quality; unweariedness; persistency.	
indefatigably		Without weariness; without yielding to fatigue; persistently.	
indefatigation	Obsolete	Indefatigableness; unweariedness.	
indefeasibility		The quality of being undefeasible.	
indefeasible		Not to be defeated; not defeasible; incapable of being annulled or made void; as, an indefeasible or title.	
indefectibility		The quality of being indefectible.	
indefectible		Not defectible; unfailing; not liable to defect, failure, or decay.	
indefective		Not defective; perfect; complete.	
indefeisible	Obsolete	Indefeasible.	
indefensibility		The quality or state of not being defensible.	
indefensible		Not defensible; not capable of being defended, maintained, vindicated, or justified; unjustifiable; untenable; as, an indefensible fortress, position, cause, etc. Men find that something can be said in favor of what…	
indefensibly		In an indefensible manner.	
indefensive	Obsolete	Defenseless.	
indeficiency	Obsolete	The state or quality of not being deficient.	
indeficient	Obsolete	Not deficient; full.	Latin indeficiens.
indefinable		Incapable of being defined or described; inexplicable.	
indefinably		In an indefinable manner.	
indefinite		Not definite; not limited, defined, or specified; not explicit; not determined or fixed upon; not precise; uncertain; vague; confused; obscure; as, an indefinite time, plan…	
indefinitely		In an indefinite manner or degree; without any settled limitation; vaguely; not with certainty or exactness; as, to use a word indefinitely.	
indefiniteness		The quality of being indefinite.	
indefinitude	Obsolete	Indefiniteness; vagueness; also, number or quantity not limited by our understanding, though yet finite.	
indehiscence		The property or state of being indehiscent.	
indehiscent		Remaining closed at maturity, or not opening along regular lines, as the acorn, or a cocoanut.	
indelectable		Not delectable; unpleasant; disagreeable.	
indeliberate	Obsolete	Done without deliberation; unpremeditated. -- In`de*lib"er*ate*ly, adv.	
indeliberated	Obsolete	Indeliberate.	
indelibility		The quality of being indelible.	
indelible		That can not be removed, washed away, blotted out, or effaced; incapable of being canceled, lost, or forgotten; as, indelible characters; an indelible stain; an indelible impression on the memory.	
indelicacy		The quality of being indelicate; want of delicacy, or of a nice sense of, or regard for, purity, propriety, or refinement in manners, language, etc.; rudeness; coarseness; also…	
indelicate		Not delicate; wanting delicacy; offensive to good manners, or to purity of mind; coarse; rude; as, an indelicate word or suggestion; indelicate behavior.	
indemnification		The act or process of indemnifying, preserving, or securing against loss, damage, or penalty; reimbursement of loss, damage, or penalty; the state of being indemnified.	
indemnify		To save harmless; to secure against loss or damage; to insure.	Latin indemnis.
indemnity		Security; insurance; exemption from loss or damage, past or to come; immunity from penalty, or the punishment of past offenses; amnesty.	Middle French indemnité, from Latin indemnitas.
indemonstrability		The quality of being indemonstrable.	
indemonstrable		Incapable of being demonstrated. -- In`de*mon"stra*ble*ness, n.	
indenization		The act of naturalizing; endenization.	
indenize		To naturalize.	
indenizen		To invest with the privileges of a denizen; to naturalize.	
indent		To notch; to jag; to cut into points like a row of teeth; as, to indent the edge of paper.	
indentation		The act of indenting or state of being indented.	
indented		Cut in the edge into points or inequalities, like teeth; jagged; notched; stamped in; dented on the surface.	
indentedly		With indentations.	
indenting		Indentation; an impression like that made by a tooth.	
indention		Same as Indentation, 4.	
indentment	Obsolete	Indenture.	
indenture		The act of indenting, or state of being indented.	
independence		The state or quality of being independent; freedom from dependence; exemption from reliance on, or control by, others; self- subsistence or maintenance; direction of one's own affairs without interference.	
independency		(Eccl.) Doctrine and polity of the Independents.	
independent		Not dependent; free; not subject to control by others; not relying on others; not subordinate; as, few men are wholly independent.	
independentism		Independency; the church system of Independents.	
independently		In an independent manner; without control.	
indeposable		Incapable of being deposed.	
indepravate		Undepraved.	
indeprecable		Incapable or undeserving of being deprecated.	
indeprehensible		Incapable of being found out.	
indeprivable		Incapable of being deprived, or of being taken away.	
indescribable		Incapable of being described. -- In`de*scrib"a*bly, adv.	
indescriptive		Not descriptive.	
indesert		Ill desert.	
indesinent	Obsolete	Not ceasing; perpetual.	
indesirable		Undesirable.	
indestructibility		The quality of being indestructible.	
indestructible		Not destructible; incapable of decomposition or of being destroyed. -- In`de*struc ti*bly, adv.	
indeterminable		Not determinable; impossible to be determined; not to be definitely known, ascertained, defined, or limited. -- In`de*ter"mi*na*bly, adv.	
indeterminate		Not determinate; not certain or fixed; indefinite; not precise; as, an indeterminate number of years.	
indetermination		Want of determination; an unsettled or wavering state, as of the mind.	
indetermined		Undetermined.	
indevirginate	Obsolete	Not devirginate.	
indevote	Obsolete	Not devoted.	
indevotion		Want of devotion; impiety; irreligion.	
indevout		Not devout. -- In*de*vout"ly, adv.	
indew	Obsolete	To indue.	
index		That which points out; that which shows, indicates, manifests, or discloses.	Latin index.
indexer		One who makes an index.	
indexical		Of, pertaining to, or like, an index; having the form of an index.	
indexically		In the manner of an index.	
indexterity		Want of dexterity or readiness, especially in the use of the hands; clumsiness; awkwardness.	
india		A country in Southern Asia; the two peninsulas of Hither and Farther India; in a restricted sense, Hither India, or Hindostan.	
indiadem		To place or set in a diadem, as a gem or gems.	
indiaman		A large vessel in the India trade.	
indian		Of or pertaining to India proper; also to the East Indies, or, sometimes, to the West Indies.	
indianeer		An Indiaman.	
indical		Indexical.	Latin index.
indican		(Chem.) A glucoside obtained from woad (indigo plant) and other plants, as a yellow or light brown sirup.	
indicant		Serving to point out, as a remedy; indicating.	
indicate		To point out; to discover; to direct to a knowledge of; to show; to make known.	Latin indicatus.
indicated		Shown; denoted; registered; measured.	
indication		Act of pointing out or indicating.	Latin indicatio.
indicative		Pointing out; bringing to notice; giving intimation or knowledge of something not visible or obvious.	Latin indicativus.
indicatively		In an indicative manner; in a way to show or signify.	
indicator		One who, or that which, shows or points out; as, a fare indicator in a street car.	Latin indicator.
indicatory		Serving to show or make known; showing; indicative; signifying; implying.	
indicatrix		A certain conic section supposed to be drawn in the tangent plane to any surface, and used to determine the accidents of curvature of the surface at the point of contact.	
indicavit		A writ of prohibition against proceeding in the spiritual court in certain cases, when the suit belongs to the common-law courts.	
indice	Obsolete	Index; indication.	
indices		See Index — that which points out; that which shows, indicates, manifests, or discloses.	
indicia		Discriminating marks; signs; tokens; indications; appearances.	
indicible	Obsolete	Unspeakable.	
indicolite		A variety of tourmaline of an indigo-blue color.	
indict		(Law) To charge with a crime, in due form of law, by the finding or presentment of a grand jury; to find an indictment against; as, to indict a man for arson.	Anglo-Norman enditer, from Old French enditer, from Latin indicto.
indictable		Capable of being, or liable to be, indicted; subject to indictment; as, an indictable offender or offense.	
indictee		A person indicted.	
indicter		One who indicts.	
indiction		A cycle of fifteen years.	
indictive		Proclaimed; declared; public.	
indictment		The act of indicting, or the state of being indicted.	
indictor		One who indicts.	
indies		A name designating the East Indies, also the West Indies.	
indifference		The quality or state of being indifferent, or not making a difference; want of sufficient importance to constitute a difference; absence of weight; insignificance.	
indifferency		Absence of interest in, or influence from, anything; unconcernedness; equilibrium; indifferentism; indifference.	Latin indifferentia.
indifferent		Not mal Dangers are to me indifferent.	
indifferentism		State of indifference; want of interest or earnestness; especially, a systematic apathy regarding what is true or false in religion or philosophy; agnosticism.	
indifferentist		One governed by indifferentism.	
indifferently		In an indifferent manner; without distinction or preference; impartially; without concern, wish, affection, or aversion; tolerably; passably.	
indifulvin		A reddish resinous substance, obtained from indican.	
indifuscin		A brown amorphous powder, obtained from indican.	
indigeen		Same as Indigene.	
indigence		The condition of being indigent; want of estate, or means of comfortable subsistence; penury; poverty; as, helpless, indigence.	
indigency		Indigence.	
indigene		One born in a country; an aboriginal animal or plant; an autochthon.	Middle French indigène, from Latin indigena.
indigenous		Native; produced, growing, or living, naturally in a country or climate; not exotic; not imported.	Latin indigenus.
indigent		Destitute of property or means of comfortable subsistence; needy; poor; in want; necessitous.	
indigently		In an indigent manner.	
indigest	Obsolete	Crude; unformed; unorganized; undigested.	
indigested		Not digested; undigested.	
indigestedness		The state or quality of being undigested; crudeness.	
indigestibility		The state or quality of being indigestible; indigestibleness.	
indigestible		Not digestible; not readily soluble in the digestive juices; not easily convertible into products fitted for absorption.	
indigestion		Lack of proper digestive action; a failure of the normal changes which food should undergo in the alimentary canal; dyspepsia; incomplete or difficult digestion.	
indigitate	Obsolete	To communicative ideas by the fingers; to show or compute by the fingers.	
indigitation	Obsolete	The act of pointing out as with the finger; indication.	
indiglucin		The variety of sugar (glucose) obtained from the glucoside indican.	
indign		Unworthy; undeserving; disgraceful; degrading.	Middle French indigne, from Latin indignus.
indignance	Obsolete	Indignation.	
indignancy	Obsolete	Indignation.	
indignant		Affected with indignation; wrathful; passionate; irate; feeling wrath, as when a person is exasperated by unworthy or unjust treatment, by a mean action, or by a degrading accusation.	Latin indignans.
indignantly		In an indignant manner.	
indignation		The feeling excited by that which is unworthy, base, or disgraceful; anger mingled with contempt, disgust, or abhorrence.	
indignify	Obsolete	To treat disdainfully or with indignity; to contemn.	
indignity		Any action toward another which manifests contempt for him; an offense against personal dignity; unmerited contemptuous treatment; contumely; incivility or injury, accompanied with insult.	
indignly	Obsolete	Unworthily.	
indigo		A kind of deep blue, one of the seven prismatic colors.	Spanish indico.
indigofera		A genus of leguminous plants having many species, mostly in tropical countries, several of them yielding indigo, esp. Indigofera tinctoria, and I.	
indigogen		(Chem.) See Indigo white, under Indigo.	
indigometer		An instrument for ascertaining the strength of an indigo solution, as in volumetric analysis.	
indigometry		The art or method of determining the coloring power of indigo.	
indigotic		Pertaining to, or derived from, indigo; as, indigotic acid, which is also called anilic or nitrosalicylic acid.	
indigotin		See Indigo blue, under Indigo.	
indigrubin		Same as Urrhodin.	
indihumin		A brown amorphous substance resembling humin, and obtained from indican.	
indilatory	Obsolete	Not dilatory.	
indiligence	Obsolete	Want of diligence.	
indiligent	Obsolete	Not diligent; idle; slothful.	
indiminishable		Incapable of being diminished.	
indin		A dark red crystalline substance, isomeric with and resembling indigo blue, and obtained from isatide and dioxindol.	
indirect		Not direct; not straight or rectilinear; deviating from a direct line or course; circuitous; as, an indirect road.	
indirected	Obsolete	Not directed; aimless.	
indirection		Oblique course or means; dishonest practices; indirectness.	
indirectly		In an direct manner; not in a straight line or course; not in express terms; obliquely; not by direct means; hence, unfairly; wrongly.	
indirectness		The quality or state of being indirect; obliquity; deviousness; crookedness.	
indiretin		A dark brown resinous substance obtained from indican.	
indirubin		A substance isomeric with, and resembling, indigo blue, and accompanying it as a side product, in its artificial production.	
indiscernible		Not to be discerned; imperceptible; not discoverable or visible.	
indiscerpibility	Obsolete	The state or quality of being indiscerpible.	
indiscerpible	Obsolete	Not discerpible; inseparable.	
indiscerptibility	Obsolete	The state or quality of being indiscerpible.	
indiscerptible	Obsolete	Not discerpible; inseparable.	
indisciplinable		Not disciplinable; undisciplinable.	
indiscipline		Want of discipline or instruction.	
indiscoverable		Not discoverable; undiscoverable.	
indiscovery	Obsolete	Want of discovery.	
indiscreet		Not discreet; wanting in discretion.	
indiscrete		Not discrete or separated; compact; homogenous.	
indiscretion		The quality or state of being indiscreet; want of discretion; imprudence.	
indiscriminate		Not discriminate; wanting discrimination; undistinguishing; not making any distinction; confused; promiscuous.	
indiscriminating		Not discriminating. -- In`dis*crim"i*na`ting*ly, adv.	
indiscrimination		Want of discrimination or distinction; impartiality.	
indiscriminative		Making no distinction; not discriminating.	
indiscussed	Obsolete	Not discussed.	
indispensability		Indispensableness.	
indispensable		Not dispensable; impossible to be omitted, remitted, or spared; absolutely necessary or requisite.	Latin indispensabilis.
indispensableness		The state or quality of being indispensable, or absolutely necessary.	
indispensably		In an indispensable manner.	
indispersed		Not dispersed.	
indispose		To render unfit or unsuited; to disqualify.	
indisposedness		The condition or quality of being indisposed.	
indisposition		The state of being indisposed; disinclination; as, the indisposition of two substances to combine.	
indisputability		Indisputableness.	
indisputable		Not disputable; incontrovertible; too evident to admit of dispute.	
indisputed		Undisputed.	
indissipable		Incapable o	
indissolubility		The quality or state of being indissoluble.	
indissoluble		Not dissoluble; not capable of being dissolved, melted, or liquefied; insoluble; as few substances are indissoluble by heat, but many are indissoluble in water.	
indissolubleness		Indissolubility.	
indissolubly		In an indissoluble manner.	
indissolvable		Not dissolvable; incapable of being dissolved or separated; incapable oas, an indissolvable bond of union.	
indissolvableness		Indissolubleness.	
indistancy	Obsolete	Want of distance o Bp.	
indistinct		Not distinct or distinguishable; not separate in such a manner as to be perceptible by itself; as, the indistinct parts of a substance.	
indistinctible	Obsolete	Indistinguishable.	
indistinction		Want of distinction or distinguishableness; confusion; uncertainty; indiscrimination.	
indistinctive		Having nothing distinctive; common. -- In`dis*tinc"tive*ness, n.	
indistinctly		In an indistinct manner; not clearly; confusedly; dimly; as, certain ideas are indistinctly comprehended.	
indistinctness		The quality or condition of being indistinct; want of definiteness; dimness; confusion; as, the indistinctness of a picture, or of comprehension; indistinctness of vision.	
indistinguishable		Not distinguishable; not capable of being perceived, known, or discriminated as separate and distinct; hence, not capable of being perceived or known; as, in the distance the flagship was indisguishable…	
indistinguishably		In a indistinguishable manner.	
indistinguished		Indistinct.	
indistinguishing	Obsolete	Making no difference; indiscriminative; impartial; as, indistinguishing liberalities.	
indisturbance		Freedom from disturbance; calmness; repose; apathy; indifference.	
inditch		To bury in, or cast into, a ditch.	
indite		Could a common grief have indited such expressions South.	
inditement		The act of inditing.	
inditer		One who indites.	
indium		A rare metallic element, discovered in certain ores of zinc, by means of its characteristic spectrum of two indigo blue lines; hence, its name.	
indivertible		Not to be diverted or turned aside.	
individable		Indivisible.	
individed		Undivided.	
individual		Not divided, or not to be divided; existing as one entity, or distinct being or object; single; one; as, an individual man, animal, or city.	Latin individualis.
individualism		The quality of being individual; individuality; personality.	
individualistic		Of or pertaining to the individual or individualism.	
individuality		The quality or state of being individual or constituting an individual; separate or distinct existence; oneness; unity.	
individualization		The act of individualizing; the state of being individualized; individuation.	
individualize		The mark as an individual, or to distinguish from others by peculiar properties; to invest with individuality.	
individualizer		One who individualizes.	
individually		In an individual manner or relation; as individuals; separately; each by itself.	
individuate	Obsolete	Undivided.	
individuation		The act of individuating or state of being individuated; individualization.	
individuator		One who, or that which, individuates.	
individuity		Separate existence; individuality; oneness.	Latin individuitas.
indivinity	Obsolete	Want or absence of divine power or of divinity.	
indivisibility		The state or property of being indivisible or inseparable; inseparability.	
indivisible		Not divisible; incapable of being divided, separated, or broken; not separable into parts.	
indivisibleness		The state of being indivisible; indivisibility.	
indivisibly		In an indivisible manner.	
indivision	Obsolete	A state of being not divided; oneness.	
indo-		A prefix signifying Indian (i. e., East Indian); of or pertaining of India.	
indo-aryan		Pert. to the Indo-Aryans, or designating, or of, the Aryan languages of India.	
indo-briton		A person born in India, of mixed Indian and British blood; a half-caste.	
indo-chinese		Of or pertaining to Indo-China (i. e., Farther India, or India beyond the Ganges).	
indo-english		Of or relating to the English who are born or reside in India; Anglo-Indian.	
indo-european		Aryan; -- applied to the languages of India and Europe which are derived from the prehistoric Aryan language; also, pertaining to the people or nations who speak these languages; as, the Indo- European or Aryan family.	
indo-germanic		Same as Aryan, and Indo-European.	
indoaniline		Any one of a series of artificial blue dyes, in appearance resembling indigo, for which they are often used as substitutes.	
indocibility		The state of being indocible; indocibleness; indocility.	
indocible		Incapable of being taught, or not easily instructed; dull in intellect; intractable; unteachable; indocile.	Latin indocibilis.
indocile		Not teachable; indisposed to be taught, trained, or disciplined; not easily instructed or governed; dull; intractable.	
indocility		The quality or state of being indocile; dullness of intellect; unteachableness; intractableness.	
indoctrinate		To instruct in the rudiments or principles of learning, or of a branch of learning; to imbue with learning; to instruct in, or imbue with, principles or doctrines; to teach; -- often followed by in.	
indoctrination		The act of indoctrinating, or the condition of being indoctrinated; instruction in the rudiments and principles of any science or system of belief; information.	
indogen		A complex, nitrogenous radical, C8H5NO, regarded as the essential nucleus of indigo.	
indogenide		Any one of the derivatives of indogen, which contain that group as a nucleus.	
indoin		A substance resembling indigo blue, obtained artificially from certain isatogen compounds.	
indol		A white, crystalline substance, C8H7N, obtained from blue indigo, and almost all indigo derivatives, by a process of reduction.	
indolence		The quality or condition of being indolent; inaction, or want of exertion of body or mind, proceeding from love of ease or aversion to toil; habitual idleness; indisposition to labor; laziness; sloth; inactivity.	
indolency	Obsolete	Indolence.	Latin indolentia.
indolent		Indulging in ease; avoiding labor and exertion; habitually idle; lazy; inactive; as, an indolent man.	Latin indolentem.
indolently		In an indolent manner.	
indoles		Natural disposition; natural quality or abilities.	Latin indoles.
indolin		A dark resinous substance, polymeric with indol, and obtained by the reduction of indigo white.	
indomable	Obsolete	Indomitable.	
indomitable		Not to be subdued; untamable; invincible; as, an indomitable will, courage, animal.	
indomite	Obsolete	Not tamed; untamed; savage; wild.	
indomptable	Obsolete	Indomitable.	
indonesian		Of or pertaining to Indonesia or Indonesians.	
indoor		Done or being within doors; within a house or institution; domestic; as, indoor work.	
indoors		Within the house; -- usually separated, in doors.	
indophenol		Any one of a series of artificial blue dyestuffs, resembling indigo in appearance, and obtained by the action of phenol on certain nitrogenous derivatives of quinone.	
indorsable		Capable of being indorsed; transferable; convertible.	
indorsation	Obsolete	Indorsement.	
indorse		To write upon the back or outside of a paper or letter, as a direction, heading, memorandum, or address.	
indorsed		See Addorsed — set or turned back to back.	
indorsee		The person to whom a note or bill is indorsed, or assigned by indorsement.	
indorsement		The act of writing on the back of a note, bill, or other written instrument.	
indorser		The person who indorses.	
indorsor		The person who indorses.	
indow		See Endow — to furnish with money or its equivalent, as a permanent fund for support; to make pecuniary provision for; to settle an income upon; especially, to furnish with dower; as, to endow a wife…	
indowment		See Endowment — the act of bestowing a dower, fund, or permanent provision for support.	
indoxyl		A nitrogenous substance, C8H7NO, isomeric with oxindol, obtained as an oily liquid.	
indoxylic		Of or pertaining to, or producing, indoxyl; as, indoxylic acid.	
indraught		A draught of air or flow of water setting inward.	
indrawn		Drawn in.	
indrench	Obsolete	To overwhelm with water; to drench; to drown.	
indri		Any lemurine animal of the genus Indris.	
indris		Any lemurine animal of the genus Indris.	
indubious		Not dubious or doubtful; certain.	Latin indubius.
indubitable		Not dubitable or doubtful; too evident to admit of doubt; unquestionable; evident; apparently certain; as, an indubitable conclusion. -- n.	
indubitableness		The state or quality of being indubitable.	
indubitably		Undoubtedly; unquestionably; in a manner to remove all doubt.	
indubitate	Obsolete	Not questioned or doubtful; evident; certain.	
induce		To bring on; to effect; to cause; as, a fever induced by fatigue or exposure.	Middle English enducen, from Latin inducere.
inducement		The act of inducing, or the state of being induced.	
inducer		One who, or that which, induces or incites.	
inducible		Capable of being induced, caused, or made to take place.	
induct		To introduce, as to a benefice or office; to put in actual possession of the temporal rights of an ecclesiastical living, or of any other office, with the customary forms and ceremonies.	
inductance		Capacity for induction; the coefficient of self-induction.	
inducteous		Rendered electro-polar by induction, or brought into the opposite electrical state by the influence of inductive bodies.	
inductile		Not ductile; incapable of being drawn into threads, as a metal; inelastic; tough.	
inductility		The quality or state of being inductile.	
induction		The act or process of inducting or bringing in; introduction; entrance; beginning; commencement.	
inductional		Pertaining to, or proceeding by, induction; inductive.	
inductive		Leading or drawing; persuasive; tempting; -- usually followed by to.	
inductively		By induction or inference.	
inductometer		An instrument for measuring or ascertaining the degree or rate of electrical induction.	
inductor		The person who inducts another into an office or benefice.	
inductorium		An induction coil.	
inductric		Acting by, or in a state of, induction; relating to electrical induction.	
inductrical		Acting by, or in a state of, induction; relating to electrical induction.	
indue		To clothe; to invest; hence, to endow; to furnish; to supply with moral or mental qualities.	
induement		The act of induing, or state of being indued; investment; endowment.	
indulge		To be complacent toward; to give way to; not to oppose or restrain; (a) when said of a habit, desire, etc.: to give free course to; to give one's self up to; as, to indulge sloth, pride, selfishness, or inclinations…	
indulgement		Indulgence.	
indulgence		The act of indulging or humoring; the quality of being indulgent; forbearance of restrain or control.	French indulgence.
indulgency		Indulgence.	
indulgent		Prone to indulge; yielding to the wishes, humor, or appetites of those under one's care; compliant; not opposing or restraining; tolerant; mild; favorable; not severe; as, an indulgent parent.	
indulgential		Relating to the indulgences of the Roman Catholic Church.	
indulgently		In an indulgent manner; mildly; favorably.	
indulger		One who indulges.	
indulgiate		To indulge.	
induline		(a) Any one of a large series of aniline dyes, colored blue or violet, and represented by aniline violet.	
indult		A privilege or exemption; an indulgence; a dispensation granted by the pope.	
indulto		A privilege or exemption; an indulgence; a dispensation granted by the pope.	
indument		Plumage; feathers.	
induplicate		(a) Having the edges bent abruptly toward the axis; -- said of the parts of the calyx or corolla in æstivation.	
induplicative		(a) Having induplicate sepals or petals in æstivation. (b) Having induplicate leaves in vernation.	
indurance		See Endurance — a state or quality of lasting or duration; lastingness; continuance.	
indurate		Hardened; not soft; indurated.	
indurated		Hardened; as, indurated clay; an indurated heart.	
induration		The act of hardening, or the process of growing hard.	
indusial		Of, pertaining to, or containing, the petrified cases of the larvæ of certain insects.	
indusiate		Furnished with an indusium.	
indusiated		Furnished with an indusium.	
indusium		(a) A collection of hairs united so as to form a sort of cup, and inclosing the stigma of a flower.	
industrial		Consisting in industry; pertaining to industry, or the arts and products of industry; concerning those employed in labor, especially in manual labor, and their wages, duties, and rights.	
industrialism		Devotion to industrial pursuits; labor; industry.	
industrially		With reference to industry.	
industrious		Given to industry; characterized by diligence; constantly, regularly, or habitually occupied; busy; assiduous; not slothful or idle; -- commonly implying devotion to lawful and useful labor.	Latin industriosus.
industry		Habitual diligence in any employment or pursuit, either bodily or mental; steady attention to business; assiduity; -- opposed to sloth and idleness; as, industry pays debts, while idleness or despair will increase them.	French industrie, from Latin industria.
indutive		Covered; -- applied to seeds which have the usual integumentary covering.	Latin indutus.
induviae		Persistent portions of a calyx or corolla; also, leaves which do not disarticulate from the stem, and hence remain for a long time.	
induviate		Covered with induviæ, as the upper part of the trunk of a palm tree.	
indwell		To dwell in; to abide within; to remain in possession.	
indweller		An inhabitant.	
indwelling		Residence within, as in the heart.	Middle English indwelling.
inearth		To inter.	
inebriant		Intoxicating.	
inebriate		To make drunk; to intoxicate.	Latin inebriare.
inebriation		The condition of being inebriated; intoxication; figuratively, deprivation of sense and judgment by anything that exhilarates, as success.	
inebriety		Drunkenness; inebriation.	
inebrious		Intoxicated, or partially so; intoxicating.	
inedible		Not edible; not fit for food. -- In*ed`i*bil"i*ty (#), n.	
inedited		Not edited; unpublished; as, an inedited manuscript.	
inee		An arrow poison, made from an apocynaceous plant (Strophanthus hispidus) of the Gaboon country; -- called also onaye.	
ineffability		The quality or state of being ineffable; ineffableness; unspeakableness.	
ineffable		Incapable of being expresses in words; unspeakable; unutterable; indescribable; as, the ineffable joys of heaven.	
ineffableness		The quality or state of being ineffable or unutterable; unspeakableness.	
ineffably		In a manner not to be expressed in words; unspeakably.	
ineffaceable		Incapable of being effaced; indelible; ineradicable.	
ineffaceably		So as not to be effaceable.	
ineffectible		Ineffectual; impracticable.	
ineffective		Not effective; ineffectual; futile; inefficient; useless; as, an ineffective appeal.	
ineffectively		In an ineffective manner; without effect; inefficiently; ineffectually.	
ineffectiveness		Quality of being ineffective.	
ineffectual		Not producing the proper effect; without effect; inefficient; weak; useless; futile; unavailing; as, an ineffectual attempt; an ineffectual expedient.	
ineffectuality		Ineffectualness.	
ineffectually		Without effect; in vain.	
ineffectualness		Want of effect, or of power to produce it; inefficacy.	
ineffervescence		Want of effervescence.	
ineffervescent		Not effervescing, or not susceptible of effervescence; quiescent.	
ineffervescibility		The quality of being ineffervescible.	
ineffervescible		Not capable or susceptible of effervescence.	
inefficacious		Not efficacious; not having power to produce the effect desired; inadequate; incompetent; inefficient; impotent.	
inefficaciously		without efficacy or effect.	
inefficaciousness		Want of effect, or of power to produce the effect; inefficacy.	
inefficacy		Want of power to produce the desired or proper effect; inefficiency; ineffectualness; futility; uselessness; fruitlessness; as, the inefficacy of medicines or means.	
inefficiency		The quality of being inefficient; want of power or energy sufficient; want of power or energy sufficient for the desired effect; inefficacy; incapacity; as, he was discharged from his position for inefficiency.	
inefficient		Not efficient; not producing the effect intended or desired; inefficacious; as, inefficient means or measures.	
inefficiently		In an inefficient manner.	
inelaborate		Not elaborate; not wrought with care; unpolished; crude; unfinished.	Latin inelaboratus.
inelastic		Not elastic.	
inelasticity		Want of elasticity.	
inelegance		The quality of being inelegant; want of elegance or grace; want of refinement, beauty, or polish in language, composition, or manners.	
inelegancy		The quality of being inelegant; want of elegance or grace; want of refinement, beauty, or polish in language, composition, or manners.	
inelegant		Not elegant; deficient in beauty, polish, refinement, grave, or ornament; wanting in anything which correct taste requires.	
inelegantly		In an inelegant manner.	
ineligibility		The state or quality of being ineligible.	
ineligible		Not eligible; not qualified to be chos Burke.	
inelligibly		In an ineligible manner.	
ineloquent		Not eloquent; not fluent, graceful, or pathetic; not persuasive; as, ineloquent language.	
ineloquently		Without eloquence.	
ineluctable		Not to be overcome by struggling; irresistible; inevitable.	Latin ineluctabilis.
ineludible		Incapable of being eluded or evaded; unvoidable.	
inembryonate		Not embryonate.	
inenarrable	Obsolete	Incapable of being narrated; indescribable; ineffable.	
inept		Not apt or fit; unfit; unsuitable; improper; unbecoming.	French inepte, from Latin ineptus.
ineptitude		The quality of being inept; unfitness; inaptitude; unsuitableness.	
ineptly		Unfitly; unsuitably; awkwardly.	
ineptness		Unfitness; ineptitude.	
inequable		Unequable.	
inequal	Obsolete	Unequal; uneven; various.	
inequality		The quality of being unequal; difference, or want of equality, in any respect; lack of uniformity; disproportion; unevenness; disparity; diversity; as, an inequality in size, stature, numbers, power, distances, motions, rank…	Old French inequalité, from Latin inaequalitas.
inequation		An inequality.	
inequidistant		Not equally distant; not equidistant.	
inequilateral		Having unequal sides; unsymmetrical; unequal-sided.	
inequilobate		Unequally lobed; cut into lobes of different shapes or sizes.	
inequitable		Not equitable; not just.	
inequitate	Obsolete	To ride over or through.	
inequity		Want of equity; injustice; wrong.	
inequivalve		Having unequal valves, as the shell of an oyster.	
inequivalvular		Having unequal valves, as the shell of an oyster.	
ineradicable		Incapable of being The bad seed thus sown was ineradicable.	
ineradicably		So as not to be eradicable.	
inergetic		Having no energy; sluggish.	
inergetical		Having no energy; sluggish.	
inergetically		Without energy.	
inerm		Same as Inermis.	
inermis		Unarmed; destitute of prickles or thorns, as a leaf.	
inermous		Same as Inermis.	
inerrability		Freedom or exemption from error; infallibility.	
inerrable		Incapable of erring; infallible; unerring.	Latin inerrabilis.
inerrableness		Exemption from error; inerrability; infallibility.	
inerrably		With security from error; infallibly; unerringly.	
inerrancy		Exemption from error.	
inerratic		Not erratic or wandering; fixed; settled; established.	
inerringly		Without error, mistake, or deviation; unerringly.	
inert		Destitute of the power of moving itself, or of active resistance to motion; as, matter is inert.	French inerte, from Latin iners.
inertia		(Physics) That property of matter by which it tends when at rest to remain so, and when in motion to continue in motion, and in the same straight line or direction, unless acted on by some external force…	Latin inertia.
inertion		Want of activity or exertion; inertness; quietude.	
inertitude		Inertness; inertia.	
inertly		Without activity; sluggishly.	
inertness		Want of activity or exertion; habitual indisposition to action or motion; sluggishness; apathy; insensibility.	
inerudite		Not erudite; unlearned; ignorant.	
inescapable		Not escapable.	
inescate	Obsolete	To allure; to lay a bait for.	Latin inescatus.
inescation	Obsolete	The act of baiting; allurement.	Latin inescatio.
inescutcheon		A small escutcheon borne within a shield.	
inessential		Not essential; unessential.	
inestimable		Incapable of being estimated or computed; especially, too valuable or excellent to be measured or fully appreciated; above all price; as, inestimable rights or privileges.	French inestimable, from Latin inaestimabilis.
inestimably		In a manner, or to a degree, above estimation; as, things inestimably excellent.	
inevasible		Incapable of being	
inevidence	Obsolete	Want of evidence; obscurity.	
inevident		Not evident; not clear or obvious; obscure.	
inevitability		Impossibility to be avoided or shunned; inevitableness.	
inevitable		Not evitable; incapable of being shunned; unavoidable; certain.	Latin inevitabilis.
inevitableness		The state of being unavoidable; certainty to happen.	
inevitably		Without possibility of escape or evasion; unavoidably; certainly.	
inexact		Not exact; not precisely correct or true; inaccurate.	
inexactitude		Inexactness; uncertainty; as, geographical inexactitude.	
inexactly		In a manner not exact or precise; inaccurately.	
inexactness		Incorrectness; want of exactness.	
inexcitability		The quality of being inexcitable; insusceptibility to excitement.	
inexcitable		Not susceptible of excitement; dull; lifeless; torpid.	
inexcusable		Not excusable; not admitting excuse or justification; as, inexcusable folly.	
inexcusableness		The quality of being inexcusable; enormity forgiveness.	
inexcusably		With a degree of guilt or folly beyond excuse or justification.	
inexecrable		That can not be execrated enough.	
inexecutable		Incapable of being executed or performed; impracticable; infeasible.	
inexecution		Neglect of execution; nonperformance; as, the inexecution of a treaty.	
inexertion		Want of exertion; want of effort; defect of action; indolence; laziness.	
inexhalable	Obsolete	Incapable of being exhaled.	
inexhausted		Not exhausted; not emptied; not spent; not having lost all strength or resources; unexhausted.	
inexhaustedly		Without exhaustion.	
inexhaustibility		The state or quality of being inexhaustible; abundance.	
inexhaustible		Incapable of being exhausted, emptied, or used up; unfailing; not to be wasted or spent; as, inexhaustible stores of provisions; an inexhaustible stock of elegant words.	
inexhaustive		Inexhaustible.	
inexist	Obsolete	To exist within; to dwell within.	
inexistant	Obsolete	Inexistent; not existing.	
inexistence		(a) Inherence; subsistence.	
inexistent		Not having being; not existing.	
inexorability		The quality of being inexorable, or unyielding to entreaty.	
inexorable		Not to be persuaded or moved by entreaty or prayer; firm; determined; unyielding; unchangeable; inflexible; relentless; as, an inexorable prince or tyrant; an inexorable judge.	Latin inexorabilis.
inexorableness		The quality or state of being inexorable.	
inexorably		In an inexorable manner; inflexibly.	
inexpansible		Incapable of expansion, enlargement, or extension.	
inexpectable	Obsolete	Not to be expected or anticipated.	
inexpectant		Not expectant.	
inexpectation		Absence of expectation.	
inexpected	Obsolete	Unexpected.	
inexpectedly	Obsolete	Unexpectedly.	
inexpectedness	Obsolete	Unexpectedness.	
inexpedience		The quality or state of being inexpedient; want of fitness; unsuitableness to the end or object; impropriety; as, the inexpedience of some measures.	
inexpediency		The quality or state of being inexpedient; want of fitness; unsuitableness to the end or object; impropriety; as, the inexpedience of some measures.	
inexpedient		Not expedient; not tending to promote a purpose; not tending to the end desired; inadvisable; unfit; improper; unsuitable to time and place; as, what is expedient at one time may be inexpedient at another.	
inexpensive		Not expensive; cheap.	
inexperience		Absence or want of experience; lack of personal and experimental knowledge; as, the inexperience of youth.	French inexpérience, from Latin inexperientia.
inexperienced		Not having experience unskilled.	
inexpert		Not expert; not skilled; destitute of knowledge or dexterity derived from practice.	
inexpertness		Want of expertness or skill.	
inexpiable		Admitting of no expiation, atonement, or satisfaction; as, an inexpiable crime or offense.	
inexpiableness		Quality of being inexpiable.	
inexpiably		In an inexpiable manner of degree; to a degree that admits of no atonement.	
inexpiate	Obsolete	Not appeased or placated.	Latin inexpiatus.
inexplainable		Incapable of being explained; inexplicable.	
inexpleably	Obsolete	Insatiably.	
inexplicability		The quality or state of being inexplicable.	
inexplicable		Not explicable; not explainable; incapable of being explained, interpreted, or accounted for; as, an inexplicable mystery.	
inexplicableness		A state of being inexplicable; inexplicability.	
inexplicably		In an inexplicable manner.	
inexplicit		Not explicit; not clearly stated; indefinite; vague.	
inexplorable		Incapable of being explored, searched out, or discovered.	
inexplosive		Not explosive.	
inexposure		A state of not being exposed.	
inexpressible		Not capable of expression or utterance in language; ineffable; unspeakable; indescribable; unutterable; as, inexpressible grief or pleasure.	
inexpressibles	Colloquial	Breeches; trousers.	
inexpressibly		In an inexpressible manner or degree; unspeakably; unutterably.	
inexpressive		Without expression or meaning; not expressive; dull; unintelligent; as, an inexpressive countenance.	
inexpressiveness		The state or quality of being inexpressive.	
inexpugnable		Incapable of being subdued by force; impregnable; unconquerable.	
inexpugnably		So as to be inexpugnable; in an inexpugnable manner.	
inexsuperable		Not capable of being passed over; insuperable; insurmountable.	
inextended		Not extended.	
inextensible		Not capable of being extended; not elastic; as, inextensible fibers.	
inextension		Want of extension; unextended state.	
inexterminable		Incapable of extermination.	Latin inexterminabilis.
inextinct		Not quenched; not extinct.	Latin inextinctus.
inextinguible	Obsolete	Inextinguishable.	
inextinguishable		Not capable of being extinguished; extinguishable; unquenchable; as, inextinguishable flame, light, thirst, desire, feuds.	
inextinguishably		So as not to be extinguished; in an inextinguishable manner.	
inextirpable		Not capable of being extirpated or rooted out; ineradicable.	
inextricable		Incapable of being extricated, untied, or disentangled; hopelessly intricate, confused, or obscure; as, an inextricable knot or difficulty; inextricable confusion.	
inextricableness		The state of being inextricable.	
inextricably		In an inextricable manner.	
ineye		To ingraft, as a tree or plant, by the insertion of a bud or eye; to inoculate.	
infabricated	Obsolete	Not fabricated; unwrought; not artificial; natural.	
infallibilist		One who accepts or maintains the dogma of papal infallibility.	
infallibility		The quality or state of being infallible, or exempt from error; inerrability.	
infallible		Not fallible; not capable of erring; entirely exempt from liability to mistake; unerring; inerrable.	Latin infallibilis.
infallibleness		The state or quality of being infallible; infallibility.	
infallibly		In an infallible manner; certainly; unfailingly; unerringly.	
infame	Obsolete	To defame; to make infamous.	
infamize		To make infamous; to defame.	
infamous		Of very bad report; having a reputation of the worst kind; held in abhorrence; guilty of something that exposes to infamy; base; notoriously vile; detestable; as, an infamous traitor; an infamous perjurer.	
infamously		In an infamous manner or degree; scandalously; disgracefully; shamefully.	
infamousness		The state or quality of being infamous; infamy.	
infamy		Total loss of reputation; public disgrace; dishonor; ignominy; indignity.	Latin infamia.
infancy		The state or period of being an infant; the first part of life; early childhood.	
infandous	Obsolete	Too odious to be expressed or mentioned.	Latin infandus.
infangthef		The privilege granted to lords of certain manors to judge thieves taken within the seigniory of such lords.	
infant		A child in the first period of life, beginning at his birth; a young babe; sometimes, a child several years of age.	Latin infantem.
infanta		A title borne by every one of the daughters of the kings of Spain and Portugal, except the eldest.	Spanish infanta.
infante		A title given to every one of sons of the kings of Spain and Portugal, except the eldest or heir apparent.	
infanthood		Infancy.	
infanticidal		Of or pertaining to infanticide; engaged in, or guilty of, child murder.	
infanticide		The murder of an infant born alive; the murder or killing of a newly born or young child; child murder.	
infantile		Of or pertaining to infancy, or to an infant; similar to, or characteristic of, an infant; childish; as, infantile behavior.	
infantine		Infantile; childish.	
infantlike		Like an infant.	
infantly	Obsolete	Like an infant.	
infantry		(Mil.) A body of soldiers serving on foot; foot soldiers, in distinction from cavalry.	Middle French infanterie.
infarce	Obsolete	To stuff; to swell.	
infarct		(a) An obstruction or embolus. (b) The morbid condition of a limited area resulting from such obstruction; as, a hemorrhagic infarct.	
infarction		The act of stuffing or filling; an overloading and obstruction of any organ or vessel of the body; constipation.	
infare	Scots	A house-warming; especially, a reception, party, or entertainment given by a newly married couple, or by the husband upon receiving the wife to his house.	Middle English infer, from Old English infær.
infashionable	Obsolete	Unfashionable.	
infatigable	Obsolete	Indefatigable.	
infatuate		To make foolish; to affect with folly; to weaken the intellectual powers of, or to deprive of sound judgment.	
infatuated		Overcome by some foolish passion or desire; affected by infatuation.	
infatuation		The act of infatuating; the state of being infatuated; folly; that which infatuates.	
infaust		Not favorable; unlucky; unpropitious; sinister.	
infausting	Obsolete	The act of making unlucky; misfortune; bad luck.	
infeasibility		The state of being infeasible; impracticability.	
infeasible		Not capable of being done or accomplished; impracticable.	
infeasibleness		The state of quality of being infeasible; infeasibility.	
infect		To taint with morbid matter or any pestilential or noxious substance or effluvium by which disease is produced; as, to infect a lancet; to infect an apartment.	Latin infectus.
infecter		One who, or that which, infects.	
infectible		Capable of being infected.	
infection		That which infects, or causes the communicated disease; any effluvium, miasm, or pestilential matter by which an infectious disease is caused.	
infectious		Having qualities that may infect; communicable or caused by infection; pestilential; epidemic; as, an infectious fever; infectious clothing; infectious air; infectious vices.	
infectiously		In an infectious manner.	
infectiousness		The quality of being infectious.	
infective		Infectious.	
infecund	Obsolete	Unfruitful; not producing young; barren; infertile.	
infecundity		Want of fecundity or fruitfulness; barrenness; sterility; unproductiveness.	
infecundous	Obsolete	Infertile; barren; unprofitable; unproductive.	
infeeble		See Enfeeble — to make feeble; to deprive of strength; to reduce the strength or force of; to weaken; to debilitate.	
infelicitous		Not felicitous; unhappy; unfortunate; not fortunate or appropriate in application; not well said, expressed, or done; as, an infelicitous condition; an infelicitous remark; an infelicitous description; infelicitous words.	
infelicity		The state or quality of being infelicitous; unhappiness; misery; wretchedness; misfortune; want of suitableness or appropriateness.	
infelonious		Not felonious, malignant, or criminal.	
infelt		Felt inwardly; heartfelt.	
infeodation		See Infeudation — (Law) The act of putting one in possession of an estate in fee.	
infeoff		See Enfeoff — (Law) To give a feud, or right in land, to; to invest with a fief or fee; to invest (any one) with a freehold estate by the process of feoffment.	
infeoffment		See Enfeoffment — (a) The act of enfeoffing. (b) The instrument or deed by which one is invested with the fee of an estate.	
infer		To derive by deduction or by induction; to conclude or surmise from facts or premises; to accept or derive, as a consequence, conclusion, or probability; to imply; as, I inferred his determination from his silence.	Latin inferō.
inferable		Capable of being inferred or deduced from premises.	
inference		That which inferred; a truth or proposition drawn from another which is admitted or supposed to be true; a conclusion; a deduction.	
inferential		Deduced or deducible by inference.	
inferentially		By way of inference.	
inferiae		Sacrifices offered to the souls of deceased heroes or friends.	
inferior		Lower in place, rank, excellence, etc.; less important or valuable; subordinate; underneath; beneath.	
inferiority		The state of being inferior; a lower state or condition; as, inferiority of rank, of talents, of age, of worth.	
inferiorly		In an inferior manner, or on the inferior part.	
infernal		Of or pertaining to or suitable for the lower regions, inhabited, according to the ancients, by the dead; pertaining to Pluto's realm of the dead, the Tartarus of the ancients.	
infernally		In an infernal manner; diabolically.	
inferno		The infernal regions; hell.	Italian inferno, from Latin infernus.
inferobranchian		One of the Inferobranchiata.	
inferobranchiata		A suborder of marine gastropod mollusks, in which the gills are between the foot and the mantle.	
inferobranchiate		Having the gills on the sides of the body, under the margin of the mantle; belonging to the Inferobranchiata.	
inferrible		Inferable.	
infertile		Not fertile; not productive; barren; sterile; as, an infertile soil.	
infertilely		In an infertile manner.	
infertility		The state or quality of being infertile; unproductiveness; barrenness.	
infest	Obsolete	Mischievous; hurtful; harassing.	
infestation		The act of infesting or state of being infested; molestation; vexation; annoyance.	
infester		One who, or that which, infests.	
infestive		Having no mirth; not festive or merry; dull; cheerless; gloomy; forlorn.	
infestivity		Want of festivity, cheerfulness, or mirth; dullness; cheerlessness.	
infestuous	Obsolete	Mischievous; harmful; dangerous.	Latin infestus.
infeudation		(Law) The act of putting one in possession of an estate in fee.	
infibulation		The act of attaching a ring, clasp, or frame, to the genital organs in such a manner as to prevent copulation.	Latin infibulo.
infidel		Not holding the faith; -- applied esp. to one who does not believe in the inspiration of the Scriptures, and the supernatural origin of Christianity.	
infidelity		Want of faith or belief in some religious system; especially, a want of faith in, or disbelief of, the inspiration of the Scriptures, of the divine origin of Christianity.	
infield	Scotland	Arable and manured land kept continually under crop; -- distinguished from outfield.	
infile	Obsolete	To arrange in a file or rank; to place in order.	
infilm		To cover with a film; to coat thinly; as, to infilm one metal with another in the process of gilding; to infilm the glass of a mirror.	
infilter		To filter or sift in.	
infiltrate		To enter by penetrating the pores or interstices of a substance; to filter into or through something.	
infiltration		The act or process of infiltrating, as if water into a porous substance, or of a fluid into the cells of an organ or part of the body.	
infiltrative		Of or pertaining to infiltration.	
infinite		Unlimited or boundless, in time or space; as, infinite duration or distance.	Latin infinitus.
infinitely		Without bounds or limits; beyond or below assignable limits; as, an infinitely large or infinitely small quantity.	
infiniteness		The state or quality of being infinite; infinity; greatness; immensity.	
infinitesimal		Infinitely or indefinitely small; less than any assignable quantity or value; very small.	
infinitesimally		By infinitesimals; in infinitely small quantities; in an infinitesimal degree.	
infinitival		Pertaining to the infinite mood.	
infinitive		Unlimited; not bounded or restricted; undefined.	
infinito		Infinite; perpetual, as a canon whose end leads back to the beginning.	
infinitude		The quality or state of being infinite, or without limits; infiniteness.	
infinituple		Multipied an infinite number of times.	
infinity		Unlimited extent of time, space, or quantity; eternity; boundlessness; immensity.	Latin infinitas.
infirm		Not firm or sound; weak; feeble; as, an infirm body; an infirm constitution.	
infirmarian		A person dwelling in, or having charge of, an infirmary, esp. in a monastic institution.	
infirmary		A hospital, or place where the infirm or sick are lodged and nursed gratuitously, or where out-patients are treated.	Latin infirmaria.
infirmative	Obsolete	Weakening; annulling, or tending to make void.	
infirmatory	Obsolete	An infirmary.	
infirmity		The state of being infirm; feebleness; an imperfection or weakness; esp., an unsound, unhealthy, or debilitated state; a disease; a malady; as, infirmity of body or mind.	
infirmly		In an infirm manner.	
infirmness		Infirmity; feebleness.	
infix		To set; to fasten or fix by piercing or thrusting in; as, to infix a sting, spear, or dart.	
inflame		To set on fire; to kindle; to cause to burn, flame, or glow.	
inflamed		Set on fire; enkindled; heated; congested; provoked; exasperated.	
inflamer		The person or thing that inflames.	
inflammabillty		Susceptibility of taking fire readily; the state or quality of being inflammable.	
inflammable		Capable of being easily set fire; easily enkindled; combustible; as, inflammable oils or spirits.	
inflammableness		The quality or state of being inflammable; inflammability.	
inflammably		In an inflammable manner.	
inflammation		The act of inflaming, kindling, or setting on fire; also, the state of being inflamed.	
inflammative		Inflammatory.	
inflammatory		Tending to inflame, kindle, or irritate.	
inflatable		That may be inflated.	
inflate		To swell or distend with air or gas; to dilate; to expand; to enlarge; as, to inflate a bladder; to inflate the lungs.	Latin inflatus.
inflated		Filled, as with air or gas; blown up; distended; as, a balloon inflated with gas.	
inflater		One who, or that which, inflates; as, the inflaters of the stock exchange.	
inflatingly		In a manner tending to inflate.	
inflation		The act or process of inflating, or the state of being inflated, as with air or gas; distention; expansion; enlargement.	
inflationist		One who favors an increased or very large issue of paper money.	
inflatus		A blowing or breathing into; inflation; inspiration.	
inflect		To turn from a direct line or course; to bend; to incline, to deflect; to curve; to bow.	Latin inflecto.
inflected		Bent; turned; deflected.	
inflection		The act of inflecting, or the state of being inflected.	
inflectional		Of or pertaining to inflection; having, or characterized by, inflection.	
inflective		Capable of, or pertaining to, inflection; deflecting; as, the inflective quality of the air.	
inflesh		To incarnate.	
inflex		To bend; to cause to become curved; to make crooked; to deflect.	
inflexed		(Bot.) Bent or turned abruptly inwards, or toward the axis, as the petals of a flower.	
inflexibility		The quality or state of being inflexible, or not capable of being bent or changed; unyielding stiffness; inflexibleness; rigidity; firmness of will or purpose; unbending pertinacity; steadfastness; resoluteness; unchangeableness…	
inflexible		Not capable of being bent; stiff; rigid; firm; unyielding.	
inflexibleness		The quality or state of being inflexible; inflexibility; rigidity; firmness.	
inflexibly		In an inflexible manner.	
inflexion		Inflection.	
inflexive		Inflective.	
inflexure		An inflection; a bend or fold.	
inflict		To give, cause, or produce by striking, or as if by striking; to apply forcibly; to lay or impose; to send; to cause to bear, feel, or suffer; as, to inflict blows; to inflict a wound with a dagger…	
inflicter		One who inflicts.	
infliction		The act of inflicting or imposing; as, the infliction of torment, or of punishment.	
inflictive		Causing infliction; acting as an infliction.	
inflorescence		A flowering; the putting forth and unfolding of blossoms.	Latin inflorescentia.
inflow		To flow in.	
influence		Hence, in general, the bringing about of an effect, phusical or moral, by a gradual process; controlling power quietly exerted; agency, force, or tendency of any kind which the sun exerts on animal and vegetable life…	
influencer		One who, or that which, influences.	
influencive		Tending toinfluence; influential.	
influent	Obsolete	Exerting influence; influential.	
influential		Exerting or possessing influence or power; potent; efficacious; effective; strong; having authority or ascendency; as, an influential man, station, argument, etc. A very influential Gascon prefix.	
influentially		In an influential manner.	
influenza		An epidemic affection characterized by acute nasal catarrh, or by inflammation of the throat or the bronchi, and usually accompanied by fever.	Italian influenza, from Latin influentia.
influx		A coming in; infusion; intromission; introduction; importation in abundance; also, that which flows or comes in; as, a great influx of goods into a country, or an influx of gold and silver.	Latin influxus.
influxion		A flowing in; infusion.	Latin influxio.
influxious	Obsolete	Influential.	
influxive		Having a tendency to flow in; having influence; influential.	
influxively		By influxion.	
infold		To wrap up or cover with folds; to envelop; to inwrap; to inclose; to involve.	
infoldment		The act of infolding; the state of being infolded.	
infoliate		To cover or overspread with, or as with, leaves.	
inform		Without regular form; shapeless; ugly; deformed.	Middle English informen.
informal		Not in the regular, usual, or established form; not according to official, conventional, prescribed, or customary forms or rules; irregular; hence, without ceremony; as, an informal writting, proceeding, or visit.	
informality		The state of being informal; want of regular, prescribed, or customary form; as, the informality of legal proceedings.	
informally		In an informal manner.	
informant		One who imparts information or instruction.	Latin informans.
information		The act of informing, or communicating knowledge or intelligence.	Anglo-Norman informacioun.
informative		Having power to inform, animate, or vivify.	
informatory		Full of, or conveying, information; instructive.	
informed	Obsolete	Unformed or ill-formed; deformed; shapeless.	
informer		One who informs, or imparts knowledge or news.	
informidable	Obsolete	Not formidable; not to be feared or dreaded.	Latin informidabilis.
informity	Obsolete	Want of regular form; shapelessness.	Latin informitas.
informous	Obsolete	Of irregular form; shapeless.	
infortunate	Obsolete	Unlucky; unfortunate.	
infortune	Obsolete	Misfortune.	Latin infortunium.
infortuned	Obsolete	Unfortunate.	
infound	Obsolete	To pour in; to infuse.	
infra		Below; beneath; under; after; -- often used as a prefix.	
infra-axillary		Situated below the axil, as a bud.	
infra-red		Lying outside the visible spectrum at its red end; -- said of rays less refrangible than the extreme red rays.	
infrabranchial		Below the gills; -- applied to the ventral portion of the pallial chamber in the lamellibranchs.	
infraclavicular		Below the clavicle; as, the infraclavicular fossa.	
infract	Obsolete	Not broken or fractured; unharmed; whole.	
infractible		Capable of being broken.	
infraction		The act of infracting or breaking; breach; violation; nonobservance; infringement; as, an infraction of a treaty, compact, rule, or law.	Latin infractio.
infractor		One who infracts or infringes; a violator; a breaker.	
infragrant		Not fragrant.	
infrahyoid		Same as Hyosternal (a).	
infralabial		Below the lower lip; -- said of certain scales of reptiles and fishes.	
infralapsarian		One of that class of Calvinists who consider the decree of election as contemplating the apostasy as past and the elect as being at the time of election in a fallen and guilty state; -- opposed to Supralapsarian.	
infralapsarianism		The doctrine, belief, or principles of the Inralapsarians.	
inframarginal		Below the margin; submarginal; as, an inframarginal convolution of the brain.	
inframaxillary		(a) Under the lower jaw; submaxillary; as, the inframaxillary nerve. (b) Of or pertaining to the lower iaw.	
inframedian		Of or pertaining to the interval or zone along the sea bottom, at the depth of between fifty and one hundred fathoms.	
inframundane		Lying or situated beneath the world.	
infranchise		See Enfranchise — to set free; to liberate from slavery, prison, or any binding power.	
infrangibility		The quality or state of being infrangible; infrangibleness.	
infrangible		Not capable of being broken or separated into parts; as, infrangible atoms. link'd their fetlocks with a golden band Infrangible.	Old French infrangible.
infrangibleness		The state or quality of being infrangible; infrangibility.	
infraocular		Situated below the eyes, as the antenna of certain insects.	
infraorbital		Below the orbit; as, the infraorbital foramen; the infraorbital nerve.	
infrapose		To place under or beneath.	
infraposition		A situation or position beneath.	
infrascapular		Beneath the scapula, or shoulder blade; subscapular.	
infraspinal		(a) Below the vertebral column, subvertebral. (b) Below the spine; infraspinate; infraspinous.	
infraspinate		Below the spine; infraspinal; esp., below the spine of the scapula; as, the infraspinous fossa; the infraspinate muscle.	
infraspinous		Below the spine; infraspinal; esp., below the spine of the scapula; as, the infraspinous fossa; the infraspinate muscle.	
infrastapedial		Of or pertaining to a part of the columella of the ear, which in many animals projects below the connection with the stapes. -- n.	
infrasternal		Below the sternum; as, the infrasternal depression, or pit of the stomach.	
infratemporal		Below the temple; below the temporal bone.	
infraterritorial		Within the territory of a state.	
infratrochlear		Below a trochlea, or pulley; -- applied esp. to one of the subdivisions of the trigeminal nerve.	
infrequence		The state of rarely occuring; uncommonness; rareness; as, the infrquence of his visits.	
infrequency		The state of rarely occuring; uncommonness; rareness; as, the infrquence of his visits.	
infrequent		Seldom happening or occurring; rare; uncommon; unusual.	
infrequently		Not frequently; rarely.	
infrigidate	Obsolete	To chill; to make cold; to cool.	
infrigidation	Obsolete	The act of chilling or causing to become cold; a chilling; coldness; congelation.	Latin infrigidatio.
infringe		To break, violate, or transgress some contract, rule, or law; to injure; to offend.	Latin infringere.
infringement		The act of infringing; breach; violation; nonfulfillment; as, the infringement of a treaty, compact, law, or constitution.	
infringer		One who infringes or violates; a violator.	
infructuose		Not producing fruit; unfruitful; unprofitable.	Latin infructuosus.
infrugal		Not frugal; wasteful; as, an infrugal expense of time.	
infrugiferous		Not bearing fruit; not fructiferous.	
infucate		To stain; to paint; to daub.	
infucation		The act of painting or staining, especially of painting the face.	
infula		A sort of fillet worn by dignitaries, priests, and others among the ancient Romans.	
infumate		To dry by exposing to smoke; to expose to smoke.	
infumated		Clouded; having a cloudy appearance.	
infumation		Act of drying in smoke.	
infumed		Dried in smoke; smoked.	
infundibular		Having the form of a funnel; pertaining to an infundibulum.	
infundibulate		Having the form of a funnel; pertaining to an infundibulum.	
infundibuliform		Having the form of a funnel or cone; funnel-shaped.	Latin infundere.
infundibulum		(Anat.) A funnel-shaped or dilated organ or part; as, the infundibulum of the brain, a hollow, conical process, connecting the floor of the third ventricle with the pituitary body; the infundibula of the lungs…	Latin infundibulum.
infuneral	Obsolete	To inter with funeral rites; to bury.	
infurcation		A forked exlpansion or divergence; a bifurcation; a branching.	
infuriate		Enraged; rading; furiously angry; infuriated.	
infuriated		Enraged; furious.	
infuscate		To darken; to make black; to obscure.	
infuscated		Darkened with a blackish tinge.	
infuscation		The act of darkening, or state of being dark; darkness; obscurity.	
infuse		To steep in water or other fluid without boiling, for the propose of extracting medicinal qualities; to soak.	
infuser		One who, or that which, infuses.	
infusibility		Capability of being infused, pouredin, or instilled.	
infusible		Capable of being infused.	
infusibleness		Infusibility.	
infusion		The act of infusing, pouring in, or instilling; instillation; as, the infusion of good principles into the mind; the infusion of ardor or zeal.	Latin infusio.
infusionism		The doctrine that the soul is preexistent to the body, and is infused into it at conception or birth; -- opposed to tradicianism and creationism.	
infusive		Having the power of infusion; inspiring; influencing.	
infusoria		One of the classes of Protozoa, including a large number of species, all of minute size.	
infusorial		Belonging to the Infusoria; composed of, or containing, Infusoria; as, infusorial earth.	
infusorian		One of the Infusoria.	
infusory		Infusorial.	
ing	Obsolete	A pasture or meadow; generally one lying low, near a river.	Old English ing.
ingannation	Obsolete	Cheat; deception.	
ingate		(Fonding) The aperture in a mold for pouring in the metal; the gate.	
ingathering		The act or business of gathering or collecting anything; especially, the gathering of the fruits of the earth; harvest.	
ingelable		Not congealable.	
ingeminate		Redoubled; repeated.	
ingemination		Repetition; reduplication; reiteration.	
ingena		The gorilla.	
ingender		See Engender — to produce by the union of the sexes; to beget.	
ingenerabillty		Incapacity of being engendered or produced.	
ingenerable		Incapble of being engendered or produced; original.	
ingenerably		In an ingenerable manner.	
ingenerate		Generated within; inborn; innate; as, ingenerate powers of body.	Latin ingeneratus.
ingeneration		Act of ingenerating.	
ingeniate	Obsolete	To invent; to contrive.	
ingenie		See Ingeny — natural gift or talent; ability; wit; ingenuity.	
ingeniosity	Obsolete	Ingenuity; skill; cunning.	
ingenious		Possessed of genius, or the faculty of invention; skillful or promp to invent; having an aptitude to contrive, or to form new combinations; as, an ingenious author, mechanic.	Latin ingeniosus.
ingeniously		In an ingenious manner; with ingenuity; skillfully; wittily; cleverly.	
ingeniousness		The quality or state of being ingenious; ingenuity.	
ingenit	Obsolete	Innate; inborn; inbred; inherent; native; ingenerate.	
ingenite	Obsolete	Innate; inborn; inbred; inherent; native; ingenerate.	Latin ingenitus.
ingenue		An ingenuous or naïve girl or young woman, or an actress representing such a person.	
ingenuity		The quality or power of ready invention; quickness or acuteness in forming new combinations; ingeniousness; skill in devising or combining.	Latin ingenuitas.
ingenuous		Of honorable extraction; freeborn; noble; as, ingenuous blood of birth.	
ingenuously		In an ingenuous manner; openly; fairly; candidly; artlessly.	
ingenuousness		The state or quality of being ingenuous; openness of heart; frankness.	
ingeny	Obsolete	Natural gift or talent; ability; wit; ingenuity.	Latin ingenium.
ingerminate		To cause to germinate.	
ingest		To take into, or as into, the stomach or alimentary canal.	Latin ingerere.
ingesta		That which is introduced into the body by the stomach or alimentary canal; -- opposed to egesta.	
ingestion		The act of taking or putting into the stomach; as, the ingestion of milk or other food.	
inghalla		The reedbuck of South Africa.	
ingirt		To encircle to gird; to engirt.	
ingle	Obsolete	Flame; blaze; a fire; a fireplace.	
inglobate		In the form of a globe or sphere; -- applied to nebulous matter collected into a sphere by the force of gravitation.	
inglobe	Obsolete	To infix, as in a globe; to fix or secure firmly.	
inglorious		Not glorious; not bringing honor or glory; not accompanied with fame, honor, or celebrity; obscure; humble; as, an inglorious life of ease.	
ingloriously		In an inglorious manner; dishonorably; with shame; ignominiously; obscurely.	
ingloriousness		The state of being inglorious.	
inglut		To glut.	
ingluvial		Of or pertaining to the indulges or crop of birds.	
ingluvies		The crop, or craw, of birds.	
ingluvious	Obsolete	Gluttonous.	
ingorge		See Engorge — to swallow with greediness or in large quantities; to devour.	
ingot		A bar or wedge of steel, gold, or other malleable metal, cast in a mold; a mass of unwrought cast metal.	Middle English ingot.
ingrace	Obsolete	To ingratiate.	
ingracious	Obsolete	Ungracious; unkind.	
ingraff	Obsolete	See Ingraft — to insert, as a scion of one tree, shrub, or plant in another for propagation; as, to ingraft a peach scion on a plum tree; figuratively…	
ingraft		To insert, as a scion of one tree, shrub, or plant in another for propagation; as, to ingraft a peach scion on a plum tree; figuratively, to insert or introduce in such a way as to make a part of something.	
ingrafter		A person who ingrafts.	
ingraftment		The thing ingrafted; a scion.	
ingrain		Dyed before manufacture, -- said of the material of a textile fabric; hence, in general, thoroughly inwrought; forming an essential part of the substance.	
ingrapple	Obsolete	To seize; to clutch; to grapple.	
ingrate	Obsolete	Ingrateful.	Latin ingratus.
ingrateful		Ungrateful; thankless; unappreciative.	
ingrately	Obsolete	Ungratefully.	
ingratiate		To introduce or commend to the favor of another; to bring into favor; to insinuate; -- used reflexively, and followed by with before the person whose favor is sought.	
ingratitude		Want of gratitude; insensibility to, forgetfulness of, or ill return for, kindness or favors received; unthankfulness; ungratefulness.	
ingrave	Obsolete	To engrave.	
ingravidate	Obsolete	To impregnate.	
ingravidation	Obsolete	The state of being pregnant or impregnated.	
ingreat	Obsolete	To make great; to enlarge; to magnify.	
ingredience		The quality or state of being an ingredient or component part.	
ingrediency		The quality or state of being an ingredient or component part.	
ingredient		That which enters into a compound, or is a component part of any combination or mixture; an element; a constituent.	Latin ingrediens.
ingress		The act of entering; entrance; as, the ingress of air into the lungs.	
ingression		Act of entering; entrance.	
ingrieve	Obsolete	To render more grievous; to aggravate.	
ingroove		To groove in; to join in or with a groove.	
ingross		See Engross — to copy or write in a large hand (en gross, i. e., in large); to write a fair copy of in distinct and legible characters; as, to engross a deed or like instrument on parchment.	
ingrowing		Growing or appearing to grow into some other substance.	
ingrowth		A growth or development inward.	
inguen		The groin.	
inguilty	Obsolete	Not guilty.	
inguinal		Of or pertaining to, or in the region of, the inguen or groin; as, an inguinal canal or ligament; inguinal hernia.	Latin inguinalis.
ingulf		To swallow up or overwhelm in, or as in, a gulf; to cast into a gulf. See Engulf.	
ingulfment		The act of ingulfing, or the state of being ingulfed.	
ingurgitate		To swallow, devour, or drink greedily or in large quantity; to guzzle.	
ingurgitation		The act of swallowing greedily or immoderately; that which is so swallowed.	
ingustable		Tasteless; insipid.	Latin ingustabilis.
inhabile	Obsolete	Not apt or fit; unfit; not convenient; inappropriate; unsuitable; as, inhabile matter.	
inhability	Obsolete	Unsuitableness; unaptness; unfitness; inability.	
inhabit	Archaic or poetic	To live or dwell in; to occupy, as a place of settled residence; as, wild beasts inhabit the forest; men inhabit cities and houses.	Old French enhabiter, from Latin inhabitare.
inhabitable	Obsolete	Capable of being inhabited; habitable.	
inhabitance		The act of inhabiting, or the state of being inhabited; the condition of an inhabitant; residence; occupancy.	
inhabitancy		The act of inhabiting, or the state of being inhabited; the condition of an inhabitant; residence; occupancy.	
inhabitant		One who dwells or resides permanently in a place, as distinguished from a transient lodger or visitor; as, an inhabitant of a house, a town, a city, county, or state.	Old French inhabitant, from Latin inhabitans.
inhabitate	Obsolete	To inhabit.	
inhabitation		The act of inhabiting, or the state of being inhabited; indwelling.	
inhabitativeness		A tendency or propensity to permanent residence in a place or abode; love of home and country.	
inhabited	Obsolete	Uninhabited.	
inhabiter		An inhabitant.	
inhabitiveness		See Inhabitativeness — a tendency or propensity to permanent residence in a place or abode; love of home and country.	
inhabitress		A female inhabitant.	
inhalant		Inhaling; used for inhaling.	
inhalation		The act of inhaling; also, that which is inhaled.	
inhale		To breathe or draw into the lungs; to inspire; as, to inhale air; -- opposed to exhale.	Latin inhalare.
inhalent		Used for inhaling; as, the inhalent end of a duct.	
inhaler		One who inhales.	
inhance		See Enhance — to advance; to augment; to increase; to heighten; to make more costly or attractive; as, to enhance the price of commodities; to enhance beauty or kindness; hence, also…	
inharmonic		Not harmonic; inharmonious; discordant; dissonant.	
inharmonical		Not harmonic; inharmonious; discordant; dissonant.	
inharmonious		Not harmonious; unmusical; discordant; dissonant.	
inharmoniously		Without harmony.	
inharmoniousness		The quality of being inharmonious; want of harmony; discord.	
inharmony		Want of harmony.	
inhaul		A rope used to draw in the jib boom, or flying jib boom.	
inhauler		A rope used to draw in the jib boom, or flying jib boom.	
inhearse		To put in, or as in, a hearse or coffin.	
inhere		To be inherent; to stick (in); to be fixed or permanently incorporated with something; to cleave (to); to belong, as attributes or qualities.	Latin inhaerere.
inherence		The state of inhering; permanent existence in something; innateness; inseparable and essential connection.	
inherency		The state of inhering; permanent existence in something; innateness; inseparable and essential connection.	
inherent		Permanently existing in something; inseparably attached or connected; naturally pertaining to; innate; inalienable; as, polarity is an inherent quality of the magnet; the inherent right of men to life, liberty, and protection.	Latin inhaerentem.
inherently		By inherence; inseparably.	
inherit		(Law) To take by descent from an ancestor; to take by inheritance; to take as heir on the death of an ancestor or other person to whose estate one succeeds…	Old French enheriter, from Latin inhereditare.
inheritability		The quality of being inheritable or descendible to heirs.	
inheritable		Capable of being inherited; transmissible or descendible; as, an inheritable estate or title.	
inheritably		By inheritance.	
inheritance		The act or state of inheriting; as, the inheritance of an estate; the inheritance of mental or physical qualities.	
inheritor		One who inherits; an heir.	
inheritress		A heiress.	
inheritrix		Same as Inheritress.	
inherse		See Inhearse — to put in, or as in, a hearse or coffin.	
inhesion		The state of existing, of being inherent, in something; inherence.	
inhiation		A gaping after; eager desire; craving.	Latin inhiatio.
inhibit		To check; to hold back; to restrain; to hinder.	Latin inhibitus.
inhibition		The act of inhibiting, or the state of being inhibited; restraint; prohibition; embargo.	
inhibitor		That which causes inhibitory action; esp., an inhibitory nerve.	
inhibitory		Of or pertaining to, or producing, inhibition; consisting in inhibition; tending or serving to inhibit; as, the inhibitory action of the pneumogastric on the respiratory center.	
inhibitory-motor		A term applied to certain nerve centers which govern or restrain subsidiary centers, from which motor impressions issue.	
inhive		To place in a hive; to hive.	
inhold	Obsolete	To have inherent; to contain in itself; to possess.	
inholder	Obsolete	An inhabitant.	
inhoop		To inclose in a hoop, or as in a hoop.	
inhospitable		Not hospitable; not disposed to show hospitality to strangers or guests; as, an inhospitable person or people.	
inhospitality		The quality or state of being inhospitable; inhospitableness; lack of hospitality.	
inhuman		Destitute of the kindness and tenderness that belong to a human being; cruel; barbarous; savage; unfeeling; as, an inhuman person or people.	
inhumanity		The quality or state of being inhuman; cruelty; barbarity.	
inhumanly		In an inhuman manner; cruelly; barbarously.	
inhumate		To inhume; to bury; to inter.	Latin inhumatus.
inhumation		The act of inhuming or burying; interment.	
inhume		To deposit, as a dead body, in the earth; to bury; to inter.	
inia		A South American freshwater dolphin (Inia Boliviensis).	
inial		Pertaining to the inion.	
inimaginable		Unimaginable; inconceivable.	
inimical		Having the disposition or temper of an enemy; unfriendly; unfavorable; -- chiefly applied to private, as hostile is to public, enmity.	
inimicality		The state or quality of being inimical or hostile; hostility; unfriendliness.	
inimically		In an inimical manner.	
inimicitious		Inimical; unfriendly.	Latin inimicitia.
inimicous	Obsolete	Inimical; hurtful.	Latin inimicus.
inimitability		The quality or state of being inimitable; inimitableness.	
inimitable		Not capable of being imitated, copied, or counterfeited; beyond imitation; surpassingly excellent; matchless; unrivaled; exceptional; unique; as, an inimitable style; inimitable eloquence.	Latin inimitabilis.
inion		The external occipital protuberance of the skull.	
iniquitous		Characterized by iniquity; unjust; wicked; as, an iniquitous bargain; an iniquitous proceeding.	
iniquitously		In an iniquitous manner; unjustly; wickedly.	
iniquity		Absence of, or deviation from, just dealing; want of rectitude or uprightness; gross injustice; unrighteousness; wickedness; as, the iniquity of bribery; the iniquity of an unjust judge.	Middle English iniquite, from Latin iniquitas.
iniquous	Obsolete	Iniquitous.	
inirritable		Not irritable; esp. (Physiol.), incapable of being stimulated to action, as a muscle. -- In*ir`ri*ta*bil"i*ty, n.	
inirritative		Not accompanied with excitement; as, an inirritative fever.	
inisle	Obsolete	To form into an island; to surround.	
initial		Of or pertaining to the beginning; marking the commencement; incipient; commencing; as, the initial symptoms of a disease.	
initially		In an initial or incipient manner or degree; at the beginning.	
initiate		To introduce by a first act; to make a beginning with; to set afoot; to originate; to commence; to begin or enter upon.	Latin initiatus.
initiation		The act of initiating, or the process of being initiated or introduced; as, initiation into a society, into business, literature, etc.	
initiative		Serving to initiate; inceptive; initiatory; introductory; preliminary.	French initiative.
initiator		One who initiates.	
initiatory		Suitable for an introduction or beginning; introductory; prefatory; as, an initiatory step.	
inition	Obsolete	Initiation; beginning.	
inject		To throw in; to dart in; to force in; as, to inject cold water into a condenser; to inject a medicinal liquid into a cavity of the body; to inject morphine with a hypodermic syringe.	
injection		The act of injecting or throwing in; -- applied particularly to the forcible throwing in of a liquid, or aëriform body, by means of a syringe, pump, etc.	
injector		One who, or that which, injects.	
injelly		To place in jelly.	
injoin		See Enjoin — to lay upon, as an order or command; to give an injunction to; to direct with authority; to order; to charge.	
injoint	Obsolete	To join; to unite.	
injucundity	Obsolete	Unpleassantness; disagreeableness.	Latin injucunditas.
injudicable	Obsolete	Not cognizable by a judge.	
injudicial		Not according to the forms of law; not judicial.	
injudicious		Not judicious; wanting in sound judgment; undiscerning; indiscreet; unwise; as, an injudicious adviser.	
injudiciously		In an injudicious manner.	
injudiciousness		The quality of being injudicious; want of sound judgment; indiscretion.	
injunction		The act of enjoining; the act of directing, commanding, or prohibiting.	
injure		To do harm to; to impair the excellence and value of; to hurt; to damage; -- used in a variety of senses; as: (a) To hurt or wound, as the person; to impair soundness, as of health.	
injurer		One who injures or wrongs.	
injuria		Injury; invasion of another's rights.	
injurious		Causing injury or harm; hurtful; harmful; detrimental; mischievous; as, acts injurious to health, credit, reputation, property, etc. Without being injurious to the memory of our English Pindar.	
injuriously		In an injurious or hurtful manner; wrongfully; hurtfully; mischievously.	
injuriousness		The quality of being injurious or hurtful; harmfulness; injury.	
injury		Any damage or violation of, the person, character, feelings, rights, property, or interests of an individual; that which injures, or occasions wrong, loss, damage, or detriment; harm; hurt; loss; mischief; wrong; evil; as…	Anglo-Norman injurie, from Latin iniuria.
injustice		Want of justice and equity; violation of the rights of another or others; iniquity; wrong; unfairness; imposition.	French injustice, from Latin iniustitia.
ink		The step, or socket, in which the lower end of a millstone spindle runs.	Old French enque, from Latin encaustum, from Greek ἔγκαυστον.
inker		One who, or that which, inks; especially, in printing, the pad or roller which inks the type.	
inkfish		A cuttlefish. See Cuttlefish.	
inkhorn		A small bottle of horn or other material formerly used for holding ink; an inkstand; a portable case for writing materials. ix.	Middle English inkhorn.
inkhornism		Pedantry.	
inkiness		The state or quality of being inky; blackness.	
inking		Supplying or covering with ink.	
inkle	English dialect	A kind of tape or braid.	
inkling		A hint; an intimation.	
inknee		Same as Knock-knee.	
inkneed		See Knock-kneed — having the legs bent inward so that the knees touch in walking.	
inknot		To fasten or bind, as with a knot; to knot together.	
inkstand		A small vessel for holding ink, to dip the pen into; also, a device for holding ink and writing materials.	
inkstone		A kind of stone containing native vitriol or subphate of iron, used in making ink.	
inky		Consisting of, or resembling, ink; soiled with ink; black.	
inlace		To work in, as lace; to embellish with work resembling lace; also, to lace or enlace.	
inlagation		The restitution of an outlawed person to the protection of the law; inlawing.	
inlaid		of Inlay — to lay within; hence, to insert, as pieces of pearl, iviry, choice woods, or the like, in a groundwork of some other material; to form an ornamental surface…	
inland		Within the land; more or less remote from the ocean or from open water; interior; as, an inland town.	
inlander		One who lives in the interior of a country, or at a distance from the sea.	
inlapidate		To convert into a stony substance; to petrity.	
inlard		See Inlard.	
inlaw		To clear of outlawry or attainder; to place under the protection of the law.	
inlay		To lay within; hence, to insert, as pieces of pearl, iviry, choice woods, or the like, in a groundwork of some other material; to form an ornamental surface; to diversify or adorn with insertions.	
inlayer		One who inlays, or whose occupation it is to inlay.	
inleague		To ally, or form an alliance witgh; to unite; to combine.	
inleaguer		To beleaguer.	
inlet		A passage by which an inclosed place may be entered; a place of ingress; entrance.	Middle English inlate.
inlighten		See Enlighten — to supply with light; to illuminate; as, the sun enlightens the earth.	
inlist		See Enlist — to engage for military or naval service, the name being entered on a list or register; as, to enlist men.	
inlive		To animate.	
inlock		To lock in, or inclose.	
inlumine		See Illumine — to illuminate; to light up; to adorn.	
inly		Internal; interior; secret.	Old English inlic.
inmacy		The state of being an inmate.	
inmate		One who lives in the same house or apartment with another; a fellow lodger; esp.,one of the occupants of an asylum, hospital, or prison; by extension, one who occupies or lodges in any place or dwelling.	
inmeats		The edible viscera of animals, as the heart, liver, etc.	
inmesh		To bring within meshes, as of a net; to enmesh.	
inmew		To inclose, as in a mew or cage. & Fl.	
inmost		Deepest within; farthest from the surface or external part; innermost.	
inn		A house for the lodging and entertainment of travelers or wayfarers; a tavern; a public house; a hotel.	Old English inn.
innate		Inborn; native; natural; as, innate vigor; innate eloquence.	Latin innatus.
innately		Naturally.	
innateness		The quality of being innate.	
innavigable		Incapable of being navigated; impassable by ships or vessels.	Latin innavigabilis.
inner		Further in; interior; internal; not outward; as, an spirit or its phenomena.	
innerly	Obsolete	More within.	
innermost		Farthest inward; most remote from the outward part; inmost; deepest within.	
innermostly		In the innermost place.	
innervate		To supply with nerves; as, the heart is innervated by pneumogastric and sympathetic branches.	
innervation		(Physiol.) Special activity excited in any part of the nervous system or in any organ of sense or motion; the nervous influence necessary for the maintenance of life,and the functions of the various organs.	
innerve		To give nervous energy or power to; to give increased energy,force,or courage to; to invigorate; to stimulate.	
innholder		One who keeps an inn.	
inning		The state or turn of being in; specifically, in cricket, baseball, etc.,the turn or time of a player or of a side at the bat; -- often in the pl. Hence: The turn or time of a person, or a party, in power; as, the Whigs went out…	
innitency		A leaning; pressure; weight.	Latin inniti.
innixion	Obsolete	Act of leaning upon something; incumbency.	
innkeeper		An innholder.	
innocence		The state or quality of being innocent; freedom from that which is harmful or infurious; harmlessness.	French innocence, from Latin innocens.
innocency		Innocence.	Latin innocentia.
innocent		Not harmful; free from that which can injure; innoxious; innocuous; harmless; as, an innocent medicine or remedy.	
innocently		In an innocent manner.	
innocuity		Innocuousness.	
innocuous		Harmless; producing no ill effect; innocent.	Latin innocuus.
innodate	Obsolete	To bind up,as in a knot; to include.	Latin innodatus.
innominable		Not to be named.	
innominate		Having no name; unnamed; as, an innominate person or place.	
innovate	Archaic	To change or alter by introducing something new; to remodel; to revolutionize.	
innovation		The act of innovating; introduction of something new, in customs, rites, etc. Dryden.	Latin innovatio.
innovationist		One who favors innovation.	
innovative		Characterized by, or introducing, innovations.	
innovator		One who innovates.	
innoxious		Free from hurtful qualities or effects; harmless.	
innubilous	Obsolete	Cloudless.	Latin innubilus.
innuendo		An oblique hint; a remote allusion or reference, usually derogatory to a person or thing not named; an insinuation.	
innuent	Obsolete	Conveying a hint; significant.	
innuit		An Eskimo.	
innumerability		State of being innumerable.	Latin innumerabilitas.
innumerable		Not capable of being counted, enumerated, or numbered, for multitude; countless; numberless; unnumbered, hence, indefinitely numerous; of great number.	
innumerous	Archaic	Innumerable.	
innutrition		Want of nutrition; failure of nourishment.	
innutritious		Not nutritious; not furnishing nourishment.	
innutritive		Innutritious.	
innyard		The yard adjoining an inn.	
inobedience	Obsolete	Disobedience.	
inobedient	Obsolete	Not obedient; disobedient.	Latin inoboediens.
inobservable		Not observable.	
inobservance		Want or neglect of observance.	
inobservant		Not observant; regardless; heedless.	Latin inobservans.
inobservation		Neglect or want of observation.	
inobtrusive		Not obtrusive; unobtrusive. -- In`ob*tru sive*ness, n.	
inocarpin		A red, gummy, coloring matter, extracted from the colorless juice of the Otaheite chestnut (Inocarpus edulis).	
inoccupation		Want of occupation.	
inoceramus		An extinct genus of large, fossil, bivalve shells,allied to the mussels.	
inoculability		The qual ity or state of being inoculable.	
inoculable		Capable of being inoculated; capable of communicating disease, or of being communicated, by inoculation.	
inocular		Inserted in the corner of the eye; -- said of the antenn	
inoculate		To bud; to insert, or graft, as the bud of a tree or plant in another tree or plant.	Middle English inoculate, from Latin inoculatus.
inoculation		The act or art of inoculating trees or plants.	
inoculator		One who inoculates; one who propagates plants or diseases by inoculation.	
inodiate	Obsolete	To make odious or hateful.	
inodorate	Obsolete	Inodorous.	
inodorous		Emitting no odor; wthout smell; scentless; odorless. -- In*o"dor*ous*ness, n.	
inoffensive		Giving no offense, or provocation; causing no uneasiness, annoyance, or disturbance; as, an inoffensive man, answer, appearance.	
inofficial		Not official; not having official sanction or authoriy; not according to the forms or ceremony of official business; as, inofficial intelligence.	
inofficially		Without the usual forms, or not in the official character.	
inofficious		(Law) Regardless of natural obligation; contrary to natural duty; unkind; -- commonly said of a testament made without regard to natural obligation, or by which a child is unjustly deprived of inheritance.	
inofficiously		Not-officiously.	
inogen		A complex nitrogenous substance, which, by Hermann's hypothesis, is continually decomposed and reproduced in the muscles, during their life.	
inoperation	Obsolete	Agency; influence; production of effects.	
inoperative		Not operative; not active; producing no effects; as, laws renderd inoperative by neglect; inoperative remedies or processes.	
inopercular		Having no operculum; -- said of certain gastropod shells.	
inoperculate		Having no operculum; -- said of certain gastropod shells.	
inopinable	Obsolete	Not to be expected; inconceivable.	Latin inopinabilis.
inopinate	Obsolete	Not expected or looked for.	
inopportune		Not opportune; inconvenient; unseasonable; as, an inopportune occurrence, remark, etc. No visit could have been more inopportune.	
inopportunely		Not opportunely; unseasonably; inconveniently.	
inopportunity		Want of opportunity; unseasonableness; inconvenience.	
inoppressive		Not oppressive or burdensome.	
inopulent		Not opulent; not affluent or rich.	
inordinacy		The state or quality of being inordinate; excessiveness; immoderateness; as, the inordinacy of love or desire.	
inordinate		Not limited to rules prescribed, or to usual bounds; irregular; excessive; immoderate; as, an inordinate love of the world. -- In*or di*nate*ness, n.	Latin inordinatus.
inordination	Obsolete	Deviation from custom, rule, or right; irregularity; inordinacy.	Latin inordinatio.
inorganic		Not organic; without the organs necessary for life; devoid of an organized structure; unorganized; lifeness; inanimate; as, all chemical compounds are inorganic substances.	
inorganical		Inorganic.	
inorganically		In an inorganic manner.	
inorganity	Obsolete	Quality of being inorganic.	
inorganization		The state of being without organization.	
inorganized		Not having organic structure; devoid of organs; inorganic.	
inorthography	Obsolete	Deviation from correct orthography; bad spelling.	
inosculate		To unite by apposition or contact, as two tubular vessels at their extremities; to anastomose.	
inosculation		The junction or connection of vessels, channels, or passages, so that their contents pass from one to the other; union by mouths or ducts; anastomosis; intercommunication; as, inosculation of veins, etc. Ray.	
inosinic		Pertaining to, or derived from, inosite; as, inosinic acid.	
inosite		A white crystalline substance with a sweet taste, found in certain animal tissues and fluids, particularly in the muscles of the heart and lungs, also in some plants, as in unripe pease, beans, potato sprouts…	
inoxidizable		Incapable of being oxidized; as, gold and platinum are inoxidizable in the air.	
inoxidize		To prevent or hinder oxidation, rust, or decay; as, inoxidizing oils or varnishes.	
inpatient		A patient who receives lodging and food, as well as treatment, in a hospital or an infirmary; -- distinguished from outpatient.	
inquartation		Quartation.	
inquest		Inquiry; quest; search.	Old French enqueste.
inquiet	Obsolete	To disquiet.	
inquietation	Obsolete	Disturbance.	Latin inquietatio.
inquietness	Obsolete	Unquietness.	
inquietude		Disturbed state; uneasiness either of body or mind; restlessness; disquietude.	
inquiline		A gallfly which deposits its eggs in galls formed by other insects.	Latin inquilinus.
inquinate	Obsolete	To defile; to pollute; to contaminate; to befoul.	
inquination	Obsolete	A defiling; pollution; stain.	Latin inquinatio.
inquirable		Capable of being inquired into; subject or liable to inquisition or inquest.	
inquirance	Obsolete	Inquiry.	
inquire		To ask a question; to seek for truth or information by putting queries.	Latin inquiro.
inquirent	Obsolete	Making inquiry; inquiring; questioning.	
inquirer		One who inquires or examines; questioner; investigator.	
inquiring		Given to inquiry; disposed to investigate causes; curious; as, an inquiring mind.	
inquiringly		In an inquiring manner.	
inquiry		The act of inquiring; a seeking for information by asking questions; interrogation; a question or questioning.	Middle English enquery.
inquisible	Obsolete	Admitting judicial inquiry.	
inquisition		The act of inquiring; inquiry; search; examination; inspection; investigation.	
inquisitional		Relating to inquiry or inquisition; inquisitorial; also, of or pertaining to, or characteristic of, the Inquisition.	
inquisitionary		Inquisitional.	
inquisitive		Disposed to ask questions, especially in matters which do not concern the inquirer.	
inquisitively		In an inquisitive manner.	
inquisitiveness		The quality or state of being inquisitive; the disposition to seek explanation and information; curiosity to learn what is unknown; esp., uncontrolled and impertinent curiosity.	
inquisitor		An inquisitive person; one fond of asking questions.	
inquisitorial		Pertaining to inquisition; making rigorous and unfriendly inquiry; searching; as, inquisitorial power.	
inquisitorially		In an inquisitorial manner.	
inquisitorious	Obsolete	Making strict inquiry; inquisitorial.	
inquisiturient	Obsolete	Inquisitorial.	
inracinate		To enroot or implant.	
inrail		To rail in; to inclose or surround, as with rails.	
inregister		To register; to enter, as in a register.	
inro		A small closed receptacle or set of receptacles of hard material, as lacquered wood, iron, bronze, or ivory, used by the Japanese to hold medicines, perfumes, and the like, and carried in the girdle.	Japanese 印籠.
inroad	Obsolete	The entrance of an enemy into a country with purposes of hostility; a sudden or desultory incursion or invasion; raid; encroachment.	
inroll		See Enroll — to insert in a roil; to register or enter in a list or catalogue or on rolls of court; hence, to record; to insert in records; to leave in writing; as, to enroll men for service…	
inrunning		The act or the place of entrance; an inlet.	
inrush	Obsolete	A rush inwards; as, the inrush of the tide.	
insabbatati		The Waldenses; -- so called from their peculiary cut or marked sabots, or shoes.	
insafety	Obsolete	Insecurity; danger.	
insalivation		The mixing of the food with the saliva and other secretions of the mouth in eating.	
insalubrious		Not salubrious or healthful; unwholesome; as, an insalubrious air or climate.	
insalubrity		Unhealthfulness; unwholesomeness; as, the insalubrity of air, water, or climate.	
insalutary		Not salutary or wholesome; unfavorable to health.	
insanability		The state of being insanable or incurable; insanableness.	
insanable		Not capable of being healed; incurable; irremediable.	
insanableness		The state of being insanable; insanability; incurableness.	
insanably		In an incurable manner.	
insane		Exhibiting unsoundness or disorded of mind; not sane; mad; deranged in mind; delirious; distracted.	Latin insanus.
insanely		Without reason; madly; foolishly.	
insaneness		Insanity; madness.	
insaniate	Obsolete	To render unsound; to make mad.	
insanie	Obsolete	Insanity.	
insanitary		Not sanitary; unhealthy; as, insanitary conditions of drainage.	
insanitation		Lack of sanitation; careless or dangerous hygienic conditions.	
insanity		The state of being insane; unsoundness or derangement of mind; madness; lunacy.	
insapory		Tasteless; unsavory.	
insatiability		The state or quality of being insatiable; insatiableness.	
insatiable		Not satiable; incapable of being satisfied or appeased; very greedy; as, an insatiable appetite, thirst, or desire.	
insatiableness		Greediness of appetite that can not be satisfied or appeased; insatiability.	
insatiably		In an insatiable manner or degree; unappeasably.	
insatiate		Insatiable; as, insatiate thirst.	
insatiately		Insatiably.	
insatiateness		The state of being insatiate.	
insatiety		Insatiableness.	
insatisfaction	Obsolete	Insufficiency; emptiness.	
insaturable		Not capable of being saturated or satisfied.	
inscience	Obsolete	Want of knowledge; ignorance.	
inscient		Having little or no knowledge; ignorant; stupid; silly.	
insconce		See Ensconce — to cover or shelter, as with a sconce or fort; to place or hide securely; to conceal.	
inscribable		Capable of being inscribed, -- used specif. (Math.) of solids or plane figures capable of being inscribed in other solids or figures.	
inscribableness		Quality of being inscribable.	
inscribe		To write or engrave; to mark down as something to be read; to imprint.	
inscriber		One who inscribes.	
inscriptible		Capable of being inscribed; inscribable.	
inscription		That which is inscribed; something written or engraved; especially, a word or words written or engraved on a solid substance for preservation or public inspection; as, inscriptions on monuments, pillars, coins, medals, etc.	Latin inscriptionem.
inscriptive		Bearing inscription; of the character or nature of an inscription.	
inscroll		To write on a scroll; to record.	
inscrutability		The quality or state of being inscrutable; inscrutableness.	
inscrutable		Unsearchable; incapable of being searched into and understood by inquiry or study; impossible or difficult to be explained or accounted for satisfactorily; obscure; incomprehensible; as, an inscrutable design or event.	
inscrutableness		The quality or state of being inscrutable; inscrutability.	
inscrutably		In an inscrutable manner.	
insculp	Obsolete	To engrave; to carve; to sculpture.	
insculption	Obsolete	Inscription.	
insculpture	Obsolete	An engraving, carving, or inscription.	
insculptured		Engraved.	
inseam		To impress or mark with a seam or cicatrix.	
insearch	Obsolete	To make search after; to investigate or examine; to ensearch.	
insecable		Incapable of being divided by cutting; indivisible.	
insect		(Zoöl.) One of the Insecta; esp., one of the Hexapoda. See Insecta.	Latin insectum.
insecta		(Zoöl.) One of the classes of Arthropoda, including those that have one pair of antennæ, three pairs of mouth organs, and breathe air by means of tracheæ, opening by spiracles along the sides of the body.	
insectary		A place for keeping living insects. -- In`sec*ta"ri*um, n.	
insectation	Obsolete	The act of pursuing; pursuit; harassment; persecution.	Latin insectatio.
insectator	Obsolete	A pursuer; a persecutor; a censorious critic.	
insected		Pertaining to, having the nature of, or resembling, an insect.	
insecticide		An agent or preparation for destroying insects; an insect powder. -- In*sec"ti*ci`dal, a.	
insectile		Pertaining to, or having the nature of, insects.	
insection		A cutting in; incisure; incision.	
insectivora		An order of mammals which feed principally upon insects.	
insectivore		One of the Insectivora.	
insectivorous		Feeding or subsisting on insects; carnivorous.	
insectologer	Obsolete	An entomologist.	
insectology	Obsolete	Entomology.	
insecure		Not secure; not confident of safety or permanence; distrustful; suspicious; apprehensive of danger or loss.	
insecurely		In an insecure manner.	
insecureness		Insecurity.	
insecurity		The condition or quality of being insecure; want of safety; danger; hazard; as, the insecurity of a building liable to fire; insecurity of a debt.	
insecution	Obsolete	A following after; close pursuit.	Latin insecutio.
inseminate	Obsolete	To sow; to impregnate.	Latin inseminatus.
insemination	Obsolete	A sowing.	
insensate		Wanting sensibility; destitute of sense; stupid; foolish.	
insense	English dialect	To make to understand; to instruct.	
insensibility		The state or quality of being insensible; want of sensibility; torpor; unconsciousness; as, the insensibility produced by a fall, or by opiates.	
insensible		Destitute of the power of feeling or perceiving; wanting bodily sensibility.	Latin insensibilis.
insensibleness		Insensibility.	
insensibly		In a manner not to be felt or perceived; imperceptibly; gradually.	
insensitive		Not sensitive; wanting sensation, or wanting acute sensibility.	
insensuous		Not sensuous; not pertaining to, affecting, or addressing, the senses.	
insentient		Not sentient; not having perception, or the power of perception.	
inseparability		The quality or state of being inseparable; inseparableness.	
inseparable		Not separable; incapable of being separated or disjoined.	
inseparableness		The quality or state of being inseparable; inseparability.	
inseparably		In an inseparable manner or condition; so as not to be separable.	
inseparate		Not separate; together; united.	Latin inseparatus.
inseparately	Obsolete	Inseparably.	
insert		To set within something; to put or thrust in; to introduce; to cause to enter, or be included, or contained; as, to insert a scion in a stock; to insert a letter, word, or passage in a composition…	Latin insertus.
inserted		Situated upon, attached to, or growing out of, some part; -- said especially of the parts of the flower; as, the calyx, corolla, and stamens of many flowers are inserted upon the receptacle.	
inserting		Something inserted or set in, as lace, etc., in garments.	
insertion		The act of inserting; as, the insertion of scions in stocks; the insertion of words or passages in writings.	
inserve	Obsolete	To be of use to an end; to serve.	
inservient	Obsolete	Conducive; instrumental.	
insession		That in which one sits, as a bathing tub.	Latin insessio.
insessor		One of the Insessores.	
insessores		An order of birds, formerly established to include the perching birds, but now generally regarded as an artificial group.	
insessorial		Pertaining to, or having the character of, perching birds.	
inset		That which is inserted or set in; an insertion.	Middle English insetten, from Old English insettan.
inseverable		Incapable of being severed; indivisible; inseparable.	
inshaded		Marked with different shades.	
inshave		A plane for shaving or dressing the concave or inside faces of barrel staves.	
insheathe		To insert as in a sheath; to sheathe.	
inshell	Obsolete	To hide in a shell.	
inship	Obsolete	To embark.	
inshore		Being near or moving towards the shore; as, inshore fisheries; inshore currents. -- adv.	
inshrine		See Enshrine — to inclose in a shrine or chest; hence, to preserve or cherish as something sacred; as, to enshrine something in memory.	
insiccation		The act or process of drying in.	
inside		Within the sides of; in the interior; contained within; as, inside a house, book, bottle, etc.	
insidiate	Obsolete	To lie in ambush for.	
insidiator	Obsolete	One who lies in ambush.	
insidious		Lying in wait; watching an opportunity to insnare or entrap; deceitful; sly; treacherous; -- said of persons; as, the insidious foe.	Latin insidiosus.
insight		A sight or view of the interior of anything; a deep inspection or view; introspection; -- frequently used with into.	Middle English insight.
insignia		Distinguishing marks of authority, office, or honor; badges; tokens; decorations; as, the insignia of royalty or of an order.	Latin insignia.
insignificance		The condition or quality of being insignificant; want of significance, sense, or meaning; as, the insignificance of words or phrases.	
insignificancy		Insignificance.	
insignificant		Not significant; void of signification, sense, or import; meaningless; as, insignificant words.	
insignificantly		without significance, importance, or effect; to no purpose.	
insignificative		Not expressing meaning; not significant.	Latin insignificativus.
insignment	Obsolete	A token, mark, or explanation.	
insimulate	Obsolete	To accuse.	
insincere		Not being in truth what one appears to be; not sincere; dissembling; hypocritical; disingenuous; deceitful; false; -- said of persons; also of speech, thought; etc.; as, insincere declarations.	Latin insincerus.
insincerely		Without sincerity.	
insincerity		The quality of being insincere; want of sincerity, or of being in reality what one appears to be; dissimulation; hypocritical; deceitfulness; hollowness; untrustworthiness; as, the insincerity of a professed friend…	
insinew	Obsolete	To strengthen, as with sinews; to invigorate.	
insinuant	Obsolete	Insinuating; insinuative.	
insinuate		To introduce gently or slowly, as by a winding or narrow passage, or a gentle, persistent movement.	Latin insinuo.
insinuating		Winding, creeping, or flowing in, quietly or stealthily; suggesting; winning favor and confidence insensibly.	
insinuatingly		By insinuation.	
insinuation		The act or process of insinuating; a creeping, winding, or flowing in.	Latin insinuatio.
insinuative		Stealing on or into the confidence or affections; having power to gain favor.	
insinuator		One who, or that which, insinuates.	Latin insinuator.
insinuatory		Insinuative.	
insipid		Wanting in the qualities which affect the organs of taste; without taste or savor; vapid; tasteless; as, insipid drink or food.	Latin insipidus.
insipidity		The quality or state of being insipid; vapidity.	
insipidly		In an insipid manner; without taste, life, or spirit; flatly.	
insipidness		The quality or state of being insipid; vapidity.	
insipience		Want of intelligence; stupidity; folly.	
insipient		Wanting wisdom; stupid; foolish.	
insist		To stand or rest; to find support; -- with in, on, or upon.	
insistence		The quality of insisting, or being urgent or pressing; the act of dwelling upon as of special importance; persistence; urgency.	
insistent		Standing or resting on something; as, an insistent wall.	Latin insistens.
insistently		In an insistent manner.	
insisture	Obsolete	A dwelling or standing on something; fixedness; persistence.	
insitiency	Obsolete	Freedom from thirst.	
insition		The insertion of a scion in a stock; ingraftment.	Latin insitio.
insnare		To catch in a snare; to entrap; to take by artificial means.	
insnarer		One who insnares.	
insnarl	Obsolete	To make into a snarl or knot; to entangle; to snarl.	
insobriety		Want of sobriety, moderation, or calmness; intemperance; drunkenness.	
insociability		The quality of being insociable; want of sociability; unsociability.	
insociable		Not sociable or companionable; disinclined to social intercourse or conversation; unsociable; taciturn.	
insociably		Unsociably.	
insociate	Obsolete	Not associate; without a companion; single; solitary; recluse.	
insolate		To dry in, or to expose to, the sun's rays; to ripen or prepare by such exposure.	Latin insolatus.
insolation		The act or process to exposing to the rays of the sun fro the purpose of drying or maturing, as fruits, drugs, etc., or of rendering acid, as vinegar.	
insole		The inside sole of a boot or shoe; also, a loose, thin strip of leather, felt, etc., placed	
insolence		The quality of being insolent; pride or haughtiness manifested in contemptuous and overbearing treatment of others; arrogant contempt; brutal imprudence.	Latin insolentia.
insolency		Insolence.	
insolent		Haughty and contemptuous or brutal in behavior or language; overbearing; domineering; grossly rude or disrespectful; saucy; as, an insolent master; an insolent servant.	
insolently		In an insolent manner.	
insolidity		Want of solidity; weakness; as, the insolidity of an argument.	
insolubility		The quality or state of being insoluble or not dissolvable, as in a fluid.	
insoluble		Not soluble; in capable or difficult of being dissolved, as by a liquid; as, chalk is insoluble in water.	Latin insolubilis.
insolubleness		The quality or state of being insoluble; insolubility.	
insolvable		Not solvable; insoluble; admitting no solution or explanation; as, an insolvable problem or difficulty.	
insolvency		(a) The condition of being insolvent; the state or condition of a person who is insolvent; the condition of one who is unable to pay his debts as they fall due, or in the usual course of trade and business; as…	
insolvent		(a) Not solvent; not having sufficient estate to pay one's debts; unable to pay one's debts as they fall due, in the ordinary course of trade and business; as, in insolvent debtor.	
insomnia		Want of sleep; inability to sleep; wakefulness; sleeplessness.	
insomnious		Restless; sleepless.	Latin insomniosus.
insomnolence		Sleeplessness.	
insomuch		So; to such a degree; in such wise; -- followed by that or as, and formerly sometimes by both.	
insonorous		Not clear or melodious.	
insooth	Archaic	In sooth; truly.	
insouciance		Carelessness; heedlessness; thoughtlessness; unconcern.	French insouciance.
insouciant		Careless; heedless; indifferent; unconcerned.	French insouciant.
insoul	Obsolete	To set a soul in; reflexively, to fix one's strongest affections on.	
inspan		To yoke or harness, as oxen to a vehicle.	
inspect		To look upon; to view closely and critically, esp. in order to ascertain quality or condition, to detect errors, etc., to examine; to scrutinize; to investigate; as, to inspect conduct.	Latin inspectum.
inspection		The act or process of inspecting or looking at carefully; a strict or prying examination; close or careful scrutiny; investigation.	Latin inspectio.
inspective		Engaged in inspection; inspecting; involving inspection.	Latin inspectivus.
inspector		One who inspects, views, or oversees; one to whom the supervision of any work is committed; one who makes an official view or examination, as a military or civil officer; a superintendent; a supervisor; an overseer.	
inspectorate		Inspectorship.	
inspectorial		Of or pertaining to an inspector or to inspection.	
inspectorship		The district embraced by an inspector's jurisdiction.	
inspectress		A female inspector.	
insperse	Obsolete	To sprinkle; to scatter.	
inspersion	Obsolete	The act of sprinkling.	Latin inspersio.
inspeximus		The first word of ancient charters in England, confirming a grant made by a former king; hence, a royal grant.	
insphere		To place in, or as in, an orb a sphere.	
inspirable		Capable of being inspired or drawn into the lungs; inhalable; respirable; admitting inspiration.	
inspiration		The act of inspiring or breathing in; breath; specif. (Physiol.), the drawing of air into the lungs, accomplished in mammals by elevation of the chest walls and flattening of the diaphragm; -- the opposite of expiration.	Old French inspiration, from Latin inspirationem.
inspirational		Pertaining to inspiration.	
inspirationist		One who holds to inspiration.	
inspirator		A kind of injector for forcing water by steam. See Injector, n., 2.	
inspiratory		Pertaining to, or aiding, inspiration; as, the inspiratory muscles.	
inspire		To breathe into; to fill with the breath; to animate.	Old French enspirer, from Latin inspirare.
inspired		Moved or animated by, or as by, a supernatural influence; affected by divine inspiration; as, the inspired prophets; the inspired writers.	
inspirer		One who, or that which, inspirer.	
inspiring		Animating; cheering; moving; exhilarating; as, an inspiring or scene.	
inspirit		To infuse new life or spirit into; to animate; to encourage; to invigorate.	
inspissate		To thicken or bring to greater consistence, as fluids by evaporation.	
inspissation		The act or the process of inspissating, or thickening a fluid substance, as by evaporation; also, the state of being so thickened.	
instability		The quality or condition of being unstable; want of stability, firmness, or steadiness; liability to give way or to fail; insecurity; precariousness; as, the instability of a building.	
instable		Not stable; not standing fast or firm; unstable; prone to change or recede from a purpose; mutable; inconstant.	
instableness		Instability; unstableness.	
install		To place in an office, rank, or order; to invest with any charge by the usual ceremonies; to instate; to induct; as, to install an ordained minister as pastor of a church; to install a college president.	Middle English installen, from Latin installo.
installation		The act of installing or giving possession of an office, rank, or order, with the usual rites or ceremonies; as, the installation of an ordained minister in a parish.	
installment		The act of installing; installation.	
instamp		See Enstamp — to stamp; to mark as It is the motive … which enstamps the character.	
instance		The act or quality of being instant or pressing; urgency; solicitation; application; suggestion; motion.	French instance, from Latin instantia.
instancy	Obsolete	Instance; urgency.	
instant		Pressing; urgent; importunate; earnest.	Middle English instant, from Old French instant, from Latin instans.
instantaneity		Quality of being instantaneous.	
instantaneous		Done or occurring in an instant, or without any perceptible duration of time; as, the passage of electricity appears to be instantaneous.	
instanter		Immediately; instantly; at once; as, he left instanter.	
instantly		Without the least delay or interval; at once; immediately.	
instar		To stud as with stars.	Latin instar.
instate		To set, place, or establish, as in a rank, office, or condition; to install; to invest; as, to instate a person in greatness or in favor.	
instaurate		To renew or renovate.	
instauration		Restoration after decay, lapse, or dilapidation; renewal; repair; renovation; renaissance.	
instaurator		One who renews or restores to a former condition.	
instaure	Obsolete	To renew or renovate; to instaurate.	
instead		In the place or room; -- usually followed by of.	
insteep		To steep or soak; to drench.	
instep		The arched middle portion of the human foot next in front of the ankle joint.	
instigate		To goad or urge forward; to set on; to provoke; to incite; -- used chiefly with reference to evil actions; as to instigate one to a crime.	
instigatingly		Incitingly; temptingly.	
instigation		The act of instigating, or the state of being instigated; incitement; esp. to evil or wickedness.	
instigator		One who instigates or incites.	Latin instigator.
instill		To drop in; to pour in drop by drop; hence, to impart gradually; to infuse slowly; to cause to be imbibed.	Latin instillo.
instillation		The of instilling; also, that which is instilled.	
instillator		An instiller.	
instillatory		Belonging to instillation.	
instiller		One who instills.	
instillment		The act of instilling; also, that which is instilled.	
instimulate	Obsolete	Not to stimulate; to soothe; to quiet.	Latin instimulatus.
instimulation		Stimulation.	
instinct		Urged or sas, birds instinct with life.	Latin instinctus.
instinction	Obsolete	Instinct; incitement; inspiration.	
instinctive		Of or pertaining to instinct; derived from, or prompted by, instinct; of the nature of instinct; determined by natural impulse or propensity; acting or produced without reasoning, deliberation, instruction, or experience…	
instinctively		In an instinctive manner; by force of instinct; by natural impulse.	
instinctivity		The quality of being instinctive, or prompted by instinct.	
instipulate		See Exstipulate — having no stipules.	
institute		To set up; to establish; to ordain; as, to institute laws, rules, etc.	
instituter		An institutor.	
institution		That which instituted or established; as: (a) Established order, method, or custom; enactment; ordinance; permanent form of law or polity.	Old French institution, from Latin institutio.
institutional		Pertaining to, or treating of, institutions; as, institutional legends.	
institutionary		Containing the first principles or doctrines; elemental; rudimentary.	
institutist		A writer or compiler of, or a commentator on, institutes.	
institutive		Tending or intended to institute; having the power to establish.	
institutively		In conformity with an institution.	
institutor		One who institutes, founds, ordains, or establishes.	
instop	Obsolete	To stop; to close; to make fast; as, to instop the seams.	
instore	Obsolete	To store up; to inclose; to contain.	
instratified		Interstratified.	
instroke		An inward stroke; specif., in a steam or other engine, a stroke in which the piston is moving away from the crank shaft; -- opposed to outstroke.	
instruct		To form by communication of knowledge; to inform the mind of; to impart knowledge or information to; to enlighten; to teach; to discipline.	Latin instruo.
instructer		See Instructor — one who instructs; one who imparts knowledge to another; a teacher.	
instructible		Capable of being instructed; teachable; docible.	
instruction		The act of instructing, teaching, or furnishing with knowledge; information.	
instructional		Pertaining to, or promoting, instruction; educational.	
instructive		Conveying knowledge; serving to instruct or inform; as, experience furnishes very instructive lessons.	
instructor		One who instructs; one who imparts knowledge to another; a teacher.	
instructress		A woman who instructs; a preceptress; a governess.	
instrument		That by means of which any work is performed, or result is effected; a tool; a utensil; an implement; as, the instruments of a mechanic; astronomical instruments.	Latin instrumentum.
instrumental		Acting as an instrument; serving as a means; contributing to promote; conductive; helpful; serviceable; as, he was instrumental in conducting the business.	
instrumentalism		The view that the sanction of truth is its utility, or that truth is genuine only in so far as it is a valuable instrument. -- In`stru*men"tal*ist, n.	
instrumentalist		One who plays upon an instrument of music, as distinguished from a vocalist.	
instrumentality		The quality or condition of being instrumental; that which is instrumental; anything used as a means; medium; agency.	
instrumentally		With instruments of music; as, a song instrumentally accompanied.	
instrumentalness		Usefulness or agency, as means to an end; instrumentality.	
instrumentary		Instrumental.	
instrumentation		The act of using or adapting as an instrument; a series or combination of instruments; means; agency.	
instrumentist		A performer on a musical instrument; an instrumentalist.	
instyle	Obsolete	To style.	
insuavity	Obsolete	Want of suavity; unpleasantness.	
insubjection		Want of subjection or obedience; a state of disobedience, as to government.	
insubmergible		Not capable of being submerged; buoyant.	
insubmission		Want of submission; disobedience; noncompliance.	
insubordinate		Not submitting to authority; disobedient; rebellious; mutinous	
insubordination		The quality of being insubordinate; disobedience to lawful authority.	
insubstantial		Unsubstantial; not real or strong.	
insubstantiality		Unsubstantiality; unreality.	
insuccation	Obsolete	The act of soaking or moistening; maceration; solution in the juice of herbs.	Latin insucare.
insuccess		Want of success.	
insue		See Ensue, v. i.	
insuetude		The state or quality of being unaccustomed; absence of use or habit.	Latin insuetudo.
insufferable		Incapable of being suffered, borne, or endured; insupportable; unendurable; intolerable; as, insufferable heat, cold, or pain; insufferable wrongs.	
insufferably		In a manner or to a degree beyond endurance; intolerably; as, a blaze insufferably bright; a person insufferably proud.	
insufficience		Insufficiency.	
insufficiency		The quality or state of being insufficient; want of sufficiency; deficiency; inadequateness; as, the insufficiency of provisions, of an excuse, etc. The insufficiency of the light of nature is, by the light of Scripture…	
insufficient		Not sufficient; not enough; inadequate to any need, use, or purpose; as, the provisions are insufficient in quantity, and defective in quality.	
insufficiently		In an insufficient manner or degree; unadequately.	
insufflate		To blow upon; to breath upon or into; to use insufflation upon.	
insufflation		The act of breathing on or into anything; especially: (a) (R.	
insuitable	Obsolete	Unsuitable. -- In*suit`a*bil"i*ty, n.	
insular		Of or pertaining to an island; of the nature, or possessing the characteristics, of an island; as, an insular climate, fauna, etc.	Latin insularis.
insularity		The state or quality of being an island or consisting of islands; insulation.	
insularly		In an insular manner.	
insulary	Obsolete	Insular.	
insulate		To place in a detached situation, or in a state having no communication with surrounding objects; to isolate; to separate.	Latin insulatus.
insulated		Standing by itself; not being contiguous to other bodies; separated; unconnected; isolated; as, an insulated house or column.	
insulation		The act of insulating, or the state of being insulated; detachment from other objects; isolation.	
insulator		One who, or that which, insulates.	
insulite		An insulating material, usually some variety of compressed cellulose, made of sawdust, paper pulp, cotton waste, etc.	
insulous		Abounding in islands.	
insulse	Obsolete	Insipid; dull; stupid.	
insulsity	Obsolete	Insipidity; stupidity; dullness.	Latin insulsitas.
insult		Gross abuse offered to another, either by word or act; an act or speech of insolence or contempt; an affront; an indignity.	Latin insultare.
insultable		Capable of being insulted or affronted.	
insultation	Obsolete	The act of insulting; abusive or insolent treatment; insult.	
insulter		One who insults.	
insulting		Containing, or characterized by, insult or abuse; tending to insult or affront; as, insulting language, treatment, etc. -- In*sult"ing*ly, adv.	
insultment	Obsolete	Insolent treatment; insult.	
insume	Obsolete	To take in; to absorb.	
insuperability		The quality or state of being insuperable; insuperableness.	
insuperable		Incapable of being passed over or surmounted; insurmountable; as, insuperable difficulties.	Latin insuperabilis.
insupportable		Incapable of being supported or borne; unendurable; insufferable; intolerable; as, insupportable burdens; insupportable pain. -- In`sup*port a*bly, adv.	
insupposable		Incapable of being supposed; not supposable; inconceivable.	
insuppressible		That can not be suppressed or concealed; irrepressible.	
insuppressive	Obsolete	Insuppressible.	
insurable		Capable of being insured against loss, damage, death, etc.; proper to be insured.	
insurance		The act of insuring, or assuring, against loss or damage by a contingent event; a contract whereby, for a stipulated consideration, called premium…	
insurancer	Obsolete	One who effects insurance; an insurer; an underwriter.	
insurant		The person insured.	
insure		To make sure or secure; as, to insure safety to any one.	
insurer		One who, or that which, insures; the person or company that contracts to indemnify losses for a premium; an underwriter.	
insurgence		A state of insurrection; an uprising; an insurrection.	
insurgency		A state of insurrection; an uprising; an insurrection.	
insurgent		Rising in opposition to civil or political authority, or against an established government; insubordinate; rebellious.	Latin insurgentem.
insurmountability		The state or quality of being insurmountable.	
insurmountable		Incapable of being passed over, surmounted, or overcome; insuperable; as, insurmountable difficulty or obstacle.	
insurmountableness		The state or quality of being insurmountable; insurmountability.	
insurmountably		In a manner or to a degree not to be overcome.	
insurrection		A rising against civil or political authority, or the established government; open and active opposition to the execution of law in a city or state.	
insurrectional		Pertaining to insurrection; consisting in insurrection.	
insurrectionary		Pertaining to, or characterized by, insurrection; rebellious; seditious.	
insurrectionist		One who favors, or takes part in, insurrection; an insurgent.	
insusceptibility		Want of susceptibility, or of capacity to feel or perceive.	
insusceptible		Not susceptible; not capable of being moved, affected, or impressed; that can not feel, receive, or admit; as, a limb insusceptible of pain; a heart insusceptible of pity…	
insusceptive		Not susceptive or susceptible.	
insusurration	Obsolete	The act of whispering into something.	Latin insusurratio.
inswathe		To wrap up; to infold; to swathe.	
inswept		Narrowed at the forward end; -- said of an automobile frame when the side members are closer together at the forward end than at the rear.	
intact		Untouched, especially by anything that harms, defiles, or the like; uninjured; undefiled; left complete or entire.	
intactable		Not perceptible to the touch.	
intactible		Not perceptible to the touch.	
intagliated		Engraved in intaglio; as, an intagliated stone.	
intaglio		A cutting or engraving; a figure cut into something, as a gem, so as to make a design depressed below the surface of the material; hence, anything so carved or impressed, as a gem, matrix, etc.; -- opposed to cameo.	
intail		See Entail, v. t.	
intake		The place where water or air is taken into a pipe or conduit; -- opposed to outlet.	
intaminated	Obsolete	Uncontaminated.	Latin intaminatus.
intangibility		The quality or state of being intangible; intangibleness.	
intangible		Not tangible; incapable of being touched; not perceptible to the touch; impalpable; imperceptible.	
intangle		See Entangle — to twist or interweave in such a manner as not to be easily separated; to make tangled, confused, and intricate; as, to entangle yarn or the hair.	
intastable		Incapable of being tasted; tasteless; unsavory.	
integer		A complete entity; a whole number, in contradistinction to a fraction or a mixed number.	Latin integer.
integrability		The quality of being integrable.	
integrable		Capable of being integrated.	
integral		Lacking nothing of completeness; complete; perfect; uninjured; whole; entire.	Latin integralis.
integrality	Obsolete	Entireness.	
integrally		In an integral manner; wholly; completely; also, by integration.	
integrant		Making part of a whole; necessary to constitute an entire thing; integral.	
integrate		To form into one whole; to make entire; to complete; to renew; to restore; to perfect.	Latin integratus.
integration		The act or process of making whole or entire.	
integrator		That which integrates; esp., an instrument by means of which the area of a figure can be measured directly, or its moment of inertia, or statical moment, etc., be determined.	
integrity		The state or quality of being entire or complete; wholeness; entireness; unbroken state; as, the integrity of an empire or territory.	Latin integritas.
integropallial		Having the pallial line entire, or without a sinus, as certain bivalve shells.	
integumation		That part of physiology which treats of the integuments of animals and plants.	
integument		That which naturally invests or covers another thing, as the testa or the tegmen of a seed; specifically (Anat.), a covering which invests the body, as the skin, or a membrane that invests a particular.	Latin integumentum.
integumentary		Belonging to, or composed of, integuments.	
integumentation		The act or process of covering with integuments; the state or manner of being thus covered.	
intellect		The part or faculty of the human soul by which it knows, as distinguished from the power to feel and to will; sometimes, the capacity for higher forms of knowledge…	Latin intellectus.
intellected		Endowed with intellect; having intellectual powers or capacities.	
intellection		A mental act or process; especially: (a) The act of understanding; simple apprehension of ideas; intuition.	
intellective		Pertaining to, or produced by, the intellect or understanding; intellectual.	
intellectively		In an intellective manner.	
intellectual		Belonging to, or performed by, the intellect; mental; as, intellectual powers, activities, etc. Logic is to teach us the right use of our reason or intellectual powers.	
intellectualism		Intellectual power; intellectuality.	
intellectualist		One who overrates the importance of the understanding.	
intellectuality		Intellectual powers; possession of intellect; quality of being intellectual.	
intellectualize		To treat in an intellectual manner; to discuss intellectually; to reduce to intellectual form; to express intellectually; to idealize.	
intellectually		In an intellectual manner.	
intelligence		The act or state of knowing; the exercise of the understanding.	Old French intelligence.
intelligencer		One who, or that which, sends or conveys intelligence or news; a messenger.	
intelligencing	Obsolete	Informing; giving information; talebearing.	
intelligency	Obsolete	Intelligence.	
intelligent		Endowed with the faculty of understanding or reason; as, man is an intelligent being.	Latin intelligens.
intelligential		Of or pertaining to the intelligence; exercising or implying understanding; intellectual.	
intelligentiary	Obsolete	One who gives information; an intelligencer.	
intelligently		In an intelligent manner; with intelligence.	
intelligibility		The quality or state of being intelligible; clearness; perspicuity; definiteness.	
intelligible		Capable of being understood or comprehended; as, an intelligible account or description; intelligible pronunciation, writing, etc. The intelligible forms of ancient poets.	Latin intelligibilis.
intelligibleness		The quality or state of being intelligible; intelligibility.	
intelligibly		In an intelligible manner; so as to be understood; clearly; plainly; as, to write or speak intelligibly.	
intemerate	Obsolete	Pure; undefiled.	Latin intemeratus.
intemerated	Obsolete	Pure; undefiled.	
intemerateness	Obsolete	The state of being unpolluted; purity.	
intemperament		A bad state; as, the intemperament of an ulcerated part.	
intemperance		The act of becoming, or state of being, intemperate; excess in any kind of action or indulgence; any immoderate indulgence of the appetites or passions.	
intemperancy	Obsolete	Intemperance.	
intemperant	Obsolete	Intemperate.	Latin intemperans.
intemperate		Indulging any appetite or passion to excess; immoderate to enjoyments or exertion.	
intemperately		In an intemperate manner; immoderately; excessively; without restraint.	
intemperateness		The state of being intemperate; excessive indulgence of any appetite or passion; as, intemperateness in eating or drinking.	
intemperature	Obsolete	Intemperateness.	
intempestive	Obsolete	Out of season; untimely.	Latin intempestivus.
intempestively	Obsolete	Unseasonably.	
intempestivity	Obsolete	Unseasonableness; untimeliness.	
intenable	Obsolete	Incapable of being held; untenable; not defensible; as, an intenable opinion; an intenable fortress.	
intend		To apply with energy.	Middle English entend.
intendancy		A territorial district committed to the charge of an intendant.	
intendant	Obsolete	One who has the charge, direction, or management of some public business; a superintendent; as, an intendant of marine; an intendant of finance.	
intended		Purposed; designed; as, intended harm or help.	
intendedly		Intentionally.	
intendent	Obsolete	See Intendant, n.	
intender		One who intends.	
intendiment	Obsolete	Attention; consideration; knowledge; understanding.	Latin intendimentum.
intendment		Intention; design; purpose.	
intenerate	Obsolete	To make tender or sensitive; to soften.	
inteneration		The act or process of intenerating, or the state of being intenerated; softening.	
intenible	Obsolete	Incapable of holding or containing.	
intensate		To intensify.	
intensation		The act or process of intensifying; intensification; climax.	
intensative		Adding intensity; intensifying.	
intense		Strained; tightly drawn; kept on the stretch; strict; very close or earnest; as, intense study or application; intense thought.	Middle French intense, from Latin intensus.
intensely		To an extreme degree; as, weather intensely cold.	
intenseness		The state or quality of being intense; intensity; as, the intenseness of heat or cold; the intenseness of study or thought.	
intensification		The act or process of intensifying, or of making more intense.	
intensifier		One who or that which intensifies or strengthens; in photography, an agent used to intensify the lights or shadows of a picture.	
intensify		To render more intense; as, to intensify heat or cold; to intensify colors; to intensify a photographic negative; to intensify animosity.	
intension		A straining, stretching, or bending; the state of being strained; as, the intension of a musical string.	Latin intensio.
intensitive		Increasing the force or intensity of; intensive; as, the intensitive words of a sentence.	
intensity		The state or quality of being intense; intenseness; extreme degree; as, intensity of heat, cold, mental application, passion, etc. If you would deepen the intensity of light…	
intensive		Stretched; admitting of intension, or increase of degree; that can be intensified.	
intensively		In an intensive manner; by increase of degree.	
intensiveness		The quality or state of being intensive; intensity.	
intent		Closely directed; strictly attentive; bent; -- said of the mind, thoughts, etc.; as, a mind intent on self-improvement.	
intentation	Obsolete	Intention.	
intention		A stretching or bending of the mind toward of the mind toward an object; closeness of application; fixedness of attention; earnestness.	
intentional		Done by intention or design; intended; designed; as, the act was intentional, not accidental.	
intentionality		The quality or state of being intentional; purpose; design.	
intentionally		In an intentional manner; with intention; by design; of purpose.	
intentioned		Having designs; -- chiefly used in composition; as, well- intentioned, having good designs; ill-intentioned, having ill designs.	
intentive	Obsolete	Attentive; intent.	Middle English ententif.
intentively	Obsolete	Attentively; closely.	
intentiveness	Obsolete	Closeness of attention or application of mind; attentiveness.	
intently		In an intent manner; as, the eyes intently fixed.	
intentness		The state or quality of being intent; close application; attention.	
inter		To deposit and cover in the earth; to bury; to inhume; as, to inter a dead body.	French enterrer.
inter-		A prefix signifying among, between, amid; as, interact, interarticular, intermit.	Latin inter.
interact		A short act or piece between others, as in a play; an interlude; hence, intermediate employment or time.	
interaction		Intermediate action.	
interadditive		Added or placed between the parts of another thing, as a clause inserted parenthetically in a sentence.	
interagency		Intermediate agency.	
interagent		An intermediate agent.	
interall	Obsolete	Entrail or inside.	
interalveolar		Between alveoli; as, the interalveolar septa between adjacent air cells in the lungs.	
interambulacral		Of or pertaining to the interambulacra.	
interambulacrum		In echinoderms, one of the areas or zones intervening between two ambulacra.	
interamnian		Situated between rivers.	
interanimate	Obsolete	To animate or inspire mutually.	
interarboration		The interweaving of branches of trees.	
interarticular		Situated between joints or articulations; as, interarticular cartilages and ligaments.	
interatomic		Between atoms; situated, or acting, between the atoms of bodies; as, interatomic forces.	
interaulic		Existing between royal courts.	
interauricular		Between the auricles; as, the interauricular partition of the heart.	
interaxal		Situated in an interaxis.	
interaxillary		Situated within or between the axils of leaves.	
interaxis		The space between two axes. See Axis, 6.	
interbastation	Obsolete	Patchwork.	
interbrachial		Between the arms.	
interbrain		See Thalamencephalon — the segment of the brain next in front of the midbrain, including the thalami, pineal gland, and pituitary body; the diencephalon; the interbrain.	
interbranchial		Between the branchiæ.	
interbreed		To breed by crossing different stocks of animals or plants.	
intercalar		Intercalary.	
intercalary		(Chron.) Inserted or introduced among others in the calendar; as, an intercalary month, day, etc.; -- now applied particularly to the odd day (Feb. 29) inserted in the calendar of leap year.	Latin intercalarius.
intercalate		(Chron.) To insert, as a day or other portion of time, in a calendar.	Latin intercalatus.
intercalation		(Chron.) The insertion of a day, or other portion of time, in a calendar.	
intercarotid		Situated between the external and internal carotid arteries; as, an intercarotid ganglion.	
intercarpal		Between the carpal bone; as, intercarpal articulations, ligaments.	
intercartilaginous		Within cartilage; endochondral; as, intercartilaginous ossification.	
intercavernous		Between the cavernous sinuses; as, the intercavernous sinuses connecting the cavernous sinuses at the base of the brain.	
intercede	Obsolete	To pass between; to intervene.	
intercedence		The act of interceding; intercession; intervention.	
intercedent		Passing between; mediating; pleading. -- In`ter*ced"ent*ly, adv.	
interceder		One who intercedes; an intercessor; a mediator.	
intercellular		Lying between cells or cellules; as, intercellular substance, space, or fluids; intercellular blood channels.	
intercentral		Between centers.	
intercentrum		The median of the three elements composing the centra of the vertebræ in some fossil batrachians.	
intercept		To take or seize by the way, or before arrival at the destined place; to cause to stop on the passage; as, to intercept a letter; a telegram will intercept him at Paris.	
intercepter		One who, or that which, intercepts.	
interception		The act of intercepting; as, interception of a letter; interception of the enemy.	
interceptive		Intercepting or tending to intercept.	
intercession		The act of interceding; mediation; interposition between parties at variance, with a view to reconcilation; prayer, petition, or entreaty in favor of, or (less often) against, another or others.	
intercessional		Pertaining to, of the nature of, or characterized by, intercession or entreaty.	
intercessionate	Obsolete	To entreat.	
intercessor		One who goes between, or intercedes; a mediator. (a) One who interposes between parties at variance, with a view to reconcile them.	
intercessorial		Intercessory.	
intercessory		Pertaining to, of the nature of, or characterized by, intercession; interceding; as, intercessory prayer.	
interchain		To link together; to unite closely or firmly, as by a chain.	
interchange		To put each in the place of the other; to give and take mutually; to exchange; to reciprocate; as, to interchange places; they interchanged friendly offices and services.	
interchangeability		The state or quality of being interchangeable; interchangeableness.	
interchangeable		Admitting of exchange or mutual substitution.	
interchangement	Obsolete	Mutual transfer; exchange.	
interchapter		An intervening or inserted chapter.	
intercidence	Obsolete	The act or state of coming or falling between; occurrence; incident.	
intercident	Obsolete	Falling or coming between; happening accidentally.	
intercipient		Intercepting; stopping. -- n.	
intercision		A cutting off, through, or asunder; interruption.	
intercitizenship		The mutual right to civic privileges, in the different States.	
interclavicle		See Episternum — (Anat.) (a) A median bone connected with the sternum, in many vertebrates; the interclavicle.	
interclavicular		(a) Between the clavicles; as, the interclavicular notch of the sternum.	
interclose	Obsolete	To shut in; to inclose.	
intercloud		To cloud.	
interclude		To shut off or out from a place or course, by something intervening; to intercept; to cut off; to interrupt.	
interclusion		Interception; a stopping	Latin interclusio.
intercollegiate		Existing or carried on between colleges or universities; as, intercollegiate relations, rivalry, games, etc.	
intercolline		Situated between hills; -- applied especially to valleys lying between volcanic cones.	
intercolonial		Between or among colonies; pertaining to the intercourse or mutual relations of colonies; as, intercolonial trade. -- In`ter*co*lo"ni*al*ly, adv.	
intercolumnar		Between columns or pillars; as, the intercolumnar fibers of Poupart's ligament; an intercolumnar statue.	
intercolumniation		The clear space between two columns, measured at the bottom of their shafts.	
intercoming	Obsolete	The act of coming between; intervention; interference.	
intercommon	Obsolete	To share with others; to participate; especially, to eat at the same table.	Old French entrecommuner.
intercommonage		The right or privilege of intercommoning.	
intercommune	Scots	To have mutual communication or intercourse by conservation.	
intercommunicable		Capable of being mutually communicated.	
intercommunicate		To communicate mutually; to hold mutual communication.	
intercommunication		Mutual communication.	
intercommunion		Mutual communion; as, an intercommunion of deities.	
intercommunity		Intercommunication; community of possessions, religion, etc. In consequence of that intercommunity of paganism … one nation adopted the gods of another.	
intercomparison		Mutual comparison of corresponding parts.	
intercondylar		Between condyles; as, the intercondylar fossa or notch of the femur.	
intercondyloid		Between condyles; as, the intercondylar fossa or notch of the femur.	
interconnect		To join together.	
interconnection		Connection between; mutual connection.	
intercontinental		Between or among continents; subsisting or carried on between continents; as, intercontinental relations or commerce.	
interconvertible		Convertible the one into the other; as, coin and bank notes are interconvertible.	
intercostal		Between the ribs; pertaining to, or produced by, the parts between the ribs; as, intercostal respiration, in which the chest is alternately enlarged and contracted by the intercostal muscles.	
intercourse		A This sweet intercourse Of looks and smiles.	
intercrop		To cultivate by planting simultaneous crops in alternate rows; as, to intercrop an orchard.	
intercross		To cross each other, as lines.	
intercrural		Between crura; -- applied especially to the interneural plates in the vertebral column of many cartilaginous fishes.	
intercur	Obsolete	To intervene; to come or occur in the meantime.	Latin intercurrere.
intercurrence		A passing or running between; occurrence.	
intercurrent		Running between or among; intervening.	
intercutaneous		Subcutaneous.	
interdash		To dash between or among; to intersperse.	
interdeal	Obsolete	To intrigue.	
interdenominational		Occurring between or among, or common to, different denominations; as, interdenominational fellowship or belief.	
interdental		Situated between teeth; as, an interdental space, the space between two teeth in a gear wheel.	
interdentil		The space between two dentils.	
interdependence		Mutual dependence.	
interdependency		Mutual dependence; as, interdependency of interests.	
interdependent		Mutually dependent.	
interdict		To forbid; to prohibit or debar; as, to interdict intercourse with foreign nations.	Middle English entrediten, from Old French entredire, from Latin interdicere.
interdiction		The act of interdicting; prohibition; prohibiting decree; curse; interdict.	
interdictive		Having the power to prohibit; as, an interdictive sentence.	
interdictory		Belonging to an interdiction; prohibitory.	
interdigital		Between the fingers or toes; as, interdigital space.	
interdigitate		To interweave.	
interdigitation		The state of interdigitating; interdigital space.	
interdome		The open space between the inner and outer shells of a dome or cupola of masonry.	
interduce		An intertie.	
interepimeral		Between the epimeral plates of insects and crustaceans.	
interequinoctial		Coming between the equinoxes.	
interess	Obsolete	To interest or affect.	
interesse	Obsolete	Interest.	
interest		To engage the attention of; to awaken interest in; to excite emotion or passion in, in behalf of a person or thing; as, the subject did not interest him; to interest one in charitable work.	
interested		Having the attention engaged; having emotion or passion excited; as, an interested listener.	
interestedness		The state or quality of being interested; selfishness.	
interesting		Engaging the attention; exciting, or adapted to excite, interest, curiosity, or emotion; as, an interesting story; interesting news.	
interestingly		In an interesting manner.	
interestingness		The condition or quality of being interesting.	
interfacial		Included between two plane surfaces or faces; as, an interfacial angle.	
interfascicular		Between fascicles or bundles; as, the interfascicular spaces of connective tissue.	
interferant		One of the contestants in interference before the Patent Office.	
interfere		To come in collision; to be in opposition; to clash; as, interfering claims, or commands.	Old French entreferir.
interference		The act or state of interfering; as, the stoppage of a machine by the interference of some of its parts; a meddlesome interference in the business of others.	
interferer		One who interferes.	
interferingly		By or with interference.	
interferometer		An instrument for measuring small movements, distances, or displacements by means of the interference of two beams of light; -- called also refractometer.	
interflow		To flow in.	
interfluent		Flowing between or among; intervening.	
interfluous		Flowing between or among; intervening.	
interfolded		Intertwined; interlocked; clasped together.	
interfoliaceous		At the same node with opposite or whorled leaves, but occupying a position between their places of attachment.	
interfoliate	Obsolete	To interleave.	
interfollicular		Between follicles; as, the interfollicular septa in a lymphatic gland.	
interfretted		Interlaced; linked together; -- said of charges or bearings. See Fretted.	
interfulgent		Shining between.	Latin interfulgentem.
interfuse		To pour or spread between or among; to diffuse; to scatter.	
interfusion		The act of interfusing, or the state of being interfused.	
interganglionic		Between and uniting the nervous ganglions; as, interganglionic cords.	
interglobular		Between globules; -- applied esp. to certain small spaces, surrounded by minute globules, in dentine.	
intergrave		To grave or carve between; to engrave in the alternate sections.	
interhaemal		Between the hemal arches or hemal spines. -- n.	
interhemal		Between the hemal arches or hemal spines. -- n.	
interhyal		Of or pertaining to a segment sometimes present at the proximal end of the hyoidean arch. -- n.	
interim		The meantime; time intervening; interval between events, etc. All the interim is Like a phantasms, or a hideous dream.	Latin interim.
interior		Being within any limits, inclosure, or substance; inside; internal; inner; -- opposed to exterior, or superficial; as, the interior apartments of a house; the interior surface of a hollow ball.	Latin interior.
interiority		State of being interior.	
interiorly		Internally; inwardly.	
interjacence		The state of being between; a coming or lying between or among; intervention; also, that which lies between.	
interjacency		The state of being between; a coming or lying between or among; intervention; also, that which lies between.	
interjacent		Lying or being between or among; intervening; as, interjacent isles.	
interjaculate		To ejaculate parenthetically.	
interjangle		To make a dissonant, discordant noise one with another; to talk or chatter noisily.	
interject		To throw in between; to insert; to interpose.	Latin interiectus.
interjection		The act of interjecting or throwing between; also, that which is interjected.	Old French interjection, from Latin interiectionem.
interjectional		Thrown in between other words or phrases; parenthetical; ejaculatory; as, an interjectional remark.	
interjectionalize		To convert into, or to use as, an interjection.	
interjectionally		In an interjectional manner.	
interjectionary		Interjectional.	
interjoin		To join mutually; to unite.	
interjoist		The space or interval between two joists.	
interjunction		A mutual joining.	Latin interjunctus.
interknit		To knit together; to unite closely; to intertwine.	
interknow	Obsolete	To know mutually.	
interknowledge	Obsolete	Mutual knowledge or acquaintance.	
interlace		To unite, as by lacing together; to insert or interpose one thing within another; to intertwine; to interweave.	Middle English entrelacen, from Anglo-Norman entrelacer.
interlacement		The act of interlacing, or the state of being interlaced; also, that which is interlaced.	
interlamellar		Between lammellæ or laminæ; as, interlamellar spaces.	
interlaminar		Between lammellæ or laminæ; as, interlamellar spaces.	
interlaminated		Placed between, or containing, laminæ or plates.	
interlamination		The state of being interlaminated.	
interlapse		The lapse or interval of time between two events.	
interlard		Hence: To insert between; to mix or mingle; especially, to introduce that which is foreign or irrelevant; as, to interlard a conservation with oaths or allusions.	
interlay		To lay or place among or between.	
interleaf		A leaf inserted between other leaves; a blank leaf inserted, as in a book.	
interleave		To insert a leaf or leaves in; to bind with blank leaves inserted between the others; as, to interleave a book.	
interlibel		To libel mutually.	
interline		To write or insert between lines already written or printed, as for correction or addition; to write or print something between the lines of; as, to interline a page or a book.	
interlineal		Contained between lines; written or inserted between lines already written or printed; containing interlineations; as, an interlinear manuscript, translation, etc. -- In`ter*lin"e*ar*ly, adv.	
interlinear		Contained between lines; written or inserted between lines already written or printed; containing interlineations; as, an interlinear manuscript, translation, etc. -- In`ter*lin"e*ar*ly, adv.	
interlineary		Interlinear. -- n.	
interlineation		That which is interlined; a passage, word, or line inserted between lines already written or printed.	
interlining		Correction or alteration by writing between the lines; interlineation.	
interlink		To link together; to join, as one chain to another.	
interlobar		Between lobes; as, the interlobar notch of the liver; the interlobar ducts of a gland.	
interlobular		Between lobules; as, the interlobular branches of the portal vein.	
interlocation		A placing or coming between; interposition.	
interlock		To unite, embrace, communicate with, or flow into, one another; to be connected in one system; to lock into one another; to interlace firmly.	
interlocution		Interchange of speech; dialogue; conversation; conference.	
interlocutor		One who takes part in dialogue or conversation; a talker, interpreter, or questioner.	French interlocutoire, from Latin interlocutorium.
interlocutory		Consisting of, or having the nature of, dialogue; conversational.	
interlocutrice		A female interlocutor.	
interlope		To run between parties and intercept without right the advantage that one should gain from the other; to traffic without a proper license; to intrude; to forestall others; to intermeddle.	
interloper		One who interlopes; one who interlopes; one who unlawfully intrudes upon a property, a station, or an office; one who interferes wrongfully or officiously.	
interlucate	Obsolete	To let in light upon, as by cutting away branches.	
interlucation	Obsolete	Act of thinning a wood to let in light.	Latin interlucatio.
interlucent		Shining between.	
interlude		A short entertainment exhibited on the stage between the acts of a play, or between the play and the afterpiece, to relieve the tedium of waiting.	Latin ludo.
interluded		Inserted in the manner of an interlude; having or containing interludes.	
interluder		An actor who performs in an interlude.	
interluency	Obsolete	A flowing between; intervening water.	Latin interluens.
interlunar		Belonging or pertaining to the time when the moon, at or near its conjunction with the sun, is invisible.	
interlunary		Belonging or pertaining to the time when the moon, at or near its conjunction with the sun, is invisible.	
intermandibular		Between the mandibles; interramal; as, the intermandibular space.	
intermarriage		Connection by marriage; reciprocal marriage; giving and taking in marriage, as between two families, tribes, castes, or nations.	
intermarry		To become connected by marriage between their members; to give and take mutually in marriage; -- said of families, ranks, castes, etc. About the middle of the fourth century from the building of Rome…	
intermaxilla		See Premaxilla — a bone on either side of the middle line between the nose and mouth, forming the anterior part of each half of the upper jawbone; the intermaxilla.	
intermaxillary		An intermaxilla.	
intermean	Obsolete	Something done in the meantime; interlude.	
intermeation	Obsolete	A flowing between.	Latin intermeare.
intermeddle	Obsolete	To meddle with the affairs of others; to meddle officiously; to interpose or interfere improperly; to mix or meddle with.	Anglo-Norman entremedler.
intermeddler		One who meddles with, or intrudes into, the affairs of others.	
intermeddlesome		Inclined or disposed to intermeddle. -- In`ter*med"dle*some*ness, n.	
intermeddling		The act of improperly interfering.	
intermede		A short musical dramatic piece, of a light and pleasing, sometimes a burlesque, character; an interlude introduced between the acts of a play or an opera.	French intermède.
intermediacy		Interposition; intervention.	
intermediae		The middle pair of tail feathers, or middle rectrices.	
intermedial		Lying between; intervening; intermediate.	
intermedian	Obsolete	Intermediate.	
intermediary		Lying, coming, or done, between; intermediate; as, an intermediary project.	
intermediate		Lying or being in the middle place or degree, or between two extremes; coming or done between; intervening; interposed; interjacent; as, an intermediate space or time; intermediate colors.	Latin intermediatus.
intermediately		In an intermediate manner; by way of intervention.	
intermediation		The act of coming between; intervention; interposition.	
intermediator		A mediator.	
intermedious		Intermediate.	Latin intermedius.
intermedium		Intermediate space.	
intermell	Obsolete	To intermeddle; to intermix.	
intermembral		Between members or limbs; as, intermembral homology, the correspondence of the limbs with each other.	
intermembranous		Within or beneath a membrane; as, intermembranous ossification.	
interment		The act or ceremony of depositing a dead body in the earth; burial; sepulture; inhumation.	
intermention	Obsolete	To mention among other things, or casually or incidentally.	
intermesenteric		Within the mesentery; as, the intermesenteric, or aortic, plexus.	
intermetacarpal		Between the metacarpal bones.	
intermetatarsal		Between the metatarsal bones.	
intermezzo		An interlude; an intermede. See Intermede.	Italian intermezzo.
intermicate		To flash or shine between or among.	
intermication		A shining between or among.	
intermigration		Reciprocal migration; interchange of dwelling place by migration.	
interminable		Without termination; admitting no limit; boundless; endless; wearisomely protracted; as, interminable space or duration; interminable sufferings.	
interminableness		The state of being endless.	
interminably		Without end or limit.	
interminate	Obsolete	Endless; as, interminate sleep.	
interminated	Obsolete	Interminable; interminate; endless; unending.	
intermination	Obsolete	A menace or threat.	Latin interminatio.
intermine	Obsolete	To intersect or penetrate with mines.	
intermingle		To mingle or mix together; to intermix.	
intermise	Obsolete	Interference; interposition.	
intermission		The act or the state of intermitting; the state of being neglected or disused; disuse; discontinuance.	
intermissive		Having temporary cessations; not continual; intermittent.	
intermit		To cause to cease for a time, or at intervals; to interrupt; to suspend.	Latin intermittere.
intermittence		Act or state of intermitting; intermission.	
intermittent		Coming and going at intervals; alternating; recurrent; periodic; as, an intermittent fever.	Latin intermittens.
intermittently		With intermissions; in an intermittent manner; intermittingly.	
intermittingly		With intermissions; at intervals.	
intermix		To mix together; to intermingle.	
intermixedly		In a mixed manner.	
intermixture		A mass formed by mixture; a mass of ingredients mixed.	
intermobility		Capacity of things to move among each other; as, the intermobility of fluid particles.	
intermodillion		The space between two modillions.	
intermontane		Between mountains; as, intermontane soil.	
intermundane		Being, between worlds or orbs.	
intermundian	Obsolete	Intermundane.	
intermural		Lying between walls; inclosed by walls.	
intermure	Obsolete	To wall in; to inclose.	
intermuscular		Between muscles; as, intermuscular septa.	
intermutation		Interchange; mutual or reciprocal change.	
intern	Obsolete	Internal.	Latin interner.
internal		Inward; interior; being within any limit or surface; inclosed; -- opposed to external; as, the internal parts of a body, or of the earth.	Latin internalis.
internal-combustion		Designating, or pertaining to, any engine (called an Internal- combustion engine) in which the heat or pressure energy necessary to produce motion is developed in the engine cylinder, as by the explosion of a gas…	
internality		The state of being internal or within; interiority.	
internally		Inwardly; within the enveloping surface, or the boundary of a thing; within the body; beneath the surface.	
internasal		Between the nasal cavities; as, the internasal cartilage.	
international		Between or among nations; pertaining to the intercourse of nations; participated in by two or more nations; common to, or affecting, two or more nations.	
internationalism		The state or principles of international interests and intercourse.	
internationalist		One who is versed in the principles of international law.	
internationalize		To make international; to cause to affect the mutual relations of two or more nations; as, to internationalize a principle of law, or a philanthropic enterprise.	
internationally		In an international manner; from an international point of view.	
interne	Poetic	That which is within; the interior.	
interneciary		Internecine.	
internecinal		Internecine.	
internecine		Involving, or accompanied by, mutual slaughter; mutually destructive.	Latin internecīvus.
internecion	Obsolete	Mutual slaughter or destruction; massacre.	Latin internecio.
internecive		Internecine.	
internection	Obsolete	Intimate connection.	
interneural		Between the neural arches or neural spines. -- n.	
internity		State of being within; interiority.	
internment		Confinement within narrow limits, -- as of foreign troops, to the interior of a country.	
internodal		Of or pertaining to internodes; intervening between nodes or joints.	
internode		(Bot.) The space between two nodes or points of the stem from which the leaves properly arise.	
internodial		Internodal.	
internuncial		(Physiol.) Communicating or transmitting impressions between different parts of the body; -- said of the nervous system.	
internunciess		A female messenger.	
internuncio		A messenger between two parties.	
internuncioship		The office or function of an internuncio.	
internuncius		Internuncio.	
interoceanic		Between oceans; connecting oceans; as, interoceanic communication; an interoceanic canal.	
interocular		Between, or within, the eyes; as, the interocular distance; situated between the eyes, as the antennæ of some insects.	
interopercular		Of or pertaining to the interoperculum. -- n.	
interoperculum		The postero-inferior opercular bone, in fishes.	
interorbital		Between the orbits; as, the interorbital septum.	
interosculant		Mutually touching or intersecting; as, interosculant circles.	
interosculate		To kiss together to touch. See Osculate.	
interosseal		Situated between bones; as, an interosseous ligament.	
interosseous		Situated between bones; as, an interosseous ligament.	
interpale		To place pales between or among; to separate by pales.	
interparietal		Between the parietal bones or cartilages; as, the interparietal suture. -- n.	
interpause		An intermission.	
interpeal	Obsolete	To interpel.	
interpedencular		Between peduncles; esp., between the peduncles, or crura, of the cerebrum.	
interpel	Obsolete	To interrupt, break in upon, or intercede with.	Latin interpello.
interpellant		Interpelling; interrupting. -- n.	
interpellate		To question imperatively, as a minister, or other executive officer, in explanation of his conduct; -- generally on the part of a legislative body.	Latin interpello.
interpellation		The act of interpelling or interrupting; interruption.	
interpenetrate		To penetrate between or within; to penetrate mutually.	
interpenetration		The act of penetrating between or within other substances; mutual penetration.	
interpenetrative		Penetrating among or between other substances; penetrating each the other; mutually penetrative.	
interpetalary		Between the petals of a flower.	
interpetiolar		Being between petioles.	
interphalangeal		Between phalanges; as, interphalangeal articulations.	
interpilaster		The interval or space between two pilasters.	
interplace		To place between or among; as, to interplace a name.	
interplanetary		Between planets; as, interplanetary spaces.	
interplay		Mutual action or influence; interaction; as, the interplay of affection.	
interplead		To plead against each other, or go to trial between themselves, as the claimants in an in an interpleader.	
interpleader		One who interpleads.	
interpledge		To pledge mutually.	
interpoint		To point; to mark with stops or pauses; to punctuate.	
interpolable		That may be interpolated; suitable to be interpolated.	
interpolate		To alter or corrupt by the insertion of new or foreign matter; especially, to change, as a book or text, by the insertion of matter that is new, or foreign to the purpose of the author.	
interpolated		Inserted in, or added to, the original; introduced; foisted in; changed by the insertion of new or spurious matter.	
interpolation		The act of introducing or inserting anything, especially that which is spurious or foreign.	
interpolator		One who interpolates; esp., one who inserts foreign or spurious matter in genuine writings.	
interpone		To interpose; to insert or place between.	
interponent		One who, or that which, interposes; an interloper, an opponent.	
interposal		The act of interposing; interposition; intervention.	
interpose		To place between; as, to interpose a screen between the eye and the light.	
interposer		One who, or that which, interposes or intervenes; an obstacle or interruption; a mediator or agent between parties.	
interposit		An intermediate depot or station between one commercial city or country and another.	Latin interpositus.
interposition		The act of interposing, or the state of being interposed; a being, placing, or coming between; mediation.	
interposure	Obsolete	Interposition.	
interpret		To explain or tell the meaning of; to expound; to translate orally into intelligible or familiar language or terms; to decipher; to define; -- applied esp. to language, but also to dreams, signs, conduct, mysteries, etc.; as…	Middle English interpreten, from Old French enterpreter, from Latin interpretor.
interpretable		Admitting of interpretation; capable of being interpreted or explained.	
interpretament	Obsolete	Interpretation.	Latin interpretamentum.
interpretation		The act of interpreting; explanation of what is obscure; translation; version; construction; as, the interpretation of a foreign language, of a dream, or of an enigma.	
interpretative		Designed or fitted to interpret; explanatory.	
interpretatively		By interpretation.	
interpreter		One who or that which interprets, explains, or expounds; a translator; especially, a person who translates orally between two parties.	
interpretive		Interpretative.	
interpubic		Between the pubic bones or cartilages; as, the interpubic disk.	
interpunction		The insertion of points between word or sentences; punctuation.	Latin interpunctio.
interradial		Between the radii, or rays; -- in zoölogy, said of certain parts of radiate animals; as, the interradial plates of a starfish.	
interramal		Between rami or branches; esp., between the mandibles, or rami of the lower jaw; intermandibular.	
interreceive		To receive between or within.	
interregency	Obsolete	An interregnum.	
interregent		A person who discharges the royal functions during an interregnum.	
interregnum		The time during which a throne is vacant between the death or abdication of a sovereign and the accession of his successor.	
interreign	Obsolete	An interregnum.	
interrelated		Having a mutual or reciprocal relation or parallelism; correlative.	
interrelation		Mutual or reciprocal relation; correlation.	
interrenal		Between the kidneys; as, the interrenal body, an organ found in many fishes. -- n.	
interrepellent		Mutually repellent.	
interrer		One who inters.	
interrex		An interregent, or a regent.	
interrogate	Obsolete	To question formally; to question; to examine by asking questions; as, to interrogate a witness.	Latin interrogatus.
interrogatee		One who is interrogated.	
interrogation		The act of interrogating or questioning; examination by questions; inquiry.	
interrogative		Denoting a question; expressed in the form of a question; as, an interrogative sentence; an interrogative pronoun.	
interrogatively		In the form of, or by means of, a question; in an interrogative manner.	
interrogator		One who asks questions; a questioner.	
interrogatory		A formal question or inquiry; esp. (Law), a question asked in writing.	
interrupt		To break into, or between; to stop, or hinder by breaking in upon the course or progress of; to interfere with the current or motion of; to cause a temporary cessation of; as, to interrupt the remarks speaking.	Latin interruptus.
interrupted		Broken; intermitted; suddenly stopped.	
interruptedly		With breaks or interruptions; discontinuously.	
interrupter		One who, or that which, interrupts.	
interruption		The state of being interrupted; a breach or break, caused by the abrupt intervention of something foreign; intervention; interposition.	
interruptive		Tending to interrupt; interrupting. -- In`ter*rupt"ive*ly, adv.	
interscapular		(Anat.) Between the scapulæ or shoulder blades.	
interscapulars		The interscapular feathers of a bird.	
interscendent		Having exponents which are radical quantities; -- said of certain powers; as, xsq. root2, or xsq. roota.	
interscind		To cut off.	
interscribe		To write between.	
intersecant		Dividing into parts; crossing; intersecting.	
intersect		To cut into or between; to cut or cross mutually; to divide into parts; as, any two diameters of a circle intersect each other at the center.	Latin intersecare.
intersection		The act, state, or place of intersecting.	Latin intersectio.
intersectional		Pertaining to, or formed by, intersections.	
interseminate		To sow between or among.	
interseptal		Between septa; as, the interseptal spaces or zones, between the transparent, or septal, zones in striated muscle; the interseptal chambers of a shell, or of a seed vessel.	
intersert	Obsolete	To put in between other things; to insert.	Latin intersertus.
interserttion	Obsolete	The act of interserting, or that which is interserted.	
intersesamoid		Between sesamoid bones; as, intersesamoid ligaments.	
interset		To set between or among.	
intershock		To shock mutually.	
intersidereal		Between or among constellations or stars; interstellar.	
intersocial		Pertaining to the mutual intercourse or relations of persons in society; social.	
intersomnious		Between the times of sleeping; in an interval of wakefulness.	
interspace		Intervening space.	
interspeech		A speech interposed between others.	
intersperse		To scatter or set here and there among other things; to insert at intervals; as, to intersperse pictures in a book.	Latin interspersus.
interspersion		The act of interspersing, or the state of being interspersed.	
interspinal		Between spines; esp., between the spinous processes of the vertebral column.	
interspinous		Between spines; esp., between the spinous processes of the vertebral column.	
interspiration	Obsolete	Spiritual inspiration at separate times, or at intervals.	Latin interspiratio.
interstapedial		Pertaining to a part of the columella of the ear, between the stapes and the mediostapedial. -- n.	
interstate		Pertaining to the mutual relations of States; existing between, or including, different States; as, interstate commerce.	
interstellar		Between or among the stars; as, interstellar space.	
interstellary		Interstellar.	
intersternal		Between the sternal; -- said of certain membranes or parts of insects and crustaceans.	
interstice		That which intervenes between one thing and another; especially, a space between things closely set, or between the parts which compose a body; a narrow chink; a crack; a crevice; a hole; an interval; as…	
intersticed		Provided with interstices; having interstices between; situated at intervals.	
interstinctive	Obsolete	Distinguishing.	
interstitial		Of or pertaining to interstices; intermediate; within the tissues; as, interstitial cavities or spaces in the tissues of animals or plants.	
interstition	Obsolete	An intervening period of time; interval.	
interstratification		Stratification among or between other layers or strata; also, that which is interstratified.	
interstratified		Stratified among or between other bodies; as, interstratified rocks.	
interstratify		To put or insert between other strata.	
intertalk	Obsolete	To converse.	
intertangle		To entangle; to intertwine.	
intertarsal		Between the tarsal bones; as, the intertarsal articulations.	
intertex	Obsolete	To intertwine; to weave or bind together.	
intertexture		The act of interweaving, or the state of being interwoven; that which is interwoven.	
interthoracic		In the thorax.	
intertie		In any framed work, a horizontal tie other than sill and plate or other principal ties, securing uprights to one another.	
intertissued		Interwoven.	
intertraffic		Mutual trade of traffic.	
intertranspicuous		Transpicuous within or between.	
intertransverse		Between the transverse processes of the vertebræ.	
intertrigo		A rubbing or chafing of the skin; especially, an abrasion or excoriation of the skin between folds, as in fat or neglected children.	Latin intertrigo.
intertrochanteric		Between the trochanters of the femur.	
intertropical		Situated between or within the tropics.	
intertubular		Between tubes or tubules; as, intertubular cells; intertubular substance.	
intertwine		To unite by twining one with another; to entangle; to interlace.	
intertwiningly		By intertwining or being intertwined.	
intertwist		To twist together one with another; to intertwine.	
intertwistingly		By intertwisting, or being intertwisted.	
interungular		Between ungulæ; as, interungular glands.	
interungulate		Between ungulæ; as, interungular glands.	
interurban		Going between, or connecting, cities or towns; as, interurban electric railways.	
interval		A space between things; a void space intervening between any two objects; as, an interval between two houses or hills.	Old French intervalle.
intervale	Dialect	A tract of low ground between hills, or along the banks of a stream, usually alluvial land, enriched by the overflowings of the river, or by fertilizing deposits of earth from the adjacent hills.	
intervallum		An interval.	
intervary	Obsolete	To alter or vary between; to change.	
interveined		Intersected, as with veins.	
intervene		To come between, or to be between, persons or things; -- followed by between; as, the Mediterranean intervenes between Europe and Africa.	
intervener		One who intervenes; especially (Law), a person who assumes a part in a suit between others.	
intervenience		Intervention; interposition.	
interveniency		Intervention; interposition.	
intervenient	Obsolete	Being or coming between; intercedent; interposed.	
intervent	Obsolete	To thwart; to obstruct.	
intervention		The act of intervening; interposition.	
interventor		One who intervenes; a mediator; especially (Eccles.	
interventricular		Between the ventricles; as, the interventricular partition of the heart.	
intervenue	Obsolete	Interposition.	
intervert	Obsolete	To turn to another course or use.	Latin interverto.
intervertebral		Between vertebræ. -- In`ter*ver"te*bral*ly, adv.	
interview		A mutual sight or view; a meeting face to face; usually, a formal or official meeting for consultation; a conference; as, the secretary had an interview with the President.	Anglo-Norman entreveue.
interviewer		One who interviews; especially, one who obtains an interview with another for the purpose of eliciting his opinions or obtaining information for publication.	
interviewing		The act or custom of holding an interview or interviews.	
intervisible		Mutually visible, or in sight, the one from the other, as stations.	
intervisit		To exchange visits.	
intervital		Between two lives.	
intervocalic		Situated between vowels; immediately preceded and followed by vowel sounds, as, p in occupy, d in idea, etc.	
intervolution		The state of being intervolved or coiled up; a convolution; as, the intervolutions of a snake.	Latin inter.
intervolve		To involve one within another; to twist or coil together.	Latin inter.
interweave		To weave together; to intermix or unite in texture or construction; to intertwine; as, threads of silk and cotton interwoven.	
interwish	Obsolete	To wish mutually in regarded to each other.	
interworking		The act of working in together; interweaving.	
interworld		A world between other worlds.	
interwove		imp. & p. p. of Interweave.	
interwoven		imp. & p. p. of Interweave.	
interwreathe		To weave into a wreath; to intertwine.	
intestable		Not capable of making a will; not legally qualified or competent to make a testament.	
intestacy		The state of being intestate, or of dying without having made a valid will.	
intestate		Without having made a valid will; without a will; as, to die intestate.	
intestinal		Of or pertaining to the intestines of an animal; as, the intestinal tube; intestinal digestion; intestinal ferments.	
intestine		Internal; inward; -- opposed to external.	Latin intestinum.
intext		The text of a book.	
intextine		A thin membrane existing in the pollen grains of some plants, and situated between the extine and the intine, as in.	
intextured		Inwrought; woven in.	
inthirst	Obsolete	To make thirsty.	
inthrall		To reduce to bondage or servitude; to make a thrall, slave, vassal, or captive of; to enslave.	
inthrallment		Act of inthralling, or state of being inthralled; servitude; bondage; vassalage.	
inthrone		Same as Enthrone.	
inthrong		To throng or collect together.	
inthronization		Enthronement.	Latin inthronizatio.
inthronize		To enthrone.	Latin inthronisare.
intice		See Entice — to draw on, by exciting hope or desire; to allure; to attract; as, the bait enticed the fishes.	
intimacy		The state of being intimate; close familiarity or association; nearness in friendship.	
intimate		Innermost; inward; internal; deep-seated; hearty.	Latin intimare.
intimately		In an intimate manner.	
intimation		The act of intimating; also, the thing intimated.	Latin intimatio.
intime	Obsolete	Inward; internal; intimate.	
intimidate		To make timid or fearful; to inspire of affect with fear; to deter, as by threats; to dishearten; to abash.	Latin intimidatus.
intimidation		The act of making timid or fearful or of deterring by threats; the state of being intimidated; as, the voters were kept from the polls by intimidation.	
intimidatory		Tending or serving to intimidate.	
intinction		(Eccl.) A method or practice of the administration of the sacrament by dipping the bread or wafer in the wine and administering both together.	
intinctivity		The want of the quality of coloring or tingeing other bodies.	
intine		A transparent, extensible membrane of extreme tenuity, which forms the innermost coating of grains of pollen.	
intire		See Entire, a., Entirely, adv.	
intirely		See Entire, a., Entirely, adv.	
intitle		See Entitle — to give a title to; to affix to as a name or appellation; hence, also, to dignify by an honorary designation; to denominate; to call; as…	
intitule		To entitle; to give a title to.	
into		To the inside of; within.	Old English into.
intolerability		The quality of being intolerable; intolerableness.	
intolerable		Not tolerable; not capable of being borne or endured; not proper or right to be allowed; insufferable; insupportable; unbearable; as, intolerable pain; intolerable heat or cold; an intolerable burden.	
intolerance		The quality of being intolerant; refusal to allow to others the enjoyment of their opinions, chosen modes of worship, and the like; want of patience and forbearance; illiberality; bigotry; as…	
intolerancy		Intolerance.	
intolerant		Not enduring; not able to endure.	
intolerantly		In an intolerant manner.	
intolerated		Not tolerated.	
intolerating		Intolerant.	
intoleration		Intolerance; want of toleration; refusal to tolerate a difference of opinion.	
intomb		To place in a tomb; to bury; to entomb. See Entomb.	
intombment		See Entombment — the act of entombing or burying, or state of being entombed; burial.	
intonate		(Mus.) To sound the tones of the musical scale; to practice the sol- fa.	
intonation	Obsolete	A thundering; thunder.	
intone		To utter with a musical or prolonged note or tone; to chant; as, to intone the church service.	
intorsion		A winding, bending, or twisting.	
intort		To twist in and out; to twine; to wreathe; to wind; to wring.	Latin intortus.
intortion		See Intorsion — a winding, bending, or twisting.	
intoxicant		That which intoxicates; an intoxicating agent; as, alcohol, opium, and laughing gas are intoxicants.	
intoxicate		Overexcited, as with joy or grief.	Latin intoxicātus.
intoxicatedness		The state of being intoxicated; intoxication; drunkenness.	
intoxicating		Producing intoxication; as, intoxicating liquors.	
intoxication		(Med.) A poisoning, as by a spirituous or a narcotic substance.	
intra-		A prefix signifying in, within, interior; as, intraocular, within the eyeball; intramarginal.	Latin intra.
intraaxillary		Situated below the point where a leaf joins the stem.	
intracellular		Within a cell; as, the intracellular movements seen in the pigment cells, the salivary cells, and in the protoplasm of some vegetable cells.	
intracolic		Within the colon; as, the intracolic valve.	
intracranial		Within the cranium or skull.	
intractability		The quality of being intractable; intractableness.	
intractable		Not tractable; not easily governed, managed, or directed; indisposed to be taught, disciplined, or tamed; violent; stubborn; obstinate; refractory; as, an intractable child.	
intractile		Not tractile; incapable of being drawn out or extended.	
intrados		The interior curve of an arch; esp., the inner or lower curved face of the whole body of voussoirs taken together.	
intrafoliaceous		Growing immediately above, or in front of, a leaf; as, intrafoliaceous stipules.	
intrafusion		The act of pouring into a vessel; specif. (Med.), the operation of introducing a substance into a blood vessel; as, intrafusion of blood.	
intralobular		Within lobules; as, the intralobular branches of the hepatic veins.	
intramarginal		Situated within the margin.	
intramercurial		Between the planet Mercury and the sun; -- as, the hypothetical Vulcan is intramercurial.	
intramolecular		Between molecules; situated, or acting, between the molecules of bodies.	
intramundane		Being within the material world; -- opposed to extramundane.	
intramural		Being within the walls, as of a city.	
intranquillity		Unquietness; restlessness.	
intranscalent		Impervious to heat; adiathermic.	
intransgressible		Incapable of being transgressed; not to be passes over or crossed.	
intransient		Not transient; remaining; permanent.	
intransigent		Refusing compromise; uncompromising; irreconcilable.	French intransigeant, from Spanish intransigente.
intransigentes		The extreme radicals; the party of the irreconcilables.	
intransitive		Not passing farther; kept; detained.	
intransitively		Without an object following; in the manner of an intransitive verb.	
intransmissible		Not capable of being transmitted.	
intransmutability		The quality of being intransmutable.	
intransmutable		Not capable of being transmuted or changed into another substance.	
intrant		Entering; penetrating.	
intranuclear		Within the nucleus of a cell; as. the intranuclear network of fibrils, seen in the first stages of karyokinesis.	
intrap		See Entrap — to catch in a trap; to insnare; hence, to catch, as in a trap, by artifices; to involve in difficulties or distresses; to catch or involve in contradictions; as…	
intraparietal		Situated or occurring within an inclosure; shut off from public sight; private; secluded; retired.	
intrapetiolar		Situated between the petiole and the stem; -- said of the pair of stipules at the base of a petiole when united by those margins next the petiole, thus seeming to form a single stipule between the petiole and the stem or branch…	
intraterritorial		Within the territory or a territory.	
intrathoracic		Within the thora	
intratropical		Within the tropics.	
intrauterine		Within the uterus or womb; as, intrauterine hemorrhage.	
intravalvular		Between valves.	
intravenous		Within the veins.	
intraventricular		Within or between ventricles.	
intreasure	Obsolete	To lay up, as in a treasury; to hoard.	
intreat		See Entreat — to treat with, or in respect to, a thing desired; hence, to ask earnestly; to beseech; to petition or pray with urgency; to supplicate; to importune.	
intreatable		Not to be entreated; inexorable.	
intreatance	Obsolete	Entreaty.	
intreatful	Obsolete	Full of entreaty.	
intrench		To cut in; to furrow; to make trenches in or upon.	
intrenchant	Obsolete	Not to be gashed or marked with furrows.	
intrenchment		The act of intrenching or the state of being intrenched.	
intrepid		Not trembling or shaking with fear; fearless; bold; brave; undaunted; courageous; as, an intrepid soldier; intrepid spirit.	Latin intrepidus.
intrepidity		The quality or state of being intrepid; fearless bravery; courage; resoluteness; valor.	
intrepidly		In an intrepid manner; courageously; resolutely.	
intricable	Obsolete	Entangling.	Middle French intricable.
intricacy		The state or quality of being intricate or entangled; perplexity; involution; complication; complexity; that which is intricate or involved; as, the intricacy of a knot; the intricacy of accounts…	
intricate	Obsolete	Entangled; involved; perplexed; complicated; difficult to understand, follow, arrange, or adjust; as, intricate machinery, labyrinths, accounts, plots…	Latin intricatus.
intricately		In an intricate manner.	
intricateness		The state or quality of being intricate; intricacy.	
intrication	Obsolete	Entanglement.	
intrigante		A female intriguer.	
intrigue		To form a plot or scheme; to contrive to accomplish a purpose by secret artifice.	
intriguer		One who intrigues.	
intriguery		Arts or practice of intrigue.	
intriguingly		By means of, or in the manner of, intrigue.	
intrinse		Tightly drawn; or (perhaps) intricate.	
intrinsic		Inward; internal; hence, true; genuine; real; essential; inherent; not merely apparent or accidental; -- opposed to extrinsic; as, the intrinsic value of gold or silver; the intrinsic merit of an action…	Latin intrinsecus.
intrinsical	Obsolete	Intimate; closely familiar.	
intrinsicality		The quality of	
intrinsically		Internally; A lie is a thing absolutely and intrinsically evil.	
intrinsicalness		The quality of being intrinsical; intrinsicality.	
intrinsicate	Obsolete	Intricate.	
intro-		A prefix signifying within, into, in, inward; as, introduce, introreception, introthoracic.	
introcession		A depression, or inward sinking of parts.	Latin introcedere.
introduce		To lead or bring in; to conduct or usher in; as, to introduce a person into a drawing-room.	
introducement	Obsolete	Introduction.	
introducer		One who, or that which, introduces.	
introduct	Obsolete	To introduce.	
introduction		The act of formally making persons known to each other; a presentation or making known of one person to another by name; as, the introduction of one stranger to another.	Old French introduction.
introductive		Serving to introduce; introductory. -- In`tro*duc"tive*ly, adv.	
introductor	Obsolete	An introducer.	
introductorily		By way of introduction.	
introductory		Serving to introduce something else; leading to the main subject or business; preliminary; prefatory; as, introductory proceedings; an introductory discourse.	
introductress		A female introducer.	
introflexed		Flexed or bent inward.	
introgression		The act of going in; entrance.	
introit		Any composition of vocal music appropriate to the opening of church services.	French introït.
intromission		(Scots Law) An intermeddling with the affairs of another, either on legal grounds or without authority.	
intromit		To send in or put in; to insert or introduce.	
intromittent		Throwing, or allowing to pass, into or within.	
intromitter		One who intromits.	
intropression		Pressure acting within.	
introreception		The act of admitting into or within.	
introrse		Turning or facing inward, or toward the axis of the part to which it belongs.	
introspect		To look into or within; to view the inside of.	
introspection		A view of the inside or interior; a looking inward; specifically, the act or process of self-examination, or inspection of one's own thoughts and feelings; the cognition which the mind has of its own acts and states…	
introspectionist		One given to the introspective method of examining the phenomena of the soul.	
introspective		Inspecting within; seeing inwardly; capable of, or exercising, inspection; self-conscious.	
introsume	Obsolete	To draw in; to swallow.	
introsusception		The act or process of receiving within.	
introvenient		Coming in together; entering; commingling.	Latin introveniens.
introversion		The act of introverting, or the state of being introverted; the act of turning the mind inward.	
introvert		To turn or bend inward.	
intrude		To thrust one's self in; to come or go in without invitation, permission, or welcome; to encroach; to trespass; as, to intrude on families at unseasonable hours; to intrude on the lands of another.	
intruded		Same as Intrusive.	
intruder		One who intrudes; one who thrusts himself in, or enters without right, or without leave or welcome; a trespasser.	
intrudress		A female intruder.	
intrunk		To inclose as in a trunk; to incase.	
intrusion		The act of intruding, or of forcing in; especially, the forcing (one's self) into a place without right or welcome; encroachment.	
intrusional		Of or pertaining to intrusion.	
intrusionist		One who intrudes; especially, one who favors the appointment of a clergyman to a parish, by a patron, against the wishes of the parishioners.	
intrusive		Apt to intrude; characterized by intrusion; entering without right or welcome.	
intrust		To deliver (something) to another in trust; to deliver to (another) something in trust; to commit or surrender (something) to another with a certain confidence regarding his care, use, or disposal of it; as…	
intubation		The introduction of a tube into an organ to keep it open, as into the larynx in croup.	
intuition		Direct apprehension or cognition; immediate knowledge, as in perception or consciousness; -- distinguished from knowledge, as in reasoning; as, the mind knows by intuition that black is not white, that a circle is not a square…	Latin intuitio.
intuitional		Pertaining to, or derived from, intuition; characterized by intuition; perceived by intuition; intuitive.	
intuitionalism		The doctrine that the perception or recognition of primary truth is intuitive, or direct and immediate; -- opposed to sensationalism, and experientialism.	
intuitionalist		One who holds the doctrine of intuitionalism.	
intuitionism		Same as Intuitionalism.	
intuitionist		Same as Intuitionalist.	
intuitive		Seeing clearly; as, an intuitive view; intuitive vision.	
intuitively		In an intuitive manner.	
intuitivism		The doctrine that the ideas of right and wrong are intuitive.	
intumesce		To enlarge or expand with heat; to swell; specifically, to swell up or bubble up under the action of heat, as before the blowpipe.	Latin intumesco.
intumescence		The act or process of swelling or enlarging; also, the state of being swollen; expansion; tumidity; especially, the swelling up of bodies under the action of heat.	
intumescent		Swelling up; expanding.	Latin intumescens.
intumulated	Obsolete	Unburied.	Latin intumulatus.
intune		To intone.	
inturbidate		To render turbid; to darken; to confuse.	
inturgescence	Obsolete	A swelling; the act of swelling, or state of being swelled.	Latin inturgescens.
intuse	Obsolete	A bruise; a contusion.	
intussuscepted		Received into some other thing or part, as a sword into a sheath; invaginated.	
intussusception		The reception of one part within another.	French intussusception.
intwine		To twine or twist into, or together; to wreathe; as, a wreath of flowers intwined.	
intwinement		The act of twinning, or the state of being intwined.	
intwist		To twist into or together; to interweave.	
inuendo		See Innuendo — an oblique hint; a remote allusion or reference, usually derogatory to a person or thing not named; an insinuation.	
inulin		A substance of very wide occurrence.	
inuloid		A substance resembling inulin, found in the unripe bulbs of the dahila.	
inumbrate	Obsolete	To shade; to darken.	Latin inumbratus.
inuncted	Obsolete	Anointed.	
inunction		The act of anointing, or the state of being anointed; unction; specifically (Med.), the rubbing of ointments into the pores of the skin, by which medicinal agents contained in them, such as mercury, iodide of potash, etc.…	Latin inunctio.
inunctuosity		The want of unctuosity; freedom from greasiness or oiliness; as, the inunctuosity of porcelain clay.	
inundant		Overflowing.	
inundate		To cover with a flood; to overflow; to deluge; to flood; as, the river inundated the town.	Latin inundo.
inundation		The act of inundating, or the state of being inundated; an overflow; a flood; a rising and spreading of water over grounds.	Latin inundatio.
inunderstanding	Obsolete	Void of understanding.	
inurbane		Uncivil; unpolished; rude.	
inurbanity		Want of urbanity or courtesy; unpolished manners or deportment; inurbaneness; rudeness.	
inure		To apply in use; to train; to discipline; to use or accustom till use gives little or no pain or inconvenience; to harden; to habituate; to practice habitually.	
inurement		Use; practice; discipline; habit; custom.	
inurn		To put in an urn, as the ashes of the dead; hence, to bury; to intomb.	
inusitate		Unusual.	
inusitation		Want of use; disuse.	
inust	Obsolete	Burnt in.	Latin inurere.
inustion	Obsolete	The act of burning or branding.	
inutile	Obsolete	Useless; unprofitable.	
inutility		Uselessness; the quality of being unprofitable; unprofitableness; as, the inutility of vain speculations and visionary projects.	
inutterable		Unutterable; inexpressible.	
invade		To enter with hostile intentions; to enter with a view to conquest or plunder; to make an irruption into; to attack; as, the Romans invaded Great Britain.	Latin invado.
invader		One who invades; an assailant; an encroacher; an intruder.	
invaginate		To insert as in a sheath; to pr (a) Sheathed. (b) Having one portion of a hollow organ drawn back within another portion.	
invaginated		(a) Sheathed. (b) Having one portion of a hollow organ drawn back within another portion.	
invagination		(Biol.) The condition of an invaginated organ or part.	
invalescence	Obsolete	Strength; health.	Latin invalescens.
invaletudinary		Wanting health; valetudinary.	
invalid		Of no force, weight, or cogency; not valid; weak.	Latin invalidus.
invalidate		To render invalid; to weaken or lessen the force of; to destroy the authority of; to render of no force or effect; to overthrow; as, to invalidate an agreement or argument.	
invalidation		The act of inavlidating, or the state of being invalidated.	
invalide		See Invalid, n.	
invalidism		The condition of an invalid; sickness; infirmity.	
invalidity		Want of validity or cogency; want of legal force or efficacy; invalidness; as, the invalidity of an agreement or of a will.	
invalidness		Invalidity; as, the invalidness of reasoning.	
invalorous		Not valorous; cowardly.	
invaluable		Valuable beyond estimation; inestimable; priceless; precious.	
invaluably		Inestimably.	
invalued		Inestimable.	
invariability		The quality of being invariable; invariableness; constancy; uniformity.	
invariable		Not given to variation or change; unalterable; unchangeable; always uniform.	
invariance		The property of remaining invariable under prescribed or implied conditions.	
invariant		An invariable quantity; specifically, a function of the coefficients of one or more forms, which remains unaltered, when these undergo suitable linear transformations.	
invasion		The act of invading; the act of encroaching upon the rights or possessions of another; encroachment; trespass.	Middle French invasion, from Latin invasionem.
invasive		Tending to invade; characterized by invasion; aggressive.	
invect	Obsolete	To inveigh.	
invected		Having a border or outline composed of semicircles with the convexity outward; -- the opposite of engrailed.	
invection	Obsolete	An inveighing against; invective.	Latin invectio.
invective		Characterized by invection; critical; denunciatory; satirical; abusive; railing.	Latin invectivus.
invectively		In an invective manner.	
inveigh		To declaim or rail (against some person or thing); to utter censorious and bitter language; to attack with harsh criticism or reproach, either spoken or written; to use invectives; -- with against; as…	Latin inveho.
inveigher		One who inveighs.	
inveigle		To lead astray as if blind; to persuade to something evil by deceptive arts or flattery; to entice; to insnare; to seduce; to wheedle.	
inveiglement		The act of inveigling, or the state of being inveigled; that which inveigles; enticement; seduction.	
inveigler		One who inveigles.	
inveil		To cover, as with a vail.	
invendibility		The quality of being invendible; invendibleness; unsalableness.	
invendible		Not vendible or salable.	Latin invendibilis.
invenom		See Envenom — to taint or impregnate with venom, or any substance noxious to life; to poison; to render dangerous or deadly by poison, as food, drink, a weapon; as, envenomed meat, wine, or arrow; also…	
invent		To discover, as by study or inquiry; to find out; to devise; to contrive or produce for the first time; -- applied commonly to the discovery of some serviceable mode, instrument, or machine.	Middle English inventen, from French inventer, from Latin inventus.
inventer		One who invents.	
inventful		Full of invention.	
inventible		Capable of being invented.	
inventibleness		Quality of being inventible.	
invention		The act of finding out or inventing; contrivance or construction of that which has not before existed; as, the invention of logarithms; the invention of the art of printing.	
inventious	Obsolete	Inventive.	
inventive		Able and apt to invent; quick at contrivance; ready at expedients; as, an inventive head or genius.	
inventor		One who invents or finds out something new; a contriver; especially, one who invents mechanical devices.	
inventorial		Of or pertaining to an inventory. -- In`ven*to"ri*al*ly, adv.	
inventory		An account, catalogue, or schedule, made by an executor or administrator, of all the goods and chattels, and sometimes of the real estate, of a deceased person…	French inventaire, from Latin inventorium.
inventress		A woman who invents.	
inveracity		Want of veracity.	
inverisimilitude		Want of verisimilitude or likelihood; improbability.	
inverness		A kind of full sleeveless cape, fitting closely about the neck.	
inverse		Opposite in order, relation, or effect; reversed; inverted; reciprocal; -- opposed to direct.	
inversely		In an inverse order or manner; by inversion; -- opposed to directly.	
inversion		The act of inverting, or turning over or backward, or the state of being inverted.	
invert		To turn over; to put upside down; to upset; to place in a contrary order or direction; to reverse; as, to invert a cup, the order of words, rules of justice, etc. That doth invert the attest of eyes and ears…	
invertase		(a) An enzyme capable of effecting the inversion of cane suger, producing invert sugar.	
invertebral		Same as Invertebrate.	
invertebrata		A comprehensive division of the animal kingdom, including all except the Vertebrata.	
invertebrate		Destitute of a backbone; having no vertebræ; of or pertaining to the Invertebrata. -- n.	
invertebrated		Having no backbone; invertebrate.	
inverted		Changed to a contrary or counterchanged order; reversed; characterized by inversion.	
invertedly		In an inverted order.	
invertible		Capable of being inverted or turned.	
invertin		An unorganized ferment which causes cane sugar to take up a molecule of water and be converted into invert sugar.	
invest		To put garments on; to clothe; to dress; to array; -- opposed to divest.	
investient		Covering; clothing.	
investigable	Obsolete	Capable or susceptible of being investigated; admitting research.	
investigate		To follow up step by step by patient inquiry or observation; to trace or track mentally; to search into; to inquire and examine into with care and accuracy; to find out by careful inquisition; as…	
investigation		The act of investigating; the process of inquiring into or following up; research; study; inquiry, esp. patient or thorough inquiry or examination; as, the investigations of the philosopher and the mathematician…	
investigative		Given to investigation; inquisitive; curious; searching.	
investigator		One who searches diligently into a subject.	
investiture		The act or ceremony of investing, or the of being invested, as with an office; a giving possession; also, the right of so investing.	
investive		Investing.	
investment		The act of investing, or the state of being invested.	
investor		One who invests.	
investure	Obsolete	Investiture; investment.	
inveteracy		Firm establishment by long continuance; firmness or deep-rooted obstinacy of any quality or state acquired by time; as, the inveteracy of custom, habit, or disease; -- usually in a bad sense; as…	
inveterate		Firmly established by long continuance; obstinate; deep-rooted; of long standing; as, an inveterate disease; an inveterate abuse.	Latin inveteratus.
inveterately		In an inveterate manner or degree.	
inveterateness		Inveteracy.	
inveteration		The act of making inveterate.	Latin inveteratio.
invict	Obsolete	Invincible.	
invidious		Likely to incur or produce ill will, or to provoke envy; hateful; as, invidious distinctions.	Latin invidiosus.
invigilance		Want of vigilance; neglect of watching; carelessness.	
invigilancy		Want of vigilance; neglect of watching; carelessness.	
invigor	Obsolete	To invigorate.	
invigorate		To give vigor to; to strengthen; to animate; to give life and energy to.	
invigoration		The act of invigorating, or the state of being invigorated.	
invile	Obsolete	To render vile.	
invillaged	Obsolete	Turned into, or reduced to, a village.	
invincibility		The quality or state of being invincible; invincibleness.	
invincible		Incapable of being conquered, overcome, or subdued; unconquerable; insuperable; as, an invincible army, or obstacle.	Latin invincibilis.
inviolability		The quality or state of being inviolable; inviolableness.	Latin inviolabilitas.
inviolable		Not violable; not susceptible of hurt, wound, or harm (used with respect to either physical or moral damage); not susceptible of being profaned or corrupted; sacred; holy; as, inviolable honor or chastity; an inviolable shrine.	Latin inviolabilis.
inviolableness		The quality or state of being inviolable; as, the inviolableness of divine justice.	
inviolably		Without violation.	
inviolacy		The state or quality of being inviolate; as, the inviolacy of an oath.	
inviolate		Not violated; uninjured; unhurt; unbroken.	Latin inviolatus.
inviolated		Not violated; uninjured; unhurt; unbroken.	
inviolately		In an inviolate manner.	
inviolateness		The state of being inviolate.	
invious		Untrodden.	
invirile		Deficient in manhood; unmanly; effeminate.	
invirility		Absence of virility or manhood; effeminacy.	
inviscate		To daub or catch with glue or birdlime; to entangle with glutinous matter.	Latin inviscatus.
inviscerate		To breed; to nourish.	Latin invisceratus.
invisibility		The state or quality of being invisible; also, that which is invisible.	
invisible		Incapable of being seen; not perceptible by vision; not visible.	
invisibleness		The quality or state of being invisible; invisibility.	
invisibly		In an invisible manner, Denham.	
invision	Obsolete	Want of vision or of the power of seeing.	
invitation		The act of inviting; solicitation; the requesting of a person's company; as, an invitation to a party, to a dinner, or to visit a friend.	
invitatory		Using or containing invitations.	
invite		To ask; to request; to bid; to summon; to ask to do some act, or go to some place; esp., to ask to an entertainment or visit; to request the company of; as, to invite to dinner, or a wedding, or an excursion.	
invitement	Obsolete	Invitation.	
inviter		One who, or that which, invites.	
invitiate		Not vitiated.	
inviting		Alluring; tempting; as, an inviting amusement or prospect.	
invitrifiable		Not admitting of being vitrified, or converted into glass.	
invocate		To invoke; to call on, or for, in supplication; to implore.	
invocation		The act or form of calling for the assistance or presence of some superior being; earnest and solemn entreaty; esp., prayer offered to a divine being.	
invocatory		Making or containing invocation; invoking.	
invoice		(Com.) A written account of the particulars of merchandise shipped or sent to a purchaser, consignee, factor, etc., with the value or prices and charges annexed.	
invoke		To call on for aid or protection; to invite earnestly or solemnly; to summon; to address in prayer; to solicit or demand by invocation; to implore; as, to invoke the Supreme Being, or to invoke His and blessing.	Middle English invoken, from Middle French invoquer, from Latin invocare.
involucel		A partial, secondary, or small involucre. See Illust. of Involucre.	
involucellate		Furnished with involucels.	
involucellum		See Involucel — a partial, secondary, or small involucre. See Illust. of Involucre.	
involucral		Pertaining to, possessing, or like, an involucrum.	
involucrate		Having an involucre; involucred.	
involucrated		Having an involucre; involucred.	
involucre		(a) A whorl or set of bracts around a flower, umbel, or head. (b) A continuous marginal covering of sporangia, in certain ferns, as in the common brake, or the cup-shaped processes of the filmy ferns.	
involucred		Having an involucre, as umbels, heads, etc. Martyn.	
involucret		An involucel.	
involucrum		(Zoöl.) A sheath which surrounds the base of the lasso cells in the Siphonophora.	
involuntarily		In an involuntary manner; not voluntarily; not intentionally or willingly.	
involuntariness		The quality or state of being involuntary; unwillingness; automatism.	
involuntary		Not having will of the power of choice.	
involute		(Bot.) Rolled inward from the edges; -- said of leaves in vernation, or of the petals of flowers in æstivation.	Latin involutus.
involuted		(Bot.) Rolled inward from the edges; -- said of leaves in vernation, or of the petals of flowers in æstivation.	
involution		The state of being entangled or involved; complication; entanglement.	Latin involutio.
involve		To roll or fold up; to wind round; to entwine.	Latin involvere.
involved		Same as Involute.	
involvedness		The state of being involved.	
involvement		The act of involving, or the state of being involved.	
invulgar	Obsolete	To cause to become or appear vulgar.	
invulnerability		Quality or state of being invulnerable.	
invulnerable		Incapable of being wounded, or of receiving injury.	Latin invulnerabilis.
invulnerableness		Invulnerability.	
invulnerate		Invulnerable.	
inwall		To inclose or fortify as with a wall.	
inward		Being or placed within; inner; interior; -- opposed to outward.	Old English inneweard.
inwardly		In the inner parts; internally.	
inwardness		Internal or true state; essential nature; as, the inwardness of conduct.	
inwards		Toward the inside; toward the center or interior; as, to bend a thing inward.	
inweave		To weave in or together; to intermix or intertwine by weaving; to interlace.	
inwheel		To encircle.	
inwit	Obsolete	Inward sense; mind; understanding; conscience.	Middle English inwit.
inwork		To work in or within.	
inworn		Worn, wrought, or stamped in.	
inwrap		To cover by wrapping; to involve; to infold; as, to inwrap in a cloak, in smoke, etc.	
inwreathe		To surround or encompass as with a wreath.	
inwrought		Wrought or worked in or among other things; worked into any fabric so as to from a part of its texture; wrought or adorned, as with figures.	
