io		An exclamation of joy or triumph; -- often interjectional.	
iod-		See Iodo- — a prefix, or combining from, indicating iodine as an ingredient; as, iodoform.	
iodal		An oily liquid, Cl3.CHO, analogous to chloral and bromal.	
iodate		A salt of iodic acid.	
iodhydrin		One of a series of compounds containing iodine, and analogous to the chlorhydrins.	
iodic		to, or containing, iodine; specif., denoting those compounds in which it has a relatively high valence; as, iodic acid.	
iodide		A binary compound of iodine, or one which may be regarded as binary; as, potassium iodide.	
iodine		A nonmetallic element, of the halogen group, occurring always in combination, as in the iodides.	French iode, from Greek ἰώδης.
iodism		A morbid state produced by the use of iodine and its compounds, and characterized by palpitation, depression, and general emaciation, with a pustular eruption upon the skin.	
iodize		To treat or impregnate with iodine or its compounds; as, to iodize a plate for photography.	
iodizer		One who, or that which, iodizes.	
iodo-		A prefix, or combining from, indicating iodine as an ingredient; as, iodoform.	
iodocresol		Any of several isomeric iodine derivatives of the cresols, C6H3I(CH3)OH, esp. one, an odorless amorphous powder, used in medicine as a substitute for iodoform.	
iodoform		A yellow, crystalline, volatile substance, CI3H, having an offensive odor and sweetish taste, and analogous to chloroform.	
iodoformogen		A light powder used as a substitute for iodoform.	
iodol		A crystallized substance of the composition C4I4NH, technically tetra-iodo-pyrrol, used like iodoform.	
iodoquinine		A iodide of quinine obtained as a brown substance,.	
iodothyrin		A peculiar substance obtained from the thyroid gland, containing from nine to ten per cent of iodine.	
iodous		Pertaining to, or containing, iodine. See -ous (chemical suffix).	
iodyrite		Silver iodide, a mineral of a yellowish color.	
iolite		A silicate of alumina, iron, and magnesia, having a bright blue color and vitreous luster; cordierite.	
ion		One of the elements which appear at the respective poles when a body is subjected to electro-chemical decomposition.	Greek ἰόν.
ionian		Of or pertaining to Ionia or the Ionians; Ionic. -- n.	
ionic		(Arch.) Pertaining to the Ionic order of architecture, one of the three orders invented by the Greeks, and one of the five recognized by the Italian writers of the sixteenth century.	
ionidium		A genus of violaceous plants, chiefly found in tropical America, some species of which are used as substitutes for ipecacuanha.	
ionize		To separate (a compound) into ions, esp. by dissolving in water. --I`on*i*za"tion (#), n.	
iota		The ninth letter of the Greek alphabet (i) corresponding with the English i.	Greek ἰῶτα.
iotacism		The frequent use of the sound of iota (that of English e in be), as among the modern Greeks; also, confusion from sounding Littré.	
iowas		; sing. Iowa. (Ethnol.) A tribe of Indians which formerly occupied the region now included in the State of Iowa.	
