iracund		Irascible; choleric.	
irade		A decree of the Sultan.	Turkish irade, from Arabic إرادة.
iran		The native name of Persia.	
iranian		Of or pertaining to Iran. -- n.	
iranic		Iranian.	
irascibility		The quality or state of being irascible; irritability of temper; irascibleness.	
irascible		Prone to anger; easily provoked or inflamed to anger; choleric; irritable; as, an irascible man; an irascible temper or mood. -- I*ras ci*bly, adv.	French irascible, from Latin irascibilis.
irate		Angry; incensed; enraged.	Latin iratus.
ire		Anger; wrath.	Middle English ire, from Old French ire, from Latin ira.
ireful		Full of ire; angry; wroth. -- Ire"ful*ly, adv.	
irefulness		Wrathfulness.	
irenarch		An officer in the Greek empire having functions corresponding to those of a justice of the peace.	Latin irenarcha.
irenic		Fitted or designed to promote peace; pacific; conciliatory; peaceful.	Greek είρηνικος.
irenical		Fitted or designed to promote peace; pacific; conciliatory; peaceful.	
irenicon		A proposition or device for securing peace, especially in the church.	
irenics		That branch of Christian science which treats of the methods of securing unity among Christians or harmony and union among the churches; -- called also Irenical theology.	
irestone		Any very hard rock.	
irian		Of or pertaining to the iris.	
iricism		Irishism.	
iridaceous		Pertaining to, or resembling, a large natural order of endogenous plants (Iridaceæ), which includes the genera Iris, Ixia, Crocus, Gladiolus, and many others.	
iridal		Of or pertaining to the iris or rainbow; prismatic; as, the iridal colors.	
iridectomy		The act or process of cutting out a portion of the iris in order to form an artificial pupil.	
irideous		Pertaining to, or resembling, a large natural order of endogenous plants (Iridaceæ), which includes the genera Iris, Ixia, Crocus, Gladiolus, and many others.	
iridescence		Exhibition of colors like those of the rainbow; the quality or state of being iridescent; a prismatic play of color; as, the iridescence of mother-of-pearl.	
iridescent		Having colors like the rainbow; exhibiting a play of changeable colors; nacreous; prismatic; as, iridescent glass.	
iridian		Of or pertaining to the iris or rainbow.	
iridiated		Iridescent.	
iridic		Of or pertaining to the iris of the eye.	
iridioscope		A kind of ophthalmoscope.	
iridious		Of or pertaining to iridium; -- applied specifically to compounds in which iridium has a low valence.	
iridium		A rare metallic element, of the same group as platinum, which it much resembles, being silver-white, but harder, and brittle, and indifferent to most corrosive agents.	Greek ἶρις.
iridize		To point or tip with iridium, as a gold pen.	
iridoline		A nitrogenous base C10H9N, extracted from coal-tar naphtha, as an oily liquid.	
iridosmine		The native compound of iridium and osmium.	
iridosmium		The native compound of iridium and osmium.	
iris		An appearance resembling the rainbow; a prismatic play of colors.	
irisated		Exhibiting the prismatic colors; irised; iridescent.	
iriscope		A philosophical toy for exhibiting the prismatic tints by means of thin films.	
irised		Having colors like those of the rainbow; iridescent.	
irish		Of or pertaining to Ireland or to its inhabitants; produced in Ireland.	
irishism		A mode of speaking peculiar to the Irish; an Hibernicism.	
irishman		A man born in Ireland or of the Irish race; an Hibernian.	
irishry		The Celtic people of Ireland.	
iritis		An inflammation of the iris of the eye.	
irk		To weary; to give pain; to annoy; -- used only impersonally at present.	Middle English irken, from Old Norse yrkja.
irksome		Wearisome; tedious; disagreeable or troublesome by reason of long continuance or repetition; as, irksome hours; irksome tasks.	Middle English irkesome.
iron		(Chem.) The most common and most useful metallic element, being of almost universal occurrence, usually in the form of an oxide (as hematite, magnetite, etc.), or a hydrous oxide (as limonite, turgite, etc.).	
iron-cased		Cased or covered with iron, as a vessel; ironclad.	
iron-fisted		Closefisted; stingy; mean.	
iron-gray		Of a gray color, somewhat resembling that of iron freshly broken. -- n.	
iron-hearted		Hard-hearted; unfeeling; cruel; as, an iron-hearted master.	
iron-sick		Having the ironwork loose or corroded; -- said of a ship when her bolts and nails are so eaten with rust that she has become leaky.	
iron-sided		Having iron sides, or very firm sides.	
ironbound		Bound as with iron; rugged; as, an ironbound coast.	
ironclad		Clad in iron; protected or covered with iron, as a vessel for naval warfare.	
ironer		One who, or that which, irons.	
ironheads		A European composite herb (Centaurea nigra); -- so called from the resemblance of its knobbed head to an iron ball fixed on a long handle.	
ironic		Ironical.	
ironical		Pertaining to irony; containing, expressing, or characterized by, irony; as, an ironical remark.	
ironing		The act or process of smoothing, as clothes, with hot flatirons.	
ironish		Resembling iron, as in taste.	
ironist		One who uses irony.	
ironmaster		A manufacturer of iron, or large dealer therein.	
ironmonger		A dealer in iron or hardware.	
ironmongery		Hardware; a general name for all articles made of iron.	
ironsides		A cuirassier or cuirassiers; also, hardy veteran soldiers; -- applied specifically to Cromwell's cavalry.	
ironsmith		A worker in iron; one who makes and repairs utensils of iron; a blacksmith.	
ironstone		A hard, earthy ore of iron.	
ironware		Articles made of iron, as household utensils, tools, and the like.	
ironweed		A tall weed with purplish flowers (Vernonia Noveboracensis).	
ironwood		A tree unusually hard, strong, or heavy wood.	
ironwork		Anything made of iron; -- a general name of such parts or pieces of a building, vessel, carriage, etc., as consist of iron.	
ironwort		An herb of the Mint family (Sideritis), supposed to heal sword cuts; also, a species of Galeopsis.	
irony		Made or consisting of iron; partaking of iron; iron; as, irony chains; irony particles.	
iroquoian		Of, pertaining to, or designating, one of the principal linguistic stocks of the North American Indians.	
iroquois		A powerful and warlike confederacy of Indian tribes, formerly inhabiting Central New York and constituting most of the Five Nations.	
irous	Obsolete	Irascible; passionate.	Old French iros.
irp	Obsolete	A fantastic grimace or contortion of the body.	
irpe	Obsolete	A fantastic grimace or contortion of the body.	
irradiance		The act of irradiating; emission of rays of light.	
irradiancy		The act of irradiating; emission of rays of light.	
irradiant		Irradiating or illuminating; as, the irradiant moon.	
irradiate		To throw rays of light upon; to illuminate; to brighten; to adorn with luster.	Latin irradiatus.
irradiation		Act of irradiating, or state of being irradiated.	
irradicate		To root deeply.	
irrational		Not rational; void of reason or understanding; as, brutes are irrational animals.	Latin irrationalis.
irrationality		The quality or state of being irrational.	
irrationally		In an irrational manner.	
irrationalness		Irrationality.	
irrebuttable		Incapable of being rebutted.	
irreceptive		Not receiving; incapable of receiving.	
irreclaimable		Incapable of being reclaimed.	
irrecognition		A failure to recognize; absence of recognition.	
irrecognizable		Not recognizable.	
irreconcilability		The quality or state of being irreconcilable; irreconcilableness.	
irreconcilable		Not reconcilable; implacable; incompatible; inconsistent; disagreeing; as, irreconcilable enemies, statements. -- Ir*rec on*ci`la*bly, adv.	
irreconcile	Obsolete	To prevent from being reconciled; to alienate or disaffect.	
irreconcilement		The state or quality of being unreconciled; disagreement.	
irreconciliation		Want of reconciliation; disagreement.	
irrecordable		Not fit or possible to be recorded.	
irrecoverable		Not capable of being recovered, regained, or remedied; irreparable; as, an irrecoverable loss, debt, or injury.	
irrecuperable		Irrecoverable. -- Ir`re*cu"per*a*bly, adv.	
irrecured	Obsolete	Incurable.	
irrecusable		Not liable to exception or rejection.	
irredeemability		The state or quality of being irredeemable; irredeemableness.	
irredeemable		Not redeemable; that can not be redeemed; not payable in gold or silver, as a bond; -- used especially of such government notes, issued as currency…	
irreducibility		The state or quality of being irreducible.	
irreducible		Incapable of being reduced, or brought into a different state; incapable of restoration to its proper or normal condition; as, an irreducible hernia.	
irreflection		Want of reflection.	
irreflective		Not reflective.	
irreformable		Incapable of being reformed; incorrigible.	
irrefragability		The quality or state of being irrefragable; incapability of being refuted.	
irrefragable		Not refragable; not to be gainsaid or denied; not to be refuted or overthrown; unanswerable; incontestable; undeniable; as, an irrefragable argument; irrefragable evidence. -- Ir*ref ra*ga*bly, adv.	
irrefrangibility		The quality or state of being irrefrangible; irrefrangibleness.	
irrefrangible		Not refrangible; that can not be refracted in passing from one medium to another. -- Ir`re*fran"gi*ble*ness, n.	
irrefutable		Incapable of being refuted or disproved; indisputable. -- Ir`re*fut a*bly, adv.	Latin irrefutabilis.
irregeneracy		Unregeneracy.	
irregeneration	Obsolete	An unregenerate state.	
irregular		Not regular; not conforming to a law, method, or usage recognized as the general rule; not according to common form; not conformable to nature, to the rules of moral rectitude, or to established principles; not normal; unnatural…	Old French irreguler, from Latin irregularis.
irregularist		One who is irregular.	
irregularity		The state or quality of being irregular; that which is irregular.	
irregularly		In an irregular manner.	
irregulate	Obsolete	To make irregular; to disorder.	
irregulous	Obsolete	Lawless.	
irrejectable		That can not be rejected; irresistible.	
irrelapsable		Not liable to relapse; secure.	
irrelation		The quality or state of being irrelative; want of connection or relation.	
irrelative		Not relative; without mutual relations; unconnected. -- Ir*rel"a*tive*ly, adv.	
irrelavance		Irrelevancy.	
irrelavancy		The quality or state of being irrelevant; as, the irrelevancy of an argument.	
irrelavant		Not relevant; not applicable or pertinent; not bearing upon or serving to support; foreign; extraneous; as, testimony or arguments irrelevant to a case. -- Ir*rel"a*vant*ly, adv.	
irrelievable		Not admitting relief; incurable; hopeless.	
irreligion		The state of being irreligious; want of religion; impiety.	French irréligion, from Latin irreligionem.
irreligionist		One who is irreligious.	
irreligious		Destitute of religion; not controlled by religious motives or principles; ungodly.	
irreligiously		In an irreligious manner.	
irreligiousness		The state or quality of being irreligious; ungodliness.	
irremeable	Obsolete	Admitting no return; as, an irremeable way.	
irremediable		Not to be remedied, corrected, or redressed; incurable; as, an irremediable disease or evil.	
irremediableness		The state or quality of being irremediable.	
irremediably		In a manner, or to a degree, that precludes remedy, cure, or correction.	
irremissible		Not remissible; unpardonable; as, irremissible crimes.	
irremission		Refusal of pardon.	
irremissive		Not remitting; unforgiving.	
irremittable		Not capable of being remitted; irremissible.	
irremovability		The quality or state of being irremovable; immovableness.	
irremovable		Not removable; immovable; inflexible.	
irremoval		Absence of removal.	
irremunerable		Not remunerable; not capable of remuneration.	
irrenowned	Obsolete	Not renowned.	
irreparability		The quality or state of being irreparable; irreparableness.	
irreparable		Not reparable; not capable of being repaired, recovered, regained, or remedied; irretrievable; irremediable; as, an irreparable breach; an irreparable loss.	
irreparableness		Quality of being irreparable.	
irreparably		In an irreparable manner.	
irrepealability		The quality or state of being irrepealable.	
irrepealable		Not repealable; not capable of being repealed or revoked, as a law. -- Ir`re*peal a*bly, adv.	
irrepentance		Want of repentance; impenitence.	
irrepleviable		Not capable of being replevied.	
irreplevisable		Not capable of being replevied.	
irreprehensible		Not reprehensible; blameless; innocent. -- Ir*rep`re*hen si*bly, adv.	
irrepresentable		Not capable of being represented or portrayed.	
irrepressible		Not capable of being repressed, restrained, or controlled; as, irrepressible joy; an irrepressible conflict.	
irrepressibly		In a manner or to a degree that can not be repressed.	
irreproachable		Not reproachable; above reproach; not deserving reproach; blameless.	
irreproachableness		The quality or state of being irreproachable; integrity; innocence.	
irreproachably		In an irreproachable manner; blamelessly.	
irreprovable		Incapable of being justly reproved; irreproachable; blameless; upright. -- Ir`re*prov a*bly, adv.	
irreptitious	Obsolete	Surreptitious; spurious.	Latin irrepere.
irreputable	Obsolete	Disreputable.	
irresilient		Not resilient; not recoiling or rebounding; inelastic.	
irresistance		Nonresistance; passive submission.	
irresistibility		The quality or state of being irrestible, irresistibleness.	
irresistible		That can not be successfully resisted or opposed; superior to opposition; resistless; overpowering; as, an irresistible attraction.	
irresistibleness		Quality of being irrestible.	
irresistibly		In an irrestible manner.	
irresistless	Obsolete	Irresistible.	
irresoluble		Incapable of being dissolved or resolved into parts; insoluble.	
irresolubleness		The state or quality of being irresoluble; insolubility.	
irresolute		Not resolute; not decided or determined; wavering; given to doubt or irresolution.	
irresolution		Want of resolution; want of decision in purpose; a fluctuation of mind, as in doubt, or between hope and fear; irresoluteness; indecision; vacillation.	
irresolvability		The quality of being irresolvable; irresolvableness.	
irresolvable		Incapable of being resolved; not separable into component parts.	
irresolvableness		The quality or state of being irresolvable; irresolvability.	
irresolvedly		Without settled determination; in a hesitating manner; doubtfully.	
irrespective		Without regard for conditions, circumstances, or consequences; unbiased; independent; impartial; as, an irrespective judgment.	
irrespectively		Without regard to conditions; not making circumstances into consideration.	
irrespirable		Unfit for respiration; not having the qualities necessary to support animal life; as, irrespirable air.	
irresponsibility		Want of, or freedom from, responsibility or accountability.	
irresponsible		Nor responsible; not liable or able to answer fro consequences; innocent.	
irresponsibly		So as not to be responsible.	
irresponsive		Not responsive; not able, ready, or inclined to respond.	
irresuscitable		Incapable of being resuscitated or revived. -- Ir`re*sus"ci*ta*bly, adv.	
irretention		Want of retaining power; forgetfulness.	
irretentive		Not retentive; as, an irretentive memory.	
irretraceable		Incapable of being retraced; not retraceable.	
irretractile		Not retractile.	
irretrievable		Not retrievable; irrecoverable; irreparable; as, an irretrievable loss.	
irretrievableness		The state or quality of being irretrievable.	
irretrievably		In an irretrievable manner.	
irreturnable		Not to be returned.	
irrevealable		Incapable of being revealed. -- Ir`re*veal"a*bly, adv.	
irreverence		The state or quality of being irreverent; want of proper reverence; disregard of the authority and character of a superior.	
irreverend	Obsolete	Irreverent.	
irreverent		Not reverent; showing a want of reverence; expressive of a want of veneration; as, an irreverent babbler; an irreverent jest.	
irreverently		In an irreverent manner.	
irreversibility		The state or quality of being irreversible; irreversibleness.	
irreversible		Incapable of being reversed or turned about or back; incapable of being made to run backward; as, an irreversible engine.	
irreversibleness		The state or quality of being irreversible.	
irreversibly		In an irreversible manner.	
irrevocability		The state or quality of being irrevocable; irrevocableness.	
irrevocable		Incapable of being recalled or revoked; unchangeable; irreversible; unalterable; as, an irrevocable promise or decree; irrevocable fate.	
irrevokable		Irrevocable.	
irrevoluble		That has no finite period of revolution; not revolving.	
irrhetorical		Not rethorical.	
irrigate		To water; to wet; to moisten with running or dropping water; to bedew.	Latin irrigare.
irrigation		The act or process of irrigating, or the state of being irrigated; especially, the operation of causing water to flow over lands, for nourishing plants.	
irriguous	Obsolete	Watered; watery; moist; dewy.	
irrisible		Not risible.	
irrision		The act of laughing at another; derision.	Latin irrisio.
irritability		The state or quality of being irritable; quick excitability; petulance; fretfulness; as, irritability of temper.	Latin irritabilitas.
irritable		Capable of being irriated.	
irritableness		Irritability.	
irritably		In an irritable manner.	
irritancy		The state or quality of being null and void; invalidity; forfeiture.	
irritant		Rendering null and void; conditionally invalidating.	
irritate		To render null and void.	Latin irritatus.
irritation		The act of irritating, or exciting, or the state of being irritated; excitement; stimulation, usually of an undue and uncomfortable kind; especially, excitement of anger or passion; provocation; annoyance; anger.	Latin irritatio.
irritative		Serving to excite or irritate; irritating; as, an irritative agent.	
irritatory		Exciting; producing irritation; irritating.	
irrorate	Obsolete	To sprinkle or moisten with dew; to bedew.	
irroration	Obsolete	The act of bedewing; the state of being moistened with de Chambers.	
irrotational		Not rotatory; passing from one point to another by a movement other than rotation; -- said of the movement of parts of a liquid or yielding mass.	
irrubrical		Contrary to the rubric; not rubrical.	
irrugate	Obsolete	To wrinkle.	Latin irrugatus.
irrupted		Broken with violence.	
irruption		A bursting in; a sudden, violent rushing into a place; as, irruptions of the sea.	Latin irruptio.
irruptive		Rushing in or upon.	
irvingite		The common designation of one a sect founded by the Rev.	
