is		The third person singular of the substantive verb be, in the indicative mood, present tense; as, he is; he is a man.
is-		. See Iso-.
isabel		See Isabella — a brownish yellow color.
isabella		A brownish yellow color.
isabelline		Of an isabel or isabella color.
isagel		Containing the same information, as isagelous sentences.
isagelous		Containing the same information, as isagelous sentences.
isagoge	Obsolete	An introduction.
isagogic		Introductory; especially, introductory to the study of theology.
isagogical		Introductory; especially, introductory to the study of theology.
isagogics		That part of theological science directly preliminary to actual exegesis, or interpretation of the Scriptures.
isagon		A figure or polygon whose angles are equal.
isapostolic		Having equal, or almost equal, authority with the apostles of their teachings.
isatic		Pertaining to, or derived from, isatin; as, isatic acid, which is also called trioxindol.
isatide		A white crystalline substance obtained by the partial reduction of isatin.
isatin		An orange-red crystalline substance, C8H5NO2, obtained by the oxidation of indigo blue.
isatinic		Pertaining to, or derived from, isatin; as, isatic acid, which is also called trioxindol.
isatis		A genus of herbs, some species of which, especially the Isatis tinctoria, yield a blue dye similar to indigo; woad.
isatogen		A complex nitrogenous radical, C8H4NO2, regarded as the essential residue of a series of compounds, related to isatin, which easily pass by reduction to indigo blue. -- I*sat`o*gen"ic, a.
isatropic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from atropine, and isomeric with cinnamic acid.
ischiac		See Ischial — of or pertaining to the ischium or hip; ischiac; ischiadic; ischiatic.
ischiadic		Ischial.
ischial		Of or pertaining to the ischium or hip; ischiac; ischiadic; ischiatic.
ischiatic		Same as Ishial.
ischiocapsular		Of or pertaining to the ischium and the capsule of the hip joint; as, the ischiocapsular ligament.
ischiocerite		The third joint or the antennæ of the Crustacea.
ischion		(Anat.) The ventral and posterior of the three principal bones composing either half of the pelvis; seat bone; the huckle bone.
ischiopodite		The third joint of the typical appendages of Crustacea.
ischiorectal		Of or pertaining to the region between the rectum and ishial tuberosity.
ischium		(Anat.) The ventral and posterior of the three principal bones composing either half of the pelvis; seat bone; the huckle bone.
ischuretic		Having the quality of relieving ischury. -- n.
ischury		A retention or suppression of urine.
isentropic		Having equal entropy.
isethionic		Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid, HO.C2H4.SO3H, obtained as an oily or crystalline substance, by the action of sulphur trioxide on alcohol or ether.
ishmaelite		A descendant of Ishmael (the son of Abraham and Hagar), of whom it was said, xvi. 12.
ishmaelitish		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, an Ishmaelite or the Ishmaelites.
isiac		Pertaining to the goddess Isis; as, Isiac mysteries.
isicle	Obsolete	A icicle.
isidorian		Pertaining, or ascribed, to Isidore; as, the Isidorian decretals, a spurious collection of decretals published in the ninth century.
isinglass		A semitransparent, whitish, and very pure from of gelatin, chiefly prepared from the sounds or air bladders of various species of sturgeons (as the Acipenser huso) found in the of Western Russia.
isis		(Myth.) The principal goddess worshiped by the Egyptians.
islam		The whole body of Mohammedans, or the countries which they occupy.
islamism		The faith, doctrines, or religious system of the Mohammedans; Mohammedanism; Islam.
islamite		A Mohammedan.
islamitic		Of or pertaining to Islam; Mohammedan.
islamize		To conform, or cause to conform, to the religion of Islam.
island		A tract of land surrounded by water, and smaller than a continent.
islander		An inhabitant of an island.
islandy		Of or pertaining to islands; full of islands.
isle		See Aisle — (a) A lateral division of a building, separated from the middle part, called the nave, by a row of columns or piers, which support the roof or an upper wall containing windows…
islet		A little island.
ism		A doctrine or theory; especially, a wild or visionary theory.
ismaelian		One of a sect of Mohammedans who favored the pretensions of the family of Mohammed ben Ismael, of the house Ali.
ismaelite		One of a sect of Mohammedans who favored the pretensions of the family of Mohammed ben Ismael, of the house Ali.
iso-		A prefix or combining form, indicating identity, or equality; the same numerical value; as in isopod, isomorphous, isochromatic.
isobar		A line connecting or marking places upon the surface of the earth where height of the barometer reduced to sea level is the same either at a given time, or for a certain period (mean height), as for a year; an isopiestic line.
isobaric		Denoting equal pressure; as, an isobaric line; specifically, of or pertaining to isobars.
isobarism		The quality or state of being equal in weight, especially in atmospheric pressure.
isobarometric		Indicating equal barometric pressure.
isobathytherm		A line connecting the points on the surface of the earth where a certain temperature is found at the same depth.
isobathythermic		Of or pertaining to an isobathytherm; possessing or indicating the same temperature at the same depth.
isobront		An imaginary line, or a line on a chart, marking the simultaneous development of a thunderstorm, as noted by observing the time when the thunder is heard at different places.
isocephalism		A peculiarity in the design of bas-relief by which the heads of human figures are kept at the same height from the ground, whether the personages are seated, standing, or mounted on horseback; -- called also isokephaleia.
isochasm		A line connecting places on the earth's surface at which there is the same mean frequency of auroras.
isochasmic		Indicating equal auroral display; as, an isochasmic line.
isocheim		A line connecting places on the earth having the same mean winter temperature.
isocheimal		Pertaining to, having the nature of, or making, isocheims; as, an isocheimal line; an isocheimal chart.
isocheimenal		The same as Isocheimal.
isocheimic		The same as Isocheimal.
isochimal		Pertaining to, having the nature of, or making, isocheims; as, an isocheimal line; an isocheimal chart.
isochimenal		The same as Isocheimal.
isochimene		The same as Isocheim.
isochor		A line upon a thermodynamic diagram so drawn as to represent the pressures corresponding to changes of temperature when the volume of the gas operated on is constant. -- I`so*chor"ic (#), a.
isochromatic		Having the same color; connecting parts having the same color, as lines drawn through certain points in experiments on the chromatic effects of polarized light in crystals.
isochronal		Uniform in time; of equal time; performed in equal times; recurring at regular intervals; isochronal vibrations or oscillations.
isochronic		Isochronal.
isochronism		The state or quality of being isochronous.
isochronize		To make, or tend to make (the motion of a moving body), uniform in rate of rotation, or in frequency of vibration.
isochronon		A clock that is designed to keep very accurate time.
isochronous		Same as Isochronal.
isochroous		Having the same tint or color throughout; uniformly or evenly colored.
isoclinal		Of or pertaining to, or indicating, equality of inclination or dip; having equal inclination or dip.
isoclinic		Of or pertaining to, or indicating, equality of inclination or dip; having equal inclination or dip.
isocrymal		Pertaining to, having the nature of, or illustrating, an isocryme; as, an isocrymal line; an isocrymal chart.
isocryme		A line connecting points on the earth's surface having the same mean temperature in the coldest month of the year.
isocrymic		Isocrymal.
isocyanic		Designating an acid isomeric with cyanic acid.
isocyanuric		Designating, or pertaining to, an acid isomeric with cyanuric acid, and called also fulminuric acid.
isodiabatic		Pertaining to the reception or the giving out of equal quantities of heat by a substance.
isodiametric		(Crystallog.) Developed alike in the directions of the several lateral axes; -- said of crystals of both the tetragonal and hexagonal systems.
isodimorphic		Isodimorphous.
isodimorphism		Isomorphism between the two forms severally of two dimorphous substances.
isodimorphous		Having the quality of isodimorphism.
isodrome		A method of moving a fleet from one formation to another, the direction usually being changed eight points (90º), by means of paths of equal length for each ship.
isodulcite		A white, crystalline, sugarlike substance, obtained by the decomposition of certain glucosides, and intermediate in nature between the hexacid alcohols (ductile, mannite, etc.) and the glucoses.
isodynamic		Of, pertaining to, having, or denoting, equality of force.
isodynamous		Of equal force or size.
isogeotherm		A line or curved surface passing beneath the earth's surface through points having the same mean temperature.
isogeothermal		Pertaining to, having the nature of, or marking, isogeotherms; as, an isogeothermal line or surface; as isogeothermal chart. -- n.
isogeothermic		Pertaining to, having the nature of, or marking, isogeotherms; as, an isogeothermal line or surface; as isogeothermal chart. -- n.
isogonic		Pertaining to, or noting, equal angles.
isogonism		The quality of having similar sexual zooids or gonophores and dissimilar hydrants; -- said of certain hydroids.
isographic		Of or pertaining to isography.
isography		Imitation of another's handwriting,
isohyetose		Of or pertaining to lines connecting places on the earth's surface which have a mean annual rainfall. -- n.
isolable		Capable of being isolated, or of being obtained in a pure state; as, gold is isolable.
isolate		To place in a detached situation; to place by itself or alone; to insulate; to separate from others.
isolated		Placed or standing alone; detached; separated from others.
isolatedly		In an isolated manner.
isolation		The act of isolating, or the state of being isolated; insulation; separation; loneliness.
isolator		One who, or that which, isolates.
isologous		Having similar proportions, similar relations, or similar differences of composition; -- said specifically of groups or series which differ by a constant difference; as, ethane, ethylene, an acetylene…
isomer		A body or compound which is isomeric with another body or compound; a member of an isomeric series.
isomere		A homologous or corresponding part or segment.
isomeric		Having the same percentage composition; -- said of two or more different substances which contain the same ingredients in the same proportions by weight, often used with with.
isomeride		An isomer.
isomerism		The state, quality, or relation, of two or more isomeric substances.
isomeromorphism		Isomorphism between substances that are isomeric.
isometric		(Crystallog.) Noting, or conforming to, that system of crystallization in which the three axes are of equal length and at right angles to each other; monometric; regular; cubic.
isometrical		(Crystallog.) Noting, or conforming to, that system of crystallization in which the three axes are of equal length and at right angles to each other; monometric; regular; cubic.
isomorph		A substance which is similar to another in crystalline form and composition.
isomorphic		Isomorphous.
isomorphism		A similarity of crystalline form between substances of similar composition, as between the sulphates of barium (BaSO4) and strontium (SrSO4).
isomorphous		Having the quality of isomorphism.
isonandra		A genus of sapotaceous trees of India.
isonephelic		Having, or indicating, an equal amount of cloudiness for a given period; as, isonephelic regions; an isonephelic line.
isonicotine		A crystalline, nitrogenous base, C10H14N2, isomeric with nicotine.
isonicotinic		(a) Pertaining to, or derived from, isonicotine. (b) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid isomeric with nicotinic acid.
isonitroso-		A combining from (also used adjectively), signifying: Pertaining to, or designating, the characteristic, nitrogenous radical, NOH, called the isonitroso group.
isonomic		The same, or equal, in law or right; one in kind or origin; analogous; similar.
isonomy		Equal law or right; equal distribution of rights and privileges; similarity.
isopathy		(a) The system which undertakes to cure a disease by means of the virus of the same disease.
isopepsin		Pepsin modified by exposure to a temperature of from 40º to 60º C.
isoperimetrical		Having equal perimeters of circumferences; as, isoperimetrical figures or bodies.
isoperimetry		The science of figures having equal perimeters or boundaries.
isopiestic		Having equal pressure.
isopleura		A subclass of Gastropoda, in which the body is symmetrical, the right and left sides being equal.
isopod		Having the legs similar in structure; belonging to the Isopoda. -- n.
isopoda		An order of sessile-eyed Crustacea, usually having seven pairs of legs, which are all similar in structure.
isopodiform		Having the shape of an isopod; -- said of the larvæ of certain insects.
isopodous		Same as Isopod.
isopogonous		Having the two webs equal in breath; -- said of feathers.
isoprene		An oily, volatile hydrocarbon, obtained by the distillation of caoutchouc or guttaipercha.C5H8 -- unsaturated, and used to make synthetic rubber by polymerization.
isopycnic		Having equal density, as different regions of a medium; passing through points at which the density is equal; as, an isopycnic line or surface.
isorcin		A crystalline hydrocarbon derivative, metameric with orcin, but produced artificially; -- called also cresorcin.
isorropic		Of equal value.
isosceles		Having two legs or sides that are equal; -- said of a triangle.
isospondyli		An extensive order of fishes, including the salmons, herrings, and many allied forms.
isospondylous		Of or pertaining to the Isospondyli; having the anterior vertebræ separate and normal.
isospore		(a) One of the spores produced by an isosporous organism. (b) A zygospore.
isosporic		Producing but one kind of spore, as the ferns and Equiseta.
isosporous		Producing but one kind of spore, as the ferns.
isostasy		The state or quality of being isostatic.
isostatic		Subjected to equal pressure from every side; being in hydrostatic equilibrium, as a body submerged in a liquid at rest; pertaining to, or characterized by, isostasy.
isostemonous		Having exactly as many stamens as petals.
isostemony		The quality or state of being isostemonous.
isosulphocyanate		A salt of isosulphocyanic acid.
isosulphocyanic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, HNCS, isomeric with sulphocyanic acid.
isotheral		Having the nature of an isothere; indicating the distribution of temperature by means of an isothere; as, an isotheral chart or line.
isothere		A line connecting points on the earth's surface having the same mean summer temperature.
isotherm		A line connecting or marking points on the earth's surface having the same temperature.
isothermal		(a) Relating to equality of temperature. (b) (Phys. Geog.) Having reference to the geographical distribution of temperature, as exhibited by means of isotherms; as, an isothermal line; an isothermal chart.
isothermobath		A line drawn through points of equal temperature in a vertical section of the ocean.
isothermobathic		Of or pertaining to an isothermobath; possessing or indicating equal temperatures in a vertical section, as of the ocean.
isotherombrose		A line connecting or marking points on the earth's surface, which have the same mean summer rainfall.
isotonic		Having or indicating, equal tones, or tension.
isotrimorphic		Isotrimorphous.
isotrimorphism		Isomorphism between the three forms, severally, of two trimorphous substances.
isotrimorphous		Having the quality of isotrimorphism; isotrimorphic.
isotropic		Having the same properties in all directions; specifically, equally elastic in all directions.
isotropism		Isotropy.
isotropous		Isotropic.
isotropy		Uniformity of physical properties in all directions in a body; absence of all kinds of polarity; specifically, equal elasticity in all directions.
isouric		Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acid, isomeric with uric acid.
israelite		A descendant of Israel, or Jacob; a Hebrew; a Jew.
israelitic		Of or pertaining to Israel, or to the Israelites; Jewish; Hebrew.
israelitish		Of or pertaining to Israel, or to the Israelites; Jewish; Hebrew.
issuable		Leading to, producing, or relating to, an issue; capable of being made an issue at law.
issuably		In an issuable manner; by way of issue; as, to plead issuably.
issuance		The act of issuing, or giving out; as, the issuance of an order; the issuance of rations, and the like.
issuant		Issuing or coming up; -- a term used to express a charge or bearing rising or coming out of another.
issue		The act of passing or flowing out; a moving out from any inclosed place; egress; as, the issue of water from a pipe, of blood from a wound, of air from a bellows, of people from a house.
issueless		Having no issue or progeny; childless.
issuer		One who issues, emits, or publishes.
isthmian		Of or pertaining to an isthmus, especially to the Isthmus of Corinth, in Greece.
isthmus		A neck or narrow slip of land by which two continents are connected, or by which a peninsula is united to the mainland; as, the Isthmus of Panama; the Isthmus of Suez, etc. Isthmus of the fauces.
istle		Same as Ixtle.
isuret		An artificial nitrogenous base, isomeric with urea, and forming a white crystalline substance; -- called also isuretine.
