it		The neuter pronoun of the third person, corresponding to the masculine pronoun he and the feminine she, and having the same plural (they, their of theirs, them).	
itacism		Pronunciation of e in the English word be.	
itacist		One who is in favor of itacism.	
itacolumite		A laminated, granular, siliceous rocks, often occurring in regions where the diamond is found.	
itaconic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C5H6O4, which is obtained as a white crystalline substance by decomposing aconitic and other organic acids.	
itala		An early Latin version of the Scriptures (the Old Testament was translated from the Septuagint, and was also called the Italic version).	
italian		Of or pertaining to Italy, or to its people or language.	
italianate		To render Italian, or conformable to Italian customs; to Italianize.	
italianism		A word, phrase, or idiom, peculiar to the Italians; an Italicism.	
italianize		To play the Italian; to speak Italian.	
italic		Relating to Italy or to its people.	
italicism		A phrase or idiom peculiar to the Italian language; to Italianism.	
italicize		To print in Italic characters; to underline written letters or words with a single line; as, to Italicize a word; Italicizes too much.	
itch		To have an uneasy sensation in the skin, which inclines the person to scratch the part affected.	
itchiness		The state of being itchy.	
itchless		Free from itching.	
itchy		Infected with the itch, or with an itching sensation.	
item		Also; as an additional article.	
itemize	Dialect	To state in items, or by particulars; as, to itemize the cost of a railroad.	
iter		A passage; esp., the passage between the third and fourth ventricles in the brain; the aqueduct of Sylvius.	
iterable	Obsolete	Capable of being iterated or repeated.	
iterance	Obsolete	Iteration.	
iterant		Repeating; iterating; as, an iterant echo.	
iterate	Obsolete	Uttered or done again; repeated.	Latin itero.
iteration		Recital or performance a second time; repetition.	Latin iteratio.
iterative		Repeating.	
ithyphallic		Lustful; lewd; salacious; indecent; obscene.	Latin ithyphallicus, from Greek ἰθύφαλλος.
itineracy		The act or practice of itinerating; itinerancy.	
itinerancy		A passing from place to place.	
itinerant		Passing or traveling about a country; going or preaching on a circuit; wandering; not settled; as, an itinerant preacher; an itinerant peddler.	Latin itinerans.
itinerantly		In an itinerant manner.	
itinerary		Itinerant; traveling; passing from place to place; done on a journey.	Latin itinerarius.
itinerate		To wander without a settled habitation; to travel from place or on a circuit, particularly for the purpose of preaching, lecturing, etc.	
its		Possessive form of the pronoun it. See It.	
itself		The neuter reciprocal pronoun of It; as, the thing is good in itself; it stands by itself.	
ittria		See Yttria — the oxide, Y2O3, or earth, of yttrium.	
ittrium		See Yttrium — a rare metallic element of the boron-aluminium group, found in gadolinite and other rare minerals, and extracted as a dark gray powder.	
itzibu		A silver coin of Japan, worth about thirty-four cents.	
