jab	Scots	To thrust; to stab; to punch. See Job, v. t.
jabber		To talk rapidly, indistinctly, or unintelligibly; to utter gibberish or nonsense; to chatter.
jabberer		One who jabbers.
jabberingly		In a jabbering manner.
jabbernowl		Same as Jobbernowl.
jabiru		One of several large wading birds of the genera Mycteria and Xenorhynchus, allied to the storks in form and habits.
jaborandi		The native name of a South American rutaceous shrub (Pilocarpus pennatifolius).
jaborine		An alkaloid found in jaborandi leaves, from which it is extracted as a white amorphous substance.
jabot		Originally, a kind of ruffle worn by men on the bosom of the shirt.
jacal		In Mexico and the southwestern United States, a kind of plastered house or hut, usually made by planting poles or timber in the ground, filling in between them with screen work or wickerwork…
jacamar		Any one of numerous species of tropical American birds of the genus Galbula and allied genera.
jacana		Any of several wading birds belonging to the genus Jacana and several allied genera, all of which have spurs on the wings.
jacaranda		(a) The native Brazilian name for certain leguminous trees, which produce the beautiful woods called king wood, tiger wood, and violet wood.
jacare		A cayman. See Yacare.
jacchus		The common marmoset (Hapale vulgaris).
jacconet		See Jaconet — a thin cotton fabric, between and muslin, used for dresses, neckcloths, etc.
jacent		Lying at length; as, the jacent posture.
jacinth		See Hyacinth — (Bot.) (a) A bulbous plant of the genus Hyacinthus, bearing beautiful spikes of fragrant flowers.
jack		A large tree, the Artocarpus integrifolia, common in the East Indies, closely allied to the breadfruit, from which it differs in having its leaves entire.
jack-a-dandy		A little dandy; a little, foppish, impertinent fellow.
jack-a-lent		A small stuffed puppet to be pelted in Lent; hence, a simple fellow.
jackal		(Zoöl.) Any one of several species of carnivorous animals inhabiting Africa and Asia, related to the dog and wolf.
jackanapes		A coxcomb; an impertinent or conceited fellow.
jackaroo	Colloquial	A young man living as an apprentice on a sheep station, or otherwise engaged in acquainting himself with colonial life.
jackass		The male ass; a donkey.
jackdaw		See Daw, n.
jackeen		A drunken, dissolute fellow.
jackeroo	Colloquial	A young man living as an apprentice on a sheep station, or otherwise engaged in acquainting himself with colonial life.
jacket		A short upper garment, extending downward to the hips; a short coat without skirts.
jacketed		Wearing, or furnished with, a jacket.
jacketing		The material of a jacket; as, nonconducting jacketing.
jackknife		A large, strong clasp knife for the pocket; a pocket knife.
jackman		One wearing a jack; a horse soldier; a retainer. See 3d Jack, n.
jackpudding		A merry-andrew; a buffoon.
jacksaw		The merganser.
jackscrew		A jack in which a screw is used for lifting, or exerting pressure. See Illust. of 2d Jack, n., 5.
jackslave		A low servant; a mean fellow.
jacksmith		A smith who makes jacks. See 2d Jack, 4, c.
jacksnipe		(a) A small European snipe (Limnocryptes gallinula); -- called also judcock, jedcock, juddock, jed, and half snipe.
jackstay		A rail of wood or iron stretching along a yard of a vessel, to which the sails are fastened.
jackstone		(a) One of the pebbles or pieces used in the game of jackstones. (b) (pl.) A game played with five small stones or pieces of metal.
jackstraw		An effigy stuffed with straw; a scarecrow; hence, a man without property or influence.
jackwood		Wood of the jack (Artocarpus integrifolia), used in cabinetwork.
jacky	Dialect	(a) A landsman's nickname for a seaman, resented by the latter. (b) English gin.
jacob	Obsolete	A Hebrew patriarch (son of Isaac, and ancestor of the Jews), who in a vision saw a ladder reaching up to heaven (Gen. xxviii. 12); -- also called Israel.
jacobean		Of or pertaining to a style of architecture and decoration in the time of James the First, of England.
jacobian		Of or pertaining to a style of architecture and decoration in the time of James the First, of England.
jacobin		(Eccl. Hist.) A Dominican friar; -- so named because, before the French Revolution, that order had a convent in the Rue St. Jacques, Paris.
jacobine		A Jacobin.
jacobinic		Of or pertaining to the Jacobins of France; revolutionary; of the nature of, or characterized by, Jacobinism.
jacobinical		Of or pertaining to the Jacobins of France; revolutionary; of the nature of, or characterized by, Jacobinism.
jacobinism		The principles of the Jacobins; violent and factious opposition to legitimate government.
jacobinize		To taint with, or convert to, Jacobinism.
jacobite		(Eng. Hist.) A partisan or adherent of James the Second, after his abdication, or of his descendants, an opposer of the revolution in 1688 in favor of William and Mary.
jacobitic		Of or pertaining to the Jacobites; characterized by Jacobitism. -- Jac`o*bit"ic*al*ly, adv.
jacobitical		Of or pertaining to the Jacobites; characterized by Jacobitism. -- Jac`o*bit"ic*al*ly, adv.
jacobitism		The principles of the Jacobites.
jacobus		An English gold coin, of the value of twenty-five shillings sterling, struck in the reign of James I.
jaconet		A thin cotton fabric, between and muslin, used for dresses, neckcloths, etc.
jacquard		Pertaining to, or invented by, Jacquard, a French mechanician, who died in 1834.
jacqueminot		A half-hardy, deep crimson rose of the remontant class; -- so named after General Jacqueminot, of France.
jacquerie		The name given to a revolt of French peasants against the nobles in 1358, the leader assuming the contemptuous title, Jacques Bonhomme, given by the nobles to the peasantry.
jactancy	Obsolete	A boasting; a bragging.
jactation		A throwing or tossing of the body; a shaking or agitation.
jactitation		(Law) Vain boasting or assertions repeated to the prejudice of another's right; false claim.
jaculable	Obsolete	Fit for throwing.
jaculate		To throw or cast, as a dart; to throw out; to emit.
jaculation		The act of tossing, throwing, or hurling, as spears.
jaculator		One who throws or casts.
jaculatory		Darting or throwing out suddenly; also, suddenly thrown out; uttered in short sentences; ejaculatory; as, jaculatory prayers.
jadding		See Holing — undercutting in a bed of coal, in order to bring down the upper mass.
jade		A stone, commonly of a pale to dark green color but sometimes whitish.
jadeite		See Jade, the stone.
jadery		The tricks of a jade.
jadish		Vicious; ill-tempered; resembling a jade; -- applied to a horse.
jaeger		See Jager — (Zoöl.) Any species of gull of the genus Stercorarius.
jag		A notch; a cleft; a barb; a ragged or sharp protuberance; a denticulation.
jaganatha		See Juggernaut. See Juggernaut.
jagannath		A particular form of Vishnu, or of Krishna, whose chief idol and worship are at Puri, in Orissa.
jagannatha		A particular form of Vishnu, or of Krishna, whose chief idol and worship are at Puri, in Orissa.
jager		(Zoöl.) Any species of gull of the genus Stercorarius.
jagg		See Jag — a notch; a cleft; a barb; a ragged or sharp protuberance; a denticulation.
jagged		Having jags; having rough, sharp notches, protuberances, or teeth; cleft; laciniate; divided; as, jagged rocks. -- Jag ged*ness, n.
jagger	Scots	One who carries about a small load; a peddler. See 2d Jag.
jaggery		Raw palm sugar, made in the East Indies by evaporating the fresh juice of several kinds of palm trees, but specifically that of the palmyra (Borassus flabelliformis).
jaggy		Having jags; set with teeth; notched; uneven; as, jaggy teeth.
jaghir		A village or district the government and revenues of which are assigned to some person, usually in consideration of some service to be rendered, esp. the maintenance of troops.
jaghirdar		The holder of a jaghir.
jaguar		A large and powerful feline animal (Felis onca), ranging from Texas and Mexico to Patagonia.
jaguarondi		A South American wild cat (Felis jaguarondi), having a long, slim body and very short legs.
jah		Jehovah.
jahve		A modern transliteration of the Hebrew word translated Jehovah in the Bible; -- used by some critics to discriminate the tribal god of the ancient Hebrews from the Christian Jehovah.
jahveh		A modern transliteration of the Hebrew word translated Jehovah in the Bible; -- used by some critics to discriminate the tribal god of the ancient Hebrews from the Christian Jehovah.
jahvism		The religion or worship of Yahweh (Jehovah), or the system of doctrines, etc., connected with it.
jahvist		See Jehovist, Jehovistic.
jahvistic		See Jehovist, Jehovistic.
jahwist		The author of the passages of the Old Testament, esp. those of the Hexateuch, in which God is styled Yahweh, or Jehovah; the author of the Yahwistic, or Jehovistic, Prophetic Document (J); also, the document itself.
jail	Slang	A kind of prison; a building for the confinement of persons held in lawful custody, especially for minor offenses or with reference to some future judicial proceeding.
jailer		The keeper of a jail or prison.
jain		One of a numerous sect in British India, holding the tenets of Jainism.
jaina		One of a numerous sect in British India, holding the tenets of Jainism.
jainism		The heterodox Hindoo religion, of which the most striking features are the exaltation of saints or holy mortals, called jins, above the ordinary Hindoo gods, and the denial of the divine origin and infallibility of the Vedas.
jairou		The ahu or Asiatic gazelle.
jak		see Ils Jack.
jakes		A privy.
jakie		A South American striped frog (Pseudis paradoxa), remarkable for having a tadpole larger than the adult, and hence called also paradoxical frog.
jako		An African parrot (Psittacus erithacus), very commonly kept as a cage bird; -- called also gray parrot.
jakwood		See Jackwood — wood of the jack (Artocarpus integrifolia), used in cabinetwork.
jalap		The tubers of the Mexican plant Ipomoea purga (or Exogonium purga), a climber much like the morning-glory.
jalapic		Of or pertaining to jalap.
jalapin		A glucoside found in the stems of the jalap plant and scammony.
jalons		Long poles, topped with wisps of straw, used as landmarks and signals.
jalousie		A Venetian or slatted inside window blind.
jalousied		Furnished with jalousies; as, jalousied porches.
jam		A kind of frock for children. See Jamb.
jamacina		Jamaicine.
jamadar		Same as Jemidar.
jamaica		One of the West India is islands.
jamaican		Of or pertaining to Jamaica. -- n.
jamaicine		An alkaloid said to be contained in the bark of Geoffroya inermis, a leguminous tree growing in Jamaica and Surinam; -- called also jamacina.
jamb		(Arch) The vertical side of any opening, as a door or fireplace; hence, less properly, any narrow vertical surface of wall, as the of a chimney-breast or of a pier, as distinguished from its face.
jambee	Obsolete	A fashionable cane.
jambes		In the Middle Ages, armor for the legs below the knees.
jambeux		In the Middle Ages, armor for the legs below the knees.
jambolana		A myrtaceous tree of the West Indies and tropical America (Calyptranthes Jambolana), with astringent bark, used for dyeing.
jambool		The Java plum; also, a drug obtained from its bark and seeds, used as a remedy for diabetes.
jambooree	Slang	A noisy or unrestrained carousal or frolic; a spree.
jambul		The Java plum; also, a drug obtained from its bark and seeds, used as a remedy for diabetes.
jamdani		A silk fabric, with a woven pattern of sprigs of flowers.
jamesonite		A steel-gray mineral, of metallic luster, commonly fibrous massive.
jan		One of intermediate order between angels and men.
jane		A coin of Genoa; any small coin.
jane-of-apes		A silly, pert girl; -- corresponding to jackanapes.
jangle		To sound harshly or discordantly, as bells out of tune.
jangler		An idle talker; a babbler; a prater.
jangleress		A female prater or babbler.
janglery	Obsolete	Jangling.
jangling		Producing discordant sounds.
janissary		See Janizary — a soldier of a privileged military class, which formed the nucleus of the Turkish infantry, but was suppressed in 1826.
janitor		A door-keeper; a porter; one who has the care of a public building, or a building occupied for offices, suites of rooms, etc.
janitress		A female janitor.
janitrix		A female janitor.
janizar		A janizary.
janizarian		Of or pertaining to the janizaries, or their government.
janizary		A soldier of a privileged military class, which formed the nucleus of the Turkish infantry, but was suppressed in 1826.
janker	Scots	A long pole on two wheels, used in hauling logs.
jansenism		The doctrine of Jansen regarding free will and divine grace.
jansenist		A follower of Cornelius Jansen, a Roman Catholic bishop of Ypres, in Flanders, in the 17th century, who taught certain doctrines denying free will and the possibility of resisting divine grace.
jant		See Jaunt — to ramble here and there; to stroll; to make an excursion.
janthina		See Ianthina — any gastropod of the genus Ianthina, of which various species are found living in mid ocean; -- called also purple shell, and violet snail.
jantily		See Jauntily — in a jaunty manner.
jantiness		See Jauntiness — the quality of being jaunty.
jantu		A machine of great antiquity, used in Bengal for raising water to irrigate land.
janty		See Jaunty — airy; showy; finical; hence, characterized by an affected or fantastical manner.
january		The first month of the year, containing thirty-one days.
janus		A Latin deity represented with two faces looking in opposite directions.
janus-faced		Double-faced; deceitful.
janus-headed		Double-headed.
japan		Work varnished and figured in the Japanese manner; also, the varnish or lacquer used in japanning.
japanese		Of or pertaining to Japan, or its inhabitants.
japanned		Treated, or coated, with varnish in the Japanese manner.
japanner		One who varnishes in the manner of the Japanese, or one skilled in the art.
japanning		The art or act of varnishing in the Japanese manner.
japannish		After the manner of the Japanese; resembling japanned articles.
jape	Obsolete	To jest; to play tricks; to jeer.
japer	Obsolete	A jester; a buffoon.
japery	Obsolete	Jesting; buffoonery.
japhethite		A Japhetite.
japhetic		Pertaining to, or derived from, Japheth, one of the sons of Noah; as, Japhetic nations, the nations of Europe and Northern Asia; Japhetic languages.
japhetite		A descendant of Japheth.
japonica		A species of Camellia (Camellia Japonica), a native of Japan, bearing beautiful red or white flowers.
japonism		A quality, idiom, or peculiarity characteristic of the Japanese or their products, esp. in art.
jar		A deep, broad-mouthed vessel of earthenware or glass, for holding fruit, preserves, etc., or for ornamental purposes; as, a jar of honey; a rose jar.
jar-owl		The goatsucker.
jararaca		A poisonous serpent of Brazil (Bothrops jararaca), about eighteen inches long, and of a dusky, brownish color, variegated with red and black spots.
jarble	English dialect	To wet; to bemire.
jardiniere		An ornamental stand or receptacle for plants, flowers, etc., used as a piece of decorative furniture in room.
jards		A callous tumor on the leg of a horse, below the hock.
jargle	Obsolete	To emit a harsh or discordant sound.
jargon		Confused, unintelligible language; gibberish; hence, an artificial idiom or dialect; cant language; slang.
jargonelle		A variety of pear which ripens early.
jargonic		Of or pertaining to the mineral jargon.
jargonist		One addicted to jargon; one who uses cant or slang.
jarl		A chief; an earl; in English history, one of the leaders in the Danish and Norse invasions.
jarnut		An earthnut.
jarosite		An ocher-yellow mineral occurring on minute rhombohedral crystals.
jarrah		The mahoganylike wood of the Australian Eucalyptus marginata. See Eucalyptus.
jarring		Shaking; disturbing; discordant.
jarringly		In a jarring or discordant manner.
jarvey	Slang	The driver of a hackney coach.
jarvy	Slang	The driver of a hackney coach.
jasey		A wig; -- so called, perhaps, from being made of, or resembling, Jersey yarn.
jashawk		A young hawk.
jasmine		A shrubby plant of the genus Jasminum, bearing flowers of a peculiarly fragrant odor.
jaspachate	Obsolete	Agate jasper.
jaspe		Having the surface decorated with cloudings and streaks, somewhat as if imitating jasper.
jasper		An opaque, impure variety of quartz, of red, yellow, and other dull colors, breaking with a smooth surface.
jasperated		mixed with jasper; containing particles of jasper; as, jasperated agate.
jasperize		To convert into, or make to resemble, jasper.
jaspery		Of the nature of jasper; mixed with jasper.
jaspidean		Consisting of jasper, or containing jasper; jaspery; jasperlike.
jaspideous		Consisting of jasper, or containing jasper; jaspery; jasperlike.
jaspilite		A compact siliceous rock resembling jasper.
jaspoid		Resembling jasper.
jasponyx		An onyx, part or all of whose layers consist of jasper.
jatrophic		Of or pertaining to physic nuts, the seeds of plants of the genus Jatropha.
jaunce	Obsolete	To ride hard; to jounce.
jaundice		A morbid condition, characterized by yellowness of the eyes, skin, and urine, whiteness of the fæces, constipation, uneasiness in the region of the stomach, loss of appetite, and general languor and lassitude.
jaundiced		affected with jaundice.
jaunt		To ramble here and there; to stroll; to make an excursion.
jauntily		In a jaunty manner.
jauntiness		The quality of being jaunty.
jaunty		Airy; showy; finical; hence, characterized by an affected or fantastical manner.
java		One of the islands of the Malay Archipelago belonging to the Netherlands.
javanese		Of or pertaining to Java, or to the people of Java. -- n. sing. & pl. A native or natives of Java.
javel	Obsolete	A vagabond.
javelin		A sort of light spear, to be thrown or cast by thew hand; anciently, a weapon of war used by horsemen and foot soldiers; now used chiefly in hunting the wild boar and other fierce game.
javelinier		A soldier armed with a javelin.
jaw		(Anat.) (a) One of the bones, usually bearing teeth, which form the framework of the mouth.
jaw-fall		Depression of the jaw; hence, depression of spirits.
jaw-fallen		Dejected; chopfallen.
jawbone		The bone of either jaw; a maxilla or a mandible.
jawed		Having jaws; -- chiefly in composition; as, lantern-jawed.
jawfoot		See Maxilliped — one of the mouth appendages of Crustacea, situated next behind the maxillæ.
jawing	Slang	Scolding; clamorous or abusive talk.
jawn	Obsolete	See Yawn — to open the mouth involuntarily through drowsiness, dullness, or fatigue; to gape; to oscitate.
jawy		Relating to the jaws.
jay		Any one of the numerous species of birds belonging to Garrulus, Cyanocitta, and allied genera.
jayet	Obsolete	See Jet — a shooting forth; a spouting; a spurt; a sudden rush or gush, as of water from a pipe, or of flame from an orifice; also, that which issues in a jet.
jayhawker		A name given to a free-booting, unenlisted, armed man or guerrilla.
jazel	Obsolete	A gem of an azure color.
jazerant		A coat of defense made of small plates of metal sewed upon linen or the like; also, this kind of armor taken generally; as, a coat of jazerant.
