jealous		Zealous; solicitous; vigilant; anxiously watchful.	
jealoushood	Obsolete	Jealousy.	
jealously		In a jealous manner.	
jealousness		State or quality of being jealous.	
jealousy		The quality of being jealous; earnest concern or solicitude; painful apprehension of rivalship in cases nearly affecting one's happiness; painful suspicion of the faithfulness of husband, wife, or lover.	Old French jalousie.
jeames	Slang	A footman; a flunky.	
jean		A twilled cotton cloth.	
jears		See 1st Jeer (b).	
jeat	Obsolete	See Jet — a shooting forth; a spouting; a spurt; a sudden rush or gush, as of water from a pipe, or of flame from an orifice; also, that which issues in a jet.	
jee		See Gee — etym: To turn to the off side, or from the driver (i.e., in the United States, to the right side); -- said of cattle, or a team; used most frequently in the imperative, often with off…	
jeel		A morass; a shallow lake.	
jeer		(a) A gear; a tackle. (b) pl. An assemblage or combination of tackles, for hoisting or lowering the lower yards of a ship.	
jeerer		A scoffer; a railer; a mocker.	
jeering		Mocking; scoffing. -- n.	
jeers		See 1st Jeer (b).	
jeffersonia		An American herb with a pretty, white, solitary blossom, and deeply two-cleft leaves (Jeffersonia diphylla); twinleaf.	
jeffersonian		Pertaining to, or characteristic of, Thomas Jefferson or his policy or political doctrines.	
jeffersonite		A variety of pyroxene of olive-green color passing into brown.	
jeg		See Jig, 6.	
jehad		A religious war against infidels or Mohammedan heretics; also, any bitter war or crusade for a principle or belief. courage in war … had not, like that of the Mohammedan dervishes of the Sudan…	
jehovah		A Scripture name of the Supreme Being, by which he was revealed to the Jews as their covenant God or Sovereign of the theocracy; the of the Supreme Being, which was not pronounced by the Jews.	
jehovist		One who maintains that the vowel points of the word Jehovah, in Hebrew, are the proper vowels of that word; -- opposed to adonist.	
jehovistic		Relating to, or containing, Jehovah, as a name of God; -- said of certain parts of the Old Testament, especially of the Pentateuch, in which Jehovah appears as the name of the Deity.	
jehu	Colloquial	A coachman; a driver; especially, one who drives furiously.	
jejunal		Pertaining to the jejunum.	
jejune		Lacking matter; empty; void of substance.	Latin ieiunus.
jejunity		The quality of being jejune; jejuneness.	
jejunum		The middle division of the small intestine, between the duodenum and ileum; -- so called because usually found empty after death.	Latin ieiunum.
jelerang		A large, handsome squirrel (Sciurus Javensis), native of Java and Southern Asia; -- called also Java squirrel.	
jell	Colloquial	To jelly.	
jellied		Brought to the state or consistence of jelly.	
jellify		To make, or to become, gelatinous; to jelly. -- Jel`li*fi*ca"tion (#), n.	
jelly		Anything brought to a gelatinous condition; a viscous, translucent substance in a condition between liquid and solid; a stiffened solution of gelatin, gum, or the like.	Old French gelee.
jellyfish		Any one of the acalephs, esp. one of the larger species, having a jellylike appearance.	
jemidar		The chief or leader of a hand or body of persons; esp., in the native army of India, an officer of a rank corresponding to that of lieutenant in the English army.	
jemminess	Slang	Spruceness.	
jemmy		A short crowbar. See Jimmy.	
jeniquen		A Mexican name for the Sisal hemp (Agave rigida, var.	
jenite		See Yenite — a silicate of iron and lime occurring in black prismatic crystals; -- also called ilvaite.	
jenkins	Colloquial	name of contempt for a flatterer of persons high in social or official life; as, the Jenkins employed by a newspaper.	
jennet		A small Spanish horse; a genet.	
jenneting		A variety of early apple. See Juneating.	
jenny		A familiar or pet form of the proper name Jane.	
jentling		A fish of the genus Leuciscus; the blue chub of the Danube.	
jeofail		An oversight in pleading, or the acknowledgment of a mistake or oversight.	
jeopard		To put in jeopardy; to expose to loss or injury; to imperil; to hazard.	
jeoparder		One who puts in jeopardy.	
jeopardize		To expose to loss or injury; to risk; to jeopard.	
jeopardous		Perilous; hazardous.	
jeopardy		Exposure to death, loss, or injury; hazard; danger.	Middle English jepardie, from Old French jeu parti, from Latin iocus partitus.
jequirity		The seed of the wild licorice (Abrus precatorius) used by the people of India for beads in rosaries and necklaces, as a standard weight, etc.; -- called also jumble bead.	
jerboa		Any small jumping rodent of the genus Dipus, esp. D. Ægyptius, which is common in Egypt and the adjacent countries.	Arabic يربوع.
jereed		A blunt javelin used by the people of the Levant, especially in mock fights.	
jeremiad		A tale of sorrow, disappointment, or complaint; a doleful story; a dolorous tirade; -- generally used satirically.	French jérémiade.
jeremiade		A tale of sorrow, disappointment, or complaint; a doleful story; a dolorous tirade; -- generally used satirically.	
jerfalcon		The gyrfalcon.	
jerguer		See Jerquer — a customhouse officer who searches ships for unentered goods.	
jerid		Same as Jereed.	
jerk		To cut into long slices or strips and dry in the sun; as, jerk beef. See Charqui.	
jerker		One who jerks or moves with a jerk.	
jerkin		A jacket or short coat; a close waistcoat.	
jerking		The act of pulling, pushing, or throwing, with a jerk. -- Jerk"ing*ly, adv.	
jerkinhead		The hipped part of a roof which is hipped only for a part of its height, leaving a truncated gable.	
jerky		Moving by jerks and starts; characterized by abrupt transitions; as, a jerky vehicle; a jerky style.	
jermoonal		The Himalayan now partridge.	
jeronymite		One belonging of the mediæval religious orders called Hermits of St. Jerome.	
jeropigia		See Geropigia — a mixture composed of unfermented grape juice, brandy, sugar, etc., for adulteration of wines.	
jerquer		A customhouse officer who searches ships for unentered goods.	
jerquing		The searching of a ship for unentered goods.	
jerry-builder		A professional builder who erects cheap dwellings of poor materials and unsubstantial and slovenly construction.	
jerry-built	Colloquial	Built hastily and of bad materials; as, jerry-built houses.	
jersey		The finest of wool separated from the rest; combed wool; also, fine yarn of wool.	
jerusalem		The chief city of Palestine, intimately associated with the glory of the Jewish nation, and the life and death of Jesus Christ.	
jervine		A poisonous alkaloid resembling veratrine, and found with it in white hellebore (Veratrum album); -- called also jervina.	
jess		A short strap of leather or silk secured round the leg of a hawk, to which the leash or line, wrapped round the falconer's hand, was attached when used.	Middle English ges, from Middle French gies.
jessamine		Same as Jasmine.	
jessant		Springing up or emerging; -- said of a plant or animal.	
jesse		Any representation or suggestion of the genealogy of Christ, in decorative art; as: (a) A genealogical tree represented in stained glass.	
jessed		Having jesses on, as a hawk.	
jest		Something done or said in order to amuse; a joke; a witticism; a jocose or sportive remark or phrase.	Middle English geste, from Old French geste, from Latin gesta.
jester		A buffoon; a merry-andrew; a court fool.	
jestful		Given to jesting; full of jokes.	
jesting		Sportive; not serious; fit for jests.	
jestingly		In a jesting manner.	
jesuit		Fig.: A crafty person; an intriguer.	
jesuited		Conforming to the principles of the Jesuits.	
jesuitess		One of an order of nuns established on the principles of the Jesuits, but suppressed by Pope Urban in 1633.	
jesuitic		Of or pertaining to the Jesuits, or to their principles and methods.	
jesuitical		Of or pertaining to the Jesuits, or to their principles and methods.	
jesuitically		In a jesuitical manner.	
jesuitism		The principles and practices of the Jesuits.	
jesuitocracy		Government by Jesuits; also, the whole body of Jesuits in a country.	
jesuitry		Jesuitism; subtle argument.	
jesus		The Savior; the name of the Son of God as announced by the angel to his parents; the personal name of Our Lord, in distinction from Christ, his official appellation.	
jet		A shooting forth; a spouting; a spurt; a sudden rush or gush, as of water from a pipe, or of flame from an orifice; also, that which issues in a jet.	French jet.
jet-black		Black as jet; deep black.	
jeterus		A yellowness of the parts of plants which are normally green; yellows.	
jetteau		See Jet d'eau.	
jettee		See Jetty, n.	
jetter	Obsolete	One who struts; one who bears himself jauntily; a fop.	
jettiness		The state of being jetty; blackness.	
jetton		A metal counter used in playing cards.	French jeton.
jetty		Made of jet, or like jet in color.	
jew		Originally, one belonging to the tribe or kingdom of Judah; after the return from the Babylonish captivity, any member of the new state; a Hebrew; an Israelite.	
jewbush		A euphorbiaceous shrub of the genus Pedilanthus (P. tithymaloides), found in the West Indies, and possessing powerful emetic and drastic qualities.	
jewel		An ornament of dress usually made of a precious metal, and having enamel or precious stones as a part of its design.	Anglo-Norman juel, from Old French jouel.
jeweler		One who makes, or deals in, jewels, precious stones, and similar ornaments.	
jewellery		See Jewelry — jewels, collectively; as, a bride's jewelry.	
jewelry		Jewels, collectively; as, a bride's jewelry.	
jewelweed		See Impatiens — a genus of plants, several species of which have very beautiful flowers; -- so called because the elastic capsules burst when touched, and scatter the seeds with considerable force.	
jewess		A Hebrew woman.	
jewfish		A very large serranoid fish (Promicrops itaiara) of Florida and the Gulf of Mexico.	
jewise	Obsolete	Same as Juise.	
jewish		Of or pertaining to the Jews or Hebrews; characteristic of or resembling the Jews or their customs; Israelitish. -- Jew ish*ness, n.	
jewry		Judea; also, a district inhabited by Jews; a Jews' quarter.	
jezebel		A bold, vicious woman; a termagant.	
