jib		(Naut.) A triangular sail set upon a stay or halyard extending from the foremast or fore-topmast to the bowsprit or the jib boom.
jibb		To shift, or swing round, as a sail, boom, yard, etc., as in tacking.
jibber		A horse that jibs.
jibe		To shift, as the boom of a fore-and-aft sail, from one side of a vessel to the other when the wind is aft or on the quarter.
jiffy	Colloquial	A moment; an instant; as, I will be ready in a jiffy.
jig		To sing to the tune of a jig.
jigger		A species of flea (Sarcopsylla, or Pulex, penetrans), which burrows beneath the skin.
jigging		The act or using a jig; the act of separating ore with a jigger, or wire-bottomed sieve, which is moved up and down in water.
jiggish		Resembling, or suitable for, a jig, or lively movement.
jiggle		To wriggle or frisk about; to move awkwardly; to shake up and down.
jigjog		A jolting motion; a jogging pace.
jihad		A religious war against infidels or Mohammedan heretics; also, any bitter war or crusade for a principle or belief. courage in war … had not, like that of the Mohammedan dervishes of the Sudan…
jill		A young woman; a sweetheart. See Gill.
jill-flirt		A light, giddy, or wanton girl or woman. See Gill-flirt.
jilt		A woman who capriciously deceives her lover; a coquette; a flirt.
jim-crow		A machine for bending or straightening rails.
jimcrack		See Gimcrack — a trivial mechanism; a device; a toy; a pretty thing.
jimmy		A short crowbar used by burglars in breaking open doors.
jimp		Neat; handsome; elegant. See Gimp.
jin		See Jinnee — a genius or demon; one of the fabled genii, good and evil spirits, supposed to be the children of fire, and to have the power of assuming various forms.
jingal		A small portable piece of ordnance, mounted on a swivel.
jingle		To sound with a fine, sharp, rattling, clinking, or tinkling sound; as, sleigh bells jingle.
jingler		One who, or that which, jingles.
jingling		The act or process of producing a jingle; also, the sound itself; a chink.
jinglingly		So as to jingle.
jingo		A word used as a jocular oath.
jingoism		The policy of the Jingoes, so called. See Jingo,
jink		To move quickly, esp. with a sudden turn; hence, to dodge; to escape by a quick turn; --obs. or dial., except as a hunting term in pig-sticking.
jinn		See Jinnee — a genius or demon; one of the fabled genii, good and evil spirits, supposed to be the children of fire, and to have the power of assuming various forms.
jinnee		A genius or demon; one of the fabled genii, good and evil spirits, supposed to be the children of fire, and to have the power of assuming various forms.
jinrikisha		A small, two-wheeled, hooded vehicle drawn by one more men.
jinx	Slang	A person, object, influence, or supernatural being which is supposed to bring bad luck or to cause things to go wrong.
jippo		A waistcoat or kind of stays for women.
jiujitsu		The Japanese art of self-defense without weapons, now widely used as a system of physical training.
jiujutsu		The Japanese art of self-defense without weapons, now widely used as a system of physical training.
