jo	Scots	A sweetheart; a darling.
job		A sudden thrust or stab; a jab.
jobation		A scolding; a hand, tedious reproof.
jobber		One who works by the job.
jobbernowl	Colloquial	A blockhead.
jobbery		Underhand management; official corruption; as, municipal jobbery.
jobbing		Doing chance work or add jobs; as, a jobbing carpenter.
jocantry	Obsolete	The act or practice of jesting.
jockey		A professional rider of horses in races.
jockeying		The act or management of one who jockeys; trickery.
jockeyism		The practice of jockeys.
jockeyship		The art, character, or position, of a jockey; the personality of a jockey.
jocose		Given to jokes and jesting; containing a joke, or abounding in jokes; merry; sportive; humorous.
jocoserious		Mingling mirth and seriousness.
jocosity		A jocose act or saying; jocoseness.
jocular		Given to jesting; jocose; as, a jocular person.
jocularity		Jesting; merriment.
jocularly		In jest; for sport or mirth; jocosely.
joculary		Jocular; jocose; sportive.
joculator	Obsolete	A jester; a joker.
joculatory	Obsolete	Droll; sportive.
jocund		Merry; cheerful; gay; airy; lively; sportive.
jocundity		The state or quality of being jocund; gayety; sportiveness.
joe		See Johannes — a portuguese gold coin of the value of eight dollars, named from the figure of King John which it bears;- often contracted into joe; as, a joe, or a half joe.
jog		To push or shake with the elbow or hand; to jostle; esp., to push or touch, in order to give notice, to excite one's attention, or to warn.
jogger		One who jogs.
jogging		The act of giving a jog or jogs; traveling at a jog.
joggle		To shake slightly; to push suddenly but slightly, so as to cause to shake or totter; to jostle; to jog.
johannean		Of or pertaining to John, esp. to the Apostle John or his writings.
johannes		A Portuguese gold coin of the value of eight dollars, named from the figure of King John which it bears;- often contracted into joe; as, a joe, or a half joe.
johannisberger		A fine white wine produced on the estate of Schloss (or Castle) Johannisberg, on the Rhine.
john		A proper name of a man.
johnadreams		A dreamy, idle fellow.
johnny		A familiar diminutive of John.
johnnycake		A kind of bread made of the meal of maize (Indian corn), mixed with water or milk, etc., and baked.
johnsonese		The literary style of Dr. Samuel Johnson, or one formed in imitation of it; an inflated, stilted, or pompous style, affecting classical words.
johnsonian		Pertaining to or resembling Dr. Johnson or his style; pompous; inflated.
johnsonianism		A manner of acting or of writing peculiar to, or characteristic of, Dr. Johnson.
join		To bring together, literally or figuratively; to place in contact; to connect; to couple; to unite; to combine; to associate; to add; to append.
joinant	Obsolete	Adjoining.
joinder		The act of joining; a putting together; conjunction.
joiner		One who, or that which, joins.
joinery		The art, or trade, of a joiner; the work of a joiner.
joinhand		Writing in which letters are joined in words; -- distinguished from writing in single letters.
joint		The place or part where two things or parts are joined or united; the union of two or more smooth or even surfaces admitting of a close-fitting or junction; junction as, a joint between two pieces of timber; a joint in a pipe.
joint-fir		A genus (Ephedra) of leafless shrubs, with the stems conspicuously jointed; -- called also shrubby horsetail.
jointed		Having joints; articulated; full of nodes; knotty; as, a jointed doll; jointed structure. -- Joint"ed*ly, adv.
jointer		One who, or that which, joints.
jointing		The act or process of making a joint; also, the joints thus produced.
jointless		Without a joint; rigid; stiff.
jointly		In a joint manner; together; unitedly; in concert; not separately.
jointress		A woman who has a jointure.
jointure		(Law) An estate settled on a wife, which she is to enjoy after husband's decease, for her own life at least, in satisfaction of dower.
jointureless		Having no jointure.
jointuress		See Jointress — a woman who has a jointure.
jointweed		A slender, nearly leafless, American herb (Polygonum articulatum), with jointed spikes of small flowers.
jointworm		The larva of a small, hymenopterous fly (Eurytoma hordei), which is found in gall-like swellings on the stalks of wheat, usually at or just above the first joint.
joist		A piece of timber laid horizontally, or nearly so, to which the planks of the floor, or the laths or furring strips of a ceiling, are nailed; -- called, according to its position or use, binding joist, bridging joist…
joke		Something said for the sake of exciting a laugh; something witty or sportive (commonly indicating more of hilarity or humor than jest); a jest; a witticism; as, to crack good-natured jokes.
joker		One who makes jokes or jests.
jokingly		In a joking way; sportively.
jole		Same as Jowl.
jolif	Obsolete	Joyful; merry; pleasant; jolly.
joll		Same as Jowl.
jollification	Colloquial	A merrymaking; noisy festivity.
jollily		In a jolly manner.
jolliment	Obsolete	Jollity.
jolliness		Jollity; noisy mirth.
jollity		Noisy mirth; gayety; merriment; festivity; boisterous enjoyment.
jolly		Full of life and mirth; jovial; joyous; merry; mirthful.
jolly-boat		A boat of medium size belonging to a ship.
jollyhead	Obsolete	Jollity.
jolt		To shake with short, abrupt risings and fallings, as a carriage moving on rough ground; as, the coach jolts.
jolter		One who, or that which, jolts.
jolterhead		A dunce; a blockhead.
jolthead		A dunce; a blockhead.
joltingly		In a jolting manner.
jolty	Colloquial	That jolts; as, a jolty coach.
jonah		The Hebrew prophet, who was cast overboard as one who endangered the ship; hence, any person whose presence is unpropitious.
jonesian		Of or pertaining to Jones.
jongler		In the Middle Ages, a court attendant or other person who, for hire, recited or sang verses, usually of his own composition.
jongleur		In the Middle Ages, a court attendant or other person who, for hire, recited or sang verses, usually of his own composition.
jonquil		A bulbous plant of the genus Narcissus (N.
jonquille		A bulbous plant of the genus Narcissus (N.
joobbeh		A long outer garment worn by both sexes of Mohammedans of the better class.
joram		See Jorum — a large drinking vessel; also, its contents.
jordan	Obsolete	A pot or vessel with a large neck, formerly used by physicians and alchemists.
jorden	Obsolete	A pot or vessel with a large neck, formerly used by physicians and alchemists.
jorum	Colloquial	A large drinking vessel; also, its contents.
joseph		An outer garment worn in the 18th century; esp., a woman's riding habit, buttoned down the front.
joso		A small gudgeon.
joss		A Chinese household divinity; a Chinese idol.
jossa	Obsolete	A command to a horse, probably meaning
jostle		To run against and shake; to push out of the way; to elbow; to hustle; to disturb by crowding; to crowd against.
jostlement		Crowding; hustling.
jot		An iota; a point; a tittle; the smallest particle.
jotter		One who jots down memoranda.
jougs		An iron collar fastened to a wall or post, formerly used in Scotland as a kind of pillory.
jouissance	Obsolete	Jollity; merriment.
jouk		See Juke — to bend the neck; to bow or duck the head.
joul		See Jowl — the cheek; the jaw.
joule		A unit of work which is equal to 107 units of work in the C.
joulemeter		An integrating wattmeter for measuring the energy in joules expended in an electric circuit or developed by a machine.
jounce		To jolt; to shake, especially by rough riding or by driving over obstructions.
journal		A diary; an account of daily transactions and events. Specifically: (a) (Bookkeeping) A book of accounts, in which is entered a condensed and grouped statement of the daily transactions.
journalism		The periodical collection and publication of current news; the business of managing, editing, or writing for, journals or newspapers; as, political journalism.
journalist		The conductor of a public journal, or one whose business it to write for a public journal; an editorial or other professional writer for a periodical.
journalistic		Pertaining to journals or to journalists; contained in, or characteristic of, the public journals; as journalistic literature or enterprise.
journalize		To enter or record in a journal or diary.
journey		Travel or passage from one place to another; hence, figuratively, a passage through life.
journey-bated	Obsolete	Worn out with journeying.
journeyer		One who journeys.
journeyman		Formerly, a man hired to work by the day; now, commonly, one who has mastered a handicraft or trade; -- distinguished from apprentice and from master workman.
journeywork		Originally, work done by the day; work done by a journeyman at his trade.
joust		To engage in mock combat on horseback, as two knights in the lists; to tilt.
jouster		One who jousts or tilts.
jove		The chief divinity of the ancient Romans; Jupiter.
jovial		Gay; merry; joyous; jolly; mirth-inspiring; hilarious; characterized by mirth or jollity; as, a jovial youth; a jovial company; a jovial poem.
jovialist		One who lives a jovial life.
joviality		The quality or state of being jovial.
jovially		In a jovial manner; merrily; gayly.
jovialness		Noisy mirth; joviality.
jovialty		Joviality.
jovian		Of or pertaining to Jove, or Jupiter (either the deity or the planet).
jovicentric		Revolving around the planet Jupiter; appearing as viewed from Jupiter.
jovinianist		An adherent to the doctrines of Jovinian, a monk of the fourth century, who denied the virginity of Mary, and opposed the asceticism of his time.
jowl	Obsolete	The cheek; the jaw.
jowler		A dog with large jowls, as the beagle.
jowter	Obsolete	A mounted peddler of fish; -- called also jouster.
joy		The passion or emotion excited by the acquisition or expectation of good; pleasurable feelings or emotions caused by success, good fortune, and the like, or by a rational prospect of possessing what we love or desire; gladness…
joyance		Enjoyment; gayety; festivity; joyfulness.
joyancy		Joyance.
joyful		Full of joy; having or causing joy; very glad; as, a joyful heart.
joyless		Not having joy; not causing joy; unenjoyable. -- Joy less*ness, n.
joyous		Glad; gay; merry; joyful; also, affording or inspiring joy; with of before the word or words expressing the cause of joy.
joysome		Causing joyfulness.
