jub	Obsolete	A vessel for holding ale or wine; a jug.	
juba		(Bot.) A loose panicle, the axis of which falls to pieces, as in certain grasses.	
jubate		Fringed with long, pendent hair.	
jubbah		A long outer garment worn by both sexes of Mohammedans of the better class.	
jubbeh		A long outer garment worn by both sexes of Mohammedans of the better class.	
jube		(a) chancel screen or rood screen. (b) gallery above such a screen, from which certain parts of the service were formerly read.	
jubilant		Uttering songs of triumph; shouting with joy; triumphant; exulting.	
jubilantly		In a jubilant manner.	
jubilar		Pertaining to, or having the character of, a jubilee.	
jubilate		The third Sunday after Easter; -- so called because the introit is the 66th Psalm, which, in the Latin version, begins with the words,	
jubilation		A triumphant shouting; rejoicing; exultation.	Latin iubilatio.
jubilee		(Jewish Hist.) Every fiftieth year, being the year following the completion of each seventh sabbath of years, at which time all the slaves of Hebrew blood were liberated…	Middle French jubile, from Latin jubilaeus.
jucundity		Pleasantness; agreeableness. See Jocundity.	Latin jucunditas.
judahite		One of the tribe of Judah; a member of the kingdom of Judah; a Jew.	
judaic		Of or pertaining to the Jews.	
judaical		Of or pertaining to the Jews.	
judaically		After the Jewish manner.	
judaism		The religious doctrines and rites of the Jews as enjoined in the laws of Moses.	
judaist		One who believes and practices Judaism.	
judaistic		Of or pertaining to Judaism.	
judaization		The act of Judaizing; a conforming to the Jewish religion or ritual.	
judaize		To conform to the doctrines, observances, or methods of the Jews; to inculcate or impose Judaism.	
judaizer		One who conforms to or inculcates Judaism; specifically, pl. (Ch.	
judaizers		See Raskolnik — one of the separatists or dissenters from the established or Greek church in Russia.	
judas		The disciple who betrayed Christ. Hence: A treacherous person; one who betrays under the semblance of friendship. -- a.	
judas-colored		Red; -- from a tradition that Judas Iscariot had red hair and beard.	
juddock		See Jacksnipe — (a) A small European snipe (Limnocryptes gallinula); -- called also judcock, jedcock, juddock, jed, and half snipe.	
judean		Of or pertaining to Judea. -- n.	
judge		(Law) A public officer who is invested with authority to hear and determine litigated causes, and to administer justice between parties in courts held for that purpose.	Old French juge.
judge-made		Created by judges or judicial decision; -- applied esp. to law applied or established by the judicial interpretation of statutes so as extend or restrict their scope, as to meet new cases, to provide new or better remedies, etc.…	
judger		One who judges.	
judgeship		The office of a judge.	
judgment		The act of judging; the operation of the mind, involving comparison and discrimination, by which a knowledge of the values and relations of thins, whether of moral qualities, intellectual concepts, logical propositions…	Old French jugement, from Latin iudicamentum.
judicable		Capable of being judged; capable of being tried or decided upon.	Latin judicabilis.
judicative		Having power to judge; judicial; as, the judicative faculty.	
judicatory		Pertaining to the administration of justice; dispensing justice; judicial; as, judicatory tribunals.	
judicature		The state or profession of those employed in the administration of justice; also, the dispensing or administration of justice.	
judicial		Pertaining or appropriate to courts of justice, or to a judge; practiced or conformed to in the administration of justice; sanctioned or ordered by a court; as, judicial power; judicial proceedings; a judicial sale.	Latin iudicialis.
judicially		In a judicial capacity or judicial manner.	
judiciary		Of or pertaining to courts of judicature, or legal tribunals; judicial; as, a judiciary proceeding.	
judicious		Directed or governed by sound judgment; having sound judgment; wise; prudent; sagacious; discreet.	
judiciously		In a judicious manner; with good judgment; wisely.	
judiciousness		The quality or state of being judicious; sagacity; s	
jug		A vessel, usually of coarse earthenware, with a swelling belly and narrow mouth, and having a handle on one side.	
jugal		(Anat.) Pertaining to, or in the region of, the malar, or cheek bone.	
jugata		The figures of two heads on a medal or coin, either side by side or joined.	
jugated		Coupled together.	
juge	Obsolete	A judge.	
jugement	Obsolete	Judgment.	
juger		A Roman measure of land, measuring 28,800 square feet, or 240 feet in length by 120 in breadth.	Latin iugerum.
jugger		An East Indian falcon. See Lugger.	
juggernaut		A particular form of Vishnu, or of Krishna, whose chief idol and worship are at Puri, in Orissa.	
juggle		To play tricks by sleight of hand; to cause amusement and sport by tricks of skill; to conjure.	Old French jangler, from Latin iocor.
juggler		One who practices or exhibits tricks by sleight of hand; one skilled in legerdemain; a conjurer.	
juggleress		A female juggler.	
jugglery		The art or act of a juggler; sleight of hand.	
juggling		Cheating; tricky. -- Jug"gling*ly, adv.	
juggs	Scots	See Jougs — an iron collar fastened to a wall or post, formerly used in Scotland as a kind of pillory.	
juglandin		An extractive matter contained in the juice of the green shucks of the walnut (Juglans regia).	Latin juglans.
juglandine		An alkaloid found in the leaves of the walnut (Juglans regia).	
juglans		A genus of valuable trees, including the true walnut of Europe, and the America black walnut, and butternut.	Latin iuglans.
juglone		A yellow crystalline substance resembling quinone, extracted from green shucks of the walnut (Juglans regia); -- called also nucin.	
jugular		(Anat.) (a) Of or pertaining to the throat or neck; as, the jugular vein.	Latin jugularis.
jugulate		To cut the throat of.	
jugulum		The lower throat, or that part of the neck just above the breast.	Latin iugulum.
jugum		(a) One of the ridges commonly found on the fruit of umbelliferous plants.	
juice	Obsolete	The characteristic fluid of any vegetable or animal substance; the sap or part which can be expressed from fruit, etc.; the fluid part which separates from meat in cooking.	Middle English jus.
juiceless		Lacking juice; dry.	
juiciness		The state or quality of being juicy; succulence plants.	
juicy		A bounding with juice; succulent.	
juise	Obsolete	Judgment; justice; sentence.	
jujitsu		The Japanese art of self-defense without weapons, now widely used as a system of physical training.	Japanese 柔術.
jujube		The sweet and edible drupes (fruits) of several Mediterranean and African species small trees, of the genus Zizyphus, especially the Z. jujuba, Z. vulgaris, Z. mucronata, and Z.	Greek ζίζυφον.
jujutsu		The Japanese art of self-defense without weapons, now widely used as a system of physical training.	
juke	English dialect	To bend the neck; to bow or duck the head.	Middle English jowken.
julaceous		Like an ament, or bearing aments; amentaceous.	
julep		A refreshing drink flavored with aromatic herbs; esp. (Med.), a sweet, demulcent, acidulous, or mucilaginous mixture, used as a vehicle.	
julian		Relating to, or derived from, Julius Cæsar.	
julienne		A kind of soup containing thin slices or shreds of carrots, onions, etc.	
juliform		Having the shape or appearance of a julus or catkin.	Latin iulus.
julus		A catkin or ament. See Ament.	
july		The seventh month of the year, containing thirty-one days.	
july-flower		See Gillyflower — a name given by old writers to the clove pink (Dianthus Caryophyllus) but now to the common stock (Matthiola incana), a cruciferous plant with showy and fragrant blossoms, usually purplish…	
jumart		The fabled offspring of a bull and a mare.	
jumble		To mix in a confused mass; to put or throw together without order; -- often followed by together or up.	
jumblement	Low	Confused mixture.	
jumbler		One who confuses things.	
jumblingly		In a confused manner.	
jumelle		Twin; paired; -- said of various objects made or formed in pairs, as a binocular opera glass, a pair of gimmal rings, etc. A jumelle opera glass, or the like.	
jument	Obsolete	A beast; especially, a beast of burden.	
jump		(a) A kind of loose jacket for men. (b) pl. A bodice worn instead of stays by women in the 18th century.	Middle English jumpen.
jumper		One who, or that which, jumps.	
jumping		of Jump, to leap.	
jumpweld		See Buttweld, v. t.	
jumpy		Jumping, or inducing to jump; characterized by jumps; hence, extremely nervous.	
juncaceous		Of. pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of plants (Juncaceæ), of which the common rush (Juncus) is the type.	
juncate	Obsolete	See Junket — a cheese cake; a sweetmeat; any delicate food.	
juncite		A fossil rush.	
junco		Any bird of the genus Junco, which includes several species of North American finches; -- called also snowbird, or blue snowbird.	
juncous		Full of rushes: resembling rushes; juncaceous.	Latin juncosus.
junction		The act of joining, or the state of being joined; union; combination; coalition; as, the junction of two armies or detachments; the junction of paths.	Latin iunctio.
juncture		The line or point at which two bodies are joined; a joint; an articulation; a seam; as, the junctures of a vessel or of the bones.	Latin iunctura.
june		The sixth month of the year, containing thirty days.	
juneating		A kind of early apple.	
juneberry		(a) The small applelike berry of American trees of genus Amelanchier; -- also called service berry.	
jungermannia		A genus of hepatic mosses, now much circumscribed, but formerly comprising most plants of the order, which is sometimes therefore called Jungermanniaceæ.	
jungle		A dense growth of brushwood, grasses, reeds, vines, etc.; an almost impenetrable thicket of trees, canes, and reedy vegetation, as in India, Africa, Australia, and Brazil.	Hindi जंगल, from Sanskrit जङ्गल.
jungly		Consisting of jungles; abounding with jungles; of the nature of a jungle.	
junior		Less advanced in age than another; younger.	Latin junior.
juniority		The state or quality of being junior.	
juniper		Any evergreen shrub or tree, of the genus Juniperus and order Coniferæ.	Latin iuniperus.
juniperin		A yellow amorphous substance extracted from juniper berries.	
juniperite		One of the fossil Coniferæ, evidently allied to the juniper.	
junk	Colloquial	A fragment of any solid substance; a thick piece. See Chunk.	Middle English junke.
junker		A young German noble or squire; esp., a member of the aristocratic party in Prussia.	
junkerism		The principles of the aristocratic party in Prussia.	
junket		A cheese cake; a sweetmeat; any delicate food.	
junketing		A feast or entertainment; a revel.	
junketries	Obsolete	Sweetmeats.	
juno		(Astron.) One of the early discovered asteroids.	
junold		See Gimmal — joined work whose parts move within each other; a pair or series of interlocked rings.	
junta		A council; a convention; a tribunal; an assembly; esp., the grand council of state in Spain.	Spanish junta, from Latin iunctus.
junto		A secret council to deliberate on affairs of government or politics; a number of men combined for party intrigue; a faction; a cabal; as, a junto of ministers; a junto of politicians.	
jupartie	Obsolete	Jeopardy.	
jupe		Same as Jupon.	French jupe.
jupiter		(Astron.) One of the planets, being the brightest except Venus, and the largest of them all, its mean diameter being about 85,000 miles.	
jupon		A sleeveless jacket worn over the armor in the 14th century.	
juppon		A sleeveless jacket worn over the armor in the 14th century.	
jura		A range of mountains between France and Switzerland.	
jura-trias		A term applied to many American Mesozoic strata, in which the characteristics of the Jurassic and Triassic periods appear to be blended. -- Ju`ra-tri*as"sic, a.	
jural		Pertaining to natural or positive right.	Latin ius.
juramentum		An oath.	
jurassic		Of the age of the middle Mesozoic, including, as divided in England and Europe, the Lias, Oölite, and Wealden; -- named from certain rocks of the Jura mountains. -- n.	
jurat		A person under oath; specifically, an officer of the nature of an alderman, in certain municipal corporations in England.	
juratory		Relating to or comprising an oath; as, juratory caution.	
jurdiccion	Obsolete	Jurisdiction.	
jurel		A yellow carangoid fish of the Atlantic and Gulf coasts (Caranx chrysos), most abundant southward, where it is valued as a food fish; -- called also hardtail, horse crevallé, jack, buffalo jack, skipjack, yellow mackerel…	
juridic		Pertaining to a judge or to jurisprudence; acting in the distribution of justice; used in courts of law; according to law; legal; as, juridical law.	
juridical		Pertaining to a judge or to jurisprudence; acting in the distribution of justice; used in courts of law; according to law; legal; as, juridical law.	Latin iuridicus.
juridically		In a juridical manner.	
jurisconsult		A man learned in the civil law; an expert in juridical science; a professor of jurisprudence; a jurist.	Latin jūris consultus.
jurisdiction		(Law) The legal power, right, or authority of a particular court to hear and determine causes, to try criminals, or to execute justice; judicial authority over a cause or class of causes; as, certain suits or actions…	
jurisdictional		Of or pertaining to jurisdiction; as jurisdictional rights.	
jurisdictive		Having jurisdiction.	
jurisprudence		The science of juridical law; the knowledge of the laws, customs, and rights of men in a state or community, necessary for the due administration of justice.	Latin iurisprudentia.
jurisprudent		Understanding law; skilled in jurisprudence.	
jurisprudential		Of or pertaining to jurisprudence.	
jurist		One who professes the science of law; one versed in the law, especially in the civil law; a writer on civil and international law.	
juristic		Of or pertaining to a jurist, to the legal profession, or to jurisprudence.	
juristical		Of or pertaining to a jurist, to the legal profession, or to jurisprudence.	
juror		A member of any jury for awarding prizes, etc.	
jury		For temporary use; -- applied to a temporary contrivance.	Anglo-Norman juree, from Latin iurata.
jury-rigged		Rigged for temporary service. See Jury, a.	
juryman		One who is impaneled on a jury, or who serves as a juror.	
jussi		A delicate fiber, produced in the Philippine Islands from an unidentified plant, of which dresses, etc., are made.	
just		Conforming or conformable to rectitude or justice; not doing wrong to any; violating no right or obligation; upright; righteous; honest; true; -- said both of persons and things.	
justice		The quality of being just; conformity to the principles of righteousness and rectitude in all things; strict performance of moral obligations; practical conformity to human or divine law…	Middle English justice, from Old French justise, from Latin iustitia.
justiceable	Obsolete	Liable to trial in a court of justice.	
justicehood		Justiceship.	
justicement	Obsolete	Administration of justice; procedure in courts of justice.	
justicer	Obsolete	One who administers justice; a judge.	
justiceship		The office or dignity of a justice.	
justiciable		Proper to be examined in a court of justice.	
justiciar		Same as Justiciary.	
justiciary		An old name for the judges of the higher English courts.	
justico		Formerly, a close coat or waistcoat with sleeves.	
justicoat		Formerly, a close coat or waistcoat with sleeves.	
justifiable		Capable of being justified, or shown to be just.	
justification		The act of justifying or the state of being justified; a showing or proving to be just or conformable to law, justice, right, or duty; defense; vindication; support; as, arguments in justification of the prisoner's conduct…	
justificative		Having power to justify; justificatory.	
justificator		One who justifies or vindicates; a justifier.	
justificatory		Vindicatory; defensory; justificative.	
justifier		One who justifies; one who vindicates, supports, defends, or absolves.	
justify		To prove or show to be just; to vindicate; to maintain or defend as conformable to law, right, justice, propriety, or duty.	Latin justificare.
justinian		Of or pertaining to the Institutes or laws of the Roman Justinian.	
justle		To run or strike against each other; to encounter; to clash; to jostle.	
justly		In a just manner; in conformity to law, justice, or propriety; by right; honestly; fairly; accurately.	
justness		The quality of being just; conformity to truth, propriety, accuracy, exactness, and the like; justice; reasonableness; fairness; equity; as, justness of proportions; the justness of a description or representation…	
jut		To shoot out or forward; to project beyond the main body; as, the jutting part of a building.	
jute		The coarse, strong fiber of the East Indian Corchorus olitorius, and C. capsularis; also, the plant itself.	Hindi जूत, from Sanskrit जत.
jutes		Jutlanders; one of the Low German tribes, a portion of which settled in Kent, England, in the 5th century.	
jutlander		A native or inhabitant of Jutland in Denmark.	
jutlandish		Of or pertaining to Jutland, or to the people of Jutland.	
jutting		Projecting, as corbels, cornices, etc. -- Jut"ting*ly, adv.	
jutty	Obsolete	A projection in a building; also, a pier or mole; a jetty.	
juvenal	Obsolete	A youth.	Latin iuvenalis.
juvenescence		A growing young.	
juvenescent		Growing or becoming young.	Latin juvenescens.
juvenile		Young; youthful; as, a juvenile appearance.	Latin iuvenilis.
juvenileness		The state or quality of being juvenile; juvenility.	
juvenility		Youthfulness; adolescence.	
juvia		A Brazilian name for the lofty myrtaceous tree (Bertholetia excelsa) which produces the large seeds known as Brazil nuts.	
juwansa		The camel's thorn. See under Camel.	
juwise		Same as Juise.	
juxtapose		To place in juxtaposition.	French juxtaposer.
juxtaposit		To place in close connection or contiguity; to juxtapose.	
juxtaposition		A placing or being placed in nearness or contiguity, or side by side; as, a juxtaposition of words.	French juxtaposition, from Latin iuxta.
