kaama		The hartbeest.
kabala		See Cabala — a kind of occult theosophy or traditional interpretation of the Scriptures among Jewish rabbis and certain mediæval Christians…
kabassou		See Cabassou — a speciec of armadillo of the genus Xenurus (X. unicinctus and X. hispidus); the tatouay.
kabob		See Cabob, n. & v. t.
kabook		A clay ironstone found in Ceylon.
kabyle		A Berber, as in Algiers or Tunis. See Berber.
kadder		The jackdaw.
kadi		A Turkish judge. See Cadi.
kadiaster		A Turkish judge. See Cadi.
kafal		The Arabian name of two trees of the genus Balsamodendron, which yield a gum resin and a red aromatic wood.
kaffir		(a) One of a race which, with the Hottentots and Bushmen, inhabit South Africa.
kaffle		See Coffle — a gang of negro slaves being driven to market.
kafilah		See Cafila — a caravan of travelers; a military supply train or government caravan; a string of pack horses.
kafir		(a) One of a race which, with the Hottentots and Bushmen, inhabit South Africa.
kaftan		See Caftan — a garment worn throughout the Levant, consisting of a long gown with sleeves reaching below the hands.
kage		A chantry chapel inclosed with lattice or screen work.
kagu		A singular, crested, grallatorial bird (Rhinochetos jubatus), native of New Caledonia.
kaguan		The colugo.
kahani		A kind of notary public, or attorney, in the Levant.
kahau		A long-nosed monkey (Semnopithecus nasalis), native of Borneo.
kail		(Bot.) A kind of headless cabbage.
kaimacam		Same as Caimacam.
kain		Poultry, etc., required by the lease to be paid in kind by a tenant to his landlord.
kainit		Salts of potassium used in the manufacture of fertilizers.
kainite		A compound salt consisting chiefly of potassium chloride and magnesium sulphate, occurring at the Stassfurt salt mines in Prussian Saxony.
kainozoic		See Cenozoic — belonging to the most recent division of geological time, including the tertiary, or Age of mammals, and the Quaternary, or Age of man.
kaique		See Caique — a light skiff or rowboat used on the Bosporus; also, a Levantine vessel of larger size.
kairine		A pale buff or white crystalline alkaloid derived from quinoline, and used as an antipyretic in medicine.
kairoline		An organic base obtained from quinoline.
kaiser		The ancient title of emperors of Germany assumed by King William of Prussia when crowned sovereign of the new German empire in 1871.
kaka		A New Zealand parrot of the genus Nestor, especially the brown parrot (Nestor meridionalis).
kakapo		A singular nocturnal parrot (Strigops habroptilus), native of New Zealand.
kakaralli		A kind of wood common in Demerara, durable in salt water, because not subject to the depredations of the sea worm and barnacle.
kakistocracy		Government by the worst men.
kakoxene		See Cacoxene — a hydrous phosphate of iron occurring in yellow radiated tufts.
kalan		The sea otter.
kalasie		A long-tailed monkey of Borneo (Semnopithecus rubicundus).
kale		(Bot.) A variety of cabbage in which the leaves do not form a head, being nearly the original or wild form of the species.
kaleege		One of several species of large, crested, Asiatic pheasants, belonging to the genus Euplocamus, and allied to the firebacks.
kaleidophon		An instrument invented by Professor Wheatstone, consisting of a reflecting knob at the end of a vibrating rod or thin plate, for making visible, in the motion of a point of light reflected from the knob…
kaleidophone		An instrument invented by Professor Wheatstone, consisting of a reflecting knob at the end of a vibrating rod or thin plate, for making visible, in the motion of a point of light reflected from the knob…
kaleidoscope		An instrument invented by Sir David Brewster, which contains loose fragments of colored glass, etc.…
kaleidoscopic		Of, pertaining to, or formed by, a kaleidoscope; variegated.
kaleidoscopical		Of, pertaining to, or formed by, a kaleidoscope; variegated.
kalendar		See Calendar — an orderly arrangement of the division of time, adapted to the purposes of civil life, as years, months, weeks, and days; also, a register of the year with its divisions; an almanac.
kalendarial		See Calendarial — of or pertaining to the calendar or a calendar.
kalender		See 3d Calender.
kalends		Same as Calends.
kali		The last and worst of the four ages of the world; -- considered to have begun B.
kalif		See Caliph — successor or vicar; -- a title of the successors of Mohammed both as temporal and spiritual rulers, now used by the sultans of Turkey,
kaliform		Formed like kali, or glasswort.
kaligenous		Forming alkalies with oxygen, as some metals.
kalium		Potassium; -- so called by the German chemists.
kalki		The name of Vishnu in his tenth and last avatar.
kalmia		A genus of North American shrubs with poisonous evergreen foliage and corymbs of showy flowers.
kalmuck		A kind of shaggy cloth, resembling bearskin.
kalong		A fruit bat, esp. the Indian edible fruit bat (Pteropus edulis).
kaloyer		See Caloyer — a monk of the Greek Church; a cenobite, anchoret, or recluse of the rule of St. Basil, especially, one on or near Mt.
kalpa		One of the Brahmanic eons, a period of 4,320,000,000 years.
kalsomine		Same as Calcimine.
kam	Obsolete	Crooked; awry.
kama		The Hindoo Cupid.
kamala		The red dusty hairs of the capsules of an East Indian tree (Mallotus Philippinensis) used for dyeing silk.
kame	Scots	A low ridge. See Eschar.
kami		A title given to the celestial gods of the first mythical dynasty of Japan and extended to the demigods of the second dynasty, and then to the long line of spiritual princes still represented by the mikado.
kamichi		A curious South American bird (Anhima, or Palamedea, cornuta), often domesticated by the natives and kept with poultry, which it defends against birds of prey.
kamptulicon		A kind of elastic floor cloth, made of India rubber, gutta- percha, linseed oil, and powdered cork.
kampylite		A variety of mimetite or arseniate of lead in hexagonal prisms of a fine orange yellow.
kamsin		A hot southwesterly wind in Egypt, coming from the Sahara.
kamtschadales		An aboriginal tribe inhabiting the southern part of Kamtschatka.
kan	Obsolete	To know; to ken. See Ken. See Khan.
kanacka		A native of the Sandwich Islands.
kanaka		A native of the Sandwich Islands.
kanchil		A small chevrotain of the genus Tragulus, esp. T. pygmæus, or T. kanchil, inhabiting Java, Sumatra, and adjacent islands; a deerlet.
kand		Fluor spar; -- so called by Cornish miners.
kangaroo		Any one of numerous species of jumping marsupials of the family Macropodidæ.
kansas		A tribe of Indians allied to the Winnebagoes and Osages.
kantian		Of or pertaining to Immanuel Kant, the German philosopher; conformed or relating to any or all of the philosophical doctrines of Immanuel Kant.
kantianism		The doctrine or theory of Kant; the Kantian philosophy.
kantism		The doctrine or theory of Kant; the Kantian philosophy.
kantist		A disciple or follower of Kant.
kanttry		Same as Cantred.
kaolin		A very pure white clay, ordinarily in the form of an impalpable powder, and used to form the paste of porcelain; China clay; porcelain clay.
kaoline		A very pure white clay, ordinarily in the form of an impalpable powder, and used to form the paste of porcelain; China clay; porcelain clay.
kaolinization		The process by which feldspar is changed into kaolin.
kaolinize		To convert into kaolin.
kapelle		A chapel; hence, the choir or orchestra of a prince's chapel; now, a musical establishment, usually orchestral.
kapellmeister		See Capellmeister — the musical director in royal or ducal chapel; a choirmaster.
kapia		The fossil resin of the kauri tree of New Zealand.
kapnomar		) See Capnomor.
kapok		A silky wool derived from the seeds of Ceiba pentandra (syn.
karagane		A species of gray fox found in Russia.
karaism		Doctrines of the Karaites.
karaite		A sect of Jews who adhere closely to the letter of the Scriptures, rejecting the oral law, and allowing the Talmud no binding authority; -- opposed to the Rabbinists.
karakul		Astrakhan, esp. in fine grades.
karatas		A West Indian plant of the Pineapple family (Nidularium Karatas).
karma		One's acts considered as fixing one's lot in the future existence. (Theos.) The doctrine of fate as the inflexible result of cause and effect; the theory of inevitable consequence.
karmathian		One of a Mohammedan sect founded in the ninth century by Karmat.
karn		A pile of rocks; sometimes, the solid rock. See Cairn.
karob		The twenty-fourth part of a grain; -- a weight used by goldsmiths.
kaross		A native garment or rug of skin sewed together in the form of a square.
karpholite		A fibrous mineral occurring in tufts of a straw-yellow color.
karroo		One of the dry table-lands of South Africa, which often rise terracelike to considerable elevations.
karstenite		Same as Anhydrite.
karvel		See Carvel, and Caravel.
karyokinesis		The indirect division of cells in which, prior to division of the cell protoplasm, complicated changes take place in the nucleus, attended with movement of the nuclear fibrils; -- opposed to karyostenosis.
karyokinetic		Of or pertaining to karyokinesis; as, karyokinetic changes of cell division.
karyomiton		The reticular network of fine fibers, of which the nucleus of a cell is in part composed; -- in opposition to kytomiton, or the network in the body of the cell.
karyoplasma		The protoplasmic substance of the nucleus of a cell: nucleoplasm; -- in opposition to kytoplasma, the protoplasm of the cell.
karyostenosis		Direct cell division (in which there is first a simple division of the nucleus, without any changes in its structure, followed by division of the protoplasm of the karyostenotic mode of nuclear division.
karyostenotic		Pertaining to, or connected with, karyostenosis; as, the karyostenotic mode of nuclear division.
kasack		Same as Cossack.
kat		An Arabian shrub Catha edulis) the leaves of which are used as tea by the Arabs.
katabolic		Of or pertaining to katabolism; as, katabolic processes, which give rise to substances (katastates) of decreasing complexity and increasing stability.
katabolism		Destructive or downward metabolism; regressive metamorphism; -- opposed to anabolism.
katastate		(Physiol.) A substance formed by a katabolic process; -- opposed to anastate.
kate		The brambling finch.
kathetal		Making a right angle; perpendicular, as two lines or two sides of a triangle, which include a right angle.
kathetometer		Same as Cathetometer.
kattimundoo		A caoutchouc like substance obtained from the milky juice of the East Indian Euphorbia Kattimundoo.
katydid		A large, green, arboreal, orthopterous insect (Cyrtophyllus concavus) of the family Locustidæ, common in the United States.
kauri		A lofty coniferous tree of New Zealand Agathis, or Dammara, australis), furnishing valuable timber and yielding one kind of dammar resin.
kava		A species of Macropiper (M. methysticum), the long pepper, from the root of which an intoxicating beverage is made by the Polynesians, by a process of mastication; also, the beverage itself.
kavass		An armed constable; also, a government servant or courier.
kaw		See Caw — to cry like a crow, rook, or raven.
kawaka		a New Zealand tree, the Cypress cedar (Libocedrus Doniana), having a valuable, fine-grained, reddish wood.
kawn		A inn. See Khan.
kayak		A light canoe, made of skins stretched over a frame, and usually capable of carrying but one person, who sits amidships and uses a double-bladed paddle.
kayaker		One who uses a kayak.
kayko		The dog salmon.
kayles		A game; ninepins.
kaynard	Obsolete	A lazy or cowardly person; a rascal.
kazoo		A kind of toy or rude musical instrument, as a tube inside of which is a stretched string made to vibrate by singing or humming into the tube.
