kea		A large New Zealand parrot (Nestor notabilis), notorious for having acquired the habit of killing sheep; -- called also mountain parrot.
keck		To heave or to retch, as in an effort to vomit.
keckle		See Keck, v. i. & n.
keckling		Old rope or iron chains wound around a cable. See Keckle, v. t.
kecklish		Inclined to vomit; squeamish.
kecksy		The hollow stalk of an umbelliferous plant, such as the cow parsnip or the hemlock.
kecky		Resembling a kecksy.
keddah		An inclosure constructed to entrap wild elephants; an elephant trap.
kedge		To move (a vessel) by carrying out a kedge in a boat, dropping it overboard, and hauling the vessel up to it.
kedger		A small anchor; a kedge.
kedlock		See Charlock — a cruciferous plant (Brassica sinapistrum) with yellow flowers; wild mustard.
kee	English dialect	See Kie, Ky, and Kine.
keech	Obsolete	A mass or lump of fat rolled up by the butcher.
keel		(Shipbuilding) A longitudinal timber, or series of timbers scarfed together, extending from stem to stern along the bottom of a vessel.
keelage		The right of demanding a duty or toll for a ship entering a port; also, the duty or toll.
keeled		(Bot.) Keel-shaped; having a longitudinal prominence on the back; as, a keeled leaf.
keeler		One employed in managing a Newcastle keel; -- called also keelman.
keelfat		A cooler; a vat for cooling wort, etc. Johnson.
keelhaul		To haul under the keel of a ship, by ropes attached to the yardarms on each side.
keelivine	Scots	A pencil of black or red lead; -- called also keelyvine pen.
keelman		See Keeler, 1.
keelrake		Same as Keelhaul.
keels		Ninepins. See Kayles.
keelson		A piece of timber in a ship laid on the middle of the floor timbers over the keel, and binding the floor timbers to the keel; in iron vessels, a structure of plates, situated like the keelson of a timber ship.
keelvat		See Keelfat — a cooler; a vat for cooling wort, etc. Johnson.
keen		Sharp; having a fine edge or point; as, a keen razor, or a razor with a keen edge.
keener		A professional mourner who wails at a funeral.
keenly		In a keen manner.
keenness		The quality or state of being keen.
keep		To hold; to restrain from departure or removal; not to let go of; to retain in one's power or possession; not to lose; to retain; to detain.
keeper		One who, or that which, keeps; one who, or that which, holds or has possession of anything.
keepership		The office or position of a keeper.
keeping		A holding; restraint; custody; guard; charge; care; preservation.
keepsake		Anything kept, or given to be kept, for the sake of the giver; a token of friendship.
keesh		See Kish — a workman's name for the graphite which forms incidentally in iron smelting.
keeve		(Brewing) A vat or tub in which the mash is made; a mash tub.
keever		See Keeve, n.
keffe-kil		See Kiefekil — a species of clay; meerschaum.
kefir		An effervescent liquor like kumiss, made from fermented milk, used as a food and as a medicine in the northern Caucasus. -- Ke*fir"ic (#), a.
keg		A small cask or barrel.
keilhauite		A mineral of a brownish black color, related to titanite in form.
keir		See Kier — a large tub or vat in which goods are subjected to the action of hot lye or bleaching liquor; -- also called keeve.
keitloa		A black, two-horned, African rhinoceros (Atelodus keitloa).
keld	Obsolete	Having a kell or covering; webbed.
kele	Obsolete	To cool.
kell	Obsolete	The caul; that which covers or envelops as a caul; a net; a fold; a film.
keloid		Applied to a variety of tumor forming hard, flat, irregular excrescences upon the skin. -- n.
kelotomy		See Celotomy — the act or operation of cutting, to relieve the structure in strangulated hernia.
kelp		The calcined ashes of seaweed, -- formerly much used in the manufacture of glass, now used in the manufacture of iodine.
kelpfish		A small California food fish (Heterostichus rostratus), living among kelp.
kelpie		An imaginary spirit of the waters, horselike in form, vulgarly believed to warn, by preternatural noises and lights, those who are to be drowned.
kelpware		Same as Kelp, 2.
kelpy		An imaginary spirit of the waters, horselike in form, vulgarly believed to warn, by preternatural noises and lights, those who are to be drowned.
kelson		See Keelson — a piece of timber in a ship laid on the middle of the floor timbers over the keel, and binding the floor timbers to the keel; in iron vessels, a structure of plates…
kelt	Scots	See Kilt, n.
kelter	Colloquial	Regular order or proper condition.
keltic		Same as Celtic, a. & n.
kemb	Obsolete	To comb.
kemelin	Obsolete	A tub; a brewer's vessel.
kemp		Coarse, rough hair wool or fur, injuring its quality.
kempe	Obsolete	Rough; shaggy.
kemps		The long flower stems of the ribwort plantain (Plantago Lanceolata).
kempt		p. p. of Kemb — to comb.
kempty		Coarse, rough hair wool or fur, injuring its quality.
ken	Slang	A house; esp., one which is a resort for thieves.
kendal		A cloth colored green by dye obtained from the woad-waxen, formerly used by Flemish weavers at Kendal, in Westmoreland, England.
kennel		The water course of a street; a little canal or channel; a gutter; also, a puddle.
kenning		The limit of vision at sea, being a distance of about twenty miles.
keno		A gambling game, a variety of the game of lotto, played with balls or knobs, numbered, and cards also numbered.
kenogenesis		Modified evolution, in which nonprimitive characters make their appearance in consequence of a secondary adaptation of the embryo to the peculiar conditions of its environment; -- distinguished from palingenesis.
kenogenetic		Of or pertaining to kenogenesis; as, kenogenetic processes. -- Ken`o*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv.
kenspeckle	Scots	Having so marked an appearance as easily to be recognized.
kentle		A hundred weight; a quintal.
kentledge		Pigs of iron used for ballast.
kentucky		One of the United States.
kephalin		One of a group of nitrogenous phosphorized principles, supposed by Thudichum to exist in brain tissue.
kepi		A military cap having a close-fitting band, a round flat top sloping toward the front, and a visor.
kept		of Keep — to hold; to restrain from departure or removal; not to let go of; to retain in one's power or possession; not to lose; to retain; to detain.
kepviselohaz		See Legislature — the body of persons in a state or kingdom invested with power to make and repeal laws; a legislative body.
keramic		Same as Ceramic.
keramics		Same as Ceramics.
keramographic		Suitable to be written upon; capable of being written upon, as a slate; -- said especially of a certain kind of globe.
kerana		A kind of long trumpet, used among the Persians.
kerargyrite		See Cerargyrite — native silver chloride, a mineral of a white to pale yellow or gray color, darkening on exposure to the light.
kerasin		A nitrogenous substance free from phosphorus, supposed to be present in the brain; a body closely related to cerebrin.
kerasine		Resembling horn; horny; corneous.
keratin		A nitrogenous substance, or mixture of substances, containing sulphur in a loose state of combination, and forming the chemical basis of epidermal tissues, such as horn, hair, feathers, and the like.
keratitis		Inflammation of the cornea.
keratode		See Keratose — a tough, horny animal substance entering into the composition of the skeleton of sponges, and other invertebrates; -- called also keratode.
keratogenous		Producing horn; as, the keratogenous membrane within the horny hoof of the horse.
keratoidea		Same as Keratosa.
keratome		An instrument for dividing the cornea in operations for cataract.
keratonyxis		The operation of removing a cataract by thrusting a needle through the cornea of the eye, and breaking up the opaque mass.
keratophyte		A gorgonian coral having a horny axis.
keratosa		An order of sponges having a skeleton composed of hornlike fibers.
keratose		A tough, horny animal substance entering into the composition of the skeleton of sponges, and other invertebrates; -- called also keratode.
keraunograph		A figure or picture impressed by lightning upon the human body or elsewhere. -- Ker`au-nog"ra-phy, n.
kerb		See Curb — to guide and manage, or restrain, as with a curb; to bend to one's will; to subject; to subdue; to restrain; to confine; to keep in check.
kerbstone		See Curbstone — a stone Curbstone broker.See under Broker.
kercher	Obsolete	A kerchief.
kerchered	Obsolete	Covered, or bound round, with a kercher.
kerchief		A square of fine linen worn by women as a covering for the head; hence, anything similar in form or material, worn for ornament on other parts of the person; -- mostly used in compounds; as, neckerchief; breastkerchief…
kerchiefed		Dressed; hooded; covered; wearing a kerchief.
kerchieft		Dressed; hooded; covered; wearing a kerchief.
kerf		A notch, channel, or slit made in any material by cutting or sawing.
kerite		A compound in which tar or asphaltum combined with animal or vegetable oils is vulcanized by sulphur, the product closely resembling rubber; -- used principally as an insulating material in telegraphy.
kerl		See Carl — a rude, rustic man; a churl.
kermes		(Zoöl.) The dried bodies of the females of a scale insect (Coccus ilicis), allied to the cochineal insect, and found on several species of oak near the Mediterranean.
kermesse		See Kirmess — in Europe, particularly in Belgium and Holland, and outdoor festival and fair; in the United States, generally an indoor entertainment and fair combined.
kern		A light-armed foot soldier of the ancient militia of Ireland and Scotland; -- distinguished from gallowglass, and often used as a term of contempt.
kerned		Having part of the face projecting beyond the body or shank; -- said of type.
kernel		The essential part of a seed; all that is within the seed walls; the edible substance contained in the shell of a nut; hence, anything included in a shell, husk, or integument; as, the kernel of a nut.
kerneled		Having a kernel.
kernelled		Having a kernel.
kernelly		Full of kernels; resembling kernels; of the nature of kernels.
kernish	Obsolete	Clownish; booorish.
kerolite		Same as Cerolite.
kerosene		An oil used for illuminating purposes, formerly obtained from the distillation of mineral wax, bituminous shale, etc., and hence called also coal oil.
kers	Obsolete	A cress.
kerse	Obsolete	A cress.
kersey		A kind of coarse, woolen cloth, usually ribbed, woven from wool of long staple.
kerseymere		See Cassimere — a thin, twilled, woolen cloth, used for men's garments.
kerseynette		See Cassinette — a cloth with a cotton wart, and a woof of very fine wool, or wool and silk.
kerseys		Varieties of kersey; also, trousers made of kersey.
kerve	Obsolete	To carve.
kerver	Obsolete	A carver.
kesar	Obsolete	See Kaiser Spenser.
keslop		The stomach of a calf, prepared for rennet.
kess	Obsolete	To kiss.
kest	Obsolete	of Cast — to direct or turn, as the eyes.
kestrel		A small, slender European hawk (Falco alaudarius), allied to the sparrow hawk.
ket		Carrion; any filth.
keta		A small salmon (Oncorhynchus keta) of inferior value, which in the autumn runs up all the larger rivers between San Francisco and Kamchatka.
ketch		An almost obsolete form of vessel, with a mainmast and a mizzenmast, -- usually from one hundred to two hundred and fifty tons burden.
ketchup		A sauce. See Catchup.
ketine		One of a series of organic bases obtained by the reduction of certain isonitroso compounds of the ketones.
ketmie		The name of certain African species of Hibiscus, cultivated for the acid of their mucilage.
ketol		One of a series of series of complex nitrogenous substances, represented by methyl ketol and related to indol.
ketone		One of a large class of organic substances resembling the aldehydes, obtained by the distillation of certain salts of organic acids and consisting of carbonyl (CO) united with two hydrocarbon radicals.
ketonic		Pertaining to, or derived from, a ketone; as, a ketonic acid.
kettle	Obsolete	A metallic vessel, with a wide mouth, often without a cover, used for heating and boiling water or other liguids.
kettledrum		(Mus.) A drum made of thin copper in the form of a hemispherical kettle, with parchment stretched over the mouth of it.
kettledrummer		One who plays on a kettledrum.
keuper		The upper division of the European Triassic. See Chart of Geology.
kevel		(Naut.) A strong cleat to which large ropes are belayed.
keverchief	Obsolete	A kerchief.
kevin		The gazelle.
kex		A dry husk or covering.
key		An instrument by means of which the bolt of a lock is shot or drawn; usually, a removable metal instrument fitted to the mechanism of a particular lock and operated by turning in its place.
key-cold		Cold as a metallic key; lifeless.
keyage		Wharfage; quayage.
keyboard		The whole arrangement, or one range, of the keys of an organ, typewriter, etc.
keyed		Furnished with keys; as, a keyed instrument; also, set to a key, as a tune.
keyhole		A hole or apertupe in a door or lock, for receiving a key.
keynote		(Mus.) The tonic or first tone of the scale in which a piece or passage is written; the fundamental tone of the chord, to which all the modulations of the piece are referred; -- called also key tone.
keyseat		To form a key seat, as by cutting. See Key seat, under Key.
keystone		The central or topmost stone of an arch.
keyway		See Key way, under Key.
