kiang		The dziggetai.
kibble	English dialect	To bruise; to grind coarsely; as, kibbled oats.
kibblings		Portions of small fish used for bait on the banks of Newfoundland.
kibe		A chap or crack in the flesh occasioned by cold; an ulcerated chilblain.
kibed		Chapped; cracked with cold; affected with chilblains; as kibed heels.
kibitka		A tent used by the Kirghiz Tartars.
kiblah		See Keblah.
kibosh	Slang	Nonsense; stuff; also, fashion; style.
kiby		Affected with kibes.
kichil	Obsolete	,. See Kechil.
kick	Colloquial	To strike, thrust, or hit violently with the foot; as, a horse kicks a groom; a man kicks a dog.
kickable		Capable or deserving of being kicked.
kickapoos		A tribe of Indians which formerly occupied the region of Northern Illinois, allied in language to the Sacs and Foxes.
kicker		One who, or that which, kicks.
kickshaw		See Kickshaws, the correct singular.
kickshaws		Something fantastical; any trifling, trumpery thing; a toy.
kickshoe		A kickshaws.
kicksy-wicksy		That which is restless and uneasy.
kickup	Dialect	The water thrush or accentor.
kicky-wisky		That which is restless and uneasy.
kid		(Zoöl.) A young goat.
kid-fox		A young fox Shak.
kidde	Obsolete	of Kythe — to make known; to manifest; to show; to declare.
kidderminster		A kind of ingrain carpeting, named from the English town where formerly most of it was manufactured.
kiddier	Obsolete	A huckster; a cadger.
kiddle		A kind of basketwork wear in a river, for catching fish.
kiddow	English dialect	The guillemot.
kiddy	Slang	To deceive; to outwit; to hoax.
kiddyish	Slang	Frolicsome; sportive.
kidfox		A young fox Shak.
kidling		A young kid.
kidnap		To take (any one) by force or fear, and against one's will, with intent to carry to another place.
kidnaper		One who steals or forcibly carries away a human being; a manstealer.
kidnapper		One who steals or forcibly carries away a human being; a manstealer.
kidney		(Anat.) A glandular organ which excretes urea and other waste products from the animal body; a urinary gland.
kidney-form		Having the form or shape of a kidney; reniform; as, a kidney- shaped leaf.
kidney-shaped		Having the form or shape of a kidney; reniform; as, a kidney- shaped leaf.
kidneywort		(a) A kind of saxifrage (Saxifrage stellaris). (b) The navelwort.
kie	English dialect	Kine; cows.
kiefekil		A species of clay; meerschaum.
kier		A large tub or vat in which goods are subjected to the action of hot lye or bleaching liquor; -- also called keeve.
kieselguhr		Siliceous earth; specifically, porous infusorial earth, used as an absorbent of nitroglycerin in the manufacture of dynamite.
kieserite		Hydrous sulphate of magnesia found at the salt mines of Stassfurt, Prussian Saxony.
kieve		See Keeve, n.
kike	Obsolete	To gaze; to stare.
kilderkin		A small barrel; an old liquid measure containing eighteen English beer gallons, or nearly twenty-two gallons, United States measure.
kilerg		A unit of work equal to one thousand ergs.
kill		To deprive of life, animal or vegetable, in any manner or by any means; to render inanimate; to put to death; to slay.
kill-joy		One who causes gloom or grief; a dispiriting person.
killdee		A small American plover (Ægialitis vocifera).
killdeer		A small American plover (Ægialitis vocifera).
killer		One who deprives of life; one who, or that which, kills.
killesse	English dialect	(a) A gutter, groove, or channel. (b) A hipped roof.
killifish		Any one of several small American cyprinodont fishes of the genus Fundulus and allied genera.
killigrew	English dialect	The Cornish chough. See under Chough.
killikinick		See Kinnikinic — prepared leaves or bark of certain plants; -- used by the Indians of the Northwest for smoking, either mixed with tobacco or as a substitute for it.
killing		Literally, that kills; having power to kill; fatal; in a colloquial sense, conquering; captivating; irresistible. -- Kill"ing*ly, adv.
killock		A small anchor; also, a kind of anchor formed by a stone inclosed by pieces of wood fastened together.
killow		An earth of a blackish or deep blue color.
kiln		A large stove or oven; a furnace of brick or stone, or a heated chamber, for the purpose of hardening, burning, or drying anything; as, a kiln for baking or hardening earthen vessels; a kiln for drying grain, meal, lumber, etc.…
kiln-dry		To dry in a kiln; as, to kiln-dry meal or grain.
kilnhole		The mouth or opening of an oven or kiln.
kilo		An abbreviation of Kilogram.
kilo-		A combining form used to signify thousand in forming the names of units of measurement; as, kilogram, kilometer, kilowatt, etc.
kilogram		A measure of weight, being a thousand grams, equal to 2.2046 pounds avoirdupois (15,432.34 grains).
kilogramme		A measure of weight, being a thousand grams, equal to 2.2046 pounds avoirdupois (15,432.34 grains).
kilogrammeter		A measure of energy or work done, being the amount expended in raising one kilogram through the height of one meter, in the latitude of Paris.
kilogrammetre		A measure of energy or work done, being the amount expended in raising one kilogram through the height of one meter, in the latitude of Paris.
kiloliter		A measure of capacity equal to a cubic meter, or a thousand liters.
kilolitre		A measure of capacity equal to a cubic meter, or a thousand liters.
kilometer		A measure of length, being a thousand meters.
kilometre		A measure of length, being a thousand meters.
kilostere		A cubic measure containing 1000 cubic meters, and equivalent to 35,315 cubic feet.
kilovolt		A unit of electromotive force equal to one thousand volts.
kilowatt		One thousand watts.
kilt	Obsolete	p. p. from Kill.
kilted		Plaited after the manner of kilting.
kilter		See Kelter — regular order or proper condition.
kilting		A perpendicular arrangement of flat, single plaits, each plait being folded so as to cover half the breadth of the preceding one.
kimbo		Crooked; arched; bent.
kimmerian		See Cimmerian — pertaining to the Cimmerii, a fabulous people, said to have lived, in very ancient times, in profound and perpetual darkness.
kimnel	Obsolete	A tub. See Kemelin.
kimono		A kind of loose robe or gown tied with a sash, worn as an outer garment by Japanese men and women.
kimry		See Cymry — a collective term for the Welsh race; -- so called by themselves.
kin		A diminutive suffix; as, manikin; lambkin.
kinaesodic		Kinesodic.
kinaesthesis		The perception attendant upon the movements of the muscles.
kinaesthetic		Of, pertaining to, or involving, kinæsthesis.
kinate	Obsolescent	See Quinate — growing in sets of five; -- said especially of leaves composed of five leaflets set at the end of a common petiole.
kincob		India silk brocaded with flowers in silver or gold. -- a.
kind		Having feelings befitting our common nature; congenial; sympathetic; as, a kind man; a kind heart.
kind-hearted		Having kindness of nature; sympathetic; characterized by a humane disposition; as, a kind-hearted landlord.
kind-heartedness		The state or quality of being kind-hearted; benevolence.
kindergarten		A school for young children, conducted on the theory that education should be begun by gratifying and cultivating the normal aptitude for exercise, play, observation, imitation, and construction…
kindergartner		One who teaches in a kindergarten.
kindle		To set on fire; to cause to burn with flame; to ignite; to cause to begin burning; to start; to light; as, to kindle a match, or shavings.
kindler		One who, or that which, kindles, stirs up, or sets on fire.
kindless	Obsolete	Destitute of kindness; unnatural.
kindliness		The quality or state of being kindly; benignity; benevolence; gentleness; tenderness; as, kindliness of disposition, of treatment, or of words.
kindling		The of causing to burn, or of exciting or inflaming the passions.
kindly		According to the kind or nature; natural.
kindness		The state or quality of being kind, in any of its various senses; manifestation of kind feeling or disposition beneficence.
kindred		Relationship by birth or marriage; consanguinity; affinity; kin.
kinematic		Of or pertaining to kinematics.
kinematical		Of or pertaining to kinematics.
kinematics		The science which treats of motions considered in themselves, or apart from their causes; the comparison and relation of motions.
kinepox		See Cowpox — a pustular eruptive disease of the cow, which, when communicated to the human system, as by vaccination, protects from the smallpox; vaccinia; -- called also kinepox, cowpock, and kinepock.
kinesiatrics		A mode of treating disease by appropriate muscular movements; - - also termed kinesitherapy, kinesipathy, lingism, and the movement cure.
kinesipathy		See Kinesiatrics. See Kinesiatrics.
kinesitherapy		See Kinesiatrics — a mode of treating disease by appropriate muscular movements; - - also termed kinesitherapy, kinesipathy, lingism, and the movement cure.
kinesodic		Conveying motion; as; kinesodic substance; -- applied esp. to the spinal cord, because it is capable of conveying doth voluntary and reflex motor impulses, without itself being affected by motor impulses applied to it directly.
kinesthetic		Of, pertaining to, or involving, kinæsthesis.
kinetic		Moving or causing motion; motory; active, as opposed to latent.
kinetics		See Dynamics — that branch of mechanics which treats of the motion of bodies (kinematics) and the action of forces in producing or changing their motion (kinetics).
kinetogenesis		An instrument for producing curves by the combination of circular movements; -- called also kinescope.
kinetograph		(a) A camera for making chronophotographs. (b) A machine for the projection of chronophotographs upon a screen for the purpose of producing the effect of an animated picture.
kinetophone		A machine combining a kinetoscope and a phonograph synchronized so as to reproduce a scene and its accompanying sounds.
kinetoscope		A machine, for the production of animated pictures, in which a film carrying successive instantaneous views of a moving scene travels uniformly through the field of a magnifying glass.
king		A Chinese musical instrument, consisting of resonant stones or metal plates, arranged according to their tones in a frame of wood, and struck with a hammer.
king-post		A member of a common form of truss, as a roof truss.
kingbird		A small American bird (Tyrannus, or T.
kingbolt		A vertical iron bolt, by which the forward axle and wheels of a vehicle or the trucks of a railroad car are connected with the other parts.
kingcraft		The craft of kings; the art of governing as a sovereign; royal policy.
kingcup		The common buttercup.
kingdom		The rank, quality, state, or attributes of a king; royal authority; sovereign power; rule; dominion; monarchy.
kingdomed		Having a kingdom or the dignity of a king; like a kingdom.
kingfish		(a) An American marine food fish of the genus Menticirrus, especially M. saxatilis, or M. nebulosos, of the Atlantic coast; -- called also whiting, surf whiting, and barb.
kingfisher		Any one of numerous species of birds constituting the family Alcedinidæ.
kinghood		The state of being a king; the attributes of a king; kingship.
kingless		Having no king.
kinglet		A little king; a weak or insignificant king.
kinglihood		King-liness.
kingliness		The state or quality of being kingly.
kingling		Same as Kinglet,
kingly		Belonging to, suitable to, or becoming, a king; characteristic of, resembling, a king; directed or administered by a king; monarchical; royal; sovereign; regal; august; noble; grand.
kingship		The state, office, or dignity of a king; royalty.
kingston		The black angel fish. See Angel fish, under Angel.
kingstone		The black angel fish. See Angel fish, under Angel.
kingtruss		A truss, framed with a king-post; -- used in roofs, bridges, etc.
kinic		See Quinic — pertaining to, derived from, or connected with, quinine and related compounds; specifically, designating a nonnitrogenous acid obtained from cinchona bark, coffee, beans, etc.…
kinit		A unit of force equal to the force which, acting for one second, will give a pound a velocity of one foot per second; -- proposed by J.D.Everett, an English physicist.
kink		A twist or loop in a rope or thread, caused by a spontaneous doubling or winding upon itself; a close loop or curl; a doubling in a cord.
kinkajou		A nocturnal carnivorous mammal (Cercoleptes caudivolvulus) of South America, about as large as a full-grown cat.
kinkhaust	Obsolete	Whooping cough.
kinkle		Same as 3d Kink.
kinky		Full of kinks; liable to kink or curl; as, kinky hair.
kinnikinic		Prepared leaves or bark of certain plants; -- used by the Indians of the Northwest for smoking, either mixed with tobacco or as a substitute for it.
kino		The dark red dried juice of certain plants, used variously in tanning, in dyeing, and as an astringent in medicine.
kinology		That branch of physics which treats of the laws of motion, or of moving bodies.
kinone		See Quinone — a crystalline substance, C6H4O2 (called also benzoketone), first obtained by the oxidation of quinic acid and regarded as a double ketone; also, by extension…
kinoyl		See Quinoyl — a radical of which quinone is the hydride, analogous to phenyl.
kinrede	Obsolete	Kindred.
kinsfolk		Relatives; kindred; kin; persons of the same family or closely or closely related families.
kinship		Family relationship.
kinsman		A man of the same race or family; one related by blood.
kinsmanship		Kinship.
kinswoman		A female relative.
kintlidge		See Kentledge — pigs of iron used for ballast.
kiosk		A Turkish open summer house or pavilion, supported by pillars.
kioways		A tribe of Indians distantly related to the Shoshones.
kip		The hide of a young or small beef creature, or leather made from it; kipskin.
kipe	English dialect	An osier basket used for catching fish.
kipper		(Zoöl.) A salmon after spawning.
kippernut		A name given to earthnuts of several kinds.
kipskin		Leather prepared from the skin of young or small cattle, intermediate in grade between calfskin and cowhide.
kirk	Scots	A church or the church, in the various senses of the word; esp., the Church of Scotland as distinguished from other reformed churches, or from the Roman Catholic Church.
kirked	Obsolete	Turned upward; bent.
kirkman	Scots	A member of the Church of Scotland, as distinguished from a member of another communion.
kirkyard	Scots	A churchyard.
kirmess		In Europe, particularly in Belgium and Holland, and outdoor festival and fair; in the United States, generally an indoor entertainment and fair combined.
kirschwasser		An alcoholic liquor, obtained by distilling the fermented juice of the small black cherry.
kirsome	Obsolete	Christian; christened.
kirtle		A garment varying in form and use at different times, and worn doth by men and women.
kirtled		Wearing a kirtle.
kirumbo		A bird of Madagascar (Leptosomus discolor), the only living type of a family allied to the rollers.
kish		A workman's name for the graphite which forms incidentally in iron smelting.
kismet		Destiny; fate.
kiss		To salute with the lips, as a mark of affection, reverence, submission, forgiveness, etc. He … kissed her lips with such a clamorous smack, That at the parting all the church echoed.
kisser		One who kisses.
kissingcrust		The portion of the upper crust of a loaf which has touched another loaf in baking.
kist	Scots	A chest; hence, a coffin.
kistvaen		A Celtic monument, commonly known as a dolmen.
kit		A large bottle.
kitcat		Designating a club in London, to which Addison and Steele belonged; -- so called from Christopher Cat, a pastry cook, who served the club with mutton pies.
kitchen		A cookroom; the room of a house appropriated to cookery.
kitchen-ry	Obsolete	The body of servants employed in the kitchen.
kitchener		A kitchen servant; a cook.
kitchenette		A room combining a very small kitchen and a pantry, with the kitchen conveniences compactly arranged…
kitchenmaid		A woman employed in the kitchen.
kite	English dialect	(Zoöl.) Any raptorial bird of the subfamily Milvinæ, of which many species are known.
kiteflier		A mode of raising money, or sustaining one's credit, by the use of paper which is merely nominal; -- called also kiting. -- Kite"fli`er, n.
kiteflying		A mode of raising money, or sustaining one's credit, by the use of paper which is merely nominal; -- called also kiting. -- Kite"fli`er, n.
kith		Acquaintance; kindred.
kithara		See Cithara — an ancient instrument resembling the harp.
kithe	Obs: or scot	See Kythe — to make known; to manifest; to show; to declare.
kitish		Like or relating to a kite.
kitling	Obsolete	A young kitten; a whelp.
kitte	Obsolete	of Kit to cut.
kittel		See Kittle, v. t.
kitten		A young cat.
kittenish		Resembling a kitten; playful; as, a kittenish disposition.
kittiwake		A northern gull (Rissa tridactyla), inhabiting the coasts of Europe and America.
kittle	English dialect	To bring forth young, as a cat; to kitten; to litter.
kittlish		Ticklish; kittle.
kitty		A kitten; also, a pet name or calling name for the cat.
kittysol		The Chinese paper parasol.
kiva		A large chamber built under, or in, the houses of a Pueblo village, used as an assembly room in religious rites or as a men's dormitory.
kive	Obsolete	A mash vat. See Keeve.
kiver		To cover. -- n.
kivikivi		Any species of Apteryx, esp. A. australis; -- so called in imitation of its notes.
kiwikiwi		Any species of Apteryx, esp. A. australis; -- so called in imitation of its notes.
