knab	Obsolete	To seize with the teeth; to gnaw.	
knabble	Obsolete	To bite or nibble.	
knack	English dialect	To speak affectedly.	
knack-kneed		See Knock-kneed — having the legs bent inward so that the knees touch in walking.	
knacker		One who makes knickknacks, toys, etc. Mortimer.	Old Norse hnak.
knackish	Obsolete	Trickish; artful. -- Knack"ish*ness, n.	
knacky	English dialect	Having a knack; cunning; crafty; trickish.	
knag		A wooden peg for hanging things on.	
knagged		Full of knots; knaggy.	
knaggy		Knotty; rough; figuratively, rough in temper.	
knap		A protuberance; a swelling; a knob; a button; hence, rising ground; a summit.	Middle English knappen.
knapbottle		The bladder campion (Silene inflata).	
knappish	Obsolete	Snappish; peevish.	
knapple	Obsolete	To break off with an abrupt, sharp noise; to bite; to nibble.	
knappy	Obsolete	Having knaps; full of protuberances or humps; knobby.	
knapsack		A case of canvas or leather, for carrying on the back a soldier's necessaries, or the clothing, etc., of a traveler.	
knapweed		The black centaury (Centaurea nigra); -- so called from the knoblike heads of flowers.	
knar	Obsolete	See Gnar — a knot or gnarl in wood; hence, a tough, thickset man; -- written also gnarr.	
knarl		A knot in wood. See Gnarl.	
knarled		Knotted. See Gnarled.	
knarred		Knotty; gnarled.	
knarry		Knotty; gnarled.	
knave		A tricky, deceitful fellow; a dishonest person; a rogue; a villain.	Middle English knave, from Old English cnafa.
knavery		The practices of a knave; petty villainy; fraud; trickery; a knavish action.	
knaveship	Scots	A small due, in meal, established by usage, which is paid to the under miller.	
knavess		A knavish woman.	
knavish		Like or characteristic of a knave; given to knavery; trickish; fraudulent; dishonest; villainous; as, a knavish fellow, or a knavish trick.	
knavishly		In a knavish manner; dishonestly; fraudulently.	
knavishness		The quality or state of being knavish; knavery; dishonesty.	
knaw	Obsolete	See Gnaw — to bite, as something hard or tough, which is not readily separated or crushed; to bite off little by little, with effort…	
knawel		A low, spreading weed (Scleranthus annuus), common in sandy soil.	
knead		To work and press into a mass, usually with the hands; esp., to work, as by repeated pressure with the knuckles, into a well mixed mass, as the materials of bread, cake, etc.; as, to knead dough.	Middle English kneden, from Old English cnedan.
kneadable		That may be kneaded; capable of being worked into a mass.	
kneader		One who kneads.	
kneadingly		In the manner of one kneading.	
knebelite		A mineral of a gray, red, brown, or green color, and glistening luster.	
kneck		The twisting of a rope or cable, as it is running out.	
knee		In man, the joint in the middle part of the leg.	Middle English kne, from Old English cneo.
knee-crooking		Obsequious; fawning; cringing.	
knee-deep		Rising to the knees; knee-high; as, water or snow knee-deep.	
knee-high		Rising or reaching upward to the knees; as, the water is knee- high.	
kneebrush		(Zoöl.) A tuft or brush of hair on the knees of some species of antelopes and other animals; -- chiefly used in the plural.	
kneecap		A cap or protection for the knee.	
kneed		Having knees;- used chiefly in composition; as, in-kneed; out- kneed; weak-kneed.	
kneejoint		The joint of the knee.	
kneejointed		Geniculate; kneed. See Kneed, a., 2.	
kneel		To bend the knee; to fall or rest on the knees; -- sometimes with down.	Middle English knelen.
kneeler		One who kneels or who worships by or while kneeling.	
kneelingly		In a kneeling position.	
kneepan		A roundish, flattened, sesamoid bone in the tendon in front of the knee joint; the patella; the kneecap.	
kneepiece		A piece shaped like a knee; as, the kneepieces or ears of a boat.	
knell		The stoke of a bell tolled at a funeral or at the death of a person; a death signal; a passing bell; hence, figuratively, a warning of, or a sound indicating, the passing away of anything.	
knelt		of Kneel — to bend the knee; to fall or rest on the knees; -- sometimes with down.	
knew		of Know — to perceive or apprehend clearly and certainly; to understand; to have full information of; as, to know one's duty.	
knicker	English dialect	A small ball of clay, baked hard and oiled, used as a marble by boys in playing.	
knickerbocker		A linsey-woolsey fabric having a rough knotted surface on the right side; used for women's dresses.	
knickerbockers		The name for a style of short breeches; smallclothes.	
knickknack		A trifle or toy; a bawble; a gewgaw.	
knickknackatory		A collection of knickknacks.	
knickknackery		Knickknacks.	
knife		An instrument consisting of a thin blade, usually of steel and having a sharp edge for cutting, fastened to a handle, but of many different forms and names for different uses; as, table knife, drawing knife, putty knife…	Middle English knif.
knife-edge		A piece of steel sharpened to an acute edge or angle, and resting on a smooth surface, serving as the axis of motion of a pendulum, scale beam, or other piece required to oscillate with the least possible friction.	
knifeboard		A board on which knives are cleaned or polished.	
knifeedge		A piece of steel sharpened to an acute edge or angle, and resting on a smooth surface, serving as the axis of motion of a pendulum, scale beam, or other piece required to oscillate with the least possible friction.	
knight		(a) In feudal times, a man-at-arms serving on horseback and admitted to a certain military rank with special ceremonies, including an oath to protect the distressed, maintain the right, and live a stainless life.	Middle English knighten.
knight-er-ratic		Pertaining to a knight-errant or to knight-errantry.	
knight-errant		A wandering knight; a knight who traveled in search of adventures, for the purpose of exhibiting military skill, prowess, and generosity.	
knight-errantry		The character or actions of wandering knights; the practice of wandering in quest of adventures; chivalry; a quixotic or romantic adventure or scheme.	
knightage		To body of knights, taken collectively.	
knighthead		A bollard timber. See under Bollard.	
knighthood		The character, dignity, or condition of a knight, or of knights as a class; hence, chivalry.	Middle English knighthod, from Old English cnihthad.
knightless	Obsolete	Unbecoming a knight.	
knightliness		The character or bearing suitable for a knight; chivalry.	
knightly		Of or pertaining to a knight; becoming a knight; chivalrous; as, a knightly combat; a knightly spirit.	Middle English knightly.
knit		To form into a knot, or into knots; to tie together, as cord; to fasten by tying.	Middle English knitten, from Old English cnyttan.
knitback		The plant comfrey; -- so called from its use as a restorative.	
knitch	Obsolete	A number of things tied or knit together; a bundle; a fagot.	
knitchet	Obsolete	A number of things tied or knit together; a bundle; a fagot.	
knits		Small particles of ore.	
knitster	English dialect	A woman who knits.	
knitter		One who, or that which, knits, joins, or unites; a knitting machine.	
knitting		The work of a knitter; the network formed by knitting.	
knittle	English dialect	A string that draws together a purse or bag.	
knives		of Knife. See Knife.	
knob		A hard protuberance; a hard swelling or rising; a bunch; a lump; as, a knob in the flesh, or on a bone.	Middle English knobbe, from Middle Low German knobbe.
knobbed		Containing knobs; full of knobs; ending in a nob. See Illust of Antenna.	
knobber		See Knobbler — the hart in its second year; a young deer.	
knobbing		Rough dressing by knocking off knobs or projections.	
knobbler		The hart in its second year; a young deer.	
knobby		Full of, or covered with, knobs or hard protuberances.	
knobkerrie		A short club with a knobbed end used as a missile weapon by Kafir and other native tribes of South Africa.	
knobstick		One who refuses to join, or withdraws from, a trades union.	
knock		To drive or be driven against something; to strike against something; to clash; as, one heavy body knocks against another.	
knock-knee		A condition in which the knees are bent in so as to touch each other in walking; inknee.	
knock-kneed		Having the legs bent inward so that the knees touch in walking.	
knock-off		That knocks off; of or pertaining to knocking off.	
knock-out		Act of knocking out, or state of being knocked out.	
knockabout		Marked by knocking about or roughness.	
knockdown	Colloquial	A felling by a knock, as of a combatant, or of an animal.	
knocker		One who, or that which, knocks; specifically, an instrument, or kind of hammer, fastened to a door, to be used in seeking for admittance.	
knocking		A beating; a rap; a series of raps.	
knockings		Large lumps picked out of the sieve, in dressing ore.	
knockstone		A block upon which ore is broken up.	
knoll		A little round hill; a mound; a small elevation of earth; the top or crown of a hill.	Old English cnoll.
knoller	Obsolete	One who tolls a bell.	
knop		(Arch.) Any boldly projecting sculptured ornament; esp., the ornamental termination of a pinnacle, and then synonymous with finial; -- called also knob, and knosp.	Old English cnoppa.
knopped	Obsolete	Having knops or knobs; fastened as with buttons.	
knoppern		A kind of gall produced by a gallfly on the cup of an acorn, -- used in tanning and dyeing.	
knopweed		Same as Knapweed.	
knor	Obsolete	See Knur — a knurl.	
knosp		Same as Knop,2.	
knot		(a) A fastening together of the pars or ends of one or more threads, cords, ropes, etc., by any one of various ways of tying or entangling.	
knotberry		The cloudberry (Rudus Chamæmorus); -- so called from its knotted stems.	
knotgrass		(a) a common weed with jointed stems (Polygonum aviculare); knotweed. (b) The dog grass.	
knotless		Free from knots; without knots.	
knotted		Full of knots; having knots knurled; as, a knotted cord; the knotted oak.	
knottiness		The quality or state of being knotty or full of knots.	
knotty		Full of knots; knotted; having many knots; as, knotty timber; a knotty rope.	
knotweed		See Knot — (a) A fastening together of the pars or ends of one or more threads, cords, ropes, etc., by any one of various ways of tying or entangling.	
knotwort		A small, herbaceous, trailing plant, of the genus Illecebrum (I. verticillatum.)	
knout		A kind of whip for flogging criminals, formerly much used in Russia.	
know		To perceive or apprehend clearly and certainly; to understand; to have full information of; as, to know one's duty.	Middle English knowen, from Old English cnawan.
know-all	Colloquial	One who knows everything; hence, one who makes pretension to great knowledge; a wiseacre; -- usually ironical.	
know-nothing		A member of a secret political organization in the United States, the chief objects of which were the proscription of foreigners by the repeal of the naturalization laws, and the exclusive choice of native Americans for office.	
know-nothingism		The doctrines, principles, or practices, of the Know-nothings.	
knowable		That may be known; capable of being discovered, understood, or ascertained.	
knowableness		The state or quality of being knowable.	
knower		One who knows.	
knowing		Skilful; well informed; intelligent; as, a knowing man; a knowing dog.	
knowingly		With knowledge; in a knowing manner; intelligently; consciously; deliberately; as, he would not knowingly offend.	
knowingness		The state or quality of being knowing or intelligent; shrewdness; skillfulness.	
knowleche		See Knowl, edge.	
knowleching	Obsolete	Knowledge.	
knowledge		The act or state of knowing; clear perception of fact, truth, or duty; certain apprehension; familiar cognizance; cognition.	Middle English knowleche.
known		of Know — to perceive or apprehend clearly and certainly; to understand; to have full information of; as, to know one's duty.	
knubs		Waste silk formed in winding off the threads from a cocoon.	
knuckle		The joint of a finger, particularly when made prominent by the closing of the fingers.	
knuckled	Obsolete	Jointed.	
knuff	Obsolete	A lout; a clown.	
knur		A knurl.	
knurl		A contorted knot in wood; a crossgrained protuberance; a nodule; a boss or projection.	
knurled		Full of knots; gnarled.	
knurly		Full of knots; hard; tough; hence, capable of enduring or resisting much.	
knurry	Obsolete	Full of knots.	
