koaita		Same as Coaita.	
koala		A tailless marsupial (Phascolarctos cinereus), found in Australia.	
kob		Any one of several species of African antelopes of the genus Kobus, esp. the species Kobus sing-sing.	
koba		Any one of several species of African antelopes of the genus Kobus, esp. the species Kobus sing-sing.	
kobalt		See Cobalt — (Chem.) A tough, lustrous, reddish white metal of the iron group, not easily fusible, and somewhat magnetic.	
kobellite		A blackish gray mineral, a sulphide of antimony, bismuth, and lead.	
kobold		A kind of domestic spirit in German mythology, corresponding to the Scottish brownie and the English Robin Goodfellow.	German Kobold.
kodak		A kind of portable camera.	
koel		Any one of several species of cuckoos of the genus Eudynamys, found in India, the East Indies, and Australia.	
koff		A two-masted Dutch vessel.	
koftgari		Ornamental work produced by inlaying steel with gold, -- a variety of damascening much used in the arts of India.	
kohinoor		A famous diamond, surrendered to the British crown on the annexation of the Punjab.	
kohl		A mixture of soot and other ingredients, used by Egyptian and other Eastern women to darken the edges of the eyelids.	
kohl-rabi		A variety of cabbage, in which the edible part is a large, turnip-shaped swelling of the stem, above the surface of the ground.	
kohnur		A famous diamond, surrendered to the British crown on the annexation of the Punjab.	
kokama		The gemsbok.	
koklass		Any pheasant of the genus Pucrasia.	
kokoon		The gnu.	
kola		Same as Cola, Cola nut.	
kolarian		An individual of one of the races of aboriginal inhabitants which survive in Hindostan. -- a.	
kolinsky		Among furriers, any of several Asiatic minks; esp., Putorius sibiricus, the yellowish brown pelt of which is valued, esp. for the tail, used for making artists' brushes.	Russian колонок.
koluschan		Designating, or pert. to, a linguistic stock of North American Indians comprising the Tlinkit tribes of the Alexander Archipelago of southeastern Alaska and adjacent coast lands.	
kolushan		Designating, or pert. to, a linguistic stock of North American Indians comprising the Tlinkit tribes of the Alexander Archipelago of southeastern Alaska and adjacent coast lands.	
komenic		Of or pertaining to, or designating, an acid derived from meconic acid.	
komtok		An African freshwater fish (Protopterus annectens), belonging to the Dipnoi.	
kon	Obsolete	To know. See Can, and Con.	
konite		See Conite — a magnesian variety of dolomite.	
konseal		A form of capsule for inclosing a dose of medicine that is offensive, caustic, or the like.	
konze		A large African antelope (Alcelaphus Lichtensteini), allied to the hartbeest, but having shorter and flatter horns, and lacking a black patch on the face.	
koodoo		A large South African antelope (Strepsiceros kudu).	Khoekhoe kudu-b.
kookoom		The oryx or gemsbok.	
koolokamba		A west African anthropoid ape (Troglodytes koolokamba, or T.	
koolslaa		See Coleslaw — a salad made of sliced cabbage.	
koord		See Kurd — a native or inhabitant of a mountainous region of Western Asia belonging to the Turkish and Persian monarchies.	
koordish		See Kurdish — of or pertaining to the Kurds.	
koorilian		Same as Kurilian.	
kop		Hill; mountain.	
kopeck		A small Russian coin.	
kopje		A hillock; a small kop.	
koran		The Scriptures of the Mohammedans, containing the professed revelations to Mohammed; -- called also Alcoran.	
korin		The gazelle.	
korrigum		A West African antelope (Damalis Senegalensis), allied to the sassaby.	
kosher		Ceremonially clean, according to Jewish law; --applied to food, esp. to meat of animals slaughtered according to the requirements of Jewish law.	Yiddish כּשר, from Hebrew כשר.
kosmos		See Cosmos — the universe or universality of created things; -- so called from the order and harmony displayed in it.	
kotow		The prostration made by mandarins and others to their superiors, either as homage or worship, by knocking the forehead on the ground.	
koulan		A wild horse (Equus, or Asinus, onager) inhabiting the plants of Central Asia; -- called also gour, khur, and onager.	
koumiss		An intoxicating fermented or distilled liquor originally made by the Tartars from mare's or camel's milk.	
kousso		An Abyssinian rosaceous tree (Brayera anthelmintica), the flowers of which are used as a vermifuge.	
kowtow		The same as Kotow.	
