kra		A long-tailed ape (Macacus cynomolgus) of India and Sumatra.	
kraal		A collection of huts within a stockade; a village; sometimes, a single hut.	
krait		A very venomous snake of India (Bungarus coeruleus), allied to the cobra.	Hindi करैत.
kraken		A fabulous Scandinavian sea monster, often represented as resembling an island, but sometimes as resembling an immense octopus.	
krakowiak		A lively Polish dance. See Cracovienne.	
krameria		A genus of spreading shrubs with many stems, from one species of which (K. triandra), found in Peru, rhatany root, used as a medicine, is obtained.	
krameric		Pertaining to, or derived from, Krameria (rhatany); as, krameric acid, usually called ratanhia-tannic acid.	
krang		The carcass of a whale after the blubber has been removed.	
kreatic		See Creatic — relating to, or produced by, flesh or animal food; as, creatic nausea.	
kreatin		See Creatin — a white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance found abundantly in muscle tissue.	
kreatinin		See Creatinin — a white, crystalline, nitrogenous body closely related to creatin but more basic in its properties, formed from the latter by the action of acids…	
kreel		See Creel — an osier basket, such as anglers use.	
kremlin		The citadel of a town or city; especially, the citadel of Moscow, a large inclosure which contains imperial palaces, cathedrals, churches, an arsenal, etc.	
krems		A variety of white lead. See Krems lead, under Lead, n.	
kreng		See Krang — the carcass of a whale after the blubber has been removed.	
kreosote		See Creosote — wood-tar oil; an oily antiseptic liquid, of a burning smoky taste, colorless when pure, but usually colored yellow or brown by impurity or exposure.	
kreutzer		A small copper coin formerly used in South Germany; also, a small Austrian copper coin.	German Kreuzer.
kriegsspiel		A game of war, played for practice, on maps.	
kris		A Malay dagger. See Creese.	Malay (macrolanguage keris.
krishna		The most popular of the Hindoo divinities, usually held to be the eighth incarnation of the god Vishnu.	
kritarchy		The rule of the judges over Israel.	
krokidolite		See Crocidolite — a mineral occuring in silky fibers of a lavender blue color.	
krone		A coin of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden, of the value of about twenty-eight cents.	
krooman		One of a negro tribe of Liberia and the adjacent coast, whose members are much employed on shipboard.	
kruller		See Cruller — a kind of sweet cake cut in strips and curled or twisted, and fried crisp in boiling fat.	
krumhorn		(a) A reed instrument of music of the cornet kind, now obsolete (see Cornet, 1, a.) (b) A reed stop in the organ; -- sometimes called cremona.	
krummhorn		(a) A reed instrument of music of the cornet kind, now obsolete (see Cornet, 1, a.) (b) A reed stop in the organ; -- sometimes called cremona.	
kruppize		To treat by, or subject to, the Krupp process.	
kryolite		See Cryolite — a fluoride of sodium and aluminum, found in Greenland, in white cleavable masses; -- used as a source of soda and alumina.	
krypton		An inert gaseous element of the argon group, occurring in air to the extent of about one volume in a million.	
