kuda		The East Indian tapir. See Tapir.	
kudos		Glory; fame; renown; praise.	Greek κῦδος.
kudu		See Koodoo — a large South African antelope (Strepsiceros kudu).	Khoekhoe kudu-b.
kufic		See Cufic — of or pertaining to the older characters of the Arabic language.	
kukang		The slow lemur. See Lemur.	
kuklux		The name adopted in the southern part of the United States by a secret political organization, active for several years after the close of the Civil War…	
kulan		See Koulan — a wild horse (Equus, or Asinus, onager) inhabiting the plants of Central Asia; -- called also gour, khur, and onager.	
kulturkampf		Lit., culture war; -- a name, originating with Virchow (1821 -- 1902), given to a struggle between the the Roman Catholic Church and the German government…	German Kulturkampf.
kumish		See Koumiss — an intoxicating fermented or distilled liquor originally made by the Tartars from mare's or camel's milk.	
kumiss		See Koumiss — an intoxicating fermented or distilled liquor originally made by the Tartars from mare's or camel's milk.	
kummel		A Russian and German liqueur, consisting of a sweetened spirit flavored with caraway seeds.	
kumquat		A small tree of the genus Citrus (C.	
kupfernickel		Copper-nickel; niccolite. See Niccolite.	
kurd		A native or inhabitant of a mountainous region of Western Asia belonging to the Turkish and Persian monarchies.	
kurdish		Of or pertaining to the Kurds.	
kurilian		Of or pertaining to the Kurile Islands, a chain of islands in the Pacific ocean, extending from the southern extremity of Kamschatka to Yesso. -- n.	
kuro-siwo		See Japan Current, above.	
kursaal		A public hall or room, for the use of visitors at watering places and health resorts in Germany.	German Kursaal.
kusimanse		A carnivorous animal (Crossarchus obscurus) of tropical Africa.	
kuskus		See Vetiver — an east Indian grass (Andropogon muricatus); also, its fragrant roots which are much used for making mats and screens.	
kussier		(Mus.) A Turkish instrument of music, with a hollow body covered with skin, over which five strings are stretched.	
kutauss		The India civet (Viverra zibetha).	
kutch		The packet of vellum leaves in which the gold is first beaten into thin sheets.	
