ky	Scots	Kine. See Kee, Kie, and Kine.	Middle English ky, from Old English cy.
kyack		A pack sack to be swung on either side of a packsaddle.	
kyanite		See Cyanite — a mineral occuring in thin-bladed crystals and crystalline aggregates, of a sky-blue color.	Greek κυανός.
kyanize		To render (wood) proof against decay by saturating with a solution of corrosive sublimate in open tanks, or under pressure.	
kyanol	Obsolete	(a) Aniline. (b) A base obtained from coal tar.	
kyanophyll		Same as Cyanophyll.	
kyar		Cocoanut fiber, or the cordage made from it. See Coir.	
kyd		p. p. of Kythe — to make known; to manifest; to show; to declare.	
kydde	Obsolete	imp. of Kythe, to show.	
kyke	Obsolete	To look steadfastly; to gaze.	
kyley		A variety of the boomerang.	
kyloes	Scots	The cattle of the Hebrides, or of the Highlands.	
kymnel	Obsolete	See Kimnel — a tub. See Kemelin.	
kymograph		An instrument for measuring, and recording graphically, the pressure of the blood in any of the blood vessels of a living animal; -- called also kymographion.	
kymographic		Of or pertaining to a kymograph; as, a kymographic tracing.	
kymric		See Cymric, a. & n.	
kymry		See Cymry — a collective term for the Welsh race; -- so called by themselves.	
kynrede	Obsolete	Kindred.	
kynurenic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from the urine of dogs.	
kyrie		See Kyrie eleison.	
kyrielle		A litany beginning with the words.	
kyriolexy		The use of literal or simple expressions, as distinguished from the use of figurative or obscure ones.	
kyriological		Serving to denote objects by conventional signs or alphabetical characters; as, the original Greek alphabet of sixteen letters was called kyriologic, because it represented the pure elementary sounds.	
kyriology		The use of literal or simple expressions, as distinguished from the use of figurative or obscure ones.	
kythe	Obs: or scot	To make known; to manifest; to show; to declare.	
kytomiton		See Karyomiton — the reticular network of fine fibers, of which the nucleus of a cell is in part composed; -- in opposition to kytomiton, or the network in the body of the cell.	
kytoplasma		See Karyoplasma — the protoplasmic substance of the nucleus of a cell: nucleoplasm; -- in opposition to kytoplasma, the protoplasm of the cell.	
