la		(a) A syllable applied to the sixth tone of the scale in music in solmization.
laager		A camp, esp. one with an inclosure of travelers' wagons for temporary defense.
laas	Obsolete	A lace. See Lace.
lab	Obsolete	To prate; to gossip; to babble; to blab.
labadist		A follower of Jean de Labadie, a religious teacher of the 17th century, who left the Roman Catholic Church and taught a kind of mysticism, and the obligation of community of property among Christians.
labarum		The standard adopted by the Emperor Constantine after his conversion to Christianity.
labdanum		See Ladanum — a gum resin gathered from certain Oriental species of Cistus.
labefaction		The act of labefying or making weak; the state of being weakened; decay; ruin.
labefy		To weaken or impair.
label		A slip of silk, paper, parchment, etc., affixed to anything, usually by an inscription, the contents, ownership, destination, etc.; as, the label of a bottle or a package.
labeler		One who labels.
labellum		(Bot.) The lower or apparently anterior petal of an orchidaceous flower, often of a very curious shape.
labent		Slipping; sliding; gliding.
labia		See Labium — a lip, or liplike organ.
labial		Of or pertaining to the lips or labia; as, labial veins.
labialism		The quality of being labial; as, the labialism of an articulation; conversion into a labial, as of a sound which is different in another language.
labialization		The modification of an articulation by contraction of the lip opening.
labialize		To modify by contraction of the lip opening.
labially		In a labial manner; with, or by means of, the lips.
labiate		To labialize.
labiated		Same as Labiate, a. (a).
labiatifloral		Having labiate flowers, as the snapdragon.
labidometer		A forceps with a measuring attachment for ascertaining the size of the fetal head.
labile	Obsolete	Liable to slip, err, fall, or apostatize.
lability	Archaic	Liability to lapse, err, or apostatize.
labimeter		See Labidometer — a forceps with a measuring attachment for ascertaining the size of the fetal head.
labiodental		Formed or pronounced by the cooperation of the lips and teeth, as f and v. -- n.
labionasal		Formed by the lips and the nose. -- n.
labioplasty		A plastic operation for making a new lip, or for replacing a lost tissue of a lip.
labiose		Having the appearance of being labiate; -- said of certain polypetalous corollas.
labipalp		A labial palp.
labipalpus		One of the labial palpi of an insect. See Illust. under Labium.
labium		A lip, or liplike organ.
lablab		an East Indian name for several twining leguminous plants related to the bean, but commonly applied to the hyacinth bean (Delichos Lablab).
labor		Physical toil or bodily exertion, especially when fatiguing, irksome, or unavoidable, in distinction from sportive exercise; hard, muscular effort directed to some useful end, as agriculture, manufactures, and like; servile toil…
labor-saving		Saving labor; adapted to supersede or diminish the labor of men; as, laborsaving machinery.
laborant	Obsolete	A chemist.
laboratory		The workroom of a chemist; also, a place devoted to experiments in any branch of natural science; as, a chemical, physical, or biological laboratory.
labored		Bearing marks of labor and effort; elaborately wrought; not easy or natural; as, labored poetry; a labored style.
laboredly		In a labored manner; with labor.
laborer		One who labors in a toilsome occupation; a person who does work that requires strength rather than skill, as distinguished from that of an artisan.
laboring		That labors; performing labor; esp., performing coarse, heavy work, not requiring skill also, set apart for labor; as, laboring days.
laborious		Requiring labor, perseverance, or sacrifices; toilsome; tiresome.
laborless		Not involving labor; not laborious; easy.
laborous	Obsolete	Laborious.
laborsome		(Naut.) Likely or inclined to roll or pitch, as a ship in a heavy sea; having a tendency to labor.
labrador		A region of British America on the Atlantic coast, north of Newfoundland.
labradorite		A kind of feldspar commonly showing a beautiful play of colors, and hence much used for ornamental purposes.
labret		A piece of wood, shell, stone, or other substance, worn in a perforation of the lip or cheek by many savages.
labroid		Like the genus Labrus; belonging to the family Labridæ, an extensive family of marine fishes, often brilliantly colored, which are very abundant in the Indian and Pacific Oceans.
labrose		Having thick lips.
labrum		(Zoöl.) (a) An organ in insects and crustaceans covering the upper part of the mouth, and serving as an upper lip.
labrus		A genus of marine fishes, including the wrasses of Europe. See Wrasse.
laburnic		Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the laburnum.
laburnine		A poisonous alkaloid found in the unripe seeds of the laburnum.
laburnum		A small leguminous tree (Cytisus Laburnum), native of the Alps.
labyrinth		An edifice or place full of intricate passageways which render it difficult to find the way from the interior to the entrance; as, the Egyptian and Cretan labyrinths.
labyrinthal		Pertaining to, or resembling, a labyrinth; intricate; labyrinthian.
labyrinthian		Intricately winding; like a labyrinth; perplexed; labyrinthal.
labyrinthibranch		Of or pertaining to the Labyrinthici. -- n.
labyrinthic		Like or pertaining to a labyrinth.
labyrinthical		Like or pertaining to a labyrinth.
labyrinthici		An order of teleostean fishes, including the Anabas, or climbing perch, and other allied fishes.
labyrinthiform		Having the form of a labyrinth; intricate.
labyrinthine		Pertaining to, or like, a labyrinth; labyrinthal.
labyrinthodon		A genus of very large fossil amphibians, of the Triassic period, having bony plates on the under side of the body.
labyrinthodont		Of or pertaining to the Labyrinthodonta. -- n.
labyrinthodonta		An extinct order of Amphibia, including the typical genus Labyrinthodon, and many other allied forms, from the Carboniferous, Permian, and Triassic formations.
lac		One hundred thousand; also, a vaguely great number; as, a lac of rupees.
laccic		Pertaining to lac, or produced from it; as, laccic acid.
laccin		A yellow amorphous substance obtained from lac.
laccolite		A mass of igneous rock intruded between sedimentary beds and resulting in a mammiform bulging of the overlying strata. -- Lac`co*lit"ic, a.
laccolith		A mass of igneous rock intruded between sedimentary beds and resulting in a mammiform bulging of the overlying strata. -- Lac`co*lit"ic, a.
lace		That which binds or holds, especially by being interwoven; a string, cord, or band, usually one passing through eyelet or other holes, and used in drawing and holding together parts of a garment, of a shoe, of a machine belt…
lace-bark		A shrub in the West Indies (Lagetta Iintearia); -- so called from the lacelike layers of its inner bark.
lace-winged		Having thin, transparent, reticulated wings; as, the lace- winged flies.
laced		Fastened with a lace or laces; decorated with narrow strips or braid. See Lace, v. t.
lacedaemonian		Of or pertaining to Lacedæmon or Sparta, the chief city of Laconia in the Peloponnesus. -- n.
laceman		A man who deals in lace.
lacerable		That can be lacerated or torn.
lacerate		To tear; to rend; to separate by tearing; to mangle; as, to lacerate the flesh.
lacerated		Rent; torn; mangled; as, a lacerated wound.
laceration		A breach or wound made by lacerating.
lacerative		Lacerating, or having the power to lacerate; as, lacerative humors.
lacert	Obsolete	A muscle of the human body.
lacerta		(Astron.) The Lizard, a northern constellation.
lacertian		Like a lizard; of or pertaining to the Lacertilia. -- n.
lacertilia		An order of Reptilia, which includes the lizards.
lacertilian		Same as Lacertian.
lacertiloid		Like or belonging to the Lacertilia.
lacertine		Lacertian.
lacertus		A bundle or fascicle of muscular fibers.
lacewing		Any one of several species of neuropterous insects of the genus Chrysopa and allied genera.
lache		Neglect; negligence; remissness; neglect to do a thing at the proper time; delay to assert a claim.
laches		Neglect; negligence; remissness; neglect to do a thing at the proper time; delay to assert a claim.
lachrymable		Lamentable.
lachrymal		Of or pertaining to tears; as, lachrymal effusions.
lachrymals	Colloquial	Tears; also, lachrymal feelings or organs.
lachrymary		Containing, or intended to contain, tears; lachrymal.
lachrymate		To weep.
lachrymation		The act of shedding tears; weeping.
lachrymatory		A a narrow-necked vessel found in sepulchers of the ancient Romans; -- so called from a former notion that the tears of the deceased person's friends were collected in it.
lachrymiform		Having the form of a tear; tear-shaped.
lachrymose		Generating or shedding tears; given to shedding tears; suffused with tears; tearful.
lacing		The act of securing, fastening, or tightening, with a lace or laces.
lacinia		(Bot.) (a) One of the narrow, jagged, irregular pieces or divisions which form a sort of fringe on the borders of the petals of some flowers.
laciniate		Fringed; having a fringed border.
laciniated		Fringed; having a fringed border.
laciniolate		Consisting of, or abounding in, very minute laciniæ.
lacinula		A diminutive lacinia.
lack		Deficiency; want; need; destitution; failure; as, a lack of sufficient food.
lackadaisical		Affectedly pensive; languidly sentimental. -- Lack`a*dai"si*cal*ly, adv.
lackadaisy		An expression of languor.
lackaday		Alack the day; alas; -- an expression of sorrow, regret, dissatisfaction, or surprise.
lackbrain		One who is deficient in understanding; a witless person.
lacker		One who lacks or is in want. See Lacquer.
lackey		An attending male servant; a footman; a servile follower.
lackluster		A want of luster. -- a.
lacklustre		A want of luster. -- a.
lacmus		See Litmus — a dyestuff extracted from certain lichens (Roccella tinctoria, Lecanora tartarea, etc.)…
laconian		Of or pertaining to Laconia, a division of ancient Greece; Spartan. -- n.
laconic		Expressing much in few words, after the manner of the Laconians or Spartans; brief and pithy; brusque; epigrammatic.
laconical		Expressing much in few words, after the manner of the Laconians or Spartans; brief and pithy; brusque; epigrammatic.
laconically		In a laconic manner.
laconicism		Same as Laconism.
laconism		A vigorous, brief manner of expression; laconic style.
laconize		To imitate the manner of the Laconians, especially in brief, pithy speech, or in frugality and austerity.
lacquer		A varnish, consisting of a solution of shell-lac in alcohol, often colored with gamboge, saffron, or the like; -- used for varnishing metals, papier-maché, and wood.
lacquerer		One who lacquers, especially one who makes a business of lacquering.
lacquering		The act or business of putting on lacquer; also, the coat of lacquer put on.
lacrimoso		Plaintive; -- a term applied to a mournful or pathetic movement or style.
lacrosse		A game of ball, originating among the North American Indians, now the popular field sport of Canada, and played also in England and the United States.
lacrymal		See Lachrymatory, n., and Lachrymal, a.
lacrymary		See Lachrymary, Lachrymatory, Lachrymose.
lacrymose		See Lachrymary, Lachrymatory, Lachrymose.
lacrytory		See Lachrymary, Lachrymatory, Lachrymose.
lactage		The produce of animals yielding milk; milk and that which is made from it.
lactam		One of a series of anhydrides of an amido type, analogous to the lactones, as oxindol.
lactamic		Pertaining to, or designating, an amido acid related to lactic acid, and called also amido-propionic acid.
lactamide		An acid amide derived from lactic acid, and obtained as a white crystalline substance having a neutral reaction.
lactant		Suckling; giving suck.
lactarene		A preparation of casein from milk, used in printing calico.
lactary	Obsolete	Milky; full of white juice like milk. a dairyhouse.
lactate		A salt of lactic acid.
lactation		A giving suck; the secretion and yielding of milk by the mammary gland.
lacteal		Pertaining to, or resembling, milk; milky; as, the lacteal fluid.
lacteally		Milkily; in the manner of milk.
lactean		Milky; consisting of, or resembling, milk.
lacteous		Milky; resembling milk.
lacteously		In a lacteous manner; after the manner of milk.
lactescence		The state or quality of producing milk, or milklike juice; resemblance to milk; a milky color.
lactescent		(Bot.) Producing milk or a milklike juice or fluid, as the milkweed. See Latex.
lactic		Of or pertaining to milk; procured from sour milk or whey; as, lactic acid; lactic fermentation, etc. Lactic acid (Physiol. Chem.), a sirupy, colorless fluid, soluble in water…
lactide		A white, crystalline substance, obtained from also, by extension, any similar substance.
lactiferous		Bearing or containing milk or a milky fluid; as, the lactiferous vessels, cells, or tissue of various vascular plants.
lactific		Producing or yielding milk.
lactifical		Producing or yielding milk.
lactifuge		A medicine to check the secretion of milk, or to dispel a supposed accumulation of milk in any part of the body.
lactim		One of a series of anhydrides resembling the lactams, but of an imido type; as, isatine is a lactim.
lactimide		A white, crystalline substance obtained as an anhydride of alanine, and regarded as an imido derivative of lactic acid.
lactin		See Lactose — (Physiol. Chem.) Sugar of milk or milk sugar; a crystalline sugar present in milk, and separable from the whey by evaporation and crystallization.
lactoabumin		The albumin present on milk, apparently identical with ordinary serum albumin.
lactobutyrometer		An instrument for determining the amount of butter fat contained in a given sample of milk.
lactodensimeter		A form of hydrometer, specially graduated, for finding the density of milk, and thus discovering whether it has been mixed with water or some of the cream has been removed.
lactometer		An instrument for estimating the purity or richness of milk, as a measuring glass, a specific gravity bulb, or other apparatus.
lactone		One of a series of organic compounds, regarded as anhydrides of certain hydroxy acids.
lactonic		Of, pertaining to, or derived from, lactone.
lactoprotein		A peculiar albuminous body considered a normal constituent of milk.
lactory	Obsolete	Lactiferous.
lactoscope		An instrument for estimating the amount of cream contained in milk by ascertaining its relative opacity.
lactose		(Physiol. Chem.) Sugar of milk or milk sugar; a crystalline sugar present in milk, and separable from the whey by evaporation and crystallization.
lactuca		A genus of composite herbs, several of which are cultivated foe salad; lettuce.
lactucarium		The inspissated juice of the common lettuce, sometimes used as a substitute for opium.
lactucic		Pertaining to, or derived from, the juice of the Lactuca virosa; -- said of certain acids.
lactucin		A white, crystalline substance, having a bitter taste and a neutral reaction, and forming one of the essential ingredients of lactucarium.
lactucone		A white, crystalline, tasteless substance, found in the milky sap of species of Lactuca, and constituting an essential ingredient of lactucarium.
lacturamic		Pertaining to, or designating, an organic amido acid, which is regarded as a derivative of lactic acid and urea.
lactyl		An organic residue or radical derived from lactic acid.
lacuna		A small opening; a small pit or depression; a small blank space; a gap or vacancy; a hiatus.
lacunal		Pertaining to, or having, lacunæ; as, a lacunar circulation.
lacunar		Pertaining to, or having, lacunæ; as, a lacunar circulation. (a) The ceiling or under surface of any part, especially when it consists of compartments, sunk or hollowed without spaces or bands between the panels.
lacune		A lacuna.
lacunose		Furrowed or pitted; having shallow cavities or lacunæ; as, a lacunose leaf.
lacunous		Furrowed or pitted; having shallow cavities or lacunæ; as, a lacunose leaf.
lacustral		Found in, or pertaining to, lakes or ponds, or growing in them; as, lacustrine flowers.
lacustrine		Found in, or pertaining to, lakes or ponds, or growing in them; as, lacustrine flowers.
lacwork		Ornamentation by means of lacquer painted or carved, or simply colored, sprinkled with gold or the like; -- said especially of Oriental work of this kind.
lad		of Lead, to guide Chaucer.
ladanum		A gum resin gathered from certain Oriental species of Cistus.
ladde		of Lead, to guide.
ladder		A frame usually portable, of wood, metal, or rope, for ascent and descent, consisting of two side pieces to which are fastened cross strips or rounds forming steps.
laddie	Scots	A lad; a male sweetheart.
lade		To load; to put a burden or freight on or in; -- generally followed by that which receives the load, as the direct object.
lademan	Obsolete	One who leads a pack horse; a miller's servant.
laden		Loaded; freighted; burdened; as, a laden vessel; a laden heart.
ladied	Obsolete	Ladylike; not rough; gentle.
ladify	Obsolete	To make a lady of; to make ladylike.
ladin		A Romansch dialect spoken in some parts of Switzerland and the Tyrol.
lading		That which lades or constitutes a load or cargo; freight; burden; as, the lading of a ship.
ladino		One of the half-breed descendants of whites and Indians; a mestizo; -- so called throughout Central America.
ladkin		A little lad.
ladle		A cuplike spoon, often of large size, with a long handle, used in lading or dipping.
ladleful		A quantity sufficient to fill a ladle.
ladrone		A robber; a pirate; hence, loosely, a rogue or rascal.
lady		A woman who looks after the domestic affairs of a family; a mistress; the female head of a household.
lady-killer		A gallant who captivates the hearts of women.
lady-killing		The art or practice of captivating the hearts of women.
ladybird		Any one of numerous species of small beetles of the genus Coccinella and allied genera (family Coccinellidæ); -- called also ladybug, ladyclock, lady cow, lady fly, and lady beetle.
ladybug		Same as Ladybird.
ladyclock		See Ladyrird.
ladyfish		(a) A large, handsome oceanic fish (Albula vulpes), found both in the Atlantic and Pacific oceans; -- called also bonefish, grubber, French mullet, and macabé.
ladyhood		The state or quality of being a lady; the personality of a lady.
ladykin		A little lady; -- applied by the writers of Queen Elizabeth's time, in the abbreviated form Lakin, to the Virgin Mary.
ladylike		Like a lady in appearance or manners; well-bred.
ladylikeness		The quality or state of being ladylike.
ladylove		pl. (Bot.) The kidney vetch.
ladyship		The rank or position of a lady; -- given as a title (preceded by her or your.) Your ladyship shall observe their gravity.
laelaps		A genus of huge, carnivorous, dinosaurian reptiles from the Cretaceous formation of the United States.
laemmergeyer		See Lammergeir — a very large vulture (Gypaëtus barbatus), which inhabits the mountains of Southern Europe, Asia, and Northern Africa.
laemodipod		One of the Læmodipoda.
laemodipoda		A division of amphipod Crustacea, in which the abdomen is small or rudimentary and the legs are often reduced to five pairs.
laemodipodous		Of or pertaining to the Læmodipoda.
laevigate		Having a smooth surface, as if polished.
laevorotatory		Same as Levorotatory.
laevulose		See Levulose — a sirupy variety of sugar, rarely obtained crystallized, occurring widely in honey, ripe fruits, etc., and hence called also fruit sugar.
lafayette		(a) The dollar fish. (b) A market fish, the goody, or spot (Liostomus xanthurus), of the southern coast of the United States.
laft		of Leave — liberty granted by which restraint or illegality is removed; permission; allowance; license.
lafte		of Leave — liberty granted by which restraint or illegality is removed; permission; allowance; license.
lag		Last; long-delayed; -- obsolete, except in the phrase lag end.
lagan		See Ligan — goods sunk in the sea, with a buoy attached in order that they may be found again.
lagarto	Obsolete	An alligator.
lagena		The terminal part of the cochlea in birds and most reptiles; an appendage of the sacculus, corresponding to the cochlea, in fishes and amphibians.
lagenian		Like, or pertaining to, Lagena, a genus of Foraminifera having a straight, chambered shell.
lageniform		Shaped like a bottle or flask; flag-shaped.
lager		Lager beer.
laggard		Slow; sluggish; backward.
lagger		A laggard.
lagging		(Mach.) The clothing (esp., an outer, wooden covering), as of a steam cylinder, applied to prevent the radiation of heat; a covering of lags; -- called also deading and cleading.
laggingly		In a lagging manner; loiteringly.
lagly	English dialect	Laggingly.
lagnappe		In Louisiana, a trifling present given to customers by tradesmen; a gratuity.
lagniappe		In Louisiana, a trifling present given to customers by tradesmen; a gratuity.
lagomorph		One of the Lagomorpha.
lagomorpha		A group of rodents, including the hares.
lagoon		A shallow sound, channel, pond, or lake, especially one into which the sea flows; as, the lagoons of Venice.
lagophthalmia		A morbid condition in which the eye stands wide open, giving a peculiar staring appearance.
lagophthalmos		A morbid condition in which the eye stands wide open, giving a peculiar staring appearance.
lagopous		Having a dense covering of long hair, like the foot of a hare.
lagthing		See Legislatature, below.
lagune		See Lagoon — a shallow sound, channel, pond, or lake, especially one into which the sea flows; as, the lagoons of Venice.
laic		Of or pertaining to a layman or the laity.
laical		Of or pertaining to a layman or the laity.
laicality		The state or quality of being laic; the state or condition of a layman.
laically		As a layman; after the manner of a layman; as, to treat a matter laically.
laid		of Lay — of or pertaining to the laity, as distinct from the clergy; as, a lay person; a lay preacher; a lay brother.
laidly	English dialect	Ugly; loathsome.
lain		of Lie, v. i.
lainere	Obsolete	See Lanier — a thong of leather; a whip lash.
lair		A place in which to lie or rest; especially, the bed or couch of a wild beast.
laird	Scots	A lord; a landholder, esp. one who holds land directly of the crown.
lairdship	Scots	The state of being a laird; an estate; landed property.
laism		See Lamaism — a modified form of Buddhism which prevails in Thibet, Mongolia, and some adjacent parts of Asia; -- so called from the name of its priests.
laity		The people, as distinguished from the clergy; the body of the people not in orders.
lakao		Sap green.
lake	Obsolete	A pigment formed by combining some coloring matter, usually by precipitation, with a metallic oxide or earth, esp. with aluminium hydrate; as, madder lake; Florentine lake; yellow lake, etc. A kind of fine white linen…
lake-dweller		See Lake dwellers, under Lake.
lakelet		A little lake.
laker		(a) One of the poets of the Lake school. See Lake poets, under Lake, n.
lakeweed		The water pepper (Polygonum Hydropiper), an aquatic plant of Europe and North America.
lakh		One hundred thousand; also, a vaguely great number; as, a lac of rupees.
lakin		See Ladykin — a little lady; -- applied by the writers of Queen Elizabeth's time, in the abbreviated form Lakin, to the Virgin Mary.
lakke	Obsolete	See Lack — deficiency; want; need; destitution; failure; as, a lack of sufficient food.
laky		Pertaining to a lake.
lallation		An imperfect enunciation of the letter r, in which it sounds like l.
lalo		The powdered leaves of the baobab tree, used by the Africans to mix in their soup, as the southern negroes use powdered sassafras.
lam	Obsolete	To beat soundly; to thrash.
lama		See Llama — a south American ruminant (Auchenia llama), allied to the camels, but much smaller and without a hump.
lamaic		Of or pertaining to Lamaism.
lamaism		A modified form of Buddhism which prevails in Thibet, Mongolia, and some adjacent parts of Asia; -- so called from the name of its priests.
lamaist		One who believes in Lamaism.
lamaistic		Of or pertaining to Lamaism.
lamaite		One who believes in Lamaism.
lamantin		The manatee.
lamarckian		Pertaining to, or involved in, the doctrines of Lamarckianism.
lamarckianism		Lamarckism.
lamarckism		The theory that structural variations, characteristic of species and genera, are produced in animals and plants by the direct influence of physical environments, and esp., in the case of animals, by effort…
lamb		(Zoöl.) The young of the sheep.
lambale		A feast at the time of shearing lambs.
lambaste	Low	To beat severely.
lambative		Taken by licking with the tongue.
lambda		The name of the Greek letter
lambdacism		A fault in speaking or in composition, which consists in too frequent use of the letter l, or in doubling it erroneously.
lambdoid		Shaped like the Greek letter lambda (as, the lambdoid suture between the occipital and parietal bones of the skull.
lambdoidal		Same as Lambdoid.
lambent		Playing on the surface; touching lightly; gliding over.
lambkill		A small American ericaceous shrub (Kalmia angustifolia); -- called also calfkill, sheepkill, sheep laurel…
lambkin		A small lamb.
lamblike		Like a lamb; gentle; meek; inoffensive.
lamboys		Same as Base, n., 19.
lambrequin		A kind of pendent scarf or covering attached to the helmet, to protect it from wet or heat.
lambskin		The skin of a lamb; especially, a skin dressed with the wool on, and used as a mat.
lambskinnet		See Lansquenet — a german foot soldier in foreign service in the 15th and 16th centuries; a soldier of fortune; -- a term used in France and Western Europe.
lamdoidal		Lambdoid.
lame		(a) Moving with pain or difficulty on account of injury, defect, or temporary obstruction of a function; as, a lame leg, arm, or muscle.
lamel		See Lamella — a thin plate or scale of anything, as a thin scale growing from the petals of certain flowers; or one of the thin plates or scales of which certain shells are composed.
lamella		a thin plate or scale of anything, as a thin scale growing from the petals of certain flowers; or one of the thin plates or scales of which certain shells are composed.
lamellar		Flat and thin; lamelliform; composed of lamellæ. -- Lam"el*lar*ly, adv.
lamellarly		Flat and thin; lamelliform; composed of lamellæ. -- Lam"el*lar*ly, adv.
lamellary		Of or pertaining to lamella or to lamellæ; lamellar.
lamellate		Composed of, or furnished with, thin plates or scales. See Illust. of Antennæ.
lamellated		Composed of, or furnished with, thin plates or scales. See Illust. of Antennæ.
lamellibranch		One of the Lamellibranchia.
lamellibranchia		A class of Mollusca including all those that have bivalve shells, as the clams, oysters, mussels, etc.
lamellibranchiata		A class of Mollusca including all those that have bivalve shells, as the clams, oysters, mussels, etc.
lamellibranchiate		Having lamellar gills; belonging to the Lamellibranchia. -- n.
lamellicorn		(a) Having antennæ terminating in a group of flat lamellæ; -- said of certain coleopterous insects.
lamellicornia		A group of lamellicorn, plant-eating beetles; -- called also Lamellicornes.
lamelliferous		Bearing, or composed of, lamellæ, or thin layers, plates, or scales; foliated.
lamelliform		Thin and flat; scalelike; lamellar.
lamellirostral		Having a lamellate bill, as ducks and geese.
lamellirostres		A group of birds embracing the Anseres and flamingoes, in which the bill is lamellate.
lamellose		Composed of, or having, lamellæ; lamelliform.
lamely		An a lame, crippled, disabled, or imperfect manner; as, to walk lamely; a figure lamely drawn.
lameness		The condition or quality of being lame; as, the lameness of an excuse or an argument.
lament		To express or feel sorrow; to weep or wail; to mourn.
lamentable		Mourning; sorrowful; expressing grief; as, a lamentable countenance.
lamentation		The act of bewailing; audible expression of sorrow; wailing; moaning.
lamented		Mourned for; bewailed.
lamenter		One who laments.
lamentin		See Lamantin — the manatee.
lamenting		Lamentation.
lamentingly		In a lamenting manner.
lames		Small steel plates combined together so as to slide one upon the form a piece of armor.
lametta		Foil or wire made of gold, silver, or brass.
lamia		A monster capable of assuming a woman's form, who was said to devour human beings or suck their blood; a vampire; a sorceress; a with.
lamina		A thin plate or scale; a laying over another; -- said of thin plates or platelike substances, as of bone or minerals.
laminability		The quality or state of being laminable.
laminable		Capable of being split into laminæ or thin plates, as mica; capable of being extended under pressure into a thin plate or strip.
laminal		In, or consisting of, thin plates or layers; having the form of a thin plate or lamina.
laminar		In, or consisting of, thin plates or layers; having the form of a thin plate or lamina.
laminaria		A genus of great seaweeds with long and broad fronds; kelp, or devil's apron.
laminarian		Pertaining to seaweeds of the genus Laminaria, or to that zone of the sea (from two to ten fathoms in depth) where the seaweeds of this genus grow.
laminarite		A broad-leafed fossil alga.
laminary		Laminar.
laminate		Consisting of, or covered with, laminæ, or thin plates, scales, or layers, one over another; laminated.
laminated		Laminate.
laminating		Forming, or separating into, scales or thin layers.
lamination		The process of laminating, or the state of being laminated.
laminiferous		Having a structure consisting of laminæ, or thin layers.
laminiplantar		Having the tarsus covered behind with a horny sheath continuous on both sides, as in most singing birds, except the larks.
laminitis		Inflammation of the laminæ or fleshy plates along the coffin bone of a horse; founder.
lamish		Somewhat lame.
lamm		See Lam — to beat soundly; to thrash.
lammas		The first day of August; -- called also Lammas day, and Lammastide.
lammergeier		A very large vulture (Gypaëtus barbatus), which inhabits the mountains of Southern Europe, Asia, and Northern Africa.
lammergeir		A very large vulture (Gypaëtus barbatus), which inhabits the mountains of Southern Europe, Asia, and Northern Africa.
lamnunguia		Same as Hyracoidea.
lamp		A light-producing vessel, instrument or apparatus; especially, a vessel with a wick used for the combustion of oil or other inflammable liquid, for the purpose of producing artificial light.
lamp-post		A post (generally a pillar of iron) supporting a lamp or lantern for lighting a street, park, etc.
lampad		A lamp or candlestick.
lampadist		One who gained the prize in the lampadrome.
lampadrome		A race run by young men with lighted torches in their hands.
lampas		An inflammation and swelling of the soft parts of the roof of the mouth immediately behind the fore teeth in the horse; -- called also lampers.
lampate	Obsolete	A supposed salt of lampic acid.
lampblack		The fine impalpable soot obtained from the smoke of carbonaceous substances which have been only partly burnt, as in the flame of a smoking lamp.
lampern		The river lamprey (Ammocoetes, or Lampetra, fluviatilis).
lampers		See Lampas — an inflammation and swelling of the soft parts of the roof of the mouth immediately behind the fore teeth in the horse; -- called also lampers.
lampic		Pertaining to, or produced by, a lamp; -- formerly said of a supposed acid.
lamping	Obsolete	Shining; brilliant.
lampless		Being without a lamp, or without light; hence, being without appreciation; dull.
lamplight		Light from a lamp.
lamplighter		One who, or that which, lights a lamp; esp., a person who lights street lamps.
lampoon		A personal satire in writing; usually, malicious and abusive censure written only to reproach and distress.
lampooner		The writer of a lampoon.
lampoonry		The act of lampooning; a lampoon, or lampoons.
lamprel		See Lamprey — an eel-like marsipobranch of the genus Petromyzon, and allied genera.
lamprey		An eel-like marsipobranch of the genus Petromyzon, and allied genera.
lampron		See Lamprey — an eel-like marsipobranch of the genus Petromyzon, and allied genera.
lampyrine		An insect of the genus Lampyris, or family Lampyridæ. See Lampyris.
lampyris		A genus of coleopterous insects, including the glowworms.
lanarkite		A mineral consisting of sulphate of lead, occurring either massive or in long slender prisms, of a greenish white or gray color.
lanary		A place for storing wool.
lanate		Wooly; covered with fine long hair, or hairlike filaments.
lanated		Wooly; covered with fine long hair, or hairlike filaments.
lancasterian		Of or pertaining to the monitorial system of instruction followed by Joseph Lancaster, of England, in which advanced pupils in a school teach pupils below them.
lance		A weapon of war, consisting of a long shaft or handle and a steel blade or head; a spear carried by horsemen, and often decorated with a small flag; also, a spear or harpoon used by whalers and fishermen.
lancegay		A kind of spear anciently used.
lancegaye		A kind of spear anciently used.
lancelet		A small fishlike animal (Amphioxus lanceolatus), remarkable for the rudimentary condition of its organs.
lancely		Like a lance.
lanceolar		Lanceolate.
lanceolate		Rather narrow, tapering to a point at the apex, and sometimes at the base also; as, a lanceolate leaf.
lanceolated		Rather narrow, tapering to a point at the apex, and sometimes at the base also; as, a lanceolate leaf.
lancepesade		An assistant to a corporal; a private performing the duties of a corporal; -- called also lance corporal.
lancer		One who lances; one who carries a lance; especially, a member of a mounted body of men armed with lances, attached to the cavalry service of some nations.
lancet		A surgical instrument of various forms, commonly sharp-pointed and two-edged, used in venesection, and in opening abscesses, etc.
lancewood		A tough, elastic wood, often used for the shafts of gigs, archery bows, fishing rods, and the like.
lanch		To throw, as a lance; to let fly; to launch. See Whose arm can lanch the surer bolt.
lanciferous		Bearing a lance.
lanciform		Having the form of a lance.
lancinate		To tear; to lacerate; to pierce or stab.
lancinating		Piercing; seeming to pierce or stab; as, lancinating pains (i.e., severe, darting pains).
lancination		A tearing; laceration.
land		The solid part of the surface of the earth; -- opposed to water as constituting a part of such surface, especially to oceans and seas; as, to sight land after a long voyage.
land-poor	Colloquial	Pecuniarily embarrassed through owning much unprofitable land.
landamman		A chief magistrate in some of the Swiss cantons.
landau		A four-wheeled covered vehicle, the top of which is divided into two sections which can be let down, or thrown back, in such a manner as to make an open carriage.
landaulet		A small landau.
landdrost		(a) A chief magistrate in rural districts.
landed		Consisting in real estate or land; as, landed property; landed security.
lander		One who lands, or makes a landing.
landfall		A sudden transference of property in land by the death of its owner.
landflood		An overflowing of land by river; an inundation; a freshet.
landgrave		A German nobleman of a rank corresponding to that of an earl in England and of a count in France.
landgraviate		The territory held by a landgrave.
landgravine		The wife of a landgrave.
landholder		A holder, owner, or proprietor of land. -- Land"hold`ing, n. & a.
landing		Of, pertaining to or used for, setting, bringing, or going, on shore.
landlady		A woman having real estate which she leases to a tenant or tenants.
landleaper		See Landlouper — a vagabond; a vagrant.
landless		Having no property in land.
landlock		To inclose, or nearly inclose, as a harbor or a vessel, with land.
landlocked		Inclosed, or nearly inclosed, by land.
landloper		Same as Landlouper.
landlord		The lord of a manor, or of land; the owner of land or houses which he leases to a tenant or tenants.
landlordism		The state of being a landlord; the characteristics of a landlord; specifically, in Great Britain, the relation of landlords to tenants, especially as regards leased agricultural lands.
landlordry	Obsolete	The state of a landlord.
landlouper		A vagabond; a vagrant.
landlouping		Vagrant; wandering about.
landlubber		One who passes his life on land; -- so called among seamen in contempt or ridicule.
landman		A man who lives or serves on land; -- opposed to seaman.
landmark		A mark to designate the boundary of land; any, mark or fixed object (as a marked tree, a stone, a ditch, or a heap of stones) by which the limits of a farm, a town, or other portion of territory may be known and preserved.
landowner		An owner of land.
landowning		The owning of land. -- a.
landreeve		A subordinate officer on an extensive estate, who acts as an assistant to the steward.
landscape		A portion of land or territory which the eye can comprehend in a single view, including all the objects it contains.
landscapist		A painter of landscapes.
landskip	Obsolete	A landscape.
landslide		The slipping down of a mass of land from a mountain, hill, etc.
landslip		The slipping down of a mass of land from a mountain, hill, etc.
landsman		One who lives on the land; -- opposed to seaman.
landsthing		See Legislature, below.
landstorm		See Varnpligtige.
landstreight	Obsolete	A narrow strip of land.
landsturm		That part of the reserve force in Germany which is called out last.
landtag		The diet or legislative body; as, the Landtag of Prussia.
landtrost		(a) A chief magistrate in rural districts.
landwaiter		See Landing waiter, under Landing, a.
landward		Toward the land.
landwehr		That part of the army, in Germany and Austria, which has completed the usual military service and is exempt from duty in time of peace, except that it is called out occasionally for drill.
lane	Scots	Alone His lane, by himself; himself alone.
langaha		A curious colubriform snake of the genus Xyphorhynchus, from Madagascar.
langarey		One of numerous species of long-winged, shrikelike birds of Australia and the East Indies, of the genus Artamus, and allied genera; called also wood swallow.
langate		A linen roller used in dressing wounds.
langdak		A wolf (Canis pallipes), found in India, allied to the jackal.
langrage		A kind of shot formerly used at sea for tearing sails and rigging.
langrel		A kind of shot formerly used at sea for tearing sails and rigging.
langret	Obsolete	A kind of loaded die.
langridge		See Langrage — a kind of shot formerly used at sea for tearing sails and rigging.
langsyne	Scots	Long since; long ago.
langteraloo		An old game at cards. See Loo (a) Tatler.
language		Any means of conveying or communicating ideas; specifically, human speech; the expression of ideas by the voice; sounds, expressive of thought, articulated by the organs of the throat and mouth.
languaged		Having a language; skilled in language; -- chiefly used in composition.
languageless		Lacking or wanting language; speechless; silent.
langued		Tongued; having the tongue visible.
languente		In a languishing manner; pathetically.
languet		Anything resembling the tongue in form or office; specif., the slip of metal in an organ pipe which turns the current of air toward its mouth.
languid		Drooping or flagging from exhaustion; indisposed to exertion; without animation; weak; weary; heavy; dull.
languish		To become languid or weak; to lose strength or animation; to be or become dull, feeble or spiritless; to pine away; to wither or fade.
languisher		One who languishes.
languishing		Becoming languid and weak; pining; losing health and strength.
languishingly		In a languishing manner.
languishment		Tenderness of look or mien; amorous pensiveness.
languishness	Obsolete	Languishment.
languor		A state of the body or mind which is caused by exhaustion of strength and characterized by a languid feeling; feebleness; lassitude; laxity.
languorous	Obsolete	Producing, or tending to produce, languor; characterized by languor.
langure	Obsolete	To languish.
langya		One of several species of East Indian and Asiatic fresh-water fishes of the genus Ophiocephalus, remarkable for their power of living out of water, and for their tenacity of life; -- called also walking fishes.
laniard		See Lanyard — (Naut.) A short piece of rope or line for fastening something in ships; as, the lanyards of the gun ports, of the buoy, and the like; esp., pieces passing through the dead-eyes…
laniariform		Shaped like a laniary, or canine, tooth.
laniary		Lacerating or tearing; as, the laniary canine teeth.
laniate		To tear in pieces.
laniation		A tearing in pieces.
lanier	English dialect	A thong of leather; a whip lash.
laniferous		Bearing or producing wool.
lanifical		Working in wool.
lanifice	Obsolete	Anything made of wool.
lanigerous		Bearing or producing wool.
lanioid		Of or pertaining to the shrikes (family Laniidæ).
lank		Slender and thin; not well filled out; not plump; shrunken; lean.
lankiness		The condition or quality or being lanky.
lankly		In a lank manner.
lankness		The state or quality of being lank.
lanky		Somewhat lank.
lanner		A long-tailed falcon (Falco lanarius), of Southern Europe, Asia, and Northern Africa, resembling the American prairie falcon.
lanneret		A long-tailed falcon (Falco lanarius), of Southern Europe, Asia, and Northern Africa, resembling the American prairie falcon.
lanolin		A peculiar fatlike body, made up of cholesterin and certain fatty acids, found in feathers, hair, wool, and keratin tissues generally.
lanseh		The small, whitish brown fruit of an East Indian tree (Lansium domesticum).
lansquenet		A German foot soldier in foreign service in the 15th and 16th centuries; a soldier of fortune; -- a term used in France and Western Europe.
lantanium		See Lanthanum — a rare element of the group of the earth metals, allied to aluminium.
lantanum		See Lanthanum — a rare element of the group of the earth metals, allied to aluminium.
lantanuric		Pertaining to, or designating, a nitrogenous organic acid of the uric acid group, obtained by the decomposition of allantoin, and usually called allanturic acid.
lanterloo		An old name of loo (a).
lantern		Something inclosing a light, and protecting it from wind, rain, etc.; -- sometimes portable, as a closed vessel or case of horn, perforated tin, glass, oiled paper, or other material, having a lamp or candle within…
lantern-jawed		Having lantern jaws or long, thin jaws; as, a lantern-jawed person.
lanthanite		Hydrous carbonate of lanthanum, found in tabular while crystals.
lanthanum		A rare element of the group of the earth metals, allied to aluminium.
lanthopine		An alkaloid found in opium in small quantities, and extracted as a white crystalline substance.
lanthorn	Obsolete	See Lantern — something inclosing a light, and protecting it from wind, rain, etc.; -- sometimes portable, as a closed vessel or case of horn, perforated tin, glass, oiled paper, or other material…
lanuginose		Covered with down, or fine soft hair; downy.
lanuginous		Covered with down, or fine soft hair; downy.
lanugo		The soft woolly hair which covers most parts of the mammal fetus, and in man is shed before or soon after birth.
lanyard		(Naut.) A short piece of rope or line for fastening something in ships; as, the lanyards of the gun ports, of the buoy, and the like; esp., pieces passing through the dead-eyes, and used to extend shrouds, stays, etc.
lanyer		See Lanier — a thong of leather; a whip lash.
laocooen		(Sculp.) A marble group in the Vatican at Rome, representing the priest Laocoön, with his sons, infolded in the coils of two serpents, as described by Virgil.
laocoon		(Sculp.) A marble group in the Vatican at Rome, representing the priest Laocoön, with his sons, infolded in the coils of two serpents, as described by Virgil.
laodicean		Of or pertaining to Laodicea, a city in Phrygia Major; like the Christians of Laodicea; lukewarm in religion.
lap		The loose part of a coat; the lower part of a garment that plays loosely; a skirt; an apron.
lap-jointed		Having a lap joint, or lap joints, as many kinds of woodwork and metal work.
lap-welded		Having edges or ends united by a lap weld; as, a lap-welded pipe.
laparocele		A rupture or hernia in the lumbar regions.
laparotomy		A cutting through the walls of the abdomen, as in the Cæsarean section.
lapboard		A board used on the lap as a substitute for a table, as by tailors.
lapdog		A small dog fondled in the lap.
lapel		That part of a garment which is turned back; specifically, the lap, or fold, of the front of a coat in continuation of collar.
lapelled		Furnished with lapels.
lapful		As much as the lap can contain.
lapicide	Obsolete	A stonecutter.
lapidarian		Of or pertaining to stone; inscribed on stone; as, a lapidarian record.
lapidarious		Consisting of stones.
lapidary		An artificer who cuts, polishes, and engraves precious stones; hence, a dealer in precious stones.
lapidate	Obsolete	To stone.
lapidation	Obsolete	The act of stoning.
lapideous	Obsolete	Of the nature of stone; Ray.
lapidescence		The state or quality of being lapidescent.
lapidescent		Undergoing the process of becoming stone; having the capacity of being converted into stone; having the quality of petrifying bodies.
lapidific		Forming or converting into stone.
lapidifical		Forming or converting into stone.
lapidification		The act or process of lapidifying; fossilization; petrifaction.
lapidify		To convert into stone or stony material; to petrify.
lapidist		A lapidary.
lapillation		The state of being, or the act of making, stony.
lapilli		Volcanic ashes, consisting of small, angular, stony fragments or particles.
lapis		A stone.
laplander		A native or inhabitant of Lapland; -- called also Lapp.
laplandish		Of or pertaining to Lapland.
lapling		One who has been fondled to excess; one fond of ease and sensual delights; -- a term of contempt.
lapp		Same as Laplander.
lappaceous		Resembling the capitulum of burdock; covered with forked points.
lapper		One who takes up food or liquid with his tongue.
lappet		A small decorative fold or flap, esp, of lace or muslin, in a garment or headdress.
lappic		Of or pertaining to Lapland, or the Lapps. -- n.
lapping		A kind of machine blanket or wrapping material used by calico printers.
lappish		Of or pertaining to the Lapps; Laplandish. -- n.
lapponian		Laplandish; Lappish.
lapponic		Laplandish; Lappish.
lapps		A branch of the Mongolian race, now living in the northern parts of Norway, Sweden, and the adjacent parts of Russia.
lapsable		Lapsible.
lapse		A gliding, slipping, or gradual falling; an unobserved or imperceptible progress or passing away,; -- restricted usually to immaterial things, or to figurative uses.
lapsed		Having slipped downward, backward, or away; having lost position, privilege, etc., by neglect; -- restricted to figurative uses.
lapsible		Liable to lapse.
lapsided		See Lopsided — leaning to one side because of some defect of structure; as, a lopsided ship.
lapstone		A stone for the lap, on which shoemakers beat leather.
lapstrake		Made with boards whose edges lap one over another; clinker- built; -- said of boats.
lapstreak		Made with boards whose edges lap one over another; clinker- built; -- said of boats.
laputan		Of or pertaining to Laputa, an imaginary flying island described in Gulliver's Travels as the home of chimerical philosophers.
lapwing		A small European bird of the Plover family (Vanellus cristatus, or V. vanellus).
lapwork		Work in which one part laps over another.
laquay	Obsolete	A lackey.
laquear		A lacunar.
laqueary	Obsolete	Using a noose, as a gladiator.
lar		A tutelary deity; a deceased ancestor regarded as a protector of the family.
larboard		The left-hand side of a ship to one on board facing toward the bow; port; -- opposed to Ant: starboard.
larcener		One who commits larceny.
larcenist		One who commits larceny.
larcenous		Having the character of larceny; as, a larcenous act; committing larceny. -- Lar"ce*nous*ly, adv.
larceny		The unlawful taking and carrying away of things personal with intent to deprive the right owner of the same; theft.
larch		A genus of coniferous trees, having deciduous leaves, in fascicles (see Illust. of Fascicle).
larchen		Of or pertaining to the larch.
lard		The fat of swine, esp. the internal fat of the abdomen; also, this fat melted and strained.
lardacein		A peculiar amyloid substance, colored blue by iodine and sulphuric acid, occurring mainly as an abnormal infiltration into the spleen, liver, etc.
lardaceous		Consisting of, or resembling, lard.
larder		A room or place where meat and other articles of food are kept before they are cooked.
larderer		One in charge of the larder.
lardery	Obsolete	A larder.
lardon		A bit of fat pork or bacon used in larding.
lardoon		A bit of fat pork or bacon used in larding.
lardry	Obsolete	A larder.
lardy		Containing, or resembling, lard; of the character or consistency of lard.
lare	Obsolete	Lore; learning.
lares		See 1st Lar.
large		Exceeding most other things of like in bulk, capacity, quantity, superficial dimensions, or number of constituent units; big; great; capacious; extensive; -- opposed to small; as, a nlarge horse; a large house or room…
large-acred		Possessing much land.
large-handed		Having large hands, Fig.: Taking, or giving, in large quantities; rapacious or bountiful.
large-hearted		Having a large or generous heart or disposition; noble; liberal. -- Large"-heart`ed*ness, n.
largely		In a large manner.
largeness		The quality or state of being large.
largess		A present; a gift; a bounty bestowed.
largesse		A present; a gift; a bounty bestowed.
larget		A sport piece of bar iron for rolling into a sheet; a small billet.
larghetto		Somewhat slow or slowly, but not so slowly as largo, and rather more so than andante.
largifical	Obsolete	Generous; ample; liberal.
largifluous	Obsolete	Flowing copiously.
largiloquent	Obsolete	Grandiloquent.
largish	Colloquial	Somewhat large.
largition	Obsolete	The bestowment of a largess or gift.
largo		Slow or slowly; -- more so than adagio; next in slowness to grave, which is also weighty and solemn. -- n.
lariat		A long, slender rope made of hemp or strips of hide, esp. one with a noose; -- used as a lasso for catching cattle, horses, etc., and for picketing a horse so that he can graze without wandering.
larine		Of or pertaining to the Gull family (Laridæ).
larixinic		Of, or derived from, the larch (Larix); as, larixinic acid.
lark	Colloquial	A frolic; a jolly time.
lark-colored		Having the sandy brown color of the European larks.
larker	Colloquial	One who indulges in a lark or frolic.
larkspur		A genus of ranunculaceous plants (Delphinium), having showy flowers, and a spurred calyx.
larmier		See Tearpit — a cavity or pouch beneath the lower eyelid of most deer and antelope; the lachrymal sinus; larmier.
laroid		Like or belonging to the Gull family (Laridæ).
larrikin		A rowdy street loafer; a rowdyish or noisy ill-bred fellow; -- variously applied, as to a street blackguard, a street Arab, a youth given to horse-play, etc. -- a.
larrup	English dialect	To beat or flog soundly.
larry		Same as Lorry, or Lorrie.
larum		, See Alarum, and Alarm.
larva		(Zoöl.) Any young insect from the time that it hatches from the egg until it becomes a pupa, or chrysalis.
larval		Of or pertaining to a larva.
larvalia		An order of Tunicata, including Appendicularia, and allied genera; -- so called because certain larval features are retained by them through life.
larvate		Masked; hence, concealed; obscure; -- applied in medicine to doubtful cases of some diseases; as, larvate pneumonis; larvate epilepsy.
larvated		Masked; clothed as with a mask.
larve		A larva.
larviform		Having the form or structure of a larva.
larviparous		Depositing living larvæ, instead of eggs; -- said of certain insects.
lary	English dialect	A guillemot; -- called also lavy.
laryngeal		Of or pertaining to the larynx; adapted to operations on the larynx; as, laryngeal forceps.
laryngean		See Laryngeal — of or pertaining to the larynx; adapted to operations on the larynx; as, laryngeal forceps.
laryngectomy		Excision of the larynx.
laryngismus		A spasmodic state of the glottis, giving rise to contraction or closure of the opening.
laryngitis		Inflammation of the larynx.
laryngograph		An instrument for recording the larynx movements in speech.
laryngological		Of or pertaining to laryngology.
laryngologist		One who applies himself to laryngology.
laryngology		Systematized knowledge of the action and functions of the larynx; in pathology, the department which treats of the diseases of the larynx.
laryngophony		The sound of the voice as heard through a stethoscope when the latter is placed upon the larynx.
laryngoscope		An instrument, consisting of an arrangement of two mirrors, for reflecting light upon the larynx, and for examining its image.
laryngoscopic		Of or pertaining to the inspection of the larynx.
laryngoscopist		One skilled in laryngoscopy.
laryngoscopy		The art of using the laryngoscope; investigations made with the laryngoscope.
laryngotome		An instrument for performing laryngotomy.
laryngotomy		The operation of cutting into the larynx, from the outside of the neck, for assisting respiration when obstructed, or for removing foreign bodies.
laryngotracheal		Pertaining to both larynx and trachea; as, the laryngotracheal cartilage in the frog.
laryngotracheotomy		The operation of cutting into the larynx and the upper part of the trachea, -- a frequent operation for obstruction to breathing.
larynx		The expanded upper end of the windpipe or trachea, connected with the hyoid bone or cartilage.
las	Obsolete	A lace. See Lace.
lascar		A native sailor, employed in European vessels; also, a menial employed about arsenals, camps, camps, etc.; a camp follower.
lascious	Obsolete	Loose; lascivious.
lasciviency	Obsolete	Lasciviousness; wantonness.
lascivient	Obsolete	Lascivious.
lascivious		Wanton; lewd; lustful; as, lascivious men; lascivious desires.
laserwort		Any plant of the umbelliferous genus Laserpitium, of several species (as L. glabrum, and L. siler), the root of which yields a resinous substance of a bitter taste.
lash		The thong or braided cord of a whip, with which the blow is given.
lasher		One who whips or lashes.
lashing		The act of one who, or that which, lashes; castigation; chastisement.
lask	Obsolete	A diarrhea or flux.
lasket		latching.
lass		A youth woman; a girl; a sweetheart.
lassie	Scots	A young girl; a lass.
lassitude		A condition of the body, or mind, when its voluntary functions are performed with difficulty, and only by a strong exertion of the will; languor; debility; weariness.
lasslorn		Forsaken by a lass.
lasso		A rope or long thong of leather with, a running noose, used for catching horses, cattle, etc. Lasso cell (Zoöl.), one of a peculiar kind of defensive and offensive stinging cells, found in great numbers in all coelenterates…
last		Being after all the others, similarly classed or considered, in time, place, or order of succession; following all the rest; final; hindmost; farthest; as, the last year of a century; the last man in a line of soldiers…
lastage		The lading of a ship; also, ballast.
laste		of Last, to endure.
laster		A workman whose business it is to shape boots or shoes, or place leather smoothly, on lasts; a tool for stretching leather on a last.
lastery	Obsolete	A red color.
lasting		Existing or continuing a long while; enduring; as, a lasting good or evil; a lasting color.
lastingly		In a lasting manner.
lastly		In the last place; in conclusion.
lat	Obsolete	To let; to allow.
lata		A convulsive tic or hysteric neurosis prevalent among Malays, similar to or identical with miryachit and jumping disease…
latah		A convulsive tic or hysteric neurosis prevalent among Malays, similar to or identical with miryachit and jumping disease…
latakia		A superior quality of Turkish smoking tobacco, so called from the place where produced, the ancient Laodicea.
latch		A movable piece which holds anything in place by entering a notch or cavity; specifically, the catch which holds a door or gate when closed, though it be not bolted.
latchet		The string that fastens a shoe; a shoestring.
latching		A loop or eye formed on the head rope of a bonnet, by which it is attached to the foot of a sail; -- called also latch and lasket.
latchkey		A key used to raise, or throw back, the latch of a door, esp. a night latch.
latchstring	Colloquial	A string for raising the latch of a door by a person outside.
late		Coming after the time when due, or after the usual or proper time; not early; slow; tardy; long delayed; as, a late spring.
lated	Obsolete	Belated; too late.
lateen		Of or pertaining to a peculiar rig used in the Mediterranean and adjacent waters, esp. on the northern coast of Africa.
lately		Not long ago; recently; as, he has lately arrived from Italy.
latence		Latency.
latency		The state or quality of being latent.
lateness		The state, condition, or quality, of being late; as, the lateness of his arrival; the lateness of the hour; the lateness of the season.
latent		Not visible or apparent; hidden; springs of action.
latently		In a secret or concealed manner; invisibly.
later		A brick or tile.
laterad		Toward the side; away from the mesial plane; -- opposed to mesiad.
lateral		Of or pertaining to the sides; as, the lateral walls of a house; the lateral branches of a tree.
laterality		The state or condition of being lateral.
laterally		By the side; sidewise; toward, or from, the side.
lateran		The church and palace of St. John Lateran, the church being the cathedral church of Rome, and the highest in rank of all churches in the Catholic world.
latered	Obsolete	Inclined to delay; dilatory.
laterifolious		Growing from the stem by the side of a leaf; as, a laterifolious flower.
laterite		An argillaceous sandstone, of a red color, and much seamed; -- found in India.
lateritic		consisting of, containing, or characterized by, laterite; as, lateritic formations.
lateritious		Like bricks; of the color of red bricks.
lates		A genus of large percoid fishes, of which one species (Lates Niloticus) inhabits the Nile, and another (L. calcarifer
latescence		A slight withdrawal from view or knowledge.
latescent		Slightly withdrawn from view or knowledge; as, a latescent meaning.
latewake		See Lich wake, under Lich.
lateward	Obsolete	Somewhat late; backward.
latex		A milky or colored juice in certain plants in cavities (called latex cells or latex tubes).
lath		A thin, narrow strip of wood, nailed to the rafters, studs, or floor beams of a building, for the purpose of supporting the tiles, plastering, etc. A corrugated metallic strip or plate is sometimes used.
lath-shaped		Having a slender elongated form, like a lath; -- said of the feldspar of certain igneous rocks, as diabase, as seen in microscopic sections.
lathe		Formerly, a part or division of a county among the Anglo- Saxons.
lather		Foam or froth made by soap moistened with water.
lathereeve		Formerly, the head officer of a lathe. See 1st Lathe.
lathing		The act or process of covering with laths; laths, collectively; a covering of laths.
lathreeve		Formerly, the head officer of a lathe. See 1st Lathe.
lathwork		Same as Lathing.
lathy		Like a lath; long and slender.
latian		Belonging, or relating, to Latium, a country of ancient Italy. See Latin.
latibulize		To retire into a den, or hole, and lie dormant in winter; to retreat and lie hid.
latibulum		A concealed hiding place; a burrow; a lair; a hole.
laticiferous		Containing the latex; -- applied to the tissue or tubular vessels in which the latex of the plant is found.
laticlave		A broad stripe of purple on the fore part of the tunic, worn by senators in ancient Rome as an emblem of office.
laticostate		Broad-ribbed.
latidentate		Broad-toothed.
latifoliate		Having broad leaves.
latifolious		Having broad leaves.
latigo		A strap for tightening a saddle girth.
latimer	Obsolete	An interpreter.
latin		Of or pertaining to Latium, or to the Latins, a people of Latium; Roman; as, the Latin language.
latinism		A Latin idiom; a mode of speech peculiar to Latin; also, a mode of speech in another language, as English, formed on a Latin model.
latinist		One skilled in Latin; a Latin scholar.
latinistic		Of, pertaining to, or derived from, Latin; in the Latin style or idiom.
latinitaster		One who has but a smattering of Latin.
latinity		The Latin tongue, style, or idiom, or the use thereof; specifically, purity of Latin style or idiom.
latinization		The act or process of Latinizing, as a word, language, or country.
latinize		To give Latin terminations or forms to, as to foreign words, in writing Latin.
latinly	Obsolete	In the manner of the Latin language; in correct Latin.
lation	Obsolete	Transportation; conveyance.
latirostral		Having a broad beak.
latirostres		The broad-billed singing birds, such as the swallows, and their allies.
latirostrous		Having a broad beak.
latish	Colloquial	Somewhat late.
latisternal		Having a broad breastbone, or sternum; -- said of anthropoid apes.
latitancy		Act or state of lying hid, or lurking.
latitant		Lying hid; concealed; latent.
latitat		A writ based upon the presumption that the person summoned was hiding.
latitation	Obsolete	A lying in concealment; hiding.
latitude		Extent from side to side, or distance sidewise from a given point or line; breadth; width.
latitudinal		Of or pertaining to latitude; in the direction of latitude.
latitudinarian		Not restrained; not confined by precise limits.
latitudinarianism		A latitudinarian system or condition; freedom of opinion in matters pertaining to religious belief.
latitudinous		Having latitude, or wide extent.
latrant	Obsolete	Barking.
latrate	Obsolete	To bark as a dog.
latration	Obsolete	A barking.
latreutical	Obsolete	Acting as a hired servant; serving; ministering; assisting.
latria		The highest kind of worship, or that paid to God; -- distinguished by the Roman Catholics from dulia, or the inferior worship paid to saints.
latrine		A privy, or water-closet, esp. in a camp, hospital, etc.
latrociny	Obsolete	Theft; larceny.
latten		A kind of brass hammered into thin sheets, formerly much used for making church utensils, as candlesticks, crosses, etc.; -- called also latten brass.
latter		Later; more recent; coming or happening after something else; -- opposed to former; as, the former and latter rain.
latterday		Belonging to present times or those recent by comparison.
latterkin		A pointed wooden tool used in glazing leaden lattice.
latterly		Lately; of late; recently; at a later, as distinguished from a former, period.
lattermath		The latter, or second, mowing; the aftermath.
lattice		Any work of wood or metal, made by crossing laths, or thin strips, and forming a network; as, the lattice of a window; -- called also latticework.
latticework		Same as Lattice, n., 1.
latticing		(Bridge Building) A system of bars crossing in the middle to form braces between principal longitudinal members, as of a strut.
laud		High commendation; praise; honor; exaltation; glory.
laudability		Laudableness; praiseworthiness.
laudable		Worthy of being lauded; praiseworthy; commendable; as, laudable motives; laudable actions; laudable ambition.
laudableness		The quality of being laudable; praiseworthiness; commendableness.
laudably		In a laudable manner.
laudanine		A white organic base, resembling morphine, and obtained from certain varieties of opium.
laudanum		Tincture of opium, used for various medical purposes.
laudation		The act of lauding; praise; high commendation.
laudative	Obsolete	Laudatory.
laudator		One who lauds.
laudatory		Of or pertaining praise, or to the expression of praise; as, laudatory verses; the laudatory powers of Dryden.
lauder		One who lauds.
laugh		To show mirth, satisfaction, or derision, by peculiar movement of the muscles of the face, particularly of the mouth, causing a lighting up of the face and eyes…
laughable		Fitted to excite laughter; as, a laughable story; a laughable scene.
laugher		One who laughs.
laughing		from Laugh, v. i.
laughingly		With laughter or merriment.
laughingstock		An object of ridicule; a butt of sport.
laughsome		Exciting laughter; also, addicted to laughter; merry.
laughter		A movement (usually involuntary) of the muscles of the face, particularly of the lips, with a peculiar expression of the eyes, indicating merriment, satisfaction, or derision…
laughterless		Not laughing; without laughter.
laughworthy		Deserving to be laughed at.
laumontite		A mineral, of a white color and vitreous luster.
launce	Obsolete	A lance.
launcegaye	Obsolete	See Langegaye.
launch		To throw, as a lance or dart; to hurl; to let fly.
laund	Obsolete	A plain sprinkled with trees or underbrush; a glade.
launder		(Mining) A trough used by miners to receive the powdered ore from the box where it is beaten, or for carrying water to the stamps, or other apparatus, for comminuting, or sorting, the ore.
launderer		One who follows the business of laundering.
laundering		The act, or occupation, of one who launders; washing and ironing.
laundress	Obsolete	A woman whose employment is laundering.
laundry		A place or room where laundering is done.
laundryman		A man who follows the business of laundering.
laura		A number of hermitages or cells in the same neighborhood occupied by anchorites who were under the same superior.
lauraceous		Belonging to, or resembling, a natural order (Lauraceæ) of trees and shrubs having aromatic bark and foliage, and including the laurel, sassafras, cinnamon tree, true camphor tree, etc.
laurate		A salt of lauric acid.
laureate	Obsolete	Crowned, or decked, with laurel.
laureateship		State, or office, of a laureate.
laureation		The act of crowning with laurel; the act of conferring an academic degree, or honorary title.
laurel		(Bot.) An evergreen shrub, of the genus Laurus (L. nobilis), having aromatic leaves of a lanceolate shape, with clusters of small, yellowish white flowers in their axils; -- called also sweet bay.
laureled		Crowned with laurel, or with a laurel wreath; laureate.
laurentian		Pertaining to, or near, the St. Lawrence River; as, the Laurentian hills.
laurestine		The Viburnum Tinus, an evergreen shrub or tree of the south of Europe, which flowers during the winter mouths.
lauric		Pertaining to, or derived from, the European bay or laurel (Laurus nobilis).
lauriferous		Producing, or bringing, laurel.
laurin		A white crystalline substance extracted from the fruit of the bay (Laurus nobilis), and consisting of a complex mixture of glycerin ethers of several organic acids.
laurinol		Ordinary camphor; -- so called in allusion to the family name (Lauraceæ) of the camphor trees.
lauriol	Obsolete	Spurge laurel.
laurite		A rare sulphide of osmium and ruthenium found with platinum in Borneo and Oregon.
laurone		The ketone of lauric acid.
laurus		A genus of trees including, according to modern authors, only the true laurel (Laurus nobilis), and the larger L.
lautverschiebung		(a) The regular changes which the primitive Indo-European stops, or mute consonants, underwent in the Teutonic languages, probably as early as the 3d century b. c., often called the first Lautverschiebung, sound shifting…
lava		The melted rock ejected by a volcano from its top or fissured sides.
lavalliere		A neck ornament consisting of a chain and single pendant, or drop.
lavaret		A European whitefish (Coregonus laveretus), found in the mountain lakes of Sweden, Germany, and Switzerland.
lavatic		Like lava, or composed of lava; lavic.
lavation	Obsolete	A washing or cleansing.
lavatory		A place for washing.
lavature	Obsolete	A wash or lotion.
lave	Obsolete	To wash; to bathe; as, to lave a bruise.
lave-eared	Obsolete	Having large, pendent ears.
laveer	Obsolete	To beat against the wind; to tack.
lavement		A washing or bathing; also, a clyster.
lavender		(Bot.) An aromatic plant of the genus Lavandula (L. vera), common in the south of Europe.
laver		A vessel for washing; a large basin.
laverock		The lark.
lavic		See Lavatic — like lava, or composed of lava; lavic.
lavish		Expending or bestowing profusely; profuse; prodigal; as, lavish of money; lavish of praise.
lavisher		One who lavishes.
lavishly		In a lavish manner.
lavishment		The act of lavishing.
lavishness		The quality or state of being lavish.
lavoesium		A supposed new metallic element.
lavolt		An old dance, for two persons, being a kind of waltz, in which the woman made a high spring or bound.
lavolta		An old dance, for two persons, being a kind of waltz, in which the woman made a high spring or bound.
lavoltateer		A dancer of the lavolta.
lavour	Obsolete	A laver.
lavrock		Same as Laverock.
law		In general, a rule of being or of conduct, established by an authority able to enforce its will; a controlling regulation; the mode or order according to which an agent or a power acts.
law-abiding		Abiding the law; waiting for the operation of law for the enforcement of rights; also, abiding by the law; obedient to the law; as, law-abiding people.
lawbreaker		One who disobeys the law; a criminal. -- Law"break`ing, n. & a.
lawe		To cut off the claws and balls of, as of a dog's fore feet.
lawer	Obsolete	A lawyer.
lawful		Conformable to law; allowed by law; legitimate; competent.
lawgiver		One who makes or enacts a law or system of laws; a legislator.
lawgiving		Enacting laws; legislative.
lawing		Going to law; litigation.
lawless		Contrary to, or unauthorized by, law; illegal; as, a lawless claim.
lawmaker		A legislator; a lawgiver.
lawmaking		Enacting laws; legislative. -- n.
lawmonger		A trader in law; one who practices law as if it were a trade.
lawn		An open space between woods.
lawnd		See Laund — a plain sprinkled with trees or underbrush; a glade.
lawny		Having a lawn; characterized by a lawn or by lawns; like a lawn.
lawsonia		An Asiatic and North African shrub (Lawsonia inermis), with smooth oval leaves, and fragrant white flowers.
lawsuit		An action at law; a suit in equity or admiralty; any legal proceeding before a court for the enforcement of a claim.
lawyer		One versed in the laws, or a practitioner of law; one whose profession is to conduct lawsuits for clients, or to advise as to prosecution or defence of lawsuits, or as to legal rights and obligations in other matters.
lawyerlike		Like, or becoming, a lawyer; as, lawyerlike sagacity.
lawyerly		Like, or becoming, a lawyer; as, lawyerlike sagacity.
lax		Not tense, firm, or rigid; loose; slack; as, a lax bandage; lax fiber.
laxation		The act of loosening or slackening, or the state of being loosened or slackened.
laxative		(Med.) Having the effect of loosening or opening the intestines, and relieving from constipation; -- opposed to astringent. -- n.
laxativeness		The quality of being laxative.
laxator		That which loosens; -- esp., a muscle which by its contraction loosens some part.
laxiity		The state or quality of being lax; want of tenseness, strictness, or exactness.
laxity		The state or quality of being lax; want of tenseness, strictness, or exactness.
laxly		In a lax manner.
laxness		The state of being lax; laxity.
lay		Of or pertaining to the laity, as distinct from the clergy; as, a lay person; a lay preacher; a lay brother.
layer		One who, or that which, lays.
layering		A propagating by layers.
layette		The outfit of clothing, blankets, etc., prepared for a newborn infant, and placed ready for used.
laying		The act of one who, or that which, lays.
layland	Obsolete	Land lying untilled; fallow ground.
layman		One of the people, in distinction from the clergy; one of the laity; sometimes, a man not belonging to some particular profession, in distinction from those who do.
layner	Obsolete	A whiplash.
layshaft		A secondary shaft, as in a sliding change gear for an automobile; a cam shaft operated by a two-to-one gear in an internal- combustion engine.
layship	Obsolete	The condition of being a layman.
laystall	Obsolete	A place where rubbish, dung, etc., are laid or deposited.
lazar		A person infected with a filthy or pestilential disease; a leper.
lazaret		A public building, hospital, or pesthouse for the reception of diseased persons, particularly those affected with contagious diseases.
lazaretto		A public building, hospital, or pesthouse for the reception of diseased persons, particularly those affected with contagious diseases.
lazarist		One of the Congregation of the Priests of the Mission, a religious institute founded by Vincent de Paul in 1624, and popularly called Lazarists or Lazarites from the College of St. Lazare in Paris…
lazarite		One of the Congregation of the Priests of the Mission, a religious institute founded by Vincent de Paul in 1624, and popularly called Lazarists or Lazarites from the College of St. Lazare in Paris…
lazarlike		Full of sores; leprous.
lazarly		Full of sores; leprous.
lazaroni		See Lazzaroni — the homeless idlers of Naples who live by chance work or begging; -- so called from the Hospital of St. Lazarus, which serves as their refuge.
lazarwort		Laserwort.
laze	Colloquial	To be lazy or idle.
lazily		In a lazy manner.
laziness		The state or quality of being lazy.
lazuli		A mineral of a fine azure-blue color, usually in small rounded masses.
lazulite		A mineral of a light indigo-blue color, occurring in small masses, or in monoclinic crystals; blue spar.
lazy		Disinclined to action or exertion; averse to labor; idle; shirking work.
lazyback	Colloquial	A support for the back, attached to the seat of a carriage.
lazybones	Colloquial	A lazy person.
lazzaroni		The homeless idlers of Naples who live by chance work or begging; -- so called from the Hospital of St. Lazarus, which serves as their refuge.
