lea		(a) A measure of yarn; for linen, 300 yards; for cotton, 120 yards; a lay.	Middle English legh.
leach		A quantity of wood ashes, through which water passes, and thus imbibes the alkali.	Middle English leche, from Old English læce.
leachy		Permitting liquids to pass by percolation; not capable of retaining water; porous; pervious; -- said of gravelly or sandy soils, and the like.	
lead		(Chem.) One of the elements, a heavy, pliable, inelastic metal, having a bright, bluish color, but easily tarnished.	Middle English leed, from Old English leode.
leaded		Fitted with lead; set in lead; as, leaded windows.	
leaden		Made of lead; of the nature of lead; as, a leaden ball.	Middle English leden.
leader		The first, or the principal, editorial article in a newspaper; a leading or main editorial article.	Middle English leder.
leadership		The office of a leader.	
leadhillite		A mineral of a yellowish or greenish white color, consisting of the sulphate and carbonate of lead; -- so called from having been first found at Leadhills, Scotland.	
leading		Guiding; directing; controlling; foremost; as, a leading motive; a leading man; a leading example. -- Lead"ing*ly, adv.	Old English lædan.
leadman	Obsolete	One who leads a dance.	
leadsman		The man who heaves the lead.	
leadwort		A genus of maritime herbs (Plumbago).	
leady		Resembling lead.	
leaf		(Bot.) A colored, usually green, expansion growing from the side of a stem or rootstock, in which the sap for the use of the plant is elaborated under the influence of light…	Middle English leef, from Old English leaf.
leaf-footed		Having leaflike expansions on the legs; -- said of certain insects; as, the leaf-footed bug (Leptoglossus phyllopus).	
leaf-nosed		Having a leaflike membrane on the nose; -- said of certain bats, esp. of the genera Phyllostoma and Rhinonycteris.	
leafage		Leaves, collectively; foliage.	
leafcup		A coarse American composite weed (Polymnia Uvedalia).	
leafed		Having (such) a leaf or (so many) leaves; -- used in composition; as, broad-leafed; four-leafed.	
leafet		A leaflet.	
leafiness		The state of being leafy.	
leafless		Having no leaves or foliage; bearing no foliage. -- Leaf"less*ness, n.	
leaflet		A little leaf; also, a little printed leaf or a tract.	
leafstalk		The stalk or petiole which supports a leaf.	
leafy		Full of leaves; abounding in leaves; as, the leafy forest.	
league		A measure of length or distance, varying in different countries from about 2.4 to 4.6 English statute miles of 5.280 feet each, and used (as a land measure) chiefly on the continent of Europe, and in the Spanish parts of America.	Middle English ligg, from Middle French ligue, from Italian lega.
leaguer		The camp of a besieging army; a camp in general. b.	
leaguerer		A besieger.	
leak		A crack, crevice, fissure, or hole which admits water or other fluid, or lets it escape; as, a leak in a roof; a leak in a boat; a leak in a gas pipe.	Middle English leken.
leakage		A leaking; also, the quantity that enters or issues by leaking.	
leakiness		The quality of being leaky.	
leaky		Permitting water or other fluid to leak in or out; as, a leaky roof or cask.	
leal		Faithful; loyal; true.	
leam	Obsolete	See Leme — a ray or glimmer of light; a gleam.	Middle English lemen, from Old English lyman.
leamer		A dog held by a leam.	French limier.
lean		To incline, deviate, or bend, from a vertical position; to be in a position thus inclining or deviating; as, she leaned out at the window; a leaning column.	Middle English lenen, from Old English hleonian.
lean-faced		Having a thin face.	
lean-to		Having only one slope or pitch; -- said of a roof. -- n.	
lean-witted		Having but little sense or shrewdness.	
leaning		The act, or state, of inclining; inclination; tendency; as, a leaning towards Calvinism.	
leanly		Meagerly; without fat or plumpness.	
leanness		The condition or quality of being lean.	
leap	English dialect	A weel or wicker trap for fish.	Middle English lepen, from Old English hleapan.
leaper		One who, or that which, leaps.	
leapfrog		A play among boys, in which one stoops down and another leaps over him by placing his hands on the shoulders of the former.	
leapful	Obsolete	A basketful.	
leaping	Obsolete	from Leap, to jump.	
leapingly		By leaps.	
lear	Obsolete	To learn. See Lere, to learn.	
learn		To gain knowledge or information of; to ascertain by inquiry, study, or investigation; to receive instruction concerning; to fix in the mind; to acquire understanding of, or skill; as, to learn the way; to learn a lesson…	Middle English lernen, from Old English leornian.
learnable		Such as can be learned.	
learned		Of or pertaining to learning; possessing, or characterized by, learning, esp. scholastic learning; erudite; well-informed; as, a learned scholar, writer, or lawyer; a learned book; a learned theory.	Old English leornian.
learner		One who learns; a scholar.	
learning		The acquisition of knowledge or skill; as, the learning of languages; the learning of telegraphy.	
leasable		Such as can be leased.	
lease		To grant to another by lease the possession of, as of lands, tenements, and hereditaments; to let; to demise; as, a landowner leases a farm to a tenant; -- sometimes with out.	Middle English lesen, from Old English liesan.
leasehold		Held by lease.	
leaseholder		A tenant under a lease. -- Lease"hold`ing, a. & n.	
leaser	Obsolete	One who leases or gleans.	
leash		A thong of leather, or a long cord, by which a falconer holds his hawk, or a courser his dog.	Middle English leesshe.
leasing	Archaic	The act of lying; falsehood; a lie or lies.	Middle English lesing.
leasow	Obsolete	A pasture.	
least	Obsolete	Smallest, either in size or degree; shortest; lowest; most unimportant; as, the least insect; the least mercy; the least space.	
leastways	Colloquial	At least; at all events.	
leastwise	Colloquial	At least; at all events.	
leasy	Obsolete	Flimsy; vague; deceptive.	
leat		An artificial water trench, esp. one to or from a mill.	
leather		The skin of an animal, or some part of such skin, tanned, tawed, or otherwise dressed for use; also, dressed hides, collectively.	Old English leþer.
leatherback		A large sea turtle (Sphargis coriacea), having no bony shell on its back.	
leatheret		An imitation of leather, made of paper and cloth.	
leatherette		An imitation of leather, made of paper and cloth.	
leatherhead		The friar bird.	
leathern		Made of leather; consisting of. leather; as, a leathern purse. iii. 4.	
leatherneck		The sordid friar bird of Australia (Tropidorhynchus sordidus).	
leatherwood		A small branching shrub (Dirca palustris), with a white, soft wood, and a tough, leathery bark, common in damp woods in the Northern United States; -- called also moosewood, and wicopy.	
leathery		Resembling leather in appearance or consistence; tough.	
leave		Liberty granted by which restraint or illegality is removed; permission; allowance; license.	Middle English leven, from Old English liefan.
leave-taking		Taking of leave; parting compliments.	
leaved		Bearing, or having, a leaf or leaves; having folds; -- used in combination; as, a four-leaved clover; a two-leaved gate; long- leaved.	
leaveless	Obsolete	Leafless.	
leaven		Any substance that produces, or is designed to produce, fermentation, as in dough or liquids; esp., a portion of fermenting dough, which, mixed with a larger quantity of dough, produces a general change in the mass…	Middle English levain.
leavening		The act of making light, or causing to ferment, by means of leaven.	
leavenous		Containing leaven.	
leaver		One who leaves, or withdraws.	
leaves		pl. of Leaf — (Bot.) A colored, usually green, expansion growing from the side of a stem or rootstock, in which the sap for the use of the plant is elaborated under the influence of light…	
leaviness	Obsolete	Leafiness.	
leavings		Things left; remnants; relics.	
leban		Coagulated sour milk diluted with water; -- a common beverage among the Arabs.	
lebban		Coagulated sour milk diluted with water; -- a common beverage among the Arabs.	
lecama		The hartbeest.	
lecanomancy		divination practiced with water in a basin, by throwing three stones into it, and invoking the demon whose aid was sought.	Latin lecanomantia, from Greek λεκανομαντεία.
lecanoric		Pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid which is obtained from several varieties of lichen (Lecanora, Roccella, etc.), as a white, crystalline substance, and is called also orsellic, or diorsellinic acid, lecanorin, etc.	
lecanorin		See Lecanoric — pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid which is obtained from several varieties of lichen (Lecanora, Roccella, etc.), as a white, crystalline substance, and is called also orsellic…	
lech	Obsolete	To lick.	Welsh llech.
leche		See water buck, under 3d Buck.	
lecher		A man given to lewdness; one addicted, in an excessive degree, to the indulgence of sexual desire, or to illicit commerce with women.	Middle English lechour, from Old French lecheor.
lecherer		See Lecher, n.	
lecherous		Like a lecher; addicted to lewdness; lustful; also, lust- provoking. -- Lech er*ous*ness, n.	Middle English lecherous.
lechery		Free indulgence of lust; lewdness.	
lecithin		A complex, nitrogenous phosphorized substance widely distributed through the animal body, and especially conspicuous in the brain and nerve tissue, in yolk of eggs, and in the white blood corpuscles.	
lectern		See Lecturn — a choir desk, or reading desk, in some churches, from which the lections, or Scripture lessons, are chanted or read; hence, a reading desk..	
lectica		A kind of litter or portable couch.	
lection		(Eccl.) A lesson or selection, esp. of Scripture, read in divine service.	Old French lection, from Latin lectionem.
lectionary		A book, or a list, of lections, for reading in divine service.	
lector		A reader of lections; formerly, a person designated to read lessons to the illiterate.	
lectual		Confining to the bed; as, a lectual disease.	
lecture		A discourse on any subject; especially, a formal or methodical discourse, intended for instruction; sometimes, a familiar discourse, in contrast with a sermon.	Latin lectura.
lecturer		One who lectures; an assistant preacher.	
lectureship		The office of a lecturer.	
lecturn		A choir desk, or reading desk, in some churches, from which the lections, or Scripture lessons, are chanted or read; hence, a reading desk..	
lecythis		A genus of gigantic trees, chiefly Brazilian, of the order Myrtaceæ, having woody capsules opening by an apical lid.	
led	Obsolete	of Lead — (Chem.) One of the elements, a heavy, pliable, inelastic metal, having a bright, bluish color, but easily tarnished.	
ledden	Obsolete	Language; speech; voice; cry.	
leden	Obsolete	Language; speech; voice; cry.	
ledge		A shelf on which articles may be laid; also, that which resembles such a shelf in form or use, as a projecting ridge or part, or a molding or edge in joinery.	
ledgement		See Ledgment — (a) A string-course or horizontal suit of moldings, such as the base moldings of a building.	
ledger		A book in which a summary of accounts is laid up or preserved; the final book of record in business transactions, in which all debits and credits from the journal, etc., are placed under appropriate heads.	Middle English lygger.
ledgment		(a) A string-course or horizontal suit of moldings, such as the base moldings of a building.	
ledgy		Abounding in ledges; consisting of a ledge or reef; as, a ledgy island.	
lee		A sheltered place; esp., a place; protected from the wind by some object; the side sheltered from the wind; shelter; protection; as, the lee of a mountain, an island, or a ship.	
leeangle		A heavy weapon of the Australian aborigines with a sharp- pointed end, about nine inches in length, projecting at right angles from the main part.	
leeboard		A board, or frame of planks, lowered over the side of a vessel to lessen her leeway when closehauled, by giving her greater draught.	
leech		(Zoöl.) Any one of numerous genera and species of annulose worms, belonging to the order Hirudinea, or Bdelloidea, esp. those species used in medicine, as Hirudo medicinalis of Europe, and allied species.	Middle English leche, from Old English læce.
leechcraft	Archaic	The art of healing; skill of a physician.	Middle English lechecraft, from Old English læcecræft.
leed	Obsolete	A caldron; a copper kettle.	Middle English leed, from Old English leode.
leede	Obsolete	A caldron; a copper kettle.	
leef	Obsolete	See Lief — note: (Used with a form of the verb to be, and the dative of the personal pronoun.) Pleasing; agreeable; acceptable; preferable.	
leek		A plant of the genus Allium (A.	
leeme	Obsolete	See Leme — a ray or glimmer of light; a gleam.	
leep		of Leap. leaped.	
leer		A distorted expression of the face, or an indirect glance of the eye, conveying a sinister or immodest suggestion.	Middle English leren, from Old English læran.
leere		Tape or braid; an ornament.	
leeringly		In a leering manner.	
lees	Obsolete	Dregs. See 2d Lee.	Old French lies.
leese	Obsolete	To lose.	Old English liesan.
leet	Scots	of Let, to allow.	
leetman		One subject to the jurisdiction of a court-leet.	
leeward		Pertaining to, or in the direction of, the part or side toward which the wind blows; -- opposed to windward; as, a leeward berth; a leeward ship. -- n.	
leeway		The lateral movement of a ship to the leeward of her course; drift.	
left		of Leave — liberty granted by which restraint or illegality is removed; permission; allowance; license.	Middle English left.
left-hand		Situated on the left; nearer the left hand than the right; as, the left-hand side; the left-hand road.	
left-handed		Having the left hand or arm stronger and more dexterous than the right; using the left hand and arm with more dexterity than the right.	
left-handedness		The state or quality of being left-handed; awkwardness.	
left-handiness		The state or quality of being left-handed; awkwardness.	
left-off		Laid a side; cast-off.	
leftward		Toward or on the left side.	
leful	Obsolete	See Leveful — allowable; permissible; lawful.	
leg		A limb or member of an animal used for supporting the body, and in running, climbing, and swimming; esp., that part of the limb between the knee and foot.	Middle English leg, from Old Norse leggr.
leg-of-mutton		Having the general shape or outline of a leg of mutton; as, a leg-of-mutton, or shoulder-of-mutton, sail.	
legacy		A gift of property by will, esp. of money or personal property; a bequest.	Old French legacie, from Latin legatia.
legal		Created by, permitted by, in conformity with, or relating to, law; as, a legal obligation; a legal standard or test; a legal procedure; a legal claim; a legal trade; anything is legal which the laws do not forbid.	Latin legalis.
legalism		Strictness, or the doctrine of strictness, in conforming to law.	
legalist		One who practices or advocates strict conformity to law; in theology, one who holds to the law of works.	
legality		The state or quality of being letter of the law.	
legalization		The act of making legal.	
legalize		(Theol.) To interpret or apply in a legal spirit.	
legally		In a legal manner.	
legantine		See Legatine — of or pertaining to a legate; as, legatine power.	
legatary		A legatee.	Latin legatarius.
legate		An ecclesiastic representing the pope and invested with the authority of the Holy See.	
legatee		One to whom a legacy is bequeathed.	
legateship		The office of a legate.	
legatine		Of or pertaining to a legate; as, legatine power.	
legation		The sending forth or commissioning one person to act for another.	Latin legatio.
legato		Connected; tied; -- a term used when successive tones are to be produced in a closely connected, smoothly gliding manner.	
legator		A testator; one who bequeaths a legacy.	Latin legator.
legatura		A tie or brace; a syncopation.	
legature	Obsolete	Legateship.	
lege	Obsolete	To allege; to assert.	
legement		See Ledgment — (a) A string-course or horizontal suit of moldings, such as the base moldings of a building.	
legend		That which is appointed to be read; especially, a chronicle or register of the lives of saints, formerly read at matins, and in the refectories of religious houses.	Middle English legende, from Old French legende, from Latin legenda.
legendary		Of or pertaining to a legend or to legends; consisting of legends; like a legend; fabulous.	
leger	Obsolete	Anything that lies in a place; that which, or one who, remains in a place.	French léger.
legerdemain		Sleight of hand; a trick of sleight of hand; hence, any artful deception or trick.	
legerdemainist		One who practices sleight of hand; a prestidigitator.	
legerity	Archaic	Lightness; nimbleness Shak.	
legged		Having (such or so many) legs; -- used in composition; as, a long-legged man; a two-legged animal.	
leggiadro		Light or graceful; in a light, delicate, and brick style.	
leggiero		Light or graceful; in a light, delicate, and brick style.	
leggin		A cover for the leg, like a long gaiter.	
legging		A cover for the leg, like a long gaiter., from Leg, v. t.	
leggy		Having long legs.	
leghorn		A straw plaiting used for bonnets and hats, made from the straw of a particular kind of wheat, grown for the purpose in Tuscany, Italy; -- so called from Leghorn, the place of exportation.	
legibility		The quality of being legible; legibleness.	
legible		Capable of being read or deciphered; distinct to the eye; plain; - - used of writing or printing; as, a fair, legible manuscript.	Latin legibilis.
legibleness		The state or quality of being legible.	
legibly		In a legible manner.	
legific		Of or pertaining to making laws.	Latin lex.
legion		A military force; an army; military bands.	
legionary		Belonging to a legion; consisting of a legion or legions, or of an indefinitely great number; as, legionary soldiers; a legionary force.	
legioned		Formed into a legion or legions; legionary.	
legionry		A body of legions; legions, collectively.	
legislate		To make or enact a law or laws.	
legislation		The act of legislating; preparation and enactment of laws; the laws enacted.	Latin legislatio.
legislative		Making, or having the power to make, a law or laws; lawmaking; -- distinguished from executive; as, a legislative act; a legislative body.	
legislatively		In a legislative manner.	
legislator		A lawgiver; one who makes laws for a state or community; a member of a legislative body.	Latin legislator.
legislatorial		Of or pertaining to a legislator or legislature.	
legislatorship		The office of a legislator.	
legislatress		A woman who makes laws.	
legislatrix		A woman who makes laws.	
legislature		The body of persons in a state or kingdom invested with power to make and repeal laws; a legislative body.	
legist		One skilled in the laws; a writer on law.	Middle French légiste, from Latin legista.
legitim		The portion of movable estate to which the children are entitled upon the death of the father.	
legitimacy		The state, or quality, of being legitimate, or in conformity with law; hence, the condition of having been lawfully begotten, or born in wedlock.	
legitimate		Accordant with law or with established legal forms and requirements; lawful; as, legitimate government; legitimate rights; the legitimate succession to the throne; a legitimate proceeding of an officer; a legitimate heir.	Latin legitimatus.
legitimately		In a legitimate manner; lawfully; genuinely.	
legitimateness		The state or quality of being legitimate; lawfulness; genuineness.	
legitimation		The act of making legitimate.	Latin legitimationem.
legitimatist		See Legitimist — one who supports legitimate authority; esp., one who believes in hereditary monarchy, as a divine right.	
legitimatize		To legitimate.	
legitimism		The principles or plans of legitimists.	
legitimist		One who supports legitimate authority; esp., one who believes in hereditary monarchy, as a divine right.	
legitimize		To legitimate.	
legless		Not having a leg.	
lego-literary		Pertaining to the literature of law.	
leguleian		Lawyerlike; legal. -- n.	
legume		(Bot.) A pod dehiscent into two pieces or valves, and having the seed attached at one suture, as that of the pea.	French légume, from Latin legumen.
legumen		Same as Legume.	
legumin		An albuminous substance resembling casein, found as a characteristic ingredient of the seeds of leguminous and grain- bearing plants.	
leguminous		Pertaining to pulse; consisting of pulse.	
leiger		See Leger, n.,	
leiotrichan		Of or pertaining to the Leiotrichi. -- n.	
leiotrichi		The division of mankind which embraces the smooth-haired races.	
leiotrichous		Having smooth, or nearly smooth, hair.	
leipoa		A genus of Australian gallinaceous birds including but a single species (Leipoa ocellata), about the size of a turkey.	
leipothymic		See Lipothymic — tending to swoon; fainting.	
leister	Scotland	A spear armed with three or more prongs, for striking fish.	
leisurable	Obsolete	Vacant of employment; not occupied; idle; leisure; as leisurable hours.	
leisurably	Obsolete	At leisure.	
leisure		Freedom from occupation or business; vacant time; time free from employment.	Middle English leisir, from Anglo-Norman leisir.
leisured		Having leisure.	
leisurely		Characterized by leisure; taking abundant tome; not hurried; as, a leisurely manner; a leisurely walk.	
leitmotif		See Leading motive, under Leading, a.	German Leitmotiv.
leman	Archaic	A sweetheart, of either sex; a gallant, or a mistress; -- usually in a bad sense.	Middle English lemman.
leme	Obsolete	A ray or glimmer of light; a gleam.	
lemma		A preliminary or auxiliary proposition demonstrated or accepted for immediate use in the demonstration of some other proposition, as in mathematics or logic.	Greek λῆμμα.
lemman	Obsolete	A leman.	Middle English lemman.
lemming		Any one of several species of small arctic rodents of the genera Myodes and Cuniculus, resembling the meadow mice in form.	
lemnian		Of or pertaining to the isle of Lemnos.	
lemniscata		A curve in the form of the figure 8, with both parts symmetrical, generated by the point in which a tangent to an equilateral hyperbola meets the perpendicular on it drawn from the center.	
lemniscate		A curve in the form of the figure 8, with both parts symmetrical, generated by the point in which a tangent to an equilateral hyperbola meets the perpendicular on it drawn from the center.	Latin lemniscatus.
lemniscus		One of two oval bodies hanging from the interior walls of the body in the Acanthocephala.	
lemon		(Bot.) An oval or roundish fruit resembling the orange, and containing a pulp usually intensely acid.	Old French lymon.
lemonade		A beverage consisting of lemon juice mixed with water and sweetened.	
lemur		One of a family (Lemuridæ) of nocturnal mammals allied to the monkeys, but of small size, and having a sharp and foxlike muzzle, and large eyes.	Latin lemurēs.
lemures		Spirits or ghosts of the departed; specters.	
lemuria		A hypothetical land, or continent, supposed by some to have existed formerly in the Indian Ocean, of which Madagascar is a remnant.	
lemurid		Same as Lemuroid.	
lemuridous		Lemuroid.	
lemurine		Lemuroid.	
lemuroid		Like or pertaining to the lemurs or the Lemuroidea. -- n.	
lemuroidea		A suborder of primates, including the lemurs, the aye-aye, and allied species.	
lena		A procuress.	
lend		To allow the custody and use of, on condition of the return of the same; to grant the temporary use of; as, to lend a book; -- opposed to borrow.	Middle English lende, from Old English lendenu.
lendable		Such as can be lent.	
lender		One who lends.	
lendes	Obsolete	See Lends.	
lending		The act of one who lends.	
lene	Obsolete	To lend; to grant; to permit.	
lenger		Longer; longest; -- obsolete compar. and superl. of long.	
lengest		Longer; longest; -- obsolete compar. and superl. of long.	
length		The longest, or longer, dimension of any object, in distinction from breadth or width; extent of anything from end to end; the longest line which can be drawn through a body, parallel to its sides; as, the length of a church…	Old English lengþu.
lengthen		To extent in length; to make longer in extent or duration; as, to lengthen a line or a road; to lengthen life; -- sometimes followed by out.	
lengthily		In a lengthy manner; at great length or extent.	
lengthiness		The state or quality of being lengthy; prolixity.	
lengthways		In the direction of the length; in a longitudinal direction.	
lengthwise		In the direction of the length; in a longitudinal direction.	
lengthy		Having length; rather long or too long; prolix; not brief; -- said chiefly of discourses, writings, and the like.	
lenience		The quality or state of being lenient; lenity; clemency.	
leniency		The quality or state of being lenient; lenity; clemency.	
lenient		Relaxing; emollient; softening; assuasive; -- some Of relax the fibers, are lenient, balsamic.	Latin leniens.
leniently		In a lenient manner.	
lenify		To assuage; to soften; to Bacon.	
leniment	Obsolete	An assuasive.	
lenitive		Having the quality of softening or mitigating, as pain or acrimony; assuasive; emollient.	Latin lenitivus.
lenitiveness		The quality of being lenitive.	
lenitude	Obsolete	The quality or habit of being lenient; lenity.	Latin lenitudo.
lenity		The state or quality of being lenient; mildness of temper or disposition; gentleness of treatment; softness; tenderness; clemency; -- opposed to severity and rigor.	
lenni-lenape		A general name for a group of Algonquin tribes which formerly occupied the coast region of North America from Connecticut to Virginia.	
leno		A light open cotton fabric used for window curtains.	Italian leno.
lenocinant	Obsolete	Given to lewdness.	Latin lenocinans.
lens		A piece of glass, or other transparent substance, ground with two opposite regular surfaces, either both curved, or one curved and the other plane, and commonly used, either singly or combined, in optical instruments…	Latin lens.
lent	Obsolete	Slow; mild; gentle; as, lenter heats.	
lentamente		Slowly; in slow time.	
lentando		Slackening; retarding.	
lenten		Of or pertaining to the fast called Lent; used in, or suitable to, Lent; as, the Lenten season.	
lententide		The season of Lenten or Lent.	
lenticel		(a) One of the small, oval, rounded spots upon the stem or branch of a plant, from which the underlying tissues may protrude or roots may issue, either in the air…	
lenticellate		Producing lenticels; dotted with lenticels.	
lenticelle		Lenticel.	
lenticula		(Med.) A kind of eruption upon the skin; lentigo; freckle.	
lenticular		Resembling a lentil in size or form; having the form of a double-convex lens.	Latin lenticularis.
lenticularly		In the manner of a lens; with a curve.	
lentiform		Lenticular.	
lentiginose		Bearing numerous dots resembling freckles.	
lentiginous		Of or pertaining to lentigo; freckly; scurfy; furfuraceous.	
lentigo		A freckly eruption on the skin; freckles.	
lentil		A leguminous plant of the genus Ervum (Ervum Lens), of small size, common in the fields in Europe.	Old French lentille, from Latin lenticula.
lentiscus		A tree; the mastic. See Mastic.	
lentisk		A tree; the mastic. See Mastic.	
lentitude	Obsolete	Slowness; sluggishness.	Latin lentitudo.
lento		Slow; in slow time; slowly; -- rarely written lente.	
lentoid		Having the form of a lens; lens-shaped.	
lentor		Tenacity; viscidity; viscidity, as of fluids.	
lentous		Viscid; viscous; tenacious.	Latin lentus.
leo		The Lion, the fifth sign of the zodiac, marked thus	
leod	Obsolete	People; a nation; a man.	Middle English leod.
leonced		See Lionced — adorned with lions heads; having arms terminating in lions' heads; -- said of a cross.	
leonese		Of or pertaining to Leon, in Spain. -- n. sing. & pl. A native or natives of Leon.	
leonid		One of the shooting stars which constitute the star shower that recurs near the fourteenth of November at intervals of about thirty- three years…	
leonine		Pertaining to, or characteristic of, the lion; as, a leonine look; leonine repacity. -- Le"o*nine*ly, adv.	
leontodon		A genus of liguliflorous composite plants, including the fall dandelion (L. autumnale), and formerly the true dandelion; -- called also lion's tooth.	
leopard		A large, savage, carnivorous mammal (Felis leopardus).	Old French lepart.
leopardwood		See Letterwood — the beautiful and highly elastic wood of a tree of the genus Brosimum (B.	
lep		of Leap — a weel or wicker trap for fish.	
lepadite		Same as Lepadoid.	
lepadoid		A stalked barnacle of the genus Lepas, or family Lepadidæ; a goose barnacle.	
lepal		A sterile transformed stamen.	
lepas		Any one of various species of Lepas, a genus of pedunculated barnacles found attached to floating timber, bottoms of ships, Gulf weed, etc.; -- called also goose barnacle.	
leper		A person affected with leprosy.	Middle English lepre.
lepered		Affected or tainted with leprosy.	
leperize		To affect with leprosy.	
leperous		Leprous; infectious; corrupting; poisonous.	
lepid		Pleasant; jocose.	Latin lepidus.
lepidine		An organic base, C9H6.N.CH3, metameric with quinaldine, and obtained by the distillation of cinchonine.	
lepidodendrid		One of an extinct family of trees allied to the modern club mosses, and including Lepidodendron and its allies.	
lepidodendroid		Allied to, or resembling, Lepidodendron. -- n.	
lepidodendron		A genus of fossil trees of the Devonian and Carboniferous ages, having the exterior marked with scars, mostly in quincunx order, produced by the separation of the leafstalks.	
lepidoganoid		Any one of a division (Lepidoganoidei) of ganoid fishes, including those that have scales forming a coat of mail.	
lepidolite		A species of mica, of a lilac or rose-violet color, containing lithia.	
lepidomelane		An iron-potash mica, of a raven-black color, usually found in granitic rocks in small six-sided tables, or as an aggregation of minute opaque scales.	
lepidopter		One of the Lepidoptera.	
lepidoptera		An order of insects, which includes the butterflies and moths.	
lepidopteral		Of or pertaining to the Lepidoptera.	
lepidopterist		One who studies the Lepidoptera.	
lepidopterous		Of or pertaining to the Lepidoptera.	
lepidosauria		A division of reptiles, including the serpents and lizards; the Plagiotremata.	
lepidosiren		An eel-shaped ganoid fish of the order Dipnoi, having both gills and lungs.	
lepidote		Having a coat of scurfy scales, as the leaves of the oleaster.	Greek λεπιδωτός.
lepidoted		Having a coat of scurfy scales, as the leaves of the oleaster.	
lepisma		A genus of wingless thysanurous insects having an elongated flattened body, covered with shining scales and terminated by seven unequal bristles.	
lepismoid		Like or pertaining to the Lepisma.	
leporine		Of or pertaining to a hare; like or characteristic of, a hare.	Latin lepus.
lepra		Leprosy.	
lepre	Obsolete	Leprosy.	
leprose		Covered with thin, scurfy scales.	
leprosity		The state or quality of being leprous or scaly; also, a scale.	
leprosy		A cutaneous disease which first appears as blebs or as reddish, shining, slightly prominent spots, with spreading edges.	Latin leprosia.
leprous		Infected with leprosy; pertaining to or resembling leprosy. iv. 6.	Old French leprous.
lepry	Obsolete	Leprosy.	
leptiform		Having a form somewhat like leptus; -- said of active insect larvæ having three pairs of legs.	
leptocardia		The lowest class of Vertebrata, including only the Amphioxus.	
leptocardian		Of or pertaining to the Leptocardia. -- n.	
leptodactyl		A bird or other animal having slender toes.	
leptodactylous		, Having slender toes.	
leptology		A minute and tedious discourse on trifling things.	
leptomeningitis		Inflammation of the pia mater or of the arachnoid membrane.	
leptorhine		Having the nose narrow; -- said esp. of the skull.	
leptostraca		An order of Crustacea, including Nebalia and allied forms.	
leptothrix		A genus of bacteria, characterized by having their filaments very long, slender, and indistinctly articulated.	
leptus		The six-legged young, or larva, of certain mites; -- sometimes used as a generic name.	
leptynite		See Granulite — a whitish, granular rock, consisting of feldspar and quartz intimately mixed; -- sometimes called whitestone, and leptynite.	
lere	Obsolete	Learning; lesson; lore.	Middle English leren, from Old English læran.
lered	Obsolete	Learned.	
lernaea		A Linnæan genus of parasitic Entomostraca, -- the same as the family Lernæidæ.	
lernaeacea		A suborder of copepod Crustacea, including a large number of remarkable forms, mostly parasitic on fishes.	
lernean		One of a family (Lernæidæ) of parasitic Crustacea found attached to fishes and other marine animals.	
lerot		A small European rodent (Eliomys nitela), allied to the dormouse.	
les	Obsolete	A leash.	
lesbian		Of or pertaining to the island anciently called Lesbos, now Mitylene, in the Grecian Archipelago.	Latin Lesbiana.
lesbianism		Unnatural sexual relations between women.	
lese	Obsolete	To lose.	
lese-majesty		See Leze majesty.	Latin laesa maiestas.
lesion		A hurt; an injury. Specifically: (a) (Civil Law) Loss sustained from failure to fulfill a bargain or contract.	
less		A smaller portion or quantity.	Old English læs.
lessee		The person to whom a lease is given, or who takes an estate by lease.	Anglo-Norman lessié.
lessen		To make less; to reduce; to make smaller, or fewer; to diminish; to lower; to degrade; as, to lessen a kingdom, or a population; to lessen speed, rank, fortune.	
lessener		One who, or that which, lessens.	
lesser	Obsolete	Less; smaller; inferior.	
lesses		The leavings or dung of beasts.	French laissées.
lesson		Anything read or recited to a teacher by a pupil or learner; something, as a portion of a book, assigned to a pupil to be studied or learned at one time.	Old French leçon, from Latin lectio.
lessor		One who leases; the person who lets to farm, or gives a lease.	
lest		For Love not sleep, lest thou come to poverty.	
lester		A dry sirocco in the Madeira Islands.	
let		A retarding; hindrance; obstacle; impediment; delay; -- common in the phrase without let or hindrance, but elsewhere archaic.	Middle English letten, from Old English lettan.
let-alone		Letting alone.	
let-off		A device for letting off, releasing, or giving forth, as the warp from the cylinder of a loom.	
let-up	Colloquial	Abatement; also, cessation; as, it blew a gale for three days without any let-up.	
letch		See Leach — a quantity of wood ashes, through which water passes, and thus imbibes the alkali.	
letchy		See Leachy — permitting liquids to pass by percolation; not capable of retaining water; porous; pervious; -- said of gravelly or sandy soils, and the like.	
lete	Obsolete	To let; to leave.	
leten		of Lete — to let; to leave.	
lethal		One of the higher alcohols of the paraffine series obtained from spermaceti as a white crystalline solid.	Latin letalis.
lethality		The quality of being lethal; mortality.	
lethargic		Pertaining to, affected with, or resembling, lethargy; morbidly drowsy; dull; heavy. -- Le*thar gic*al*ness, n. -- Le*thar"gic*ness, n.	Greek ληθαργικός.
lethargical		Pertaining to, affected with, or resembling, lethargy; morbidly drowsy; dull; heavy. -- Le*thar gic*al*ness, n. -- Le*thar"gic*ness, n.	
lethargize		To make lethargic.	
lethargy		Morbid drowsiness; continued or profound sleep, from which a person can scarcely be awaked.	Latin lethargia, from Greek ληθαργία.
lethe		Oblivion; a draught of oblivion; forgetfulness.	
lethean		Of or pertaining to Lethe; resembling in effect the water of Lethe.	
letheed	Obsolete	Caused by Lethe.	
letheon		Sulphuric ether used as an anæsthetic agent.	
letheonize		To subject to the influence of letheon.	
lethiferous		Deadly; bringing death or destruction.	Latin lethifer.
lethy	Obsolete	Lethean.	
lette	Obsolete	To let; to hinder. See Let, to hinder.	
letter		A mark or character used as the representative of a sound, or of an articulation of the human organs of speech; a first element of written language.	Middle English letter.
lettered		Literate; educated; versed in literature.	
letterer		One who makes, inscribes, or engraves, alphabetical letters.	
lettergram		See Letter, above.	
lettering		The act or business of making, or marking with, letters, as by cutting or painting.	
letterless		Not having a letter.	
lettern		See Lecturn — a choir desk, or reading desk, in some churches, from which the lections, or Scripture lessons, are chanted or read; hence, a reading desk..	
letterpress		Print; letters and words impressed on paper or other material by types; -- often used of the reading matter in distinction from the illustrations.	
letterure	Obsolete	Letters; literature.	
letterwood		The beautiful and highly elastic wood of a tree of the genus Brosimum (B.	
lettic		(a) Of or pertaining to the Letts; Lettish. (b) Of or pertaining to a branch of the Slavic family, subdivided into Lettish, Lithuanian, and Old Prussian. -- n.	
lettish		Of or pertaining to the Letts. -- n.	
lettrure	Obsolete	See Letterure — letters; literature.	
letts		An Indo-European people, allied to the Lithuanians and Old Prussians, and inhabiting a part of the Baltic provinces of Russia.	
lettuce		A composite plant of the genus Lactuca (L. sativa), the leaves of which are used as salad.	Middle English letuse.
letuary	Obsolete	Electuary.	
leucadendron		A genus of evergreen shrubs from the Cape of Good Hope, having handsome foliage.	
leucaniline		A colorless, crystalline, organic base, obtained from rosaniline by reduction, and also from other sources.	
leuchaemia		See Leucocythæmia. -- Leu*chæm"ic, a.	
leucic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from leucin, and called also oxycaproic acid.	
leucin		A white, crystalline, nitrogenous substance formed in the decomposition of albuminous matter by pancreatic digestion, by the action of boiling dilute sulphuric acid, and by putrefaction.	
leucinic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from leucin, and called also oxycaproic acid.	
leucite		(Min.) A mineral having a glassy fracture, occurring in translucent trapezohedral crystals.	
leucitic		Containing leucite; as, leucitic rocks.	
leucitoid		The trapezohedron or tetragonal trisoctahedron; -- so called as being the form of the mineral leucite.	
leuco-		A combining form signifying white, colorless; specif. (Chem.), denoting an extensive series of colorless organic compounds, obtained by reduction from certain other colored compounds; as, leucaniline, leucaurin, etc.	
leucocyte		A colorless corpuscle, as one of the white blood corpuscles, or those found in lymph, marrow of hone, connective tissue, etc.	
leucocythaemia		A disease in which the white corpuscles of the blood are largely increased in number, and there is enlargement of the spleen, or the lymphatic glands; leuchæmia.	
leucocythemia		A disease in which the white corpuscles of the blood are largely increased in number, and there is enlargement of the spleen, or the lymphatic glands; leuchæmia.	
leucocytogenesis		The formation of leucocytes.	
leucoethiopic		White and black; -- said of a white animal of a black species, or the albino of the negro race.	
leucoethiops		An albino.	
leucoline		A nitrogenous organic base from coal tar, and identical with quinoline.	
leucoma		A white opacity in the cornea of the eye; -- called also albugo.	
leucomaine		An animal base or alkaloid, appearing in the tissue during life; hence, a vital alkaloid, as distinguished from a ptomaine or cadaveric poison.	
leuconic		Pertaining to, or designating, a complex organic acid, obtained as a yellowish white gum by the oxidation of croconic acid.	
leucopathy		The state of an albino, or of a white child of black parents.	
leucophane		A mineral of a greenish yellow color; it is a silicate of glucina, lime, and soda with fluorine.	
leucophlegmacy		A dropsical habit of body, or the commencement of anasarca; paleness, with viscid juices and cold sweats.	
leucophlegmatic		Having a dropsical habit of body, with a white bloated skin.	
leucophyll		A colorless substance isomeric with chlorophyll, contained in parts of plants capable of becoming green.	
leucophyllous		Having white or silvery foliage.	
leucoplast		One of certain very minute whitish or colorless granules occurring in the protoplasm of plants and supposed to be the nuclei around which starch granules will form.	
leucoplastid		One of certain very minute whitish or colorless granules occurring in the protoplasm of plants and supposed to be the nuclei around which starch granules will form.	
leucopyrite		A mineral of a color between white and steel-gray, with a metallic luster, and consisting chiefly of arsenic and iron.	
leucorrhoea		A discharge of a white, yellowish, or greenish, viscid mucus, resulting from inflammation or irritation of the membrane lining the genital organs of the female; the whites.	
leucoryx		A large antelope of North Africa (Oryx leucoryx), allied to the gemsbok.	
leucoscope		An instrument, devised by Professor Helmholtz, for testing the color perception of the eye, or for comparing different lights, as to their constituent color or their relative whiteness.	
leucosoid		Like or pertaining to the Leucosoidea, a tribe of marine crabs including the box crab or Calappa.	
leucosphere		The inner corona.	
leucoturic		Pertaining to, or designating, a nitrogenous organic substance of the uric acid group, called leucoturic acid or oxalantin.	
leucous		White; -- applied to albinos, from the whiteness of their skin and hair.	
leucoxene		A nearly opaque white mineral, in part identical with titanite, observed in some igneous rocks as the result of the alteration of titanic iron.	
leukaemia		Leucocythæmia.	
leuke		See Luke, etc.	
leukeness		See Luke, etc.	
leukoplast		See Leucoplast. See Leucoplast.	
levana		A goddess who protected newborn infants.	
levant		Rising or having risen from rest; -- said of cattle. See Couchant and levant, under Couchant.	French levant.
levanter	Colloquial	One who levants, or decamps.	
levantine		Etym: A stout twilled silk fabric, formerly made in the Levant.	
levation		The act of raising; elevation; upward motion, as that produced by the action of a levator muscle.	Latin levatio.
levator		(Anat.) A muscle that serves to raise some part, as the lip or the eyelid.	
leve	Obsolete	Dear. See Lief.	
leveche		A dry sirocco of Spain.	
levee		A morning assembly or reception of visitors, -- in distinction from a soirée, or evening assembly; a matinée; hence, also, any general or somewhat miscellaneous gathering of guests, whether in the daytime or evening; as…	French levée.
leveful	Obsolete	Allowable; permissible; lawful.	
level		A line or surface to which, at every point, a vertical or plumb line is perpendicular; a line or surface which is everywhere parallel to the surface of still water; -- this is the true level…	Middle English level, from Old French livel.
leveler		One who, or that which, levels.	
leveling		The act or operation of making level.	
levelism		The disposition or endeavor to level all distinctions of rank in society.	
levelly		In an even or level manner.	
levelness		The state or quality of being level.	
leven	Obsolete	Lightning.	
lever		(Mech.) A rigid piece which is capable of turning about one point, or axis (the fulcrum), and in which are two or more other points where forces are applied; -- used for transmitting and modifying force and motion.	Old French leveor.
leverage		The action of a lever; mechanical advantage gained by the lever.	
leveret		A hare in the first year of its age.	
leverwood		The American hop hornbeam (Ostrya Virginica), a small tree with very tough wood.	
levesel	Obsolete	A leafy shelter; a place covered with foliage.	
levet	Obsolete	A trumpet call for rousing soldiers; a reveille.	
leviable		Fit to be levied; capable of being assessed and collected; as, sums leviable by course of law.	
leviathan		An aquatic animal, described in the book of Job, ch. xli., and mentioned on other passages of Scripture.	
levier		One who levees.	
levigable		Capable of being levigated.	
levigate	Obsolete	Made less harsh or burdensome; alleviated.	Latin levigatus.
levigation		The act or operation of levigating.	
levin	Obsolete	Lightning.	
leviner		A swift hound.	
levir		A husband's brother; -- used in reference to levirate marriages.	
levirate		Of, pertaining to, or in accordance with, a law of the ancient Israelites and other tribes and races, according to which a woman, whose husband died without issue, was married to the husband's brother.	
leviratical		Of, pertaining to, or in accordance with, a law of the ancient Israelites and other tribes and races, according to which a woman, whose husband died without issue, was married to the husband's brother.	
leviration		Levirate marriage or marriages.	
levirostres		A group of birds, including the hornbills, kingfishers, and related forms.	
levitate		To rise, or tend to rise, as if lighter than the surrounding medium; to become buoyant; -- opposed to gravitate.	
levitation		Lightness; buoyancy; act of making light.	
levitical		Of or pertaining to a Levite or the Levites. 2.	
levitically		After the manner of the Levites; in accordance with the levitical law.	
leviticus		The third canonical book of the Old Testament, containing the laws and regulations relating to the priests and Levites among the Hebrews, or the body of the ceremonial law.	
levity		The quality of weighing less than something else of equal bulk; relative lightness, especially as shown by rising through, or floating upon, a contiguous substance; buoyancy; -- opposed to gravity.	
levo-		A prefix from L. laevus, meaning: (a) Pertaining to, or toward, the left; as, levorotatory.	
levogyrate		Turning or twisting the plane of polarization towards the left, as levulose, levotartaric acid, etc.	
levorotation		Rotation in the direction of an outgoing right-handed screw; counter-clockwise rotation; -- applied chiefly to the turning of the plane of polarization of light.	
levorotatory		Turning or rotating the plane of polarization towards the left; levogyrate, as levulose, left handed quartz crystals, etc.	
levulin		A substance resembling dextrin, obtained from the bulbs of the dahlia, the artichoke, and other sources, as a colorless, spongy, amorphous material.	
levulinic		Pertaining to, or denoting, an acid (called also acetyl- propionic acid), C5H8O3, obtained by the action of dilute acids on various sugars (as levulose).	
levulosan		An unfermentable carbohydrate obtained by gently heating levulose.	
levulose		A sirupy variety of sugar, rarely obtained crystallized, occurring widely in honey, ripe fruits, etc., and hence called also fruit sugar.	
levy		A name formerly given in Pennsylvania, Maryland, and Virginia to the Spanish real of one eight of a dollar (or 12	Anglo-Norman leve, from Old French levee.
levyne		A whitish, reddish, or yellowish, transparent or translucent mineral, allied to chabazite.	
levynite		A whitish, reddish, or yellowish, transparent or translucent mineral, allied to chabazite.	
lew	Obsolete	Lukewarm; tepid.	
lewd		Given to the promiscuous indulgence of lust; dissolute; lustful; libidinous.	Middle English leud.
lewdster	Obsolete	A lewd person.	
lewis		An iron dovetailed tenon, made in sections, which can be fitted into a dovetail mortise; -- used in hoisting large stones, etc.	
lewisson		An iron dovetailed tenon, made in sections, which can be fitted into a dovetail mortise; -- used in hoisting large stones, etc.	
lex		Law; as, lex talionis, the law of retaliation; lex terræ, the law of the land; lex fori, the law of the forum or court; lex loci, the law of the place; lex mercatoria, the law or custom of merchants.	
lexical		Of or pertaining to a lexicon, to lexicography, or words; according or conforming to a lexicon. -- Lex"ic*al*ly, adv.	Latin lexis, from Greek λέξις.
lexicographer		The author or compiler of a lexicon or dictionary.	
lexicographic		Of or pertaining to, or according to, lexicography. -- Lex`i*co*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.	
lexicographical		Of or pertaining to, or according to, lexicography. -- Lex`i*co*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.	
lexicographist		A lexicographer.	
lexicography		The art, process, or occupation of making a lexicon or dictionary; the principles which are applied in making dictionaries.	
lexicologist		One versed in lexicology.	Greek λεξικός.
lexicology		The science of the derivation and signification of words; that branch of learning which treats of the signification and application of words.	Greek λεξικός.
lexicon		A vocabulary, or book containing an alphabetical arrangement of the words in a language or of a considerable number of them, with the definition of each; a dictionary; especially, a dictionary of the Greek, Hebrew…	
lexiconist		A writer of a lexicon.	
lexigraphic		Of or pertaining to lexigraphy.	
lexigraphy		The art or practice of defining words; definition of words.	
lexiphanic		Using, or interlarded with, pretentious words; bombastic; as, a lexiphanic writer or speaker; lexiphanic writing.	
lexiphanicism		The use of pretentious words, language, or style.	
lexipharmic		See Alexipharmic — an antidote against poison or infection; a counterpoison.	
leyser	Obsolete	Leisure.	
