li		Chinese measure of distance, being a little more that one third of a mile.	Mandarin Chinese 市厘.
liability		The state of being liable; as, the liability of an insurer; liability to accidents; liability to the law.	
liable		Bound or obliged in law or equity; responsible; answerable; as, the surety is liable for the debt of his principal.	Old French lier, from Latin ligare.
liableness		Quality of being liable; liability.	
liage	Obsolete	Union by league; alliance.	
liaison		A union, or bond of union; an intimacy; especially, an illicit intimacy between a man and a woman.	French liaison, from Latin ligatio.
liana		A luxuriant woody plant, climbing high trees and having ropelike stems.	
liane		A luxuriant woody plant, climbing high trees and having ropelike stems.	
liangle		A heavy weapon of the Australian aborigines with a sharp- pointed end, about nine inches in length, projecting at right angles from the main part.	
liar		A person who knowingly utters falsehood; one who lies.	Middle English lier, from Old English leogere.
lias		The lowest of the three divisions of the Jurassic period; a name given in England and Europe to a series of marine limestones underlying the Oölite.	
liassic		Of the age of the Lias; pertaining to the Lias Formation. -- n.	
lib	Obsolete	To castrate.	Middle English libben.
libament	Obsolete	Libation.	Latin libamentum.
libant		Sipping; touching lightly.	
libation		The act of pouring a liquid or liquor, usually wine, either on the ground or on a victim in sacrifice, in honor of some deity; also, the wine or liquid thus poured out.	Latin libatio.
libatory		Pertaining to libation.	
libbard	Obsolete	A leopard.	
libel		Any defamatory writing; a lampoon; a satire.	Old French libelle, from Latin libellus.
libelant		One who libels; one who institutes a suit in an ecclesiastical or admiralty court.	
libeler		One who libels.	
libelist		A libeler.	
libellee		(a) The party against whom a libel has been filed; -- corresponding to defendant in a common law action.	
libellulid		A dragon fly.	
libelluloid		Like or pertaining to the dragon fi	
libelous		Containing or involving a libel; defamatory; containing that which exposes some person to public hatred, contempt, or ridicule; as, a libelous pamphlet. -- Li"bel*ous*ly, adv.	
liber		The inner bark of plants, lying next to the wood.	
liberal		Free by birth; hence, befitting a freeman or gentleman; refined; noble; independent; free; not servile or mean; as, a liberal ancestry; a liberal spirit; liberal arts or studies.	
liberalism		Liberal principles; the principles and methods of the liberals in politics or religion; specifically, the principles of the Liberal party.	
liberalist		A liberal.	
liberalistic		Pertaining to, or characterized by, liberalism; as, liberalistic opinions.	
liberality		The quality or state of being liberal; liberal disposition or practice; freedom from narrowness or prejudice; generosity; candor; charity.	
liberalization		The act of liberalizing.	
liberalize		To make liberal; to free from narrow views or prejudices.	
liberalizer		One who, or that which, liberalizes.	
liberally		In a liberal manner.	
liberate		To release from restraint or bondage; to set at liberty; to free; to manumit; to disengage; as, to liberate a slave or prisoner; to liberate the mind from prejudice; to liberate gases.	Latin liberatus.
liberation		The act of liberating or the state of being liberated.	French libération, from Latin liberatio.
liberator		One who, or that which, liberates; a deliverer.	Latin liberator.
liberatory		Tending, or serving, to liberate.	
libertarian		Pertaining to liberty, or to the doctrine of free will, as opposed to the doctrine of necessity.	
libertarianism		Libertarian principles or doctrines.	
liberticide		The destruction of civil liberty.	French liberticide.
libertinage		Libertinism; license.	
libertine		(Eccl. Hist.) One of a sect of Anabaptists, in the fifteenth and early part of the sixteenth century, who rejected many of the customs and decencies of life, and advocated a community of goods and of women.	Latin libertinus.
libertinism		Licentious conduct; debauchery; lewdness.	
liberty		The state of a free person; exemption from subjection to the will of another claiming ownership of the person or services; freedom; -- opposed to slavery, serfdom, bondage, or subjection.	Middle English liberte, from Old French liberté, from Latin libertas.
libethenite		A mineral of an olive-green color, commonly in orthorhombic crystals.	
libidinist		One given to lewdness.	
libidinosity		The state or quality of being libidinous; libidinousness.	
libidinous		Having lustful desires; characterized by lewdness; sensual; lascivious. -- Li*bid i*nous*ness, n.	Latin libidinosus.
libken		A house or lodging.	
libkin		A house or lodging.	
libra		(a) The Balance; the seventh sign in the zodiac, which the sun enters at the autumnal equinox in September, marked thus libra in almanacs, etc. (b ) A southern constellation between Virgo and Scorpio.	Latin libra.
libral	Obsolete	Of a pound weight.	Latin libralis.
librarian		One who has the care or charge of a library.	
librarianship		The office of a librarian.	
library		A considerable collection of books kept for use, and not as merchandise; as, a private library; a public library.	Middle English librarie, from Anglo-Norman librarie, from Old French librairie, from Latin librarium.
librate		To vibrate as a balance does before resting in equilibrium; hence, to be poised.	
libration		(Astron.) A real or apparent libratory motion, like that of a balance before coming to rest.	Latin libratio.
libratory		Balancing; moving like a balance, as it tends to an equipoise or level.	
librettist		One who makes a libretto.	
libretto		(a) A book containing the words of an opera or extended piece of music.	
libriform		Having the form of liber, or resembling liber.	
libyan		Of or pertaining to Libya, the ancient name of that part of Africa between Egypt and the Atlantic Ocean, or of Africa as a whole.	
lice		pl. of Louse — any one of numerous species of small, wingless, suctorial, parasitic insects belonging to a tribe (Pediculina), now usually regarded as degraded Hemiptera.	
licensable		That can be licensed.	
license		Authority or liberty given to do or forbear any act; especially, a formal permission from the proper authorities to perform certain acts or to carry on a certain business, which without such permission would be illegal…	Old French licence, from Latin licentia.
licensed		Having a license; permitted or authorized by license; as, a licensed victualer; a licensed traffic.	
licensee		The person to whom a license is given.	
licenser		One who gives a license; as, a licenser of the press.	
licensure		A licensing.	
licentiate		One who has a license to exercise a profession; as, a licentiate in medicine or theology.	
licentious		Characterized by license; passing due bounds; excessive; abusive of freedom; wantonly offensive; as, a licentious press.	Latin licentiosus.
lichen		(Bot.) One of a class of cellular, flowerless plants, (technically called Lichenes), having no distinction of leaf and stem, usually of scaly, expanded, frond-like forms, but sometimes erect or pendulous and variously branched.	
lichened		Belonging to, or covered with, lichens.	
lichenic		Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, lichens.	
licheniform		Having the form of a lichen.	
lichenin		A substance isomeric with starch, extracted from several species of moss and lichen, esp. from Iceland moss.	
lichenographic		Of or pertaining to lichenography.	
lichenographical		Of or pertaining to lichenography.	
lichenographist		One who describes lichens; one versed in lichenography.	
lichenography		A description of lichens; the science which illustrates the natural history of lichens.	
lichenologist		One versed in lichenology.	
lichenology		The science which treats of lichens.	
lichenous		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, lichens; abounding in lichens; covered with lichens.	
lichi		See Litchi — the fruit of a tree native to China (Nephelium Litchi).	
lichwale		The gromwell.	
lichwort		An herb, the wall pellitory. See Pellitory.	
licit		Lawful. -- Lic it*ness, n.	Latin licitus.
licitation		The act of offering for sale to the highest bidder.	Latin licitatio.
lick		To draw or pass the tongue over; as, a dog licks his master's hand.	Old English liccian.
lick-spigot	Obsolete	A tapster.	
lick-spittle		An abject flatterer or parasite.	
licker		One who, or that which, licks.	
lickerish		Eager; craving; urged by desire; eager to taste or enjoy; greedy.	
lickerous	Obsolete	Lickerish; eager; lustful. -- Lick"er*ous*ness, n.	Middle English likerous.
licking		A lapping with the tongue.	
lickpenny		A devourer or absorber of money.	
licorice		(Bot.) A plant of the genus Glycyrrhiza (G. glabra), the root of which abounds with a juice, and is much used in demulcent compositions.	
licorous	Obsolete	See Lickerish. -- Lic"o*rous*ness, n.	
lictor		An officer who bore an ax and fasces or rods, as ensigns of his office.	
lid		That which covers the opening of a vessel or box, etc.; a movable cover; as, the lid of a chest or trunk.	Old English hlid.
lidded		Covered with a lid.	
lidge	Obsolete	Same Ledge.	
lidless		Having no lid, or not covered with the lids, as the eyes; hence, sleepless; watchful.	
lie		See Lye — a strong caustic alkaline solution of potassium salts, obtained by leaching wood ashes.	Middle English lien, from Old English leogan.
lieberkuehn		A concave metallic mirror attached to the object-glass end of a microscope, to throw down light on opaque objects; a reflector.	
lieberkuhn		A concave metallic mirror attached to the object-glass end of a microscope, to throw down light on opaque objects; a reflector.	
lied		A lay; a German song.	
liederkranz		Lit., wreath of songs; -- used as the title of a group of songs, and esp. as the common name for German vocal clubs of men.	
liedertafel		A popular name for any society or club which meets for the practice of male part songs.	German Liedertafel.
lief	Obsolete	Note: (Used with a form of the verb to be, and the dative of the personal pronoun.) Pleasing; agreeable; acceptable; preferable.	Old English leof.
liefsome	Obsolete	Pleasing; delightful.	Middle English lefsum.
liegance		Same as Ligeance.	
liege		Sovereign; independent; having authority or right to allegiance; as, a liege lord.	Middle English liege, from Anglo-Norman lige, from Old French liege, from Middle High German (ca. 1050-1500 ledic.
liegeman		Same as Liege, n., 2.	
lieger	Obsolete	A resident ambassador. See Leger.	
liegiancy		See Ligeance — the connection between sovereign and subject by which they were mutually bound, the former to protection and the securing of justice, the latter to faithful service; allegiance.	
lien		of Lie. See lain.	Middle French lien, from Latin ligamen.
lienal		Of or pertaining to the spleen; splenic.	Latin lien, from Greek σπλήν.
lienculus		One of the small nodules sometimes found in the neighborhood of the spleen; an accessory or supplementary spleen.	
lieno-intestinal		Of or pertaining to the spleen and intestine; as, the lieno- intestinal vein of the frog.	
lienteric		Of or pertaining to, or of the nature of, a lientery. -- n. (Med.) A lientery.	Latin lientericus.
lientery		A diarrhea, in which the food is discharged imperfectly digested, or with but little change.	
lier		One who lies down; one who rests or remains, as in concealment.	Middle English lier, from Old English leogere.
lieu		Place; room; stead; -- used only in the phrase in lieu of, that is, instead of.	French lieu, from Latin locum.
lieutenancy		The office, rank, or commission, of a lieutenant.	
lieutenant		An officer who supplies the place of a superior in his absence; a representative of, or substitute for, another in the performance of any duty.	
lieutenantry	Obsolete	See Lieutenancy — the office, rank, or commission, of a lieutenant.	
lieutenantship		Same as Lieutenancy, 1.	
lieve		Same as Lief.	
lif		The fiber by which the petioles of the date palm are bound together, from which various kinds of cordage are made.	
life		The state of being which begins with generation, birth, or germination, and ends with death; also, the time during which this state continues…	Middle English lif.
life-giving		Giving life or spirit; having power to give life; inspiriting; invigorating.	
life-preserver		An apparatus, made in very various forms, and of various materials, for saving one from drowning by buoying up the body while in the water. -- Life"-pre*serv`ing, a.	
life-saving		That saves life, or is suited to save life, esp. from drowning; as, the life-saving service; a life-saving station.	
life-size		Of full size; of the natural size.	
life-weary		Weary of living.	
lifeblood		The blood necessary to life; vital blood.	
lifeboat		A strong, buoyant boat especially designed for saving the lives of shipwrecked people.	
lifeful		Full of vitality.	
lifehold		Land held by a life estate.	
lifeless		Destitute of life, or deprived of life; not containing, or inhabited by, living beings or vegetation; dead, or apparently dead; spiritless; powerless; dull; as, a lifeless carcass; lifeless matter; a lifeless desert…	
lifelike		Like a living being; resembling life; giving an accurate representation; as, a lifelike portrait. -- Life"like`ness, n.	
lifelong		Lasting or continuing through life.	
lifely	Obsolete	In a lifelike manner.	
lifemate		Companion for life.	
lifen	Obsolete	To enliven.	
lifesome	Poetic	Animated; sprightly.	
lifespring		Spring or source of life.	
lifestring		A nerve, or string, that is imagined to be essential to life.	
lifetime		The time that life continues.	
liflode	Obsolete	Livelihood.	
lift		To move in a direction opposite to that of gravitation; to raise; to elevate; to bring up from a lower place to a higher; to upheave; sometimes implying a continued support or holding in the higher place…	Middle English liften.
liftable		Such as can be lifted.	
lifter		One who, or that which, lifts.	
lifting		Used in, or for, or by, lifting.	
lig	Obsolete	To recline; to lie still.	Middle English liggen.
ligament		Anything that ties or unites one thing or part to another; a bandage; a bond.	Latin ligamentum.
ligamental		Composing a ligament; of the nature of a ligament; binding; as, a strong ligamentous membrane.	
ligamentous		Composing a ligament; of the nature of a ligament; binding; as, a strong ligamentous membrane.	
ligan		Goods sunk in the sea, with a buoy attached in order that they may be found again.	
ligate		To tie with a ligature; to bind around; to bandage.	
ligation		The act of binding, or the state of being bound.	
ligator		An instrument for ligating, or for placing and fastening a ligature.	
ligature		Anything that binds; a band or bandage.	
lige	Obsolete	To lie; to tell lies.	
ligeance		The connection between sovereign and subject by which they were mutually bound, the former to protection and the securing of justice, the latter to faithful service; allegiance.	Old French ligeance.
ligement		See Ledgment — (a) A string-course or horizontal suit of moldings, such as the base moldings of a building.	
ligge	Obsolete	To lie or recline.	
ligger		A baited line attached to a float, for night fishing. See Leger, a.	
light		That agent, force, or action in nature by the operation of which upon the organs of sight, objects are rendered visible or luminous.	Middle English lighten.
light-armed		Armed with light weapons or accouterments.	
light-boat		Light-ship.	
light-fingered		Dexterous in taking and conveying away; thievish; pilfering; addicted to petty thefts.	
light-foot		Having a light, springy step; nimble in running or dancing; active; as, light-foot Iris.	
light-footed		Having a light, springy step; nimble in running or dancing; active; as, light-foot Iris.	
light-handed		Not having a full complement of men; as, a vessel light-handed.	
light-headed		Disordered in the head; dilirious.	
light-hearted		Free from grief or anxiety; gay; cheerful; merry. -- Light -heart"ed*ness, n.	
light-heeled		Lively in walking or running; brisk; light-footed.	
light-horseman		A soldier who serves in the light horse. See under 5th Light.	
light-legged		Nimble; swift of foot.	
light-minded		Unsettled; unsteady; volatile; not considerate. -- Light"-mind`ed*ness, n.	
light-ship		A vessel carrying at the masthead a brilliant light, and moored off a shoal or place of dangerous navigation as a guide for mariners.	
light-winged		Having light and active wings; volatile; fleeting.	
lightable		Such as can be lighted.	
lighte		of Light, to alight.	
lighten		To burst forth or dart, as lightning; to shine with, or like, lightning; to display a flash or flashes of lightning; to flash.	
lighter		One who, or that which, lights; as, a lighter of lamps.	
lighterage		The price paid for conveyance of goods on a lighter.	
lighterman		A person employed on, or who manages, a lighter.	
lightful		Full of light; bright.	
lighthouse		A tower or other building with a powerful light at top, erected at the entrance of a port, or at some important point on a coast, to serve as a guide to mariners at night; a pharos.	
lighting		A name sometimes applied to the process of annealing metals.	
lightless		Destitute of light; dark.	
lightly		With little weight; with little force; as, to tread lightly; to press lightly.	
lightman		A man who carries or takes care of a light.	
lightness		The state, condition, or quality, of being light or not heavy; buoyancy; levity; fickleness; delicacy; grace.	
lightning		A discharge of atmospheric electricity, accompanied by a vivid flash of light, commonly from one cloud to another, sometimes from a cloud to the earth.	
lightroom		A small room from which the magazine of a naval vessel is lighted, being separated from the magazine by heavy glass windows.	
lights		The lungs of an animal or bird; -- sometimes coarsely applied to the lungs of a human being.	
lightsome		Having light; lighted; not dark or gloomy; bright.	
lightstruck		Damaged by accidental exposure to light; light-fogged; -- said of plates or films.	
lightweight	Colloquial	(a) In boxing, wrestling, etc., one weighingnot more than 133 pounds (U.	
lightwood		Pine wood abounding in pitch, used for torches in the Southern United States; pine knots, dry sticks, and the like, for kindling a fire quickly or making a blaze.	
lighty	Obsolete	Illuminated.	
lign-aloes		Aloes wood, or agallochum. See Agallochum.	
ligneous		Made of wood; consisting of wood; of the nature of, or resembling, wood; woody.	
ligniferous		Yielding or producing wood.	
lignification		A change in the character of a cell wall, by which it becomes harder.	
ligniform		Like wood.	
lignify		To convert into wood or into a ligneous substance.	
lignin		A substance characterizing wood cells and differing from cellulose in its conduct with certain chemical reagents.	
ligniperdous		Wood-destroying; -- said of certain insects.	
lignireose		See Lignin — a substance characterizing wood cells and differing from cellulose in its conduct with certain chemical reagents.	
lignite		Mineral coal retaining the texture of the wood from which it was formed, and burning with an empyreumatic odor.	
lignitic		Containing lignite; resembling, or of the nature of, lignite; as, lignitic clay.	
lignitiferous		Producing or containing lignite; lignitic.	
lignoceric		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the formic acid series, found in the tar, wax, or paraffine obtained by distilling certain kinds of wood, as the beech.	
lignone		See Lignin — a substance characterizing wood cells and differing from cellulose in its conduct with certain chemical reagents.	
lignose		(Chem.) An explosive compound of wood fiber and nitroglycerin. See Nitroglycerin.	
lignous		Ligneous.	
lignum-vitae		A tree (Guaiacum officinale) found in the warm latitudes of America, from which the guaiacum of medicine is procured.	
ligroin		A trade name applied somewhat indefinitely to some of the volatile products obtained in refining crude petroleum.	
ligsam		Same as Ligan.	
ligula		(Zoöl.) (a) The central process, or front edge, of the labium of insects.	Latin ligula.
ligulate		(Bot.) Like a bandage, or strap; strap-shaped.	
ligulated		(Bot.) Like a bandage, or strap; strap-shaped.	
ligule		(Bot.) (a) The thin and scarious projection from the upper end of the sheath of leaf of grass.	Latin ligula.
liguliflorous		Bearing only ligulate flowers; -- said of a large suborder of composite plants, such as the dandelion, hawkweed, etc.	
ligure		A kind of precious stone.	
ligustrin		A bitter principle found in the bark of the privet (Ligustrum vulgare), and extracted as a white crystalline substance with a warm, bitter taste; -- called also ligustron.	
likable		Such as can be liked; such as to attract liking; as, a likable person.	
like		Having the same, or nearly the same, appearance, qualities, or characteristics; resembling; similar to; similar; alike; -- often with in and the particulars of the resemblance; as, they are like each other in features…	Middle English liken, from Old English lician.
like-minded		Having a like disposition or purpose; of the same mind.	
likeable		See Likable — such as can be liked; such as to attract liking; as, a likable person.	
likehood	Obsolete	Likelihood.	
likelihood		Appearance of truth or reality; probability; verisimilitude.	
likeliness		Likelihood; probability.	Middle English liklinesse.
likely		Worthy of belief; probable; credible; as, a likely story.	Old Norse líkligr.
liken		To allege, or think, to be like; to represent as like; to compare; as, to liken life to a pilgrimage.	Middle English liken, from Old English lician.
likeness		The state or quality of being like; similitude; resemblance; similarity; as, the likeness of the one to the other is remarkable.	
likerous		See Lickerish, Lickerishness.	
likerousness		See Lickerish, Lickerishness.	
likewise		In like manner; also; moreover; too. See Also.	
likin		A Chinese provincial tax levied at many inland stations upon imports or articles in transit. which used to be regarded as illegal, as one of the many, imposed by the mandarins, is, in Jamieson's opinion…	
liking		The state of being pleased with, or attracted toward, some thing or person; hence, inclination; desire; pleasure; preference; -- often with for, formerly with to; as, it is an amusement I have no liking for.	
lilac		(Bot.) A shrub of the genus Syringa.	Arabic ليلك, from Persian نیلک.
lilacin		See Syringin — a glucoside found in the bark of the lilac (Syringa) and extracted as a white crystalline substance; -- formerly called also lilacin.	
liliaceous		(a) Of or pertaining to a natural order of which the lily, tulip, and hyacinth are well-known examples.	
lilial		Having a general resemblance to lilies or to liliaceous plants.	
lilied		Covered with, or having many, lilies.	
lill	Obsolete	To loll.	
lilliputian		One belonging to a very diminutive race described in Swift's	
lilly-pilly		An Australian myrtaceous tree (Eugenia Smithii), having smooth ovate leaves, and panicles of small white flowers.	
lilt	English dialect	To do anything with animation and quickness, as to skip, fly, or hop.	
lily		(Bot.) A plant and flower of the genus Lilium, endogenous bulbous plants, having a regular perianth of six colored pieces, six stamens, and a superior three-celled ovary.	Old English lilie, from Latin lilia.
lily-handed		Having white, delicate hands.	
lily-livered		White-livered; cowardly.	
lilywort		Any plant of the Lily family or order.	
lima		The capital city of Peru, in South America.	
limaceous		Pertaining to, or like, Limax, or the slugs.	
limacina		A genus of small spiral pteropods, common in the Arctic and Antarctic seas.	
limacon		A curve of the fourth degree, invented by Pascal.	
limaille	Obsolete	Filings of metal.	
liman		The deposit of slime at the mouth of a river; slime.	French limon, from Italian limone, from Arabic ليمون, from Persian لیمو.
limation		The act of filing or polishing.	Latin limatus.
limature		That which is filed off; filings.	
limax		A genus of airbreathing mollusks, including the common garden slugs.	
limb		A part of a tree which extends from the trunk and separates into branches and twigs; a large branch.	Latin limbus.
limbat		A cooling periodical wind in the Isle of Cyprus, blowing from the northwest from eight o'clock, A.	
limbate		Bordered, as when one color is surrounded by an edging of another.	Latin limbatus.
limbec	Obsolete	An alembic; a still.	
limbed		Having limbs; -- much used in composition; as, large-limbed; short-limbed.	
limber		(Mil.) The detachable fore part of a gun carriage, consisting of two wheels, an axle, and a shaft to which the horses are attached.	
limberness		The quality or state of being limber; flexibleness.	
limbless		Destitute of limbs.	
limbmeal	Obsolete	Piecemeal.	
limbo		(Scholastic Theol.) An extramundane region where certain classes of souls were supposed to await the judgment.	Latin limbus.
limbous		With slightly overlapping borders; -- said of a suture.	
limburger		A soft cheese made in the Belgian province of Limburg (Limbourg), and usually not eaten until the curing has developed a peculiar and, to most people, unpleasant odor.	
limbus		(Scholastic Theol.) An extramundane region where certain classes of souls were supposed to await the judgment.	Latin limbus.
lime		(Chem.) Oxide of calcium; the white or gray, caustic substance, usually called quicklime, obtained by calcining limestone or shells, the heat driving off carbon dioxide and leaving lime.	Old English lim.
lime-twigged		Beset with snares; insnared, as with birdlime.	
limehound		A dog used in hunting the wild boar; a leamer.	
limekiln		A kiln or furnace in which limestone or shells are burned and reduced to lime.	
limelight		That part of the stage upon which the limelight as cast, usually where the most important action is progressing or where the leading player or players are placed and upon which the attention of the spectators is therefore…	
limenean		Of or pertaining to Lima, or to the inhabitants of Lima, in Peru. -- n.	
limer		A limehound; a limmer.	Anglo-Norman limer, from Old French liem.
limerick		A nonsense poem of five anapestic lines, of which lines 1, 2, and 5 are of there feet, and rime, and lines 3 and 4 are of two feet, and rime; as -- There was a young lady, Amanda, Whose Ballades Lyriques were quite fin de Siècle…	
limestone		A rock consisting chiefly of calcium carbonate or carbonate of lime.	
limewater		Water impregnated with lime; esp., an artificial solution of lime for medicinal purposes.	
limicolae		A group of shore birds, embracing the plovers, sandpipers, snipe, curlew, etc.; the Grallæ.	
limicoline		Shore-inhabiting; of or pertaining to the Limicolæ.	
liminess		The state or quality of being limy.	
limit		That which terminates, circumscribes, restrains, or confines; the bound, border, or edge; the utmost extent; as, the limit of a walk, of a town, of a country; the limits of human knowledge or endeavor.	Latin limiten, from Old French limiter, from Latin limitare.
limitable		Capable of being limited.	
limitaneous	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to a limit.	Latin limitancus.
limitarian		Tending to limit.	
limitary		Placed at the limit, as a guard.	
limitate		Bounded by a distinct line.	
limitation		The act of limiting; the state or condition of being limited; as, the limitation of his authority was approved by the council.	
limited		Confined within limits; narrow; circumscribed; restricted; as, our views of nature are very limited.	
limitedly		With limitation.	
limitedness		The quality of being limited.	
limiter		One who, or that which, limits.	
limitive		Involving a limit; as, a limitive law, one designed to limit existing powers.	
limitless		Having no limits; unbounded; boundless.	
limitour		See Limiter, 2.	
limmer		(Zoöl.) A mongrel, as a cross between the mastiff and hound.	
limn		To draw or paint; especially, to represent in an artistic way with pencil or brush.	Middle English luminem.
limner	Archaic	A painter; an artist; esp.: (a) One who paints portraits. (b) One who illuminates books.	
limniad		See Limoniad — a nymph of the meadows; -- called also Limniad.	
limning		The act, process, or art of one who limns; the picture or decoration so produced.	
limoges		A city of Southern France.	
limoniad		A nymph of the meadows; -- called also Limniad.	
limonin		A bitter, white, crystalline substance found in orange and lemon seeds.	
limonite		Hydrous sesquixoide of iron, an important ore of iron, occurring in stalactitic, mammillary, or earthy forms, of a dark brown color, yellowish brown powder.	
limosis		A ravenous appetite caused by disease; excessive and morbid hunger.	Greek λιμός.
limous		Muddy; slimy; thick.	Latin limosus.
limousine		An automobile body with seats and permanent top like a coupé, and with the top projecting over the driver and a projecting front; also, an automobile with such a body.	French limousine.
limp		To halt; to walk lamely.	Middle English limpen, from Old English limpan.
limper		One who limps.	
limpet		In a general sense, any hatshaped, or conical, gastropod shell.	
limpid		Characterized by clearness or transparency; clear; as, a limpid stream.	Latin limpidus.
limpidity		The quality or state of being limpid.	
limpidness		Quality of being limpid; limpidity.	
limpin	Obsolete	A limpet.	
limpingly		In a limping manner.	
limpitude	Obsolete	Limpidity.	
limpkin		Either one of two species of wading birds of the genus Aramus, intermediate between the cranes and rails.	
limpness		The quality or state of being limp.	
limpsy	Dialect	Limp; flexible; flimsy.	
limsy	Dialect	Limp; flexible; flimsy.	
limu		The Hawaiian name for seaweeds.	Hawaiian limu.
limule		A limulus.	
limuloidea		An order of Merostomata, including among living animals the genus Limulus, with various allied fossil genera, mostly of the Carboniferous period.	
limulus		The only existing genus of Merostomata.	
limy		Smeared with, or consisting of, lime; viscous.	
lin		A pool or collection of water, particularly one above or below a fall of water.	Middle English linnen, from Old English linnan.
linage	Obsolete	See Lineage — descent in a line from a common progenitor; progeny; race; descending line of offspring or ascending line of parentage.	
linament		Lint; esp., lint made into a tent for insertion into wounds or ulcers.	Latin linamentum.
linarite		A hydrous sulphate of lead and copper occurring in bright blue monoclinic crystals.	
linch		A ledge; a right-angled projection.	
linchi		An esculent swallow.	
linchpin		A pin used to prevent the wheel of a vehicle from sliding off the axletree.	Middle English lynspin, from Old English lynis.
lincture		Medicine taken by licking with the tongue.	
linctus		Medicine taken by licking with the tongue.	Latin linctus.
lind		The linden. See Linden.	
linden		(a) A handsome tree (Tilia Europæa), having cymes of light yellow flowers, and large cordate leaves.	Old English linden.
lindia		A peculiar genus of rotifers, remarkable for the absence of ciliated disks.	
lindiform		Resembling the genus Lindia; -- said of certain apodous insect larvæ.	
line		The longer and fiber of flax.	Middle French ligner.
line-up		The formation of football players before the start or a restart of play; hence (Colloq.), any arrangement of persons (rarely, of things), esp. when having a common purpose or sentiment; as, the line-up at a ticket- office window…	
lineage		Descent in a line from a common progenitor; progeny; race; descending line of offspring or ascending line of parentage.	Middle English linage, from Old French linage.
lineal		Descending in a direct line from an ancestor; hereditary; derived from ancestors; -- opposed to collateral; as, a lineal descent or a lineal descendant.	Latin linealis.
lineality		The quality of being linea	
lineally		In a lineal manner; as, the prince is lineally descended from the Conqueror.	
lineament		One of the outlines, exterior features, or distinctive marks, of a body or figure, particularly of the face; feature; form; mark; - - usually in the plural.	Latin lineamentum.
linear		Of or pertaining to a line; consisting of lines; in a straight direction; lineal.	
linear-shaped		Of a linear shape.	
linearensate		Having the form of a sword, but very long and narrow.	
linearly		In a linear manner; with lines.	
lineate		(Zoöl.) Marked with lines.	
lineated		(Zoöl.) Marked with lines.	
lineation		Delineation; a line or lines.	Latin lineatio.
lineature		Anything having outline.	
lineman		One who carried the line in surveying, etc.	
linen		] Made of linen; as, linen cloth; a linen stocking.	
linener	Obsolete	A dealer in linen; a linen draper.	
lineolate		(Zoöl.) Marked with little lines.	
liner		One who lines, as, a liner of shoes.	
lineup		The formation of football players before the start or a restart of play; hence (Colloq.), any arrangement of persons (rarely, of things), esp. when having a common purpose or sentiment; as, the line-up at a ticket- office window…	
ling		(a) A large, marine, gadoid fish (Molva vulgaris) of Northern Europe and Greenland.	
ling-bird		The European meadow pipit; -- called also titling.	
linga		The phallic symbol under which Siva is principally worshiped in his character of the creative and reproductive power.	
lingam		The phallic symbol under which Siva is principally worshiped in his character of the creative and reproductive power.	
lingel		A little tongue or thong of leather; a lacing for belts.	French ligneul.
lingence	Obsolete	A linctus.	
linger		To delay; to loiter; to remain or wait long; to be slow or reluctant in parting or moving; to be slow in deciding; to be in suspense; to hesitate.	
lingerer		One who lingers.	
lingerie		Linen goods collectively; linen underwear, esp. of women; the clothing of linen and cotton with its lace, etc., worn by a women.	French lingerie.
lingering		Drawn out in time; remaining long; protracted; as, a lingering disease.	
lingeringly		With delay; slowly; tediously.	
linget		An ingot.	French lingot, from English ingot, from Middle English ingot.
lingism		A mode of treating certain diseases, as obesity, by gymnastics; -- proposed by Pehr Henrik Ling, a Swede.	
lingle		See Lingel — a little tongue or thong of leather; a lacing for belts.	
lingo	Slang	Language; speech; dialect.	
lingot		A linget or ingot; also, a mold for casting metals. See Linget.	
lingua		(a) A tongue. (b) A median process of the labium, at the under side of the mouth in insects, and serving as a tongue.	
linguacious	Obsolete	Given to the use of the tongue; loquacious.	Latin linguax.
linguadental		Formed or uttered by the joint use of the tongue and teeth, or rather that part of the gum just above the front teeth; dentolingual, as the letters d and t.	
lingual		Of or pertaining to the tongue; uttered by the aid of the tongue; glossal; as, the lingual nerves; a lingual letter.	Latin linguis.
linguality		The quality of being lingual.	
linguatulida		Same as Linguatulina.	
linguatulina		An order of wormlike, degraded, parasitic arachnids.	
linguidental		Linguadental.	
linguiform		Having the form of the tongue; tongue-shaped.	
linguist		A person skilled in languages.	
linguistic		Of or pertaining to language; relating to linguistics, or to the affinities of languages.	
linguistical		Of or pertaining to language; relating to linguistics, or to the affinities of languages.	
linguistically		In a linguistic manner; from the point of view of a linguist.	
linguistics		The science of languages, or of the origin, signification, and application of words; glossology.	
lingula		(Anat.) A tonguelike process or part.	Latin lingula.
lingulate		Shaped like the tongue or a strap; ligulate.	
linigerous		Bearing flax; producing linen.	
liniment		A liquid or semiliquid preparation of a consistence thinner than an ointment, applied to the skin by friction, esp. one used as a sedative or a stimulant.	Latin linimentum.
lining		The act of one who lines; the act or process of making lines, or of inserting a lining.	
link		A torch made of tow and pitch, or the like.	
linkage		The act of linking; the state of being linked; also, a system of links.	
linkboy		A boy or man that carried a link or torch to light passengers.	
linkman		A boy or man that carried a link or torch to light passengers.	
links		A tract of ground laid out for the game of golf; a golfing green.	Scots link, from Old English hlinc.
linkwork		A fabric consisting of links made of metal or other material fastened together; also, a chain.	
linnaean		Of or pertaining to Linnæus, the celebrated Swedish botanist.	
linnaeite		A mineral of pale steel-gray color and metallic luster, occurring in isometric crystals, and also massive.	
linne	Obsolete	Flax. See Linen.	
linnean		Of or pertaining to Linnæus, the celebrated Swedish botanist.	
linnet		Any one of several species of fringilline birds of the genera Linota, Acanthis, and allied genera, esp. the common European species (L. cannabina), which, in full summer plumage, is chestnut brown above…	Old French linette.
linoleate		A salt of linoleic acid.	
linoleic		Pertaining to, or derived from, linoleum, or linseed oil; specifically (Chem.), designating an organic acid, a thin yellow oil, found combined as a salt of glycerin in oils of linseed, poppy, hemp, and certain nuts.	
linoleum		Linseed oil brought to various degrees of hardness by some oxidizing process, as by exposure to heated air, or by treatment with chloride of sulphur.	
linotype		(a) A kind of typesetting machine which produces castings, each of which corresponds to a line of separate types.	
linoxin		A resinous substance obtained as an oxidation product of linoleic acid.	
linsang		Any viverrine mammal of the genus Prionodon, inhabiting the East Indies and Southern Asia.	
linseed		The seeds of flax, from which linseed oil is obtained.	Old English linsæd.
linsey		Linsey-woolsey.	
linsey-woolsey	Obsolete	Cloth made of linen and wool, mixed. 2.	
linstock		A pointed forked staff, shod with iron at the foot, to hold a lighted match for firing cannon.	
lint		Linen scraped or otherwise made into a soft, downy or fleecy substance for dressing wounds and sores; also, fine ravelings, down, fluff, or loose short fibers from yarn or fabrics.	Middle English linet, from Old French linette.
lintel		A horizontal member spanning an opening, and carrying the superincumbent weight by means of its strength in resisting crosswise fracture.	Middle English lyntel, from Middle French lintel, from Latin limitaris.
lintie		See Linnet — any one of several species of fringilline birds of the genera Linota, Acanthis, and allied genera, esp. the common European species (L. cannabina), which, in full summer plumage…	
lintseed		See Linseed — the seeds of flax, from which linseed oil is obtained.	
lintwhite		See Linnet — any one of several species of fringilline birds of the genera Linota, Acanthis, and allied genera, esp. the common European species (L. cannabina), which, in full summer plumage…	
linum		A genus of herbaceous plants including the flax (Linum usitatissimum).	
lion		(Zoöl.) A large carnivorous feline mammal (Felis leo), found in Southern Asia and in most parts of Africa, distinct varieties occurring in the different countries.	Old French lion, from Latin leo, from Greek λέων.
lion-heart		A very brave person.	
lion-hearted		Very brave; brave and magnanimous.	
lionced		Adorned with lions heads; having arms terminating in lions' heads; -- said of a cross.	
lioncel		A small lion, especially one of several borne in the same coat of arms.	
lionel		The whelp of a lioness; a young lion.	
lioness		A female lion.	
lionet		A young or small lion.	
lionhood		State of being a lion.	
lionism		An attracting of attention, as a lion; also, the treating or regarding as a lion.	
lionize		To treat or regard as a lion or object of great interest.	
lionlike		Like a lion; brave as a lion.	
lionly	Obsolete	Like a lion; fierce.	
lionship		The state of being a lion.	
lip		One of the two fleshy folds which surround the orifice of the mouth in man and many other animals.	Middle English lippe, from Old English lippa.
lipaemia		A condition in which fat occurs in the blood.	
lipans		A tribe of North American Inedians, inhabiting the northern part of Mexico.	
liparian		Any species of a family (Liparidæ) of destructive bombycid moths, as the tussock moths.	
liparite		A quartzose trachyte; rhyolite.	
lipic		Pertaining to, or derived from, fat.	
lipless		, Having no lips.	
liplet		A little lip.	
lipocephala		Same as Lamellibranchia.	
lipochrin		A yellow coloring matter, soluble in ether, contained in the small round fat drops in the retinal epithelium cells.	
lipogram		A writing composed of words not having a certain letters; -- as in the Odyssey of Tryphiodorus there was no A in the first book, no B in the second, and so on.	
lipogrammatic		Omitting a letter; composed of words not having a certain letter or letters; as, lipogrammatic writings.	
lipogrammatist		One who makes a lipogram.	
lipoma		A tumor consisting of fat or adipose tissue. -- Li*pom"a*tous, a.	
lipothymic		Tending to swoon; fainting.	
lipothymous		Pertaining, or given, to swooning; fainting.	
lipothymy		A fainting; a swoon.	
lipped		Having a lip or lips; having a raised or rounded edge resembling the lip; -- often used in composition; as, thick-lipped, thin-lipped, etc.	
lippitude		Soreness of eyes; the state of being blear-eyes; blearedness.	
lipse	Obsolete	To lisp.	
lipyl	Obsolete	A hypothetical radical of glycerin.	
liquable		Capable of being melted.	Latin liquabilis.
liquate	Obsolete	To melt; to become liquid.	
liquation		The act or operation of making or becoming liquid; also, the capacity of becoming liquid.	
liquefacient		That which serves to liquefy.	
liquefaction		The act or operation of making or becoming liquid; especially, the conversion of a solid into a liquid by the sole agency of heat.	
liquefiable		Capable of being changed from a solid to a liquid state.	
liquefier		That which liquefies.	
liquefy		To convert from a solid form to that of a liquid; to melt; to dissolve; and technically, to melt by the sole agency of heat.	Middle English liquefien, from Anglo-Norman liquefier, from Latin liquefacere.
liquescency		The quality or state of being liquescent.	
liquescent		Tending to become liquid; inclined to melt to melt; melting.	Latin liquescens.
liqueur		An aromatic alcoholic cordial.	French liqueur, from Latin liquor.
liquid		Flowing freely like water; fluid; not solid.	Middle English liquide, from Old French liquide, from Latin liquidus.
liquidambar		(Bot.) A genus consisting of two species of tall trees having star- shaped leaves, and woody burlike fruit.	
liquidamber		See Liquidambar — (Bot.) A genus consisting of two species of tall trees having star- shaped leaves, and woody burlike fruit.	
liquidate		(Law) To determine by agreement or by litigation the precise amount of (indebtedness); or, where there is an indebtedness to more than one person, to determine the precise amount of (each indebtedness)…	
liquidation		The act or process of liquidating; the state of being liquidated.	
liquidator		One who, or that which, liquidates.	
liquidity		The state or quality of being liquid.	
liquidize		To render liquid.	
liquidly		In a liquid manner; flowingly.	
liquidness		The quality or state of being liquid; liquidity; fluency.	
liquor		Any liquid substance, as water, milk, blood, sap, juice, or the like.	
liquorice		See Licorice — (Bot.) A plant of the genus Glycyrrhiza (G. glabra), the root of which abounds with a juice, and is much used in demulcent compositions.	Old French licoresse, from Latin liquiritia, from Greek γλυκύρριζα.
liquorish	Obsolete	See Lickerish — eager; craving; urged by desire; eager to taste or enjoy; greedy.	
liquorous	Obsolete	Eagerly desirous. See Lickerish.	
lira		An Italian coin equivalent in value to the French franc.	Italian lira, from Latin libra.
lirella		A linear apothecium furrowed along the middle; the fruit of certain lichens.	
lirelliform		Like a lirella.	
liriodendron		A genus of large and very beautiful trees of North America, having smooth, shining leaves, and handsome, tuliplike flowers; tulip tree; whitewood; -- called also canoewood.	
liripipe		See Liripoop — a pendent part of the old clerical tippet; afterwards, a tippet; a scarf; -- worn also by doctors, learned men, etc.	
liripoop	Obsolete	A pendent part of the old clerical tippet; afterwards, a tippet; a scarf; -- worn also by doctors, learned men, etc.	Old French liripipion.
liroconite		A hydrated arseniate of copper, occurring in obtuse pyramidal crystals of a sky-blue or verdigris-green color.	
lisbon		A sweet, light-colored species of wine, produced in the province of Estremadura, and so called as being shipped from Lisbon, in Portugal.	
lisle		A city of France celebrated for certain manufactures.	
lisne	Obsolete	A cavity or hollow.	
lisp		To pronounce the sibilant letter s imperfectly; to give s and z the sound of th; -- a defect common among children.	
lisper		One who lisps.	
lispingly		With a lisp; in a lisping manner.	
liss	Obsolete	Release; remission; ease; relief.	Middle English lissen.
lissencephala		A general name for all those placental mammals that have a brain with few or no cerebral convolutions, as Rodentia, Insectivora, etc.	
lissom		Limber; supple; flexible; lithe; lithesome.	
lissome		Limber; supple; flexible; lithe; lithesome.	
list		(Naut.) To lean; to incline; as, the ship lists to port.	Old English lystan.
listel		Same as List, n., 6.	
listen		To give close attention with the purpose of hearing; to give ear; to hearken; to attend.	Middle English listnen.
listener		One who listens; a hearkener.	
lister	Scotland	A spear armed with three or more prongs, for striking fish.	
listerian		Of or pertaining to listerism.	
listerism		The systematic use of antiseptics in the performance of operations and the treatment of wounds; -- so called from Joseph Lister, an English surgeon.	
listerize		To make antiseptic.	
listful	Obsolete	Attentive Spenser.	
listing		The act or process of one who lists (in any sense of the verb); as, the listing of a door; the listing of a stock at the Stock Exchange.	
listless		Having no desire or inclination; indifferent; heedless; spiritless.	
lit		, a form of the imp. & p. p. of Light.	Middle English litten.
litany		A solemn form of supplication in the public worship of various churches, in which the clergy and congregation join, the former leading and the latter responding in alternate sentences.	Greek λιτανεία.
litarge	Obsolete	Litharge.	
litchi		The fruit of a tree native to China (Nephelium Litchi).	
liter		A measure of capacity in the metric system, being a cubic decimeter, equal to 61.022 cubic inches, or 2.113 American pints, or 1.76 English pints.	
literacy		State of being literate.	
literal		According to the letter or verbal expression; real; not figurative or metaphorical; as, the literal meaning of a phrase.	Old French literal, from Latin litteralis.
literalism		That which accords with the letter; a mode of interpreting literally; adherence to the letter.	
literalist		One who adheres to the letter or exact word; an interpreter according to the letter.	
literality		The state or quality of being literal.	
literalization		The act of literalizing; reduction to a literal meaning.	
literalize		To make literal; to interpret or put in practice according to the strict meaning of the words; -- opposed to spiritualize; as, to literalize Scripture.	
literalizer		A literalist.	
literally		According to the primary and natural import of words; not figuratively; as, a man and his wife can not be literally one flesh.	
literalness		The quality or state of being literal; literal import.	
literary		Of or pertaining to letters or literature; pertaining to learning or learned men; as, literary fame; a literary history; literary conversation.	French littéraire, from Latin litterarius.
literate		Instructed in learning, science, or literature; learned; lettered.	Latin litteratus.
literati		Learned or literary men. See Literatus.	Latin literatus.
literatim		Letter for letter.	
literation		The act or process of representing by letters.	Latin littera.
literator		One who teaches the letters or elements of knowledge; a petty schoolmaster.	
literature		Learning; acquaintance with letters or books.	
literatus		A learned man; a man acquainted with literature; -- chiefly used in the plural.	
lith		3d pers. sing. pres. of Lie, to recline, for lieth.	Middle English lith.
lithaemia		A condition in which uric (lithic) acid is present in the blood.	
lithagogue		A medicine having, or supposed to have, the power of expelling calculous matter with the urine.	
litharge		Lead monoxide; a yellowish red substance, obtained as an amorphous powder, or crystallized in fine scales, by heating lead moderately in a current of air or by calcining lead nitrate or carbonate.	Old French litarge, from Latin lithargyrus, from Greek λιθαργυρος.
lithargyrum		Crystallized litharge, obtained by fusion in the form of fine yellow scales.	
lithate	Obsolete	A salt of lithic or uric acid; a urate.	
lithe	Obsolete	Mild; calm; as, lithe weather.	Middle English lithen, from Old English liþian.
lithely		In a lithe, pliant, or flexible manner.	
litheness		The quality or state of being lithe; flexibility; limberness.	
lither	Obsolete	Bad; wicked; false; worthless; slothful.	Middle English lither.
litherly	Archaic	Crafty; cunning; mischievous; wicked; treacherous; lazy.	
lithesome		Pliant; limber; flexible; supple; nimble; lissom. -- Lithe"some*ness, n.	
lithia		The oxide of lithium; a strong alkaline caustic similar to potash and soda, but weaker.	
lithiasis		The formation of stony concretions or calculi in any part of the body, especially in the bladder and urinary passages.	Latin lithiasis, from Greek λιθίασις.
lithic		Of or pertaining to stone; as, lithic architecture.	
lithiophilite		A phosphate of manganese and lithium; a variety of triphylite.	
lithium		A metallic element of the alkaline group, occurring in several minerals, as petalite, spodumene, lepidolite, triphylite, etc., and otherwise widely disseminated, though in small quantities.	Latin lithium.
litho		A combining form from Gr. stone.	
lithobilic		Pertaining to or designating an organic acid of the tartaric acid series, distinct from lithofellic acid, but, like it, obtained from certain bile products, as bezoar stones.	
lithocarp		Fossil fruit; a fruit petrified; a carpolite.	
lithochromatics		See Lithochromics — the art of printing colored pictures on canvas from oil paintings on stone.	
lithochromics		The art of printing colored pictures on canvas from oil paintings on stone.	
lithoclast		An instrument for crushing stones in the bladder.	
lithocyst		A sac containing small, calcareous concretions (otoliths).	
lithodome		Any one of several species of bivalves, which form holes in limestone, in which they live; esp., any species of the genus Lithodomus.	
lithodomous		Like, or pertaining to, Lithodomus; lithophagous.	
lithodomus		A genus of elongated bivalve shells, allied to the mussels, and remarkable for their ability to bore holes for shelter, in solid limestone, shells, etc. Called also Lithophagus.	
lithofellic		Pertaining to, or designating, a crystalline, organic acid, resembling cholic acid, found in the biliary intestinal concretions (bezoar stones) common in certain species of antelope.	
lithofracteur		An explosive compound of nitroglycerin. See Nitroglycerin.	
lithogenesy		The doctrine or science of the origin of the minerals composing the globe.	
lithogenous		Stone-producing; -- said of polyps which form coral.	
lithoglyph		An engraving on a gem.	
lithoglypher		One who curs or engraves precious stones.	
lithoglyphic		Of or pertaining to the art of cutting and engraving precious stones.	
lithoglyptics		The art of cutting and engraving gems.	
lithograph		To trace on stone by the process of lithography so as to transfer the design to paper by printing; as, to lithograph a design; to lithograph a painting.	
lithographer		One who lithographs; one who practices lithography.	
lithographic		Of or pertaining to lithography; made by lithography; as, the lithographic art; a lithographic picture.	
lithographical		Of or pertaining to lithography; made by lithography; as, the lithographic art; a lithographic picture.	
lithography		The art or process of putting designs or writing, with a greasy material, on stone, and of producing printed impressions therefrom.	
lithoid		Like a stone; having a stony structure.	
lithoidal		Like a stone; having a stony structure.	
litholatry		The worship of a stone or stones.	
lithologic		(Geol.) Of or pertaining to the character of a rock, as derived from the nature and mode of aggregation of its mineral contents.	
lithological		(Geol.) Of or pertaining to the character of a rock, as derived from the nature and mode of aggregation of its mineral contents.	
lithologically		From a lithological point of view; as, to consider a stratum lithologically.	
lithologist		One who is skilled in lithology.	
lithology		The science which treats of rocks, as regards their mineral constitution and classification, and their mode of occurrence in nature.	
lithomancy		Divination by means of stones.	
lithomarge		A clay of a fine smooth texture, and very sectile.	
lithonthriptic		Same as Lithontriptic.	
lithonthryptic		Same as Lithontriptic.	
lithontriptic		Having the quality of, or used for, dissolving or destroying stone in the bladder or kidneys; as, lithontriptic forcéps. -- n.	
lithontriptist		Same as Lithotriptist.	
lithontriptor		See Lithotriptor — an instrument for triturating the stone in the bladder; a lithotrite.	
lithophagous		(a) Eating or swallowing stones or gravel, as the ostrich. (b) Eating or destroying stone; -- applied to various animals which make burrows in stone, as many bivalve mollusks, certain sponges, annelids, and sea urchins.	
lithophane		Porcelain impressed with figures which are made distinct by transmitted light, -- as when hung in a window, or used as a lamp shade.	
lithophosphor		A stone that becomes phosphoric by heat.	
lithophosphoric		Pertaining to lithophosphor; becoming phosphoric by heat.	
lithophotography		Same as Photolithography.	
lithophyll		A fossil leaf or impression of a leaf.	
lithophyse		A spherulitic cavity often with concentric chambers, observed in some volcanic rocks, as in rhyolitic lavas.	
lithophyte		A hard, or stony, plantlike organism, as the gorgonians, corals, and corallines, esp. those gorgonians having a calcareous axis.	
lithophytic		Of or pertaining to lithophytes.	
lithophytous		Lithophytic.	
lithosian		Any one of various species of moths belonging to the family Lithosidæ.	
lithosphere		(a) The solid earth as distinguished from its fluid envelopes, the hydrosphere and atmosphere.	
lithotint		A kind of lithography by which the effect of a tinted drawing is produced, as if made with India ink.	
lithotome		(Surg.) An instrument used for cutting the bladder in operations for the stone.	
lithotomic		Pertaining to, or performed by, lithotomy.	
lithotomical		Pertaining to, or performed by, lithotomy.	
lithotomist		One who performs the operation of cutting for stone in the bladder, or one who is skilled in the operation.	
lithotomy		The operation, art, or practice of cutting for stone in the bladder.	
lithotripsy		The operation of crushing a stone in the bladder with an instrument called lithotriptor or lithotrite; lithotrity.	
lithotriptic		Same as Lithontriptic.	
lithotriptist		One skilled in breaking and extracting stone in the bladder.	
lithotriptor		An instrument for triturating the stone in the bladder; a lithotrite.	
lithotrite		A lithotriptor.	
lithotritist		A lithotriptist.	
lithotritor		A lithotriptor.	
lithotrity		The operation of breaking a stone in the bladder into small pieces capable of being voided.	
lithotype		A kind of stereotype plate made by lithotypy; also, that which in printed from it.	
lithotypic		Of, pertaining to, or produced by, lithotypy.	
lithotypy		The art or process of making a kind of hard, stereotypeplate, by pressing into a mold, taken from a page of type or other matter, a composition of gum shell-lac and sand of a fine quality…	
lithoxyl	Obsolete	Petrified wood.	
lithuanian		Of or pertaining to Lithuania (formerly a principality united with Poland, but now Russian and Prussian territory).	
lithy		Easily bent; pliable.	Old English liþig.
litigable		Such as can be litigated.	
litigant		Disposed to litigate; contending in law; engaged in a lawsuit; as, the parties litigant.	
litigate		To make the subject of a lawsuit; to contest in law; to prosecute or defend by pleadings, exhibition of evidence, and judicial debate in a court; as, to litigate a cause.	
litigation		The act or process of litigating; a suit at law; a judicial contest.	
litigator		One who litigates.	
litigious		Inclined to judicial contest; given to the practice of contending in law; guarrelsome; contentious; fond of litigation.	
litigiously		In a litigious manner.	
litigiousness		The state of being litigious; disposition to engage in or carry on lawsuits.	
litmus		A dyestuff extracted from certain lichens (Roccella tinctoria, Lecanora tartarea, etc.), as a blue amorphous mass which consists of a compound of the alkaline carbonates with certain coloring matters related to orcin and orcein.	
litotes		A diminution or softening of statement for the sake of avoiding censure or increasing the effect by contrast with the moderation shown in the form of expression; as, that is, of an illustrious city.	Greek λιτότης.
litraneter		An instrument for ascertaining the specific gravity of liquids.	
litre		A measure of capacity in the metric system, being a cubic decimeter, equal to 61.022 cubic inches, or 2.113 American pints, or 1.76 English pints.	Greek λίτρα.
litter		A bed or stretcher so arranged that a person, esp. a sick or wounded person, may be easily carried in or upon it.	French litière.
litterateur		One who occupies himself with literature; a literary man; a literatus.	
littery		Covered or encumbered with litter; consisting of or constituting litter.	
little		Small in size or extent; not big; diminutive; -- opposed to big or large; as, a little body; a little animal; a little piece of ground; a little hill; a little distance; a little child.	Middle English litel, from Old English lytel.
little-ease		An old slang name for the pillory, stocks, etc., of a prison.	
littleness		The state or quality of being little; as, littleness of size, thought, duration, power, etc. Syn. -- Smallness; slightness; inconsiderableness; narrowness; insignificance; meanness; penuriousness.	
littoral		Of or pertaining to a shore, as of the sea.	Latin littoralis.
littorina		A genus of small pectinibranch mollusks, having thick spiral shells, abundant between tides on nearly all rocky seacoasts.	
littress		A smooth kind of cartridge paper used for making cards.	
lituate		Forked, with the points slightly curved outward.	
lituiform		Having the form of a lituus; like a lituite.	
lituite		Any species of ammonites of the genus Lituites.	
liturate		(Zoöl.) Having indistinct spots, paler at their margins.	Latin lituratus.
liturgic		Pertaining to, of or the nature of, a liturgy; of or pertaining to public prayer and worship.	
liturgical		Pertaining to, of or the nature of, a liturgy; of or pertaining to public prayer and worship.	
liturgically		In the manner of a liturgy.	
liturgics		The science of worship; history, doctrine, and interpretation of liturgies.	
liturgiologist		One versed in liturgiology.	
liturgiology		The science treating of liturgical matters; a treatise on, or description of, liturgies.	
liturgist		One who favors or adheres strictly to a liturgy.	
liturgy		An established formula for public worship, or the entire ritual for public worship in a church which uses prescribed forms; a formulary for public prayer or devotion.	Latin liturgia, from Greek λειτουργία.
lituus		(Math.) A spiral whose polar equation is r2th = a; that is, a curve the square of whose radius vector varies inversely as the angle which the radius vector makes with a given line.	
livable		Such as can be lived.	
live		To be alive; to have life; to have, as an animal or a plant, the capacity of assimilating matter as food, and to be dependent on such assimilation for a continuance of existence; as…	Middle English liven, from Old English libban.
live-forever		A plant (Sedum Telephium) with fleshy leaves, which has extreme powers of resisting drought; garden ox-pine.	
lived		Having life; -- used only in composition; as, long-lived; short-lived.	
livelihed	Obsolete	See Livelihood — subsistence or living, as dependent on some means of support; support of life; maintenance.	
livelihood	Obsolete	Subsistence or living, as dependent on some means of support; support of life; maintenance.	Middle English liflode, from Old English liflad.
livelily	Obsolete	In a lively manner.	
liveliness		The quality or state of being lively or animated; sprightliness; vivacity; animation; spirit; as, the liveliness of youth, contrasted with the gravity of age.	
livelode	Obsolete	Course of life; means of support; livelihood.	
livelong		Whole; entire; long in passing; -- used of time, as day or night, in adverbial phrases, and usually with a sense of tediousness.	
lively		Endowed with or manifesting life; living.	Old English liflice.
liver		One who, or that which, lives.	Old English lifer.
liver-colored		Having a color like liver; dark reddish brown.	
liver-grown		Having an enlarged liver.	
livered		Having (such) a liver; used in composition; as, white-livered.	
liveried		Wearing a livery. See Livery, 3.	
livering	Obsolete	A kind of pudding or sausage made of liver or pork.	
liverleaf		Same as Liverwort.	
liverwort		A ranunculaceous plant (Anemone Hepatica) with pretty white or bluish flowers and a three-lobed leaf; -- called also squirrel cups.	
livery		(Eng. Law) (a) The act of delivering possession of lands or tenements.	Anglo-Norman liveree, from Old French livree.
liveryman		One who wears a livery, as a servant.	
lives	Obsolete	pl. of Life — the state of being which begins with generation, birth, or germination, and ends with death; also, the time during which this state continues…	
livid		Black and blue; grayish blue; of a lead color; discolored, as flesh by contusion.	Latin lividus.
lividity		The state or quality of being livid.	
lividness		Lividity.	
living		Being alive; having life; as, a living creature.	
livingly		In a living state.	
livingness		The state or quality of being alive; possession of energy or vigor; animation; quickening.	
livonian		Of or pertaining to Livonia, a district of Russia near the Baltic Sea.	
livor		Malignity.	Latin livor.
livraison		A part of a book or literary composition printed and delivered by itself; a number; a part.	
livre		A French money of account, afterward a silver coin equal to 20 sous.	French livre, from Latin liber.
lixivial		Impregnated with, or consisting of, alkaline salts extracted from wood ashes; impregnated with a salt or salts like a lixivium.	Latin lixivius.
lixiviate		Of or pertaining to lye or lixivium; of the quality of alkaline salts.	Latin lixivio.
lixiviation		Lixiviating; the process of separating a soluble substance form one that is insoluble, by washing with some solvent, as water; leaching.	
lixivious		See Lixivial — impregnated with, or consisting of, alkaline salts extracted from wood ashes; impregnated with a salt or salts like a lixivium.	
lixivited		Of or pertaining to lye or lixivium; of the quality of alkaline salts.	
lixivium		A solution of alkaline salts extracted from wood ashes; hence, any solution obtained by lixiviation.	Latin lixivium.
lixt		2d pers. sing. pres. of Lige, to lie, to tell lies, -- contracted for ligest.	
liza		The American white mullet (Mugil curema).	
lizard		(Zoöl.) Any one of the numerous species of reptiles belonging to the order Lacertilia; sometimes, also applied to reptiles of other orders, as the Hatteria.	Anglo-Norman lusard, from Old French lesard, from Latin lacertus.
