lo		Look; see; behold; observe. xxiv. 23.	Middle English lo.
loach		Any one of several small, fresh-water, cyprinoid fishes of the genera Cobitis, Nemachilus, and allied genera, having six or more barbules around the mouth.	
load		A burden; that which is laid on or put in anything for conveyance; that which is borne or sustained; a weight; as, a heavy load.	Middle English lode.
loader		One who, or that which, loads; a mechanical contrivance for loading, as a gun.	
loading		A load; cargo; burden.	
loadmanage	Obsolete	Pilotage; skill of a pilot or loadsman.	
loadsman	Obsolete	A pilot.	
loadstar		A star that leads; a guiding star; esp., the polestar; the cynosure.	
loadstone		A piece of magnetic iron ore possessing polarity like a magnetic needle.	
loaf		Any thick lump, mass, or cake; especially, a large regularly shaped or molded mass, as of bread, sugar, or cake.	Middle English lof, from Middle Dutch loef.
loafer		One who loafs; a lazy lounger.	
loam		A kind of soil; an earthy mixture of clay and sand, with organic matter to which its fertility is chiefly due.	Old English lam.
loamy		Consisting of loam; partaking of the nature of loam; resembling loam.	
loan		The act of lending; a lending; permission to use; as, the loan of a book, money, services.	Middle English lone.
loanable		Such as can be lent; available for lending; as, loanable funds; -- used mostly in financial business and writings.	
loanin	Scots	An open space between cultivated fields through which cattle are driven, and where the cows are sometimes milked; also, a lane.	
loaning	Scots	An open space between cultivated fields through which cattle are driven, and where the cows are sometimes milked; also, a lane.	
loanmonger		A dealer in, or negotiator of, loans.	
loath		Filled with disgust or aversion; averse; unwilling; reluctant; as, loath to part.	
loathe		To feel extreme disgust at, or aversion for.	Middle English lothe, from Old English laþian.
loather		One who loathes.	
loathful		Full of loathing; hating; abhorring.	
loathing		Extreme disgust; a feeling of aversion, nausea, abhorrence, or detestation.	
loathingly		With loathing.	
loathliness	Obsolete	Loathsomeness.	
loathly		Unwillingly; reluctantly.	Middle English lothli.
loathness		Unwillingness; reluctance.	
loathsome		Fitted to cause loathing; exciting disgust; disgusting.	Middle English lothsum.
loathy	Obsolete	Loathsome.	
loaves		pl. of Loaf — any thick lump, mass, or cake; especially, a large regularly shaped or molded mass, as of bread, sugar, or cake.	
lob		A dull, heavy person.	
lobar		Of or pertaining to a lobe; characterized by, or like, a lobe or lobes.	
lobate		(Bot.) Consisting of, or having, lobes; lobed; as, a lobate leaf.	
lobated		(Bot.) Consisting of, or having, lobes; lobed; as, a lobate leaf.	
lobately		As a lobe; so as to make a lobe; in a lobate manner.	
lobbish		Like a lob; consisting of lobs.	
lobby		(Arch.) A passage or hall of communication, especially when large enough to serve also as a waiting room.	
lobbyist		A member of the lobby; a person who solicits members of a legislature for the purpose of influencing legislation.	
lobcock	Low	A dull, sluggish person; a lubber; a lob.	
lobe		Any projection or division, especially one of a somewhat rounded form; as: (a) (Bot.) A rounded projection or division of a leaf.	French lobe, from Latin lobus, from Greek λοβός.
lobe-footed		Lobiped.	
lobed		Having lobes; lobate.	
lobefoot		A bird having lobate toes; esp., a phalarope.	
lobelet		A small lobe; a lobule.	
lobelia		A genus of plants, including a great number of species.	
lobeliaceous		Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants of which the genus Lobelia is the type.	
lobelin		A yellowish green resin from Lobelia, used as an emetic and diaphoretic.	
lobeline		A poisonous narcotic alkaloid extracted from the leaves of Indian tobacco (Lobelia inflata) as a yellow oil, having a tobaccolike taste and odor.	
lobiped		Having lobate toes, as a coot.	
loblolly		Gruel; porridge; -- so called among seamen.	
lobosa		An order of Rhizopoda, in which the pseudopodia are thick and irregular in form, as in the Amoeba.	
lobscouse		A combination of meat with vegetables, bread, etc., usually stewed, sometimes baked; an olio.	German Labskaus.
lobsided		See Lopsided — leaning to one side because of some defect of structure; as, a lopsided ship.	
lobspound	Obsolete	A prison.	
lobster		Any large macrurous crustacean used as food, esp. those of the genus Homarus; as the American lobster (H.	Middle English lopster, from Old English loppeſtre.
lobular		Like a lobule; pertaining to a lobule or lobules.	
lobulate		Made up of, or divided into, lobules; as, a lobulated gland.	
lobulated		Made up of, or divided into, lobules; as, a lobulated gland.	
lobule		A small lobe; a subdivision of a lobe.	
lobulette		A little lobule, or subdivision of a lobule.	
lobworm		The lugworm.	
local		Of or pertaining to a particular place, or to a definite region or portion of space; restricted to one place or region; as, a local custom.	
locale		A place, spot, or location.	French local, from Latin localis.
localism		The state or quality of being local; affection for a particular place.	
locality		The state, or condition, of belonging to a definite place, or of being contained within definite limits.	Latin localitas.
localization		Act of localizing, or state of being localized.	
localize		To make local; to fix in, or assign to, a definite place.	
locally		With respect to place; in place; as, to be locally separated or distant.	
locate		To place; to set in a particular spot or position.	Latin locatus.
location		Situation; place; locality.	Latin locatio.
locative		Indicating place, or the place where, or wherein; as, a locative adjective; locative case of a noun. -- n.	
locator		One who locates, or is entitled to locate, land or a mining claim.	
locellate		Divided into secondary compartments or cells, as where one cavity is separated into several smaller ones.	Latin locellus.
loch	Scots	A lake; a bay or arm of the sea.	French looch.
lochage		An officer who commanded a company; a captain.	
lochan	Scots	A small lake; a pond.	Scottish Gaelic lochan.
loche		See Loach — any one of several small, fresh-water, cyprinoid fishes of the genera Cobitis, Nemachilus, and allied genera, having six or more barbules around the mouth.	
lochia		The discharge from the womb and vagina which follows childbirth.	Latin lochia, from Greek λοχεία.
lochial		Of or pertaining to the lochia.	
lock		A tuft of hair; a flock or small quantity of wool, hay, or other like substance; a tress or ringlet of hair.	Old English lucan.
lock-down		A contrivance to fasten logs together in rafting; -- used by lumbermen.	
lock-weir		A waste weir for a canal, discharging into a lock chamber.	
lockage		Materials for locks in a canal, or the works forming a lock or locks.	
locked-jaw		See Lockjaw — a contraction of the muscles of the jaw by which its motion is suspended; a variety of tetanus.	
locken		of Lock — a tuft of hair; a flock or small quantity of wool, hay, or other like substance; a tress or ringlet of hair.	
locker		One who, or that which, locks.	
locket		A small lock; a catch or spring to fasten a necklace or other ornament.	French loquet.
lockjaw		A contraction of the muscles of the jaw by which its motion is suspended; a variety of tetanus.	
lockless		Destitute of a lock.	
lockman	Scots	A public executioner.	
lockout		The closing of a factory or workshop by an employer, usually in order to bring the workmen to satisfactory terms by a suspension of wages.	
lockram		A kind of linen cloth anciently used in England, originally imported from Brittany.	
locksmith		An artificer whose occupation is to make or mend locks.	
lockup		A place where persons under arrest are temporarily locked up; a watchhouse.	
locky		Having locks or tufts.	
loco		A direction in written or printed music to return to the proper pitch after having played an octave higher.	Spanish loco.
locofoco		A friction match.	
locomotion		The act of moving from place to place.	
locomotive		Moving from place to place; changing place, or able to change place; as, a locomotive animal.	
locomotiveness		The power of changing place.	
locomotivity		The power of changing place.	
locomotor		Of or pertaining to movement or locomotion.	
loculament		The cell of a pericarp in which the seed is lodged.	
locular		Of or relating to the cell or compartment of an ovary, etc.; in composition, having cells; as trilocular.	
loculate		Divided into compartments.	Latin loculatus.
locule		A little hollow; a loculus.	
loculicidal		Dehiscent through the middle of the back of each cell; -- said of capsules.	
loculose		Divided by internal partitions into cells, as the pith of the pokeweed.	
loculous		Divided by internal partitions into cells, as the pith of the pokeweed.	
loculus		(Zoöl.) One of the spaces between the septa in the Anthozoa.	
locus		(Math.) The line traced by a point which varies its position according to some determinate law; the surface described by a point or line that moves according to a given law.	Latin locus.
locust		(Zoöl.) Any one of numerous species of long-winged, migratory, orthopterous insects, of the family Acrididæ, allied to the grasshoppers; esp., (Edipoda, or Pachytylus, migratoria, and Acridium perigrinum, of Southern Europe…	Old French langouste, from Latin locusta.
locusta		The spikelet or flower cluster of grasses.	
locustella		The European cricket warbler.	
locustic		Pertaining to, or derived from, the locust; -- formerly used to designate a supposed acid.	
locusting		Swarming and devastating like locusts.	
locution		Speech or discourse; a phrase; a form or mode of expression.	Latin locutio.
locutory		A room for conversation; especially, a room in monasteries, where the monks were allowed to converse.	
lodde		The capelin.	
lode		A water course or way; a reach of water.	
lode-ship		An old name for a pilot boat.	
lodemanage	Obsolete	Pilotage; skill of a pilot or loadsman.	
lodesman	Obsolete	A pilot.	
lodestar		A star that leads; a guiding star; esp., the polestar; the cynosure.	
lodestone		A piece of magnetic iron ore possessing polarity like a magnetic needle.	
lodge		A shelter in which one may rest; as: (a) A shed; a rude cabin; a hut; as, an Indian's lodge.	Middle English logge, from French loge.
lodgeable		That may be or can be lodged; as, so many persons are not lodgeable in this village.	
lodged		Lying down; -- used of beasts of the chase, as couchant is of beasts of prey.	
lodgement		See Lodgment — the act of lodging, or the state of being lodged.	
lodger		One who, or that which, lodges; one who occupies a hired room in another's house.	
lodging		The act of one who, or that which, lodges.	
lodgment		The act of lodging, or the state of being lodged.	
lodicule		One of the two or three delicate membranous scales which are next to the stamens in grasses.	
loellingite		A tin-white arsenide of iron, isomorphous with arsenopyrite.	
loess		A quaternary deposit, usually consisting of a fine yellowish earth, on the banks of the Rhine and other large rivers.	
loffe	Obsolete	To laugh.	
loft	Obsolete	That which is lifted up; an elevation. Hence, especially: (a) The room or space under a roof and above the ceiling of the uppermost story.	Middle English lofte, from Old English loft.
lofter		An iron club used in lofting the ball; -- called also lofting iron.	
loftily		In a lofty manner or position; haughtily.	
loftiness		The state or quality of being lofty.	
lofty		Lifted high up; having great height; towering; high. See lofty Lebanon his head advance.	
log		A Hebrew measure of liquids, containing 2.37 gills.	Middle English logge, from French loge.
log-chip		A thin, flat piece of board in the form of a quadrant of a circle attached to the log line; -- called also log-ship.	
log-ship		A part of the log. See Log-chip, and 2d Log, n., 2.	
logan		A rocking or balanced stone.	
logaoedic		Composed of dactyls and trochees so arranged as to produce a movement like that of ordinary speech.	
logarithm		One of a class of auxiliary numbers, devised by John Napier, of Merchiston, Scotland (1550-1617), to abridge arithmetical calculations, by the use of addition and subtraction in place of multiplication and division.	Latin logarithmus.
logarithmetic		See Logarithmic — of or pertaining to logarithms; consisting of logarithms.	
logarithmetical		See Logarithmic — of or pertaining to logarithms; consisting of logarithms.	
logarithmetically		Logarithmically.	
logarithmic		Of or pertaining to logarithms; consisting of logarithms.	
logarithmical		Of or pertaining to logarithms; consisting of logarithms.	
logarithmically		By the use of logarithms.	
logcock		The pileated woodpecker.	
loge	Obsolete	A lodge; a habitation.	French loge.
loggan		See Logan — a rocking or balanced stone.	
loggat	Obsolete	A small log or piece of wood.	
logge	Obsolete	See Lodge — a shelter in which one may rest; as: (a) A shed; a rude cabin; a hut; as, an Indian's lodge.	
logged		Made slow and heavy in movement; water-logged.	
logger		One engaged in logging. See Log, v. i.	
loggerhead		A spherical mass of iron, with a long handle, used to heat tar.	
loggerheaded		Dull; stupid.	
loggerheads		The knapweed.	
loggia		A roofed open gallery.	Italian loggia, from Old French loge.
logging		The business of felling trees, cutting them into logs, and transporting the logs to sawmills or to market.	
logic		The science or art of exact reasoning, or of pure and formal thought, or of the laws according to which the processes of pure thinking should be conducted; the science of the formation and application of general notions…	Old French logike, from Latin logica, from Greek λογική.
logical		Of or pertaining to logic; used in logic; as, logical subtilties.	
logicality		Logicalness.	
logically		In a logical manner; as, to argue logically.	
logicalness		The quality of being logical.	
logician		A person skilled in logic.	
logics		See Logic — the science or art of exact reasoning, or of pure and formal thought, or of the laws according to which the processes of pure thinking should be conducted…	
logistic		(Math.) Sexagesimal, or made on the scale of 60; as, logistic, or sexagesimal, arithmetic.	
logistical		(Math.) Sexagesimal, or made on the scale of 60; as, logistic, or sexagesimal, arithmetic.	
logistics		(Mil.) That branch of the military art which embraces the details of moving and supplying armies.	Greek λογιστικός.
logman		A man who carries logs.	
logodaedaly		Verbal legerdemain; a playing with words.	
logogram		A word letter; a phonogram, that, for the sake of brevity, represents a word; as, |, i. e., t, for it.	
logographer		A chronicler; one who writes history in a condensed manner with short simple sentences.	
logographic		Of or pertaining to logography.	
logographical		Of or pertaining to logography.	
logography		A method of printing in which whole words or syllables, cast as single types, are used.	
logogriph		A sort of riddle in which it is required to discover a chosen word from various combinations of its letters, or of some of its letters, which form other words; -- thus, to discover the chosen word chatter form cat, hat, rat…	
logomachist		One who contends about words.	
logomachy		Contention in words merely, or a contention about words; a war of words.	
logometric		Serving to measure or ascertain chemical equivalents; stoichiometric.	
logos		A word; reason; speech.	Greek λόγος.
logothete		An accountant; under Constantine, an officer of the empire; a receiver of revenue; an administrator of a department.	
logotype		A single type, containing two or more letters; as, æ, Æ, fi, fl, ffl, etc.; -- called also ligature.	
logroll		To engage in logrolling; to accomplish by logrolling.	
logroller		One who engages in logrolling.	
logrolling		(Logging) The act or process of rolling logs from the place where they were felled to the stream which floats them to the sawmill or to market.	
logwood		The heartwood of a tree (Hæmatoxylon Campechianum), a native of South America, It is a red, heavy wood, containing a crystalline substance called hæmatoxylin, and is used largely in dyeing.	
logy		Heavy or dull in respect to motion or thought; as, a logy horse.	
lohock		See Loch, a medicine.	
loimic		Of or pertaining to the plague or contagious disorders.	
loin		That part of a human being or quadruped, which extends on either side of the spinal column between the hip bone and the false ribs.	Middle English loyne, from Old French loigne.
loir		A large European dormouse (Myoxus glis).	French loir.
loiter		To be slow in moving; to delay; to linger; to be dilatory; to spend time idly; to saunter; to lag behind.	Middle Dutch loteren.
loiterer		One who loiters; an idler.	
loiteringly		In a loitering manner.	
lok		The evil deity, the author of all calamities and mischief, answering to the African of the Persians.	
lokao		A green vegetable dye imported from China.	
loke	English dialect	A private path or road; also, the wicket or hatch of a door.	
loki		The evil deity, the author of all calamities and mischief, answering to the African of the Persians.	
lokorys	Obsolete	Liquorice.	
loligo		A genus of cephalopods, including numerous species of squids, common on the coasts of America and Europe.	Latin loligo.
loll		To act lazily or indolently; to recline; to lean; to throw one's self down; to lie at ease.	
lollard		(a) One of a sect of early reformers in Germany. (b) One of the followers of Wyclif in England.	
lollardism		The doctrines or principles of the Lollards.	
lollardy		The doctrines or principles of the Lollards.	
loller	Obsolete	An idle vagabond.	
lollingly		In a lolling manner.	
lollipop		A kind of sugar confection which dissolves easily in the mouth.	
lollop		To move heavily; to lounge or idle; to loll.	
loma		A lobe; a membranous fringe or flap.	
lomatinous		Furnished with lobes or flaps.	
lombar-house		A public institution for lending money to the poor at a moderate interest, upon articles deposited and pledged; -- called also mont de piété.	
lombard		Of or pertaining to Lombardy, or the inhabitants of Lombardy.	
lombard-house		A public institution for lending money to the poor at a moderate interest, upon articles deposited and pledged; -- called also mont de piété.	
lombardeer	Obsolete	A pawnbroker.	
lombardic		Of or pertaining to Lombardy of the Lombards.	
loment		An elongated pod, consisting, like the legume, of two valves, but divided transversely into small cells, each containing a single seed.	
lomentaceous		Of the nature of a loment; having fruits like loments.	
lomonite		Same as Laumontite.	
lompish	Obsolete	Lumpish.	
london		The capital city of England.	
londoner		A native or inhabitant of London.	
londonism		A characteristic of Londoners; a mode of speaking peculiar to London.	
londonize		To impart to (one) a manner or character like that which distinguishes Londoners.	
lone		Being without a companion; being by one's self; also, sad from lack of companionship; lonely; as, a lone traveler or watcher.	
loneliness		The condition of being lonely; solitude; seclusion.	
lonely		Sequestered from company or neighbors; solitary; retired; as, a lonely situation; a lonely cell.	
loneness	Obsolete	Solitude; seclusion.	
lonesome		Secluded from society; not frequented by human beings; solitary.	
long		Drawn out in a line, or in the direction of length; protracted; extended; as, a long line; -- opposed to short, and distinguished from broad or wide.	Middle English longen, from Old English langian.
long-armed		Having long arms; as, the long-armed ape or gibbon.	
long-breathed		Having the power of retaining the breath for a long time; long- winded.	
long-drawn		Extended to a great length.	
long-horned		Having a long horn or horns; as, a long-horned goat, or cow; having long antennæ, as certain beetles (Longicornia).	
long-lived		Having a long life; having constitutional peculiarities which make long life probable; lasting long; as, a long-lived tree; they are a longlived family; long-lived prejudices.	
long-sight		Long-sightedness Good.	
long-sighted		Able to see objects at a great distance; hence, having great foresight; sagacious; farseeing.	
long-sightedness		The state or condition of being long-sighted; hence, sagacity; shrewdness.	
long-stop		One who is set to stop balls which pass the wicket keeper.	
long-sufferance		Forbearance to punish or resent.	
long-suffering		Bearing injuries or provocation for a long time; patient; not easily provoked.	
long-tongue		The wryneck.	
long-tongued		Having a long tongue.	
long-waisted		Having a long waist; long from the armpits to the armpits to the bottom of the waist; -- said of persons.	
long-winded		Long-breathed; hence, tediously long in speaking; consuming much time; as, a long-winded talker. -- Long"-wind"ed*ness, n.	
longan		A pulpy fruit related to the litchi, and produced by an evergreen East Indian tree (Nephelium Longan).	
longanimity		Disposition to bear injuries patiently; forbearance; patience.	Latin longanimitatem.
longbeak		The American redbellied snipe (Macrorhamphus scolopaceus); -- called also long-billed dowitcher.	
longboat		Formerly, the largest boat carried by a merchant vessel, corresponding to the launch of a naval vessel.	
longbow		The ordinary bow, not mounted on a stock; -- so called in distinction from the crossbow when both were used as weapons of war.	
longe		The training ground for a horse.	French allonger.
longer		One who longs for anything.	
longeval		Long-loved; longevous.	
longevity		Long duration of life; length of life.	
longevous		Living a long time; of great age.	
longhand		The written characters used in the common method of writing; -- opposed to shorthand.	
longheaded		Having unusual foresight or sagacity. -- Long"-head`ed*ness, n.	
longhorn		A long-horned animal, as a cow, goat, or beetle. See Long- horned.	
longicorn		Long-horned; pertaining to the Longicornia. -- n.	
longicornia		A division of beetles, including a large number of species, in which the antennæ are very long.	
longilateral		Having long sides especially, having the form of a long parallelogram.	
longiloquence		Long-windedness.	
longimanous		Having long hands.	
longimetry		The art or practice of measuring distances or lengths.	
longing		An eager desire; a craving; a morbid appetite; an earnest wish; an aspiration.	
longingly		With longing.	
longinquity		Greatness of distance; remoteness.	
longipalp		One of a tribe of beetles, having long maxillary palpi.	
longipennate		Having long wings, or quills.	
longipennes		A group of longwinged sea birds, including the gulls, petrels, etc.	
longipennine		Of or pertaining to the Longipennes; longipennate.	
longiroster		One of the Longirostres.	
longirostral		Having a long bill; of or pertaining to the Longirostres.	
longirostres		A group of birds characterized by having long slender bills, as the sandpipers, curlews, and ibises.	
longish		Somewhat long; moderately long.	
longitude		Length; measure or distance along the longest line; -- distinguished from breadth or thickness; as, the longitude of a room; rare now, except in a humorous sense.	
longitudinal		Of or pertaining to longitude or length; as, longitudinal distance.	
longitudinally		In the direction of length.	
longlegs		A daddy longlegs.	
longly		For a long time; hence, wearisomely.	
longnose		The European garfish.	
longshanks		The stilt.	
longshore		Belonging to the seashore or a seaport; along and on the shore.	
longshoreman		One of a class of laborers employed about the wharves of a seaport, especially in loading and unloading vessels.	
longsome	Obsolete	Extended in length; tiresome.	
longspun		Spun out, or extended, to great length; hence, long-winded; tedious.	
longspur		Any one of several species of fringilline birds of the genus Calcarius (or Plectrophanes), and allied genera.	
longtail		An animal, particularly a log, having an uncut tail.	
longulite		A kind of crystallite having a (slender) acicular form.	
longways		Lengthwise.	
longwise		Lengthwise.	
loo		(a) An old game played with five, or three, cards dealt to each player from a full pack.	
loob		The clay or slimes washed from tin ore in dressing.	
loobily		Loobylike; awkward.	
looby		An awkward, clumsy fellow; a lubber.	
looch		See 2d Loch.	
loof		The spongelike fibers of the fruit of a cucurbitaceous plant (Luffa Ægyptiaca); called also vegetable sponge.	Middle English lufe.
look		To direct the eyes for the purpose of seeing something; to direct the eyes toward an object; to observe with the eyes while keeping them directed; -- with various prepositions, often in a special or figurative sense.	Middle English loken.
lookdown		See Moonfish (b).	
looker		One who looks.	
looking		Having a certain look or appearance; -- often compounded with adjectives; as, good-looking, grand-looking, etc.	
looking-glass		A mirror made of glass on which has been placed a backing of some reflecting substance, as quicksilver.	
lookout		A careful looking or watching for any object or event.	
lool		A vessel used to receive the washings of ores of metals.	
loom		See Loon, the bird.	Old Norse ljóma.
loom-gale		A gentle gale of wind.	
looming		The indistinct and magnified appearance of objects seen in particular states of the atmosphere.	
loon		A sorry fellow; a worthless person; a rogue.	
loony		See Luny — crazy; mentally unsound.	
loop		A mass of iron in a pasty condition gathered into a ball for the tilt hammer or rolls.	Middle English loupe.
looped		Bent, folded, or tied, so as to make a loop; as, a looped wire or string.	
looper		An instrument, as a bodkin, for forming a loop in yarn, a cord, etc.	
loophole		(Mil.) A small opening, as in the walls of fortification, or in the bulkhead of a ship, through which small arms or other weapons may be discharged at an enemy.	
loopholed		Provided with loopholes.	
loopie	Scots	Deceitful; cunning; sly.	
looping		The running together of the matter of an ore into a mass, when the ore is only heated for calcination. of Loop.	
looplight		A small narrow opening or window in a tower or fortified wall; a loophole.	
loord	Obsolete	A dull, stupid fellow; a drone.	
loos	Obsolete	Praise; fame; reputation.	Middle English los, from Old French los, from Latin laus.
loose		Unbound; untied; unsewed; not attached, fastened, fixed, or confined; as, the loose sheets of a book.	Old Norse lauss.
loosely		In a loose manner.	
loosen		To make loose; to free from tightness, tension, firmness, or fixedness; to make less dense or compact; as, to loosen a string, or a knot; to loosen a rock in the earth.	
loosener		One who, or that which, loosens.	
looseness		The state, condition, or quality, of being loose; as, the looseness of a cord; looseness of style; looseness of morals or of principles.	
loosestrife		(a) The name of several species of plants of the genus Lysimachia, having small star-shaped flowers, usually of a yellow color.	
loosish		Somewhat loose.	
loot		Plunder; booty; especially, the boot taken in a conquered or sacked city.	
looter		A plunderer.	
loover		See Louver — a small lantern. See Lantern, 2 (a) Louver boards or boarding, the sloping boards set to shed rainwater outward in openings which are to be left otherwise unfilled; as belfry windows…	
lop		To cut off as the top or extreme part of anything; to shoas, to lop a tree or its branches.	Middle English loppe, from Old English loppe.
lope		To move with a lope, as a horse.	
lopeared		Having ears which lop or hang down.	
lopeman	Obsolete	Leaper; ropedancer.	
loper		One who, or that which, lopes; esp., a horse that lopes.	
lophine		A nitrogenous organic base obtained by the oxidation of amarine, and regarded as a derivative of benzoic aldehyde.	
lophiomys		A very singular rodent (Lophiomys Imhausi) of Northeastern Africa.	
lophobranch		Of or pertaining to the Lophobranchii. -- n.	
lophobranchiate		Of or pertaining to the Lophobranchii.	
lophobranchii		An order of teleostean fishes, having the gills arranged in tufts on the branchial arches, as the Hippocampus and pipefishes.	
lophophore		A disk which surrounds the mouth and bears the tentacles of the Bryozoa.	
lophopoda		Same as Phylactolemata.	
lophosteon		The central keel-bearing part of the sternum in birds.	
loppard		A tree, the top of which has been lopped off.	
lopper		One who lops or cuts off.	
lopping		A cutting off, as of branches; that which is cut off; leavings.	
loppy		Somewhat lop; inclined to lop.	
lopseed		A perennial herb (Phryma Leptostachya), having slender seedlike fruits.	
lopsided		Leaning to one side because of some defect of structure; as, a lopsided ship.	
loquacious		Given to continual talking; talkative; garrulous.	Latin loquacis.
loquaciously		In a loquacious manner.	
loquaciousness		Loquacity.	
loquacity		The habit or practice of talking continually or excessively; inclination to talk too much; talkativeness; garrulity.	
loquat		The fruit of the Japanese medlar (Photinia Japonica).	
loral		Of or pertaining to the lores.	
lorate		Having the form of a thong or strap; ligulate.	Latin loratus.
lorcha		A kind of light vessel used on the coast of China, having the hull built on a European model, and the rigging like that of a Chinese junk.	
lord		A hump-backed person; -- so called sportively.	Middle English lord.
lording	Obsolete	The son of a lord; a person of noble lineage.	
lordkin		A little lord.	
lordlike		Befitting or like a lord; lordly.	
lordliness		The state or quality of being lordly.	
lordling		A little or insignificant lord.	
lordly		Suitable for a lord; of or pertaining to a lord; resembling a lord; hence, grand; noble; dignified; honorable.	
lordolatry		Worship of, or reverence for, a lord as such.	
lordosis		(a) A curvature of the spine forwards, usually in the lumbar region. (b) Any abnormal curvature of the bones.	
lordship		The state or condition of being a lord; hence (with his or your), a title applied to a lord (except an archbishop or duke, who is called Grace) or a judge (in Great Britain), etc.	
lore		(a) The space between the eye and bill, in birds, and the corresponding region in reptiles and fishes.	Latin lorum.
loreal		Of or pertaining to the lore; -- said of certain feathers of birds, scales of reptiles, etc.	
lorel	Obsolete	A good for nothing fellow; a vagabond.	Middle English lorel.
loren		of Lose — to part with unintentionally or unwillingly, as by accident, misfortune, negligence, penalty, forfeit, etc.; to be deprived of; as, to lose money from one's purse or pocket…	
loresman	Obsolete	An instructor.	Middle English loresman.
lorette		In France, a name for a woman who is supported by her lovers, and devotes herself to idleness, show, and pleasure; -- so called from the church of Notre Dame de Lorette, in Paris, near which many of them resided.	French lorette.
lorettine		One of a order of nuns founded in 1812 at Loretto, in Kentucky.	
lorgnette		An opera glass; pl. elaborate double eyeglasses.	
lori		Same as Lory.	
lorica		(Chem.) Lute for protecting vessels from the fire.	
loricata		(a) A suborder of edentates, covered with bony plates, including the armadillos.	
loricate		To cover with some protecting substance, as with lute, a crust, coating, or plates.	
lorication		The act of loricating; the protecting substance put on; a covering of scales or plates.	Latin loricatio.
lorikeet		Any one numerous species of small brush-tongued parrots or lories, found mostly in Australia, New Guinea and the adjacent islands, with some forms in the East Indies.	
lorimer	Obsolete	A maker of bits, spurs, and metal mounting for bridles and saddles; hence, a saddler.	Old French lormier.
loriner	Obsolete	A maker of bits, spurs, and metal mounting for bridles and saddles; hence, a saddler.	
loring	Obsolete	Instructive discourse.	
loriot		The golden oriole of Europe. See Oriole.	
loris		Any one of several species of small lemurs of the genus Stenops.	French loris.
lorn		Forsaken; abandoned; solitary; bereft; as, a lone, lorn woman.	
lorrie		A small cart or wagon, as those used on the tramways in mines to carry coal or rubbish; also, a barrow or truck for shifting baggage, as at railway stations.	
lorry		A small cart or wagon, as those used on the tramways in mines to carry coal or rubbish; also, a barrow or truck for shifting baggage, as at railway stations.	
lory		Any one of many species of small parrots of the family Trichoglossidæ, generally having the tongue papillose at the tip, and the mandibles straighter and less toothed than in common parrots.	
los	Obsolete	Praise. See Loos.	Spanish los, from Latin illos.
losable		Such as can be lost.	
losange		See Lozenge — (Her.) (a) A diamond-shaped figure usually with the upper and lower angles slightly acute, borne upon a shield or escutcheon.	
lose		To part with unintentionally or unwillingly, as by accident, misfortune, negligence, penalty, forfeit, etc.; to be deprived of; as, to lose money from one's purse or pocket, or in business or gaming…	Old English losian.
losel	Archaic	One who loses by sloth or neglect; a worthless person; a lorel.	Middle English losel.
losenger	Obsolete	A flatterer; a deceiver; a cozener.	Old French losengier.
losengerie	Obsolete	Flattery; deceit; trickery.	
loser		One who loses.	
losing	Obsolete	Given to flattery or deceit; flattering; cozening.	
losingly		In a manner to incur loss.	
loss		The act of losing; failure; destruction; privation; as, the loss of property; loss of money by gaming; loss of health or reputation.	
lossful	Obsolete	Detrimental.	
lossless	Obsolete	Free from loss.	
lost		Parted with unwillingly or unintentionally; not to be found; missing; as, a lost book or sheep.	
lot		That which happens without human design or forethought; chance; accident; hazard; fortune; fate.	Old English hlot.
lote	Obsolete	A large tree (Celtis australis), found in the south of Europe.	
loth		See Loath, Loathly, etc.	Middle English loth, from Old English laþ.
lothario		A gay seducer of women; a libertine.	
lothly		See Loath, Loathly, etc.	
lothsome		See Loath, Loathly, etc.	
lotion		A washing, especially of the skin for the purpose of rendering it fair.	Latin lotio.
loto		See Lotto — a game of chance, played with cards, on which are inscribed numbers, and any contrivance (as a wheel containing numbered balls) for determining a set of numbers by chance.	
lotong		An East Indian monkey (Semnopithecus femoralis).	
lotophagi		A people visited by Ulysses in his wanderings.	
lotos		See Lotus — (Bot.) (a) A name of several kinds of water lilies; as Nelumbium speciosum, used in religious ceremonies, anciently in Egypt, and to this day in Asia; Nelumbium luteum, the American lotus…	
lotos-eater		One who ate the fruit or leaf of the lotus, and, as a consequence, gave himself up to indolence and daydreams; one of the Lotophagi.	
lottery		A scheme for the distribution of prizes by lot or chance; esp., a gaming scheme in which one or more tickets bearing particular numbers draw prizes, and the rest of tickets are blanks.	Italian lotteria.
lotto		A game of chance, played with cards, on which are inscribed numbers, and any contrivance (as a wheel containing numbered balls) for determining a set of numbers by chance.	
loture	Obsolete	See Lotion — a washing, especially of the skin for the purpose of rendering it fair.	Latin lotura.
lotus		(Bot.) (a) A name of several kinds of water lilies; as Nelumbium speciosum, used in religious ceremonies, anciently in Egypt, and to this day in Asia; Nelumbium luteum, the American lotus; and Nymphæa Lotus and N. cærulea…	Latin lotus.
lotus-eater		One who ate the fruit or leaf of the lotus, and, as a consequence, gave himself up to indolence and daydreams; one of the Lotophagi.	
louchettes		Goggles intended to rectify strabismus by permitting vision only directly in front.	
loud		Having, making, or being a strong or great sound; noisy; striking the ear with great force; as, a loud cry; loud thunder.	Middle English loud.
loud-mouthed		Having a loud voice; talking or sounding noisily; noisily impudent.	
loud-voiced		Having a loud voice; noisy; clamorous.	
loudly		In a loud manner.	
loudness		The quality or state of being loud.	
lough		A loch or lake; -- so spelt in Ireland. of Laugh.	Irish loch, from Old Irish loch.
louk	Obsolete	An accomplice; a "pal." There is no thief without a louk.	Middle English louken, from Old English lucan.
lounge		To spend time lazily, whether lolling or idly sauntering; to pass time indolently; to stand, sit, or recline, in an indolent manner.	
lounger		One who lounges; ar idler.	
loup		See 1st Loop.	
loup-cervier		The Canada lynx. See Lynx.	
loup-garou		A werewolf; a lycanthrope.	French loup-garou, from Old French leu garoul.
loup-loup		The Pomeranian or Spitz dog.	
louping		An enzoötic, often fatal, disease of sheep and other domestic animals, of unknown cause.	
loups		The Pawnees, a tribe of North American Indians whose principal totem was the wolf.	
lour		An Asiatic sardine (Clupea Neohowii), valued for its oil.	Middle English lour.
louri		See Lory — any one of many species of small parrots of the family Trichoglossidæ, generally having the tongue papillose at the tip, and the mandibles straighter and less toothed than in common parrots.	
louse		Any one of numerous species of small, wingless, suctorial, parasitic insects belonging to a tribe (Pediculina), now usually regarded as degraded Hemiptera.	Middle English lows, from Old English lus.
lousewort		Any species of Pedicularis, a genus of perennial herbs.	
lousily	Vulgar	In a lousy manner; in a mean, paltry manner; scurvily.	
lousiness		The state or quality of being lousy.	
lousy		Infested with lice.	
lout	Archaic	To bend; to box; to stoop.	Old English lūtan.
loutish		Clownish; rude; awkward. -- Lout *ish*ness, n.	
loutou		A crested black monkey (Semnopithecus maurus) of Java.	
louver		A small lantern. See Lantern, 2 (a) Louver boards or boarding, the sloping boards set to shed rainwater outward in openings which are to be left otherwise unfilled; as belfry windows, the openings of a louver…	
louvre		A small lantern. See Lantern, 2 (a) Louver boards or boarding, the sloping boards set to shed rainwater outward in openings which are to be left otherwise unfilled; as belfry windows, the openings of a louver…	
lovable		Having qualities that excite, or are fitted to excite, love; worthy of love.	
lovage		An umbelliferous plant (Levisticum officinale), sometimes used in medicine as an aromatic stimulant.	Anglo-Norman luvache.
love		A feeling of strong attachment induced by that which delights or commands admiration; preëminent kindness or devotion to another; affection; tenderness; as, the love of brothers and sisters.	Middle English loven, from Old English lofian.
love-drury	Obsolete	Affection.	
love-making		Courtship.	
love-sick		Languishing with love or amorous desire; as, a love-sick maid.	
love-sickness		The state of being love-sick.	
loveable		See Lovable — having qualities that excite, or are fitted to excite, love; worthy of love.	
lovee		One who is loved.	
loveful	Obsolete	Full of love.	
loveless		Void of love; void of tenderness or kindness.	
lovelily		In manner to excite love; amiably.	
loveliness		The state or quality of being lovely.	
lovelock		A long lock of hair hanging prominently by itself; an earlock; -- worn by men of fashion in the reigns of Elizabeth and James I.	
lovelorn		Forsaken by one's love.	
lovely		Having such an appearance as excites, or is fitted to excite, love; beautiful; charming; very pleasing in form, looks, tone, or manner.	Middle English lovely.
lovemonger	Obsolete	One who deals in affairs of love.	
lover		One who loves; one who is in love; -- usually limited, in the singular, to a person of the male sex.	Middle English lover.
loverwise		As lovers do.	
lovery	Obsolete	See Louver — a small lantern. See Lantern, 2 (a) Louver boards or boarding, the sloping boards set to shed rainwater outward in openings which are to be left otherwise unfilled; as belfry windows…	
loving		Expressing love or kindness; as, loving words.	
loving-kindness		Tender regard; mercy; favor.	
lovingly		With love; affectionately.	
lovingness		Affection; kind regard.	
lovyer	Obsolete	A lover.	
low		Occupying an inferior position or place; not high or elevated; depressed in comparison with something else; as, low ground; a low flight.	Middle English lowen, from Old English hlowan.
low-church		Not placing a high estimate on ecclesiastical organizations or forms; -- applied especially to Episcopalians, and opposed to high- church.	
low-churchism		The principles of the low-church party.	
low-churchman		One who holds low-church principles.	
low-churchmanship		The state of being a low-churchman.	
low-lived		Characteristic of, or like, one bred in a low and vulgar condition of life; mean dishonorable; contemptible; as, low-lived dishonesty.	
low-minded		Inclined in mind to low or unworthy things; showing a base mind.	
low-mindedness		The quality of being lowminded; meanness; baseness.	
low-necked		Cut low in the neck; decollete; -- said of a woman's dress.	
low-pressure		Having, employing, or exerting, a low degree of pressure.	
low-spirited		Deficient in animation and courage; dejected; depressed; not sprightly. -- Low"-spir`it*ed*ness, n.	
low-studded		Furnished or built with short studs; as, a low-studded house or room.	
low-thoughted		Having one's thoughts directed toward mean or insignificant subjects.	
lowbell		A bell used in fowling at night, to frighten birds, and, with a sudden light, to make them fly into a net.	
lowborn		Born in a low condition or rank; -- opposed to highborn.	
lowboy		A chest of drawers not more than four feet high; -- applied commonly to the lower half of a tallboy from which the upper half has been removed.	
lowbred		Bred, or like one bred, in a low condition of life; characteristic or indicative of such breeding; rude; impolite; vulgar; as, a lowbred fellow; a lowbred remark.	
lower		To let descend by its own weight, as something suspended; to let down; as, to lower a bucket into a well; to lower a sail or a boat; sometimes, to pull down; as, to lower a flag.	Old English lowren.
lower-case		Pertaining to, or kept in, the lower case; -- used to denote the small letters, in distinction from capitals and small capitals.	
lowering		Dark and threatening; gloomy; sullen; as, lowering clouds or sky.	
loweringly		In a lowering manner; with cloudiness or threatening gloom.	
lowery		Cloudy; gloomy; lowering; as, a lowery sky; lowery weather.	
lowgh		strong imp. of Laugh.	
lowh		strong imp. of Laugh.	
lowing		The calling sound made by cows and other bovine animals.	
lowish	Colloquial	Somewhat low.	
lowk	Obsolete	See Louk — an accomplice; a "pal." There is no thief without a louk.	
lowland		Land which is low with respect to the neighboring country; a low or level country; -- opposed to highland.	
lowlander		A native or inhabitant of the Lowlands, especially of the Lowlands of Scotland, as distinguished from Highlander.	
lowlihead		A lowly state.	Middle English lowlyhede.
lowlihood		A lowly state.	
lowlily	Obsolete	In a lowly place or manner; humbly.	
lowliness		The state or quality of being lowly; humility; humbleness of mind.	
lowly		Not high; not elevated in place; low.	
lown	Obsolete	A low fellow.	Old Norse logn.
lowness		The state or quality of being low.	
lowry		An open box car used on railroads.	
loxodromic		Pertaining to sailing on rhumb lines; as, loxodromic tables.	French loxodromique.
loxodromics		The art or method of sailing on the loxodromic or rhumb line.	
loxodromism		The act or process of tracing a loxodromic curve; the act of moving as if in a loxodromic curve.	
loxodromy		The science of loxodromics.	
loy		A long, narrow spade for stony lands.	Irish laighe.
loyal		Faithful to law; upholding the lawful authority; faithful and true to the lawful government; faithful to the prince or sovereign to whom one is subject; unswerving in allegiance.	Old French loial, from Latin legalis.
loyalist		A person who adheres to his sovereign or to the lawful authority; especially, one who maintains his allegiance to his prince or government, and defends his cause in times of revolt or revolution.	
loyally		In a loyal manner; faithfully.	
loyalness		Loyalty.	
loyalty		The state or quality of being loyal; fidelity to a superior, or to duty, love, etc. He had such loyalty to the king as the law required.	Old French loiauté.
lozenge		(Her.) (a) A diamond-shaped figure usually with the upper and lower angles slightly acute, borne upon a shield or escutcheon.	Old French losenge, from Old Provençal lausa.
lozenge-shaped		Having the form of a lozenge or rhomb.	
lozenged		Having the form of a lozenge or rhomb.	
lozengy		Divided into lozenge-shaped compartments, as the field or a bearing, by lines drawn in the direction of the bend sinister.	French losangé.
