lu		See Loo — (a) An old game played with five, or three, cards dealt to each player from a full pack.	
lubbard	Obsolete	A lubber.	
lubber		A heavy, clumsy, or awkward fellow; a sturdy drone; a clown.	
lubberly		Like a lubber; clumsy.	
lubric		Having a smooth surface; slippery.	
lubrical		Having a smooth surface; slippery.	
lubricant		Lubricating.	
lubricate		To make smooth or slippery; as, mucilaginous and saponaceous remedies lubricate the parts to which they are applied.	Latin lubricatus.
lubrication		The act of lubricating; the act of making slippery.	
lubricator		One who, or that which, lubricates.	
lubricitate		See Lubricate — to make smooth or slippery; as, mucilaginous and saponaceous remedies lubricate the parts to which they are applied.	
lubricity		Smoothness; freedom from friction; also, property, which diminishes friction; as, the lubricity of oil.	
lubrifaction		The act of lubricating, or making smooth.	
lubrification		The act of lubricating, or making smooth.	
lucarne		A dormer window.	
lucchese		A native or inhabitant of Lucca, in Tuscany; in the plural, the people of Lucca.	
luce		A pike when full grown.	Old French lus.
lucency		The quality of being lucent.	
lucent		Shining; bright; resplendent.	
lucern		A sort of hunting dog; -- perhaps from Lucerne, in Switzerland.	Latin lucerna.
lucernal		Of or pertaining to a lamp.	
lucernaria		A genus of acalephs, having a bell-shaped body with eight groups of short tentacles around the margin.	
lucernarian		Of or pertaining to the Lucernarida. -- n.	
lucernarida		(a) A division of acalephs, including Lucernaria and allied genera; - - called also Calycozoa.	
lucerne		See Lucern, the plant.	French luzerne.
lucid		Shining; bright; resplendent; as, the lucid orbs of heaven.	Latin lucidus.
lucidity		The quality or state of being lucid.	
lucidly		In a lucid manner.	
lucidness		The quality of being lucid; lucidity.	
lucifer		The planet Venus, when appearing as the morning star; -- applied in Isaiah by a metaphor to a king of Babylon.	
luciferian		Of or pertaining to Lucifer; having the pride of Lucifer; satanic; devilish.	
luciferous		Giving light; affording light or means of discovery.	
luciferously		In a luciferous manner.	
lucific		Producing light.	
luciform		Having, in some respects, the nature of light; resembling light.	Latin lux.
lucifrian	Obsolete	Luciferian; satanic.	
lucimeter		an instrument for measuring the intensity of light; a photometer.	
luck	English dialect	That which happens to a person; an event, good or ill, affecting one's interests or happiness, and which is deemed casual; a course or series of such events regarded as occurring by chance; chance; hap; fate; fortune; often…	Middle English luk.
luckily		In a lucky manner; by good fortune; fortunately; -- used in a good sense; as, they luckily escaped injury.	
luckiness		The state or quality of being lucky; as, the luckiness of a man or of an event.	
luckless		Being without luck; unpropitious; unfortunate; unlucky; meeting with ill success or bad fortune; as, a luckless gamester; a luckless maid.	
lucky		Favored by luck; fortunate; meeting with good success or good fortune; -- said of persons; as, a lucky adventurer.	
lucrative		Yielding lucre; gainful; profitable; making increase of money or goods; as, a lucrative business or office.	French lucratif, from Latin lucrativus.
lucratively		In a lucrative manner.	
lucre		Gain in money or goods; profit; riches; -- often in an ill sense.	
lucriferous	Obsolete	Gainful; profitable.	
lucrific	Obsolete	Producing profit; gainful.	
luctation		Effort to overcome in contest; struggle; endeavor.	Latin luctatio.
luctual	Obsolete	Producing grief; saddening.	
lucubrate		To study by candlelight or a lamp; to study by night.	Latin lucubratus.
lucubration		The act of lucubrating, or studying by candlelight; nocturnal study; meditation.	
lucubrator		One who studies by night; also, one who produces lucubrations.	
lucubratory		Composed by candlelight, or by night; of or pertaining to night studies; laborious or painstaking.	Latin lucubratorius.
lucule		A spot or fleck on the sun brighter than the surrounding surface.	
luculent		Lucid; clear; transparent.	Latin luculentus.
luculently		In a luculent manner; clearly.	
lucullite		A variety of black limestone, often polished for ornamental purposes.	
lucuma		An American genus of sapotaceous trees bearing sweet and edible fruits.	
luddite		One of a number of riotous persons in England, who for six years (1811-17) tried to prevent the use of labor-saving machinery by breaking it, burning factories, etc.; -- so called from Ned Lud…	
ludibrious	Obsolete	Sportive; ridiculous; wanton.	
ludibund	Obsolete	Sportive. -- Lu"di*bund*ness, n.	Latin ludibundus.
ludicrous		Adapted to excite laughter, without scorn or contempt; sportive.	
ludification		The act of deriding.	Latin ludificatio.
ludificatory	Obsolete	Making sport; tending to excite derision.	Latin ludificatorius.
ludlamite		A mineral occurring in small, green, transparent, monoclinic crystals.	
ludwigite		A borate of iron and magnesia, occurring in fibrous masses of a blackish green color.	
lues		Disease, especially of a contagious kind.	Latin lues.
luff		(a) The side of a ship toward the wind. (b) The act of sailing a ship close to the wind.	
luffa		(a) A small genus of tropical cucurbitaceous plants having white flowers, the staminate borne in racemes, and large fruits with a dry fibrous pericarp.	
luffer		See Louver — a small lantern. See Lantern, 2 (a) Louver boards or boarding, the sloping boards set to shed rainwater outward in openings which are to be left otherwise unfilled; as belfry windows…	
lug	Scots	The ear, or its lobe.	
luggage		That which is lugged; anything cumbrous and heavy to be carried; especially, a traveler's trunks, baggage, etc., or their contents.	
lugger		A small vessel having two or three masts, and a running bowsprit, and carrying lugsails.	
lugmark		A mark cut into the ear of an animal to identify it; an earmark.	
lugsail		A square sail bent upon a yard that hangs obliquely to the mast and is raised or lowered with the sail.	
lugubrious		Mournful; indicating sorrow, often ridiculously or feignedly; doleful; woful; pitiable; as, a whining tone and a lugubrious look.	Latin lugubris.
lugworm		A large marine annelid (Arenicola marina) having a row of tufted gills along each side of the back.	
luke	Obsolete	Moderately warm; not hot; tepid. -- Luke"ness, n.	Middle English luke.
lukewarm		Moderately warm; neither cold nor hot; tepid; not ardent; not zealous; cool; indifferent.	Middle English lukewarme.
lull		To cause to rest by soothing influences; to compose; to calm; to soothe; to quiet.	Middle English lullen.
lullaby		A song to quiet babes or lull them to sleep; that which quiets.	
luller		One who, or that which, lulls.	
lullingly		In a lulling manner; soothingly.	
lum		A ventilating chimney over the shaft of a mine.	
lumachel		A grayish brown limestone, containing fossil shells, which reflect a beautiful play of colors.	Italian lumachella.
lumachella		A grayish brown limestone, containing fossil shells, which reflect a beautiful play of colors.	
lumbaginous		Of or pertaining to lumbago.	
lumbago		A rheumatic pain in the loins and the small of the back.	
lumbal		Of, pertaining to, or near, the loins; as, the lumbar arteries.	
lumbar		Of, pertaining to, or near, the loins; as, the lumbar arteries.	
lumber		Old or refuse household stuff; things cumbrous, or bulky and useless, or of small value.	
lumberer		One employed in lumbering, cutting, and getting logs from the forest for lumber; a lumberman.	
lumbering		The business of cutting or getting timber or logs from the forest for lumber.	
lumberman		One who is engaged in lumbering as a business or employment.	
lumbosacral		Of or pertaining to the loins and sacrum; as, the lumbosacral nerve, a branch of one of the lumber nerves which passes over the sacrum.	
lumbric		An earthworm, or a worm resembling an earthworm.	Latin lumbricus.
lumbrical		Resembling a worm; as, the lumbrical muscles of the hands of the hands and feet. -- n.	
lumbriciform		Resembling an earthworm; vermiform.	
lumbricoid		Like an earthworm; belonging to the genus Lumbricus, or family Lumbricidæ.	
lumbricus		A genus of annelids, belonging to the Oligochæta, and including the common earthworms.	
lumen		(Photom.) (a) A unit of illumination, being the amount of illumination of a unit area of spherical surface, due to a light of unit intensity placed at the center of the sphere.	
luminant		Luminous.	
luminary		Any body that gives light, especially one of the heavenly bodies.	Latin luminaria.
luminate	Obsolete	To illuminate.	
lumination	Obsolete	Illumination.	
lumine	Obsolete	To illumine.	
luminescence		(Physics) Any emission of light not ascribable directly to incandescence, and therefore occurring at low temperatures, as in phosphorescence and fluorescence or other luminous radiation resulting from vital processes…	
luminescent		Shining with a light due to any of the various causes which produce luminescence.	
luminiferous		Producing light; yielding light; transmitting light; as, the luminiferous ether.	
luminosity		The quality or state of being luminous; luminousness.	
luminous		Shining; emitting or reflecting light; brilliant; bright; as, the is a luminous body; a luminous color.	Latin luminosus.
lummox		A fat, ungainly, stupid person; an awkward bungler.	
lump		A small mass of matter of irregular shape; an irregular or shapeless mass; as, a lump of coal; a lump of iron ore.	Middle English lumpe.
lumper		The European eelpout; -- called also lumpen.	
lumpfish		A large, thick, clumsy, marine fish (Cyclopterus lumpus) of Europe and America.	
lumping		Bulky; heavy.	
lumpish		Like a lump; inert; gross; heavy; dull; spiritless. -- Lump ish*ness, n.	
lumpsucker		The lumprish.	
lumpy		Full of lumps, or small compact masses.	
lumpy-jaw	Colloquial	Actinomycosis.	
luna		The moon.	
lunacy		Insanity or madness; properly, the kind of insanity which is broken by intervals of reason, -- formerly supposed to be influenced by the changes of the moon; any form of unsoundness of mind, except idiocy…	
lunar		Of or pertaining to the moon; as, lunar observations.	Latin lunaris.
lunarian		An inhabitant of the moon.	
lunate		Crescent-shaped; as, a lunate leaf; a lunate beak; a lunated cross.	Latin lunatus.
lunated		Crescent-shaped; as, a lunate leaf; a lunate beak; a lunated cross.	
lunatic		Affected by lunacy; insane; mad.	Old French lunatique, from Latin lunaticus.
lunation		The period of a synodic revolution of the moon, or the time from one new moon to the next; varying in length, at different times, from about 29	
lunch		A luncheon; specifically, a light repast between breakfast and dinner.	
luncheon		A portion of food taken at any time except at a regular meal; an informal or light repast, as between breakfast and dinner.	
lune		Anything in the shape of a half moon.	French lune, from Latin luna.
lunet	Obsolete	A little moon or satellite.	
lunette		(Fort.) A fieldwork consisting of two faces, forming a salient angle, and two parallel flanks.	French lunette.
lung		An organ for aërial respiration; -- commonly in the plural.	
lung-grown		Having lungs that adhere to the pleura.	
lunge		A sudden thrust or pass, as with a sword.	French allonge, from Old French alonge.
lunged		Having lungs, or breathing organs similar to lungs.	
lungfish		Any fish belonging to the Dipnoi; -- so called because they have both lungs and gills.	
lungie	English dialect	A guillemot.	
lungis	Obsolete	A lingerer; a dull, drowsy fellow.	Old French longis.
lungless		Being without lungs.	
lungoor		A long-tailed monkey (Semnopithecus schislaceus), from the mountainous districts of India.	
lungworm		Any one of several species of parasitic nematoid worms which infest the lungs and air passages of cattle, sheep, and other animals, often proving fatal.	
lungwort		(a) An herb of the genus Pulmonaria (P. officinalis), of Europe; -- so called because the spotted appearance of the leaves resembles that of a diseased lung.	
lunicurrent		Having relation to changes in currents that depend on the moon's phases.	
luniform		Resembling the moon in shape.	
lunisolar		Resulting from the united action, or pertaining to the mutual relations, of the sun and moon.	
lunistice	Obsolete	The farthest point of the moon's northing and southing, in its monthly revolution.	
lunitidal		Pertaining to tidal movements dependent on the moon.	
lunt		The match cord formerly used in firing cannon.	
lunula		Same as Lunule.	
lunular		Having a form like that of the new moon; shaped like a crescent.	
lunulate		Resembling a small crescent.	
lunulated		Resembling a small crescent.	
lunule		(Anat.) Anything crescent-shaped; a crescent-shaped part or mark; a lunula, a lune.	
lunulet		A small spot, shaped like a half-moon or crescent; as, the lunulet on the wings of many insects.	
lunulite		Any bryozoan of the genus Lunulites, having a more or less circular form.	
luny		Crazy; mentally unsound.	
lupercal		Of or pertaining to the Lupercalia.	
lupercalia		A feast of the Romans in honor of Lupercus, or Pan.	
lupine		A leguminous plant of the genus Lupinus, especially L. albus, the seeds of which have been used for food from ancient times.	Latin lupinus.
lupinin		A glucoside found in the seeds of several species of lupine, and extracted as a yellowish white crystalline substance.	
lupinine		An alkaloid found in several species of lupine (Lupinus luteus, L. albus, etc.), and extracted as a bitter crystalline substance.	
lupulin		(Chem.) A bitter principle extracted from hops.	
lupuline		An alkaloid extracted from hops as a colorless volatile liquid.	
lupulinic		Pertaining to, or obtained from, hops; specifically, designating an acid obtained by the decomposition of lupulin.	
lupus		(Med.) A cutaneous disease occurring under two distinct forms.	
lurcation	Obsolete	Gluttony; gormandizing.	
lurch		An old game played with dice and counters; a variety of the game of tables.	
lurcher		One that lurches or lies in wait; one who watches to pilfer, or to betray or entrap; a poacher.	
lurchline		The line by which a fowling net was pulled over so as to inclose the birds.	
lurdan	Obsolete	Stupid; blockish.	
lure		A contrivance somewhat resembling a bird, and often baited with raw meat; -- used by falconers in recalling hawks.	Anglo-Norman lure, from Old French loirre, from Frankish lothr.
lurg		A large marine annelid (Nephthys cæca), inhabiting the sandy shores of Europe and America.	
lurid		Pale yellow; ghastly pale; wan; gloomy; dismal.	Latin luridus.
lurk		To lie hid; to lie in wait.	
lurker	English dialect	A small fishing boat.	
lurry	Obsolete	A confused heap; a throng, as of persons; a jumble, as of sounds.	
luscious		Sweet; delicious; very grateful to the taste; toothsome; excessively sweet or rich.	
lusern		A lynx. See 1st Lucern and Loup-cervier.	French loup-cervier.
lush		Full of juice or succulence.	Middle English lusch.
lushburg	Obsolete	See Lussheburgh — a spurious coin of light weight imported into England from Luxemburg, or Lussheburgh, as it was formerly called.	
lusitanian		Pertaining to Lusitania, the ancient name of the region almost coinciding with Portugal. -- n.	
lusk	Obsolete	Lazy; slothful.	
luskish	Obsolete	Inclined to be lazy.	
lusorious	Obsolete	Used in play; sportive; playful.	Latin lusorius.
lusory	Obsolete	Used in play; sportive; playful.	
lussheburgh	Obsolete	A spurious coin of light weight imported into England from Luxemburg, or Lussheburgh, as it was formerly called.	
lust		Longing desire; eagerness to possess or enjoy; -- in a had sense; as, the lust of gain.	Old English lust.
luster		Brilliancy; splendor; brightness; glitter.	Latin lustrum.
lustering		The brightening of a metal in the crucible when it becomes pure, as in certain refining processes.	
lusterless		Destitute of luster; dim; dull.	
lustful		Full of lust; excited by lust Spenser.	Middle English lustful, from Old English lustfull.
lustic	Obsolete	Lusty; vigorous.	
lustihead	Obsolete	See Lustihood — state of being lusty; vigor of body.	Middle English lustyhede.
lustihood		State of being lusty; vigor of body.	
lustily		In a lusty or vigorous manner.	
lustiness		State of being lusty; vigor; strength.	
lustless		Free from sexual lust.	
lustral		Of or pertaining to, or used for, purification; as, lustral days; lustral water.	
lustrate		To make clear or pure by means of a propitiatory offering; to purify.	
lustration		(Antiq.) A sacrifice, or ceremony, by which cities, fields, armies, or people, defiled by crimes, pestilence, or other cause of uncleanness, were purified.	
lustre		A period of five years; a lustrum.	Latin lux.
lustreless		Destitute of luster; dim; dull.	
lustrical		Pertaining to, or used for, purification.	Latin lustricus.
lustring		A kind of glossy silk fabric. See Lutestring.	French lustrine.
lustrous		Bright; shining; luminous. -- Lus"trous*ly, adv.	
lustrum		A lustration or purification, especially the purification of the whole Roman people, which was made by the censors once in five years.	Latin lustrum.
lustwort		See Sundew — any plant of the genus Drosera, low bog plants whose leaves are beset with pediceled glands which secrete a viscid fluid that glitters like dewdrops and attracts and detains insects.	
lusty		Exhibiting lust or vigor; stout; strong; vigorous; robust; healthful; able of body.	
lutanist		A person that plays on the lute.	
lutarious	Obsolete	Of, pertaining to, or like, mud; living in mud.	Latin lutarius.
lutation		The act or method of luting vessels.	Latin lutare.
lute		(Chem.) A cement of clay or other tenacious infusible substance for sealing joints in apparatus, or the mouths of vessels or tubes, or for coating the bodies of retorts, etc., when exposed to heat; -- called also luting.	Middle French lut, from Old French leüt.
lute-backed		Having a curved spine.	
lutecium		A metallic element separated from ytterbium in 1907, by Urbain in Paris and by von Welsbach in Vienna.	
luteic		(a) Pertaining to, or derived from, weld (Reseda luteola). (b) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid resembling luteolin, but obtained from the flowers of Euphorbia cyparissias.	
lutein		A substance of a strongly marked yellow color, extracted from the yelk of eggs, and from the tissue of the corpus luteum.	
lutenist		Same as Lutanist.	
luteo-		A combining form signifying orange yellow or brownish yellow.	Latin luteus.
luteocobaltic		Pertaining to, or designating, certain compounds of cobalt having a yellow color.	
luteolin		A yellow dyestuff obtained from the foliage of the dyer's broom (Reseda luteola).	
luteous		Yellowish; more or less like buff.	
luter		One who plays on a lute.	
lutescent		Of a yellowish color.	
lutestring		A plain, stout, lustrous silk, used for ladies' dresses and for ribbon.	
luth		The leatherback.	
lutheran		Of or pertaining to Luther; adhering to the doctrines of Luther or the Lutheran Church.	
lutheranism		The doctrines taught by Luther or held by the Lutheran Church.	
lutherism		The doctrines taught by Luther or held by the Lutheran Church.	
luthern		A dormer window. See Dormer.	
lutidine		Any one of several metameric alkaloids, C5H3N.(CH3)2, of the pyridine series, obtained from bone oil as liquids, and having peculiar pungent odors.	
luting		See Lute, a cement.	
lutist		One who plays on a lute.	
lutose		Covered with clay; miry.	Latin lutosus.
lutulence		The state or quality of being lutulent.	
lutulent	Obsolete	Muddy; turbid; thick.	Latin lutulentus.
luwack		See Paradoxure — any species of Paradoxurus, a genus of Asiatic viverrine mammals allied to the civet, as the musang, and the luwack or palm cat (Paradoxurus hermaphroditus).	
lux	Obsolete	To put out of joint; to luxate.	
luxate	Obsolete	Luxated.	Latin luxo.
luxation		The act of luxating, or the state of being luxated; a dislocation.	
luxive	Obsolete	Given to luxury; voluptuous.	
luxullianite		A kind of granite from Luxullian, Cornwall, characterized by the presence of radiating groups of minute tourmaline crystals.	
luxuriance		The state or quality of being luxuriant; rank, vigorous growth; excessive abundance produced by rank growth.	
luxuriancy		The state or quality of being luxuriant; luxuriance.	
luxuriant		Exuberant in growth; rank; excessive; very abundant; as, a luxuriant growth of grass; luxuriant foliage.	
luxuriantly		In a luxuriant manner.	
luxuriate		To grow exuberantly; to grow to superfluous abundance.	
luxuriation		The act or process luxuriating.	
luxuriety	Obsolete	Luxuriance.	
luxurious		Of or pertaining to luxury; ministering to luxury; supplied with the conditions of luxury; as, a luxurious life; a luxurious table; luxurious ease. -- Lux*u ri*ous*ness, n.	French luxurieux, from Latin luxuriosus.
luxurist	Obsolete	One given to luxury.	
luxury		A free indulgence in costly food, dress, furniture, or anything expensive which gratifies the appetites or tastes.	Middle English luxurie, from Old French luxurie, from Latin luxuria.
luz		A bone of the human body which was supposed by certain Rabbinical writers to be indestructible.	
