lyam	Obsolete	A leash.	
lycanthrope		A human being fabled to have been changed into a wolf; a werewolf.	Greek λυκάνθρωπος.
lycanthropia		See Lycanthropy, 2.	
lycanthropic		Pertaining to lycanthropy.	
lycanthropist		One affected by the disease lycanthropy.	
lycanthropous		Lycanthropic.	
lycanthropy		The supposed act of turning one's self or another person into a wolf.	Greek λυκανθρωπία.
lycee		A French lyceum, or secondary school supported by the French government, for preparing students for the university.	
lyceum		A place of exercise with covered walks, in the suburbs of Athens, where Aristotle taught philosophy.	Greek Λύκειον.
lychee		See Litchi — the fruit of a tree native to China (Nephelium Litchi).	
lychnis		A genus of Old World plants belonging to the Pink family (Caryophyllaceæ).	
lychnobite		One who labors at night and sleeps in the day.	
lychnoscope		Same as Low side window, under Low, a.	
lycine		A weak base identical with betaine; -- so called because found in the boxthorn (Lycium barbarum).	
lycoperdon		A genus of fungi, remarkable for the great quantity of spores, forming a fine dust, which is thrown out like smoke when the plant is compressed or burst; puffball.	
lycopod		A plant of the genus Lycopodium.	
lycopode		Same as Lycopodium powder. See under Lycopodium.	
lycopodiaceous		Belonging, or relating, to the Lycopodiaceæ, an order of cryptogamous plants (called also club mosses) with branching stems, and small, crowded, one-nerved, and usually pointed leaves.	
lycopodite		An old name for a fossil club moss.	
lycopodium		A genus of mosslike plants, the type of the order Lycopodiaceæ; club moss.	
lycotropous		Campylotropous.	
lyddite		A high explosive consisting principally of picric acid, used as a shell explosive in the British service; -- so named from the proving grounds at Lydd, England.	
lyden	Obsolete	See Leden — language; speech; voice; cry.	
lydian		Of or pertaining to Lydia, a country of Asia Minor, or to its inhabitants; hence, soft; effeminate; -- said especially of one of the ancient Greek modes or keys, the music in which was of a soft, pathetic, or voluptuous character.	
lydine		A violet dye derived from aniline.	
lye	Obsolete	A strong caustic alkaline solution of potassium salts, obtained by leaching wood ashes.	Old English leag.
lyencephala		A group of Mammalia, including the marsupials and monotremes; - - so called because the corpus callosum is rudimentary.	
lyencephalous		Pertaining to, or characteristic of, the Lyencephala.	
lyerman		The cicada.	
lygodium		A genus of ferns with twining or climbing fronds, bearing stalked and variously-lobed divisions in pairs.	
lying		of Lie, to tell a falsehood. of Lie, to be supported horizontally.	
lying-in		The state attending, and consequent to, childbirth; confinement.	
lyingly		In a lying manner; falsely.	
lyken	Obsolete	To please; -- chiefly used impersonally.	
lym	Obsolete	A dog held in a leam; a bloodhound; a limehound.	
lymail	Obsolete	See Limaille — filings of metal.	
lymhound	Obsolete	A dog held in a leam; a bloodhound; a limehound.	
lymph		A spring of water; hence, water, or a pure, transparent liquid like water.	Latin lympha, from Greek νύμφη.
lymphadenitis		Inflammation of the lymphatic glands; -- called also lymphitis.	
lymphadenoma		See Lymphoma — a tumor having a structure resembling that of a lymphatic gland; -- called also lymphadenoma.	
lymphangeitis		Inflammation of the lymphatic vessels.	
lymphangial		Of or pertaining to the lymphatics, or lymphoid tissue; lymphatic.	
lymphate	Obsolete	Frightened into madness; raving.	
lymphated	Obsolete	Frightened into madness; raving.	
lymphatic		pertaining to, containing, or conveying lymph.	
lymphitis		See Lymphadenitis — inflammation of the lymphatic glands; -- called also lymphitis.	
lymphogenic		Connected with, or formed in, the lymphatic glands.	
lymphography		A description of the lymphatic vessels, their origin and uses.	
lymphoid		Resembling lymph; also, resembling a lymphatic gland; adenoid; as, lymphoid tissue.	
lymphoma		A tumor having a structure resembling that of a lymphatic gland; -- called also lymphadenoma.	
lymphy		Containing, or like, lymph.	
lyn	Scots	A waterfall. See Lin.	
lyncean		Of or pertaining to the lynx.	
lynch		To inflict punishment upon, especially death, without the forms of law, as when a mob captures and hangs a suspected person.	
lyncher		One who assists in lynching.	
lynde		See Linden — (a) A handsome tree (Tilia Europæa), having cymes of light yellow flowers, and large cordate leaves.	
lynden		See Linden — (a) A handsome tree (Tilia Europæa), having cymes of light yellow flowers, and large cordate leaves.	
lynx		(Zoöl.) Any one of several species of feline animals of the genus Felis, and subgenus Lynx.	Middle English lynx, from Latin lynx, from Greek λύγξ.
lynx-eyed		Having acute sight.	
lyonnaise		Applied to boiled potatoes cut into small pieces and heated in oil or butter.	French lyonnaise.
lyopomata		An order of brachiopods, in which the valves of shell are not articulated by a hinge.	
lyra		(Astron.) A northern constellation, the Harp, containing a white star of the first magnitude, called Alpha Lyræ, or Vega.	
lyraid		Same as Lyrid.	
lyrate		(Bot.) Lyre-shaped, or spatulate and oblong, with small lobes toward the base; as, a lyrate leaf.	
lyrated		(Bot.) Lyre-shaped, or spatulate and oblong, with small lobes toward the base; as, a lyrate leaf.	
lyre		(Mus.) A stringed instrument of music; a kind of harp much used by the ancients, as an accompaniment to poetry.	Greek λύρα.
lyric		Fitted to be sung to the lyre; hence, also, appropriate for song; -- said especially of poetry which expresses the individual emotions of the poet.	French lyrique.
lyrical		Fitted to be sung to the lyre; hence, also, appropriate for song; -- said especially of poetry which expresses the individual emotions of the poet.	
lyrically		In a lyrical manner.	
lyricism		A lyric composition.	
lyrid		One of the group of shooting stars which come into the air in certain years on or about the 19th of April; -- so called because the apparent path among the stars the stars if produced back wards crosses the constellation Lyra.	
lyrie		A European fish (Peristethus cataphractum), having the body covered with bony plates, and having three spines projecting in front of the nose; -- called also noble, pluck, pogge, sea poacher, and armed bullhead.	
lyriferous		Having a lyre-shaped shoulder girdle, as certain fishes.	
lyrism		The act of playing on a lyre or harp.	
lyrist		A musician who plays on the harp or lyre; a composer of lyrical poetry.	
lysimeter		An instrument for measuring the water that percolates through a certain depth of soil.	
lysis		The resolution or favorable termination of a disease, coming on gradually and not marked by abrupt change.	
lyssa		Hydrophobia.	
lyterian		Termination a disease; indicating the end of a disease.	
lythe	Scots	The European pollack; -- called also laith, and leet.	
lythonthriptic		See Lithontriptic — having the quality of, or used for, dissolving or destroying stone in the bladder or kidneys; as, lithontriptic forcéps. -- n.	
lythontriptic		See Lithontriptic — having the quality of, or used for, dissolving or destroying stone in the bladder or kidneys; as, lithontriptic forcéps. -- n.	
lytta		A fibrous and muscular band lying within the longitudinal axis of the tongue in many mammals, as the dog.	
