ma		A child's word for mother.	
maa		The common European gull (Larus canus); -- called also mar. See New, a gull.	
maalin		(a) The sparrow hawk. (b) The kestrel.	
maasha		An East Indian coin, of about one tenth of the weight of a rupee.	
maat	Obsolete	Dejected; sorrowful; downcast.	Afrikaans maat.
mab		The name of a female fairy, esp. the queen of the fairies; and hence, sometimes, any fairy.	
mabble	Obsolete	To wrap up.	
mabby		A spirituous liquor or drink distilled from potatoes; -- used in the Barbadoes.	
mabolo		A kind of persimmon tree (Diospyros discolor) from the Philippine Islands, now introduced into the East and West Indies.	
mac		A prefix, in names of Scotch origin, signifying son.	
macaco		Any one of several species of lemurs, as the ruffed lemur (Lemur macaco), and the ring-tailed lemur (L. catta).	French mococo.
macacus		A genus of monkeys, found in Asia and the East Indies.	
macadamization		The process or act of macadamizing.	
macadamize		To cover, as a road, or street, with small, broken stones, so as to form a smooth, hard, convex surface.	
macao		A macaw.	
macaque		Any one of several species of short-tailed monkeys of the genus Macacus; as, M. maurus, the moor macaque of the East Indies.	French macaque, from Portuguese macaco.
macarize		To congratulate.	
macaroni		Long slender tubes made of a paste chiefly of wheat flour, and used as an article of food; Italian or Genoese paste.	
macaronian		Pertaining to, or like, macaroni (originally a dish of mixed food); hence, mixed; confused; jumbled.	
macaronic		Pertaining to, or like, macaroni (originally a dish of mixed food); hence, mixed; confused; jumbled.	
macaroon		A small cake, composed chiefly of the white of eggs, almonds, and sugar.	
macartney		A fire-backed pheasant. See Fireback.	
macauco		Any one of several species of small lemurs, as Lemur murinus, which resembles a rat in size.	
macavahu		A small Brazilian monkey (Callithrix torquatus), -- called also collared teetee.	
macaw		Any parrot of the genus Sittace, or Macrocercus.	Portuguese macao.
maccabean		Of or pertaining to Judas Maccabeus or to the Maccabees; as, the Maccabean princes; Maccabean times.	
maccabees		The name given in later times to the Asmonæans, a family of Jewish patriots, who headed a religious revolt in the reign of Antiochus IV., 168-161 B.	
maccaboy		A kind of snuff.	
macco		A gambling game in vogue in the eighteenth century.	
maccoboy		A kind of snuff.	
mace		A money of account in China equal to one tenth of a tael; also, a weight of 57.98 grains.	
macedoine		A kind of mixed dish, as of cooked vegetables with white sauce, sweet jelly with whole fruit, etc. Also, fig., a medley.	French Macédoine.
macedonian		Belonging, or relating, to Macedonia. -- n.	
macedonianism		The doctrines of Macedonius.	
macer		A mace bearer; an officer of a court.	
macerate		To subdue the appetites of by poor and scanty diet; to mortify.	Latin maceratus.
macerater		One who, or that which, macerates; an apparatus for converting paper or fibrous matter into pulp.	
maceration		The act or process of macerating.	Latin maceratio.
machaerodus		A genus of extinct mammals allied to the cats, and having in the upper jaw canine teeth of remarkable size and strength; -- hence called saber-toothed tigers.	
machairodus		A genus of extinct mammals allied to the cats, and having in the upper jaw canine teeth of remarkable size and strength; -- hence called saber-toothed tigers.	
machete		A large heavy knife resembling a broadsword, often two or three feet in length, -- used by the inhabitants of Spanish America as a hatchet to cut their way through thickets, and for various other purposes.	Spanish machete.
machiavelian		Of or pertaining to Machiavel, or to his supposed principles; politically cunning; characterized by duplicity or bad faith; crafty.	
machiavelianism		The supposed principles of Machiavel, or practice in conformity to them; political artifice, intended to favor arbitrary power.	
machiavelism		The supposed principles of Machiavel, or practice in conformity to them; political artifice, intended to favor arbitrary power.	
machicolated		Having machicolations.	
machicolation		(Mil. Arh.) An opening between the corbels which support a projecting parapet, or in the floor of a gallery or the roof of a portal, shooting or dropping missiles upen assailants attacking the base of the walls.	
machicoulis		Same as Machicolation.	
machinal		Of or pertaining to machines.	
machinate		To plan; to contrive; esp., to form a scheme with the purpose of doing harm; to contrive artfully; to plot.	Latin machinatus.
machination		That which is devised; a device; a hostile or treacherous scheme; an artful design or plot.	Latin machinatio.
machinator		One who machinates, or forms a scheme with evil designs; a plotter or artful schemer.	
machine		In general, any combination of bodies so connected that their relative motions are constrained, and by means of which force and motion may be transmitted and modified, as a screw and its nut…	Middle French machine, from Latin machina, from Greek μαχανά.
machiner		One who or operates a machine; a machinist.	
machinery		The working parts of a machine, engine, or instrument; as, the machinery of a watch.	French machinerie.
machining	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to the machinery of a poem; acting or used as a machine.	
machinist		A constrictor of machines and engines; one versed in the principles of machines.	French machiniste.
macho		The striped mullet of California (Mugil cephalus, or Mexicanus).	Spanish macho, from Latin marculus.
macilency	Obsolete	Leanness.	
macilent	Obsolete	Lean; thin.	
macintosh		Same as Mackintosh.	
mackerel	Obsolete	A pimp; also, a bawd.	Old French maquerel.
mackinaw		A thick blanket formerly in common use in the western part of the United States.	
mackintosh		A waterproof outer garment; -- so called from the name of the inventor.	
mackle		Same Macule.	
macle		(a) Chiastolite; -- so called from the tessellated appearance of a cross section.	
macled		(Min.) (a) Marked like macle (chiastolite). (b) Having a twin structure.	
maclurea		A genus of spiral gastropod shells, often of large size, characteristic of the lower Silurian rocks.	
maclurin		See Morintannic — pertaining to, or designating, a variety of tannic acid extracted from fustic (Maclura, formerly Morus, tinctoria) as a yellow crystalline substance; -- called also maclurin.	
macrencephalic		Having a large brain.	
macrencephalous		Having a large brain.	
macro-		A combining form signifying long, large, great; as macrodiagonal, macrospore.	
macro-chemistry		The science which treats of the chemical properties, actions or relations of substances in quantity; -- distinguished from micro- chemistry.	
macrobiotic		Long-lived.	
macrobiotics		The art of prolonging life.	
macrocephalous		Having a large head.	
macrochires		A division of birds including the swifts and humming birds.	
macrocosm		The great world; that part of the universe which is exterior to man; -- contrasted with microcosm, or man.	Latin macrocosmus.
macrocosmic		Of or pertaining to the macrocosm.	
macrocystis		An immensely long blackish seaweed of the Pacific (Macrocystis pyrifera), having numerous almond-shaped air vessels.	
macrodactyl		One of a group of wading birds (Macrodactyli) having very long toes.	
macrodactylic		Having long toes.	
macrodactylous		Having long toes.	
macrodiagonal		The longer of two diagonals, as of a rhombic prism. See Crystallization.	
macrodome		A dome parallel to the longer lateral axis of an orthorhombic crystal.	
macrodont		Having large teeth. -- n.	
macrofarad		See Megafarad — one of the larger measures of electrical capacity, amounting to one million farads; a macrofarad.	
macroglossia		Enlargement or hypertrophy of the tongue.	
macrognathic		Long-jawed.	
macrograph		A picture of an object as seen by the naked eye (that is, unmagnified); as, a macrograph of a metallic fracture.	
macrography		Examination or study with the naked eye, as distinguished from micrography.	
macrology		Long and tedious talk without much substance; superfluity of words.	
macrometer		An instrument for determining the size or distance of inaccessible objects by means of two reflectors on a common sextant.	
macron		A short, straight, horizontal mark, placed over vowels to denote that they are to be pronounced with a long sound; as, a, in dame; e, in seam, etc.	
macropetalous		Having long or large petals.	
macrophyllous		Having long or large leaves.	
macropinacoid		One of the two planes of an orthorhombic crystal which are parallel to the vertical and longer lateral (macrodiagonal) axes.	
macropod		Any one of a group of maioid crabs remarkable for the length of their legs; -- called also spider crab.	
macropodal		Having long or large feet, or a long stem.	
macropodian		A macropod.	
macropodous		Having long legs or feet.	
macroprism		A prism of an orthorhombic crystal between the macropinacoid and the unit prism; the corresponding pyramids are called macropyramids.	
macropteres		A division of birds; the Longipennes.	
macropterous		Having long wings.	
macropus		genus of marsupials including the common kangaroo.	
macropyramid		See Macroprism — a prism of an orthorhombic crystal between the macropinacoid and the unit prism; the corresponding pyramids are called macropyramids.	
macroscopic		Visible to the unassisted eye; -- as opposed to microscopic. -- Mac`ro*scop"ic*al*ly, adv.	
macroscopical		Visible to the unassisted eye; -- as opposed to microscopic. -- Mac`ro*scop"ic*al*ly, adv.	
macrosporangium		A sporangium or conceptacle containing only large spores; -- opposed to microsporangium.	
macrospore		One of the specially large spores of certain flowerless plants, as Selaginella, etc.	
macrosporic		Of or pertaining to macrospores.	
macrotone		Same as Macron.	
macrotous		Large-eared.	
macroura		Same as Macrura, Macrural, etc.	
macroural		Same as Macrura, Macrural, etc.	
macrozooespore		A large motile spore having four vibratile cilia; -- found in certain green algæ.	
macrozoospore		A large motile spore having four vibratile cilia; -- found in certain green algæ.	
macrura		A subdivision of decapod Crustacea, having the abdomen largely developed.	
macrural		Same as Macrurous.	
macruran		One of the Macrura.	
macruroid		Like or pertaining to the Macrura.	
macrurous		Of or pertaining to the Macrura; having a long tail.	
mactation	Obsolete	The act of killing a victim for sacrifice.	Latin mactatio.
mactra		Any marine bivalve shell of the genus Mactra, and allied genera.	
macula		A spot, as on the skin, or on the surface of the sun or of some other luminous orb.	Latin macula.
maculate		To spot; to stain; to blur.	
maculated		Having spots or blotches; maculate.	
maculation		The act of spotting; a spot; a blemish.	
maculatory		Causing a spot or stain.	
maculature	Obsolete	, Blotting paper.	
macule		(Print.) A blur, or an appearance of a double impression, as when the paper slips a little; a mackle.	
maculose		Of or pertaining to spots upon a surface; spotted; maculate.	
mad		Disordered in intellect; crazy; insane.	Middle English medd.
mad-apple		See Eggplant — a plant (Solanum Melongena), of East Indian origin, allied to the tomato, and bearing a large, smooth, edible fruit, shaped somewhat like an egg; mad-apple.	
mad-headed		Wild; crack-brained.	
madam		A gentlewoman; -- an appellation or courteous form of address given to a lady, especially an elderly or a married lady; -- much used in the address, at the beginning of a letter, to a woman.	Old French madame.
madame		My lady; -- a French title formerly given to ladies of quality; now, in France, given to all married women.	
madbrain		Hot-headed; rash.	
madbrained		Disordered in mind; hot-headed.	
madcap		Inclined to wild sports; delighting in rash, absurd, or dangerous amusements.	
madden		To make mad; to drive to madness; to craze; to excite violently with passion; to make very angry; to enrage.	
madder		A plant of the Rubia (R. tinctorum).	Old English ''[[mæddre]], [[mædre]]''.
madderwort		A name proposed for any plant of the same natural order (Rubiaceæ) as the madder.	
madding	Archaic	Affected with madness; raging; furious. -- Mad"ding*ly, adv.	
maddish		Somewhat mad.	
made		See Mad, n. of Make.	Middle English mathe, from Old English maþu.
madecass		A native or inhabitant of Madagascar, or Madecassee; the language of the natives of Madagascar.	
madecassee		A native or inhabitant of Madagascar, or Madecassee; the language of the natives of Madagascar.	
madefaction		The act of madefying, or making wet; the state of that which is made wet.	
madefication		The act of madefying, or making wet; the state of that which is made wet.	
madefy		To make wet or moist.	
madegassy		See Madecassee — a native or inhabitant of Madagascar, or Madecassee; the language of the natives of Madagascar.	
madeira		A rich wine made on the Island of Madeira.	
mademoiselle		A French title of courtesy given to a girl or an unmarried lady, equivalent to the English Miss.	
madge		(a) The barn owl. (b) The magpie.	
madhouse		A house where insane persons are confined; an insane asylum; a bedlam.	
madia		A genus of composite plants, of which one species (Madia sativa) is cultivated for the oil yielded from its seeds by pressure.	
madid		Wet; moist; as, a madid eye.	
madisterium		An instrument to extract hairs.	
madjoun		An intoxicating confection from the hemp plant; -- used by the Turks and Hindoos.	
madly		In a mad manner; without reason or understanding; wildly.	
madman		A man who is mad; lunatic; a crazy person.	
madnep		The masterwort (Peucedanum Ostruthium).	
madness		The condition of being mad; insanity; lunacy.	
madonna		My lady; -- a term of address in Italian formerly used as the equivalent of Madame, but for which Signora is now substituted.	
madoqua		A small Abyssinian antelope (Neotragus Saltiana), about the size of a hare.	
madrague		A large fish pound used for the capture of the tunny in the Mediterranean; also applied to the seines used for the same purpose.	
madras		A large silk-and-cotton kerchief, usually of bright colors, such as those often used by negroes for turbans.	
madreperl		Mother-of-pearl.	
madrepora		A genus of reef corals abundant in tropical seas.	
madreporaria		An extensive division of Anthozoa, including most of the species that produce stony corals.	
madrepore		Any coral of the genus Madrepora; formerly, often applied to any stony coral.	French madrepore, from Italian madrepora.
madreporian		Resembling, or pertaining to, the genus Madrepora.	
madreporic		Resembling, or pertaining to, the genus Madrepora.	
madreporiform		Resembling a madreporian coral in form or structure.	
madreporite		(Paleon.) A fossil coral.	
madrier		A thick plank, used for several mechanical purposes; especially: (a) A plank to receive the mouth of a petard, with which it is applied to anything intended to be broken down.	
madrigal		A little amorous poem, sometimes called a pastoral poem, containing some tender and delicate, though simple, thought.	Italian madrigale, from Latin matricalis.
madrigaler		A madrigalist.	
madrigalist		A composer of madrigals.	
madrilenian		Of or pertaining to Madrid in Spain, or to its inhabitants. -- n.	
madrina		An animal (usually an old mare), wearing a bell and acting as the leader of a troop of pack mules.	
madro		A small evergreen tree or shrub (Arbutus Menziesii), of California, having a smooth bark, thick shining leaves, and edible red berries, which are often called madroña apples.	
madrona		A small evergreen tree or shrub (Arbutus Menziesii), of California, having a smooth bark, thick shining leaves, and edible red berries, which are often called madroña apples.	
madronya		A small evergreen tree or shrub (Arbutus Menziesii), of California, having a smooth bark, thick shining leaves, and edible red berries, which are often called madroña apples.	
madwort		A genus of cruciferous plants (Alyssum) with white or yellow flowers and rounded pods.	
maegbote		Compensation for the injury done by slaying a kinsman.	Old English mægbot.
maelstrom		A celebrated whirlpool on the coast of Norway.	
maenad		A frantic or frenzied woman.	
maestoso		Majestic or majestically; -- a direction to perform a passage or piece of music in a dignified manner.	
maestro		A master in any art, especially in music; a composer.	
maffia		A secret society which organized in Sicily as a political organization, but is now widespread among Italians, and is used to further or protect private interests, reputedly by illegal methods.	
maffioso		A member of the maffia.	
maffle	Obsolete	To stammer.	
maffler	Obsolete	A stammerer.	
mafia		A secret society which organized in Sicily as a political organization, but is now widespread among Italians, and is used to further or protect private interests, reputedly by illegal methods.	
mafioso		A member of the maffia.	
magazine		A receptacle in which anything is stored, especially military stores, as ammunition, arms, provisions, etc.	Middle French magasin, from Italian magazzino, from Arabic مخازن.
magaziner		One who edits or writes for a magazine.	
magazining	Colloquial	The act of editing, or writing for, a magazine.	
magazinist		One who edits or writes for a magazine.	
magbote		Compensation for the injury done by slaying a kinsman.	Old English mægbot.
magdala		Designating an orange-red dyestuff obtained from naphthylamine, and called magdala red, naphthalene red, etc.	
magdalen		A reformed prostitute.	
magdaleon		A medicine in the form of a roll, a esp. a roll of plaster.	
magdeburg		A city of Saxony.	
mage	Archaic	A magician.	Latin magus, from Greek μάγος.
magellanic		Of or pertaining to, or named from, Magellan, the navigator.	
magenta		An aniline dye obtained as an amorphous substance having a green bronze surface color, which dissolves to a shade of red; also, the color; -- so called from Magenta, in Italy…	
magged		Worn; fretted; as, a magged brace.	
maggiore		Greater, in respect to scales, intervals, etc., when used in opposition to minor; major.	
maggot		(Zoöl.) The footless larva of any fly. See Larval.	Middle English magot.
maggot-pie	Obsolete	A magpie.	
maggotiness		State of being maggoty.	
maggotish		Full of whims or fancies; maggoty.	
maggoty		Infested with maggots.	
maghet		A name for daisies and camomiles of several kinds.	
magi		A caste of priests, philosophers, and magicians, among the ancient Persians; hence, any holy men or sages of the East.	
magian		Of or pertaining to the Magi.	
magic		A comprehensive name for all of the pretended arts which claim to produce effects by the assistance of supernatural beings, or departed spirits, or by a mastery of secret forces in nature attained by a study of occult science…	Middle English magik, from Old French magique.
magical		Pertaining to the hidden wisdom supposed to be possessed by the Magi; relating to the occult powers of nature, and the producing of effects by their agency.	
magically		In a magical manner; by magic, or as if by magic.	
magician		One skilled in magic; one who practices the black art; an enchanter; a necromancer; a sorcerer or sorceress; a conjurer.	
magilp		See Megilp — a gelatinous compound of linseed oil and mastic varnish, used by artists as a vehicle for colors.	
magilph		See Megilp — a gelatinous compound of linseed oil and mastic varnish, used by artists as a vehicle for colors.	
magister		Master; sir; -- a title of the Middle Ages, given to a person in authority, or to one having a license from a university to teach philosophy and the liberal arts.	Latin magister.
magisterial		Of or pertaining to a master or magistrate, or one in authority; having the manner of a magister; official; commanding; authoritative.	Latin magisterialis.
magisteriality		Magisterialness; authoritativeness.	
magisterially		In a magisterial manner.	
magisterialness		The quality or state of being magisterial.	
magistery		A magisterial injunction.	
magistracy		The collective body of magistrates.	
magistral		Pertaining to a master; magisterial; authoritative; dogmatic.	French magistral, from Latin magistralis.
magistrality		Magisterialness; arbitrary dogmatism.	
magistrally		In a magistral manner.	
magistrate		A person clothed with power as a public civil officer; a public civil officer invested with the executive government, or some branch of it.	
magistratic		Of, pertaining to, or proceeding from, a magistrate; having the authority of a magistrate.	
magistratical		Of, pertaining to, or proceeding from, a magistrate; having the authority of a magistrate.	
magistrature	Obsolete	Magistracy.	
magma		Any crude mixture of mineral or organic matters in the state of a thin paste.	Greek μάγμα.
magnality	Obsolete	A great act or event; a great attainment.	
magnanimity		The quality of being magnanimous; greatness of mind; elevation or dignity of soul; that quality or combination of qualities, in character, which enables one to encounter danger and trouble with tranquility and firmness…	
magnanimous		Great of mind; elevated in soul or in sentiment; raised above what is low, mean, or ungenerous; of lofty and courageous spirit; as, a magnanimous character; a magnanimous conqueror.	Latin magnanimus.
magnanimously		In a magnanimous manner; with greatness of mind.	
magnate		A person of rank; a noble or grandee; a person of influence or distinction in any sphere.	Latin magnum.
magnesia		A light earthy white substance, consisting of magnesium oxide, and obtained by heating magnesium hydrate or carbonate, or by burning magnesium.	
magnesian		Pertaining to, characterized by, or containing, magnesia or magnesium.	
magnesic		Pertaining to, or containing, magnesium; as, magnesic oxide.	
magnesite		Native magnesium carbonate occurring in white compact or granular masses, and also in rhombohedral crystals.	
magnesium		A light silver-white metallic element, malleable and ductile, quite permanent in dry air but tarnishing in moist air.	Latin magnesium.
magnet		The loadstone; a species of iron ore (the ferrosoferric or magnetic ore, Fe3O4) which has the property of attracting iron and some of its ores, and, when freely suspended, of pointing to the poles; -- called also natural magnet.	
magnetic		Pertaining to the magnet; possessing the properties of the magnet, or corresponding properties; as, a magnetic bar of iron; a magnetic needle.	
magnetical		Pertaining to the magnet; possessing the properties of the magnet, or corresponding properties; as, a magnetic bar of iron; a magnetic needle.	
magnetically		By or as by, magnetism.	
magneticalness		Quality of being magnetic.	
magnetician		One versed in the science of magnetism; a magnetist.	
magneticness	Obsolete	Magneticalness.	
magnetics		The science of magnetism.	
magnetiferous		Producing or conducting magnetism.	
magnetism		The property, quality, or state, of being magnetic; the manifestation of the force in nature which is seen in a magnet.	
magnetist		One versed in magnetism.	
magnetite		An oxide of iron (Fe3O4) occurring in isometric crystals, also massive, of a black color and metallic luster.	
magnetizable		Capable of magnetized.	
magnetization		The act of magnetizing, or the state of being magnetized.	
magnetize		To communicate magnetic properties to; as, to magnetize a needle.	
magnetizee		A person subjected to the influence of animal magnetism.	
magnetizer		One who, or that which, imparts magnetism.	
magneto-		A prefix meaning pertaining to, produced by, or in some way connected with, magnetism.	
magneto-electric		Pertaining to, or characterized by, electricity by the action of magnets; as, magneto-electric induction.	
magneto-electrical		Pertaining to, or characterized by, electricity by the action of magnets; as, magneto-electric induction.	
magneto-electricity		Electricity evolved by the action of magnets.	
magnetograph		An automatic instrument for registering, by photography or otherwise, the states and variations of any of the terrestrial magnetic elements.	
magnetometer		An instrument for measuring the intensity of magnetic forces; also, less frequently, an instrument for determining any of the terrestrial magnetic elements, as the dip and declination.	
magnetometric		Pertaining to, or employed in, the measurement of magnetic forces; obtained by means of a magnetometer; as, magnetometric instruments; magnetometric measurements.	
magnetomotive		Pertaining to, or designating, a force producing magnetic flux, analogous to electromotive force, and equal to the magnetic flux multiplied by the magnetic reluctance.	
magnetomotor		A voltaic series of two or more large plates, producing a great quantity of electricity of low tension, and hence adapted to the exhibition of electro-magnetic phenomena.	
magnetotherapy		The treatment of disease by the application of magnets to the surface of the body.	
magnifiable		Such as can be magnified, or extolled.	
magnific	Obsolete	Grand; splendid; illustrious; magnificent. 1 Chron. xxii. 5. -- Mag*nif"ic*al*ly, adv.	
magnifical	Obsolete	Grand; splendid; illustrious; magnificent. 1 Chron. xxii. 5. -- Mag*nif"ic*al*ly, adv.	
magnificat		The song of the Virgin Mary, Luke i. 46; -- so called because it commences with this word in the Vulgate.	
magnificate	Obsolete	To magnify or extol.	
magnification		The act of magnifying; enlargement; exaggeration.	
magnificence		The act of doing what magnificent; the state or quality of being magnificent.	
magnificent		Doing grand things; admirable in action; displaying great power or opulence, especially in building, way of living, and munificence.	
magnificently		In a Magnificent manner.	
magnifico		A rector of a German university.	
magnifier		One who, or that which, magnifies.	
magnify		To make great, or greater; to increase the dimensions of; to amplify; to enlarge, either in fact or in appearance; as, the microscope magnifies the object by a thousand diameters.	
magniloquence		The quality of being magniloquent; pompous discourse; grandiloquence.	
magniloquent		Speaking pompously; using swelling discourse; bombastic; tumid in style; grandiloquent. -- Mag*nil"o*quent*ly, adv.	
magniloquous	Obsolete	Magniloquent.	Latin magniloquus.
magnitude		Extent of dimensions; size; -- applied to things that have length, breath, and thickness.	
magnolia		A genus of American and Asiatic trees, with aromatic bark and large sweet-scented whitish or reddish flowers.	
magnoliaceous		Pertaining to a natural order (Magnoliaceæ) of trees of which the magnolia, the tulip tree, and the star anise are examples.	
magnum		A large wine bottle.	Latin magnum.
magot		The Barbary ape.	
magot-pie	Obsolete	A magpie.	
magpie		Any one of numerous species of the genus Pica and related genera, allied to the jays, but having a long graduated tail.	
maguari		A South American stork (Euxenara maguari), having a forked tail.	
maguey		The century plant, a species of Agave (A.	Spanish maguey, from Taino maguey.
magyar		(Ethnol.) One of the dominant people of Hungary, allied to the Finns; a Hungarian.	
maha		A kind of baboon; the wanderoo.	
mahabarata		A celebrated epic poem of the Hindoos.	
mahabharatam		A celebrated epic poem of the Hindoos.	
mahaled		(Bot.) A cherry tree (Prunus Mahaleb) of Southern Europe.	
maharajah		A sovereign prince in India; -- a title given also to other persons of high rank.	
maharif		An African antelope (Hippotragus Bakeri).	
maharmah		A muslin wrapper for the head and the lower part of the face, worn by Turkish and Armenian women when they go abroad.	
mahatma		One of a class of sages, or reputed to have knowledge and powers of a higher order than those of ordinary men. -- Ma*hat"ma*ism (#), n.	
mahdi		Among Mohammedans, the last imam or leader of the faithful.	
mahdiism		See Mahdism — belief in the coming of the Mahdi; fanatical devotion to the cause of the Mahdi or a pretender to that title. -- Mah"dist (#), n.	
mahdism		Belief in the coming of the Mahdi; fanatical devotion to the cause of the Mahdi or a pretender to that title. -- Mah"dist (#), n.	
mahl-stick		See Maul-stick — a stick used by painters as a rest for the hand while working.	
mahoe		A name given to several malvaceous trees (species of Hibiscus, Ochroma, etc.), and to their strong fibrous inner bark, which is used for strings and cordage.	
mahogany		(Bot.) A large tree of the genus Swietenia (S.	
maholi		A South African lemur (Galago maholi), having very large ears.	
mahomedan		See Mohammedan — of or pertaining to Mohammed, or the religion and institutions founded by Mohammed.	
mahometan		See Mohammedan — of or pertaining to Mohammed, or the religion and institutions founded by Mohammed.	
mahometanism		See Mohammedanism — the religion, or doctrines and precepts, of Mohammed, contained in the Koran; Islamism.	
mahometanize		To convert to the religion of Mohammed; to Mohammedanize.	
mahometism		See Mohammedanism — the religion, or doctrines and precepts, of Mohammed, contained in the Koran; Islamism.	
mahometist		A Mohammedan.	
mahometry	Obsolete	Mohammedanism.	
mahone		A large Turkish ship.	
mahonia		The Oregon grape, a species of barberry (Berberis Aquifolium), often cultivated for its hollylike foliage.	
mahoohoo		The African white two-horned rhinoceros (Atelodus simus).	
mahori		One of the dark race inhabiting principally the islands of Eastern Polynesia.	
mahound	Obsolete	A contemptuous name for Mohammed; hence, an evil spirit; a devil.	
mahout		The keeper and driver of an elephant.	
mahovo		A device for saving power in stopping and starting a railroad car, by means of a heavy fly wheel.	
mahrati		The language of the Mahrattas; the language spoken in the Deccan and Concan.	
mahratta		One of a numerous people inhabiting the southwestern part of India.	
mahumetan		See Mohammedan, Mohammedanism.	
mahumetanism		See Mohammedan, Mohammedanism.	
maia		(a) A genus of spider crabs, including the common European species (Maia squinado).	
maian		Any spider crab of the genus Maia, or family Maiadæ.	
maid		An unmarried woman; usually, a young unmarried woman; esp., a girl; a virgin; a maiden.	Middle English mayde.
maidan		In various parts of Asia, an open space, as for military exercises, or for a market place; an open grassy tract; an esplanade.	
maiden		An unmarried woman; a girl or woman who has not experienced sexual intercourse; a virgin; a maid.	
maidenhair		A fern of the genus Adiantum (A. pedatum), having very slender graceful stalks.	
maidenhead		The state of being a maiden; maidenhood; virginity.	
maidenhood		The state of being a maid or a virgin; virginity.	Middle English maydenhode.
maidenlike		Like a maiden; modest; coy.	
maidenliness		The quality of being maidenly; the behavior that becomes a maid; modesty; gentleness.	
maidenly		Like a maid; suiting a maid; maiden-like; gentle, modest, reserved.	
maidenship	Obsolete	Maidenhood.	
maidhood		Maidenhood.	
maidmarian		The lady of the May games; one of the characters in a morris dance; a May queen.	
maidpale		Pale, like a sick girl.	
maidservant		A female servant.	
maieutic		Serving to assist childbirth.	
maieutical		Serving to assist childbirth.	
maieutics		The art of giving birth (i. e., clearness and conviction) to ideas, which are conceived as struggling for birth.	
maiger		The meagre.	
maigre		Belonging to a fast day or fast; as, a maigre day.	
maihem		See Maim, and Mayhem.	
maikel		A South American carnivore of the genus Conepatus, allied to the skunk, but larger, and having a longer snout.	
maikong		A South American wild dog (Canis cancrivorus); the crab-eating dog.	
mail		A flexible fabric made of metal rings interlinked.	Middle English maille, from Old French maille, from Latin macula.
mail-shell		A chiton.	
mailable		Admissible lawfully into the mail.	
mailclad		Protected by a coat of mail; clad in armor.	
mailed		Protected by an external coat, or covering, of scales or plates.	
maim		To deprive of the use of a limb, so as to render a person on fighting less able either to defend himself or to annoy his adversary.	
maimedly		In a maimed manner.	
maimedness		State of being maimed.	
main		The largest throw in a match at dice; a throw at dice within given limits, as in the game of hazard.	Old English mægen.
main-gauche		The dagger held in the left hand, while the rapier is held in the right; -- used to parry thrusts of the adversary's rapier.	
main-hamper		A hamper to be carried in the hand; a hand basket used in carrying grapes to the press.	
maine		One of the New England States.	
mainland		The continent; the principal land; -- opposed to island, or peninsula.	
mainly	Obsolete	Very strongly; mightily; to a great degree.	
mainmast		The principal mast in a ship or other vessel.	
mainor		A thing stolen found on the person of the thief.	
mainpernable		Capable of being admitted to give surety by mainpernors; able to be mainprised.	
mainpernor		A surety, under the old writ of mainprise, for a prisoner's appearance in court at a day.	
mainpin		A kingbolt.	
mainprise		(a) A writ directed to the sheriff, commanding him to take sureties, called mainpernors, for the prisoner's appearance, and to let him go at large.	
mains	Scots	The farm attached to a mansion house.	
mainsail		The principal sail in a ship or other vessel. hoised up the mainsail to the wind.	
mainsheet		One of the ropes by which the mainsail is hauled aft and trimmed.	
mainspring		The principal or most important spring in a piece of mechanism, especially the moving spring of a watch or clock or the spring in a gunlock which impels the hammer.	
mainstay		(Naut.) The stay extending from the foot of the foremast to the maintop.	
mainswear	Obsolete	To swear falsely.	
maintain		To hold or keep in any particular state or condition; to support; to sustain; to uphold; to keep up; not to suffer to fail or decline; as, to maintain a certain degree of heat in a furnace; to maintain a fence or a railroad…	Anglo-Norman maintenir.
maintainable		That maybe maintained.	
maintainer		One who maintains.	Anglo-Norman maintenour.
maintainor		One who, not being interested, maintains a cause depending between others, by furnishing money, etc., to either party.	Old French mainteneor.
maintenance		The act of maintaining; sustenance; support; defense; vindication.	Middle English mayntenaunce, from Old French maintenance.
maintop		The platform about the head of the mainmast in square-rigged vessels.	
maioid		Of or pertaining to the genus Maia, or family Maiadeæ.	
maistre	Obsolete	Mastery; superiority; art. See Mastery.	
maistress	Obsolete	Mistress.	
maistrie	Obsolete	Mastery; superiority; art. See Mastery.	
maistry	Obsolete	Mastery; superiority; art. See Mastery.	
maithes		Same as Maghet.	
maize		A large species of American grass of the genus Zea (Z.	Spanish maíz, from Taino mahís.
majestatal	Obsolete	Majestic.	
majestatic	Obsolete	Majestic.	
majestic		Possessing or exhibiting majesty; of august dignity, stateliness, or imposing grandeur; lofty; noble; grand.	
majestical		Majestic.	
majesticness		The quality or state of being majestic.	
majesty		The dignity and authority of sovereign power; quality or state which inspires awe or reverence; grandeur; exalted dignity, whether proceeding from rank, character, or bearing; imposing loftiness; stateliness…	Middle English maieste.
majolica		A kind of pottery, with opaque glazing and showy, which reached its greatest perfection in Italy in the 16th century.	
major		Greater in number, quantity, or extent; as, the major part of the assembly; the major part of the revenue; the major part of the territory.	Middle English major, from Latin maior.
major-domo		A man who has authority to act, within certain limits, as master of the house; a steward; also, a chief minister or officer.	
majorat		The right of succession to property according to age; -- so termed in some of the countries of continental Europe.	
majorate	Obsolete	The office or rank of a major.	
majoration	Obsolete	Increase; enlargement.	
majorcan		Of or pertaining to Majorca. -- n.	
majority		The quality or condition of being major or greater; superiority. Specifically: (a) The military rank of a major.	Middle French maiorité, from Latin maioritatem.
majorship		The office of major.	
majoun		See Madjoun — an intoxicating confection from the hemp plant; -- used by the Turks and Hindoos.	
majusculae		Capital letters, as found in manuscripts of the sixth century and earlier.	
majuscule		A capital letter; especially, one used in ancient manuscripts. See Majusculæ.	
makable		Capable of being made.	
makaron		See Macaroon,	
make		To cause to exist; to bring into being; to form; to produce; to frame; to fashion; to create.	Middle English maken, from Old English macian.
make-belief		A feigning to believe; make believe.	
make-believe		A feigning to believe, as in the play of children; a mere pretense; a fiction; an invention.	
make-game		An object of ridicule; a butt.	
make-peace		A peacemaker.	
make-up		The way in which the parts of anything are put together; often, the way in which an actor is dressed, painted, etc., in personating a character.	
makebate	Obsolete	One who excites contentions and quarrels.	
makeless	Obsolete	Matchless.	Middle English makeles.
maker		One who makes, forms, or molds; a manufacturer; specifically, the Creator.	
makeshift		That with which one makes shift; a temporary expedient.	
makeweight		That which is thrown into a scale to make weight; something of little account added to supply a deficiency or fill a gap.	
maki		A lemur. See Lemur.	Japanese 巻き.
making		The act of one who makes; workmanship; fabrication; construction; as, this is cloth of your own making; the making of peace or war was in his power.	
making-iron		A tool somewhat like a chisel with a groove in it, used by calkers of ships to finish the seams after the oakum has been driven in.	
making-up		The act of bringing spirits to a certain degree of strength, called proof.	
mala		Evils; wrongs; offenses against right and law.	Latin mala.
malabar		A region in the western part of the Peninsula of India, between the mountains and the sea.	
malacatune		See Melocoton — (a) A quince. (b) A kind of peach having one side deep red, and the flesh yellow.	
malacca		A town and district upon the seacoast of the Malay Peninsula.	
malachite		Native hydrous carbonate of copper, usually occurring in green mammillary masses with concentric fibrous structure.	Latin molochitis, from Greek μαλαχή.
malacissant	Obsolete	Softening; relaxing.	
malacissation	Obsolete	The act of making soft or supple.	
malacobdella		A genus of nemertean worms, parasitic in the gill cavity of clams and other bivalves.	
malacoderm		One of a tribe of beetles (Malacodermata), with a soft and flexible body, as the fireflies.	
malacolite		A variety of pyroxene.	
malacologist		One versed in the science of malacology.	
malacology		The science which relates to the structure and habits of mollusks.	French malacologie.
malacopoda		A class of air-breathing Arthropoda; -- called also Protracheata, and Onychophora.	
malacopterygian		One of the Malacopterygii.	
malacopterygii		An order of fishes in which the fin rays, except the anterior ray of the pectoral and dorsal fins, are closely jointed, and not spiny.	
malacopterygious		Belonging to the Malacopterygii.	
malacosteon		A peculiar disease of the bones, in consequence of which they become softened and capable of being bent without breaking.	
malacostomous		Having soft jaws without teeth, as certain fishes.	
malacostraca		A subclass of Crustacea, including Arthrostraca and Thoracostraca, or all those higher than the Entomostraca.	
malacostracan		One of the Malacostraca.	
malacostracology		That branch of zoölogical science which relates to the crustaceans; -- called also carcinology.	
malacostracous		Belonging to the Malacostraca.	
malacotoon		See Melocoton — (a) A quince. (b) A kind of peach having one side deep red, and the flesh yellow.	
malacozoa		An extensive group of Invertebrata, including the Mollusca, Brachiopoda, and Bryozoa.	
malacozoic		Of or pertaining to the Malacozoa.	
maladdress		Bad address; an awkward, tactless, or offensive way of accosting one or talking with one.	
maladjustment		A bad adjustment.	
maladministration		Bad administration; bad management of any business, especially of public affairs.	
maladroit		Of a quality opposed to adroitness; clumsy; awkward; unskillful. -- Mal ness, n.	French maladroit.
malady		Any disease of the human body; a distemper, disorder, or indisposition, proceeding from impaired, defective, or morbid organic functions; especially, a lingering or deep-seated disorder.	Middle English maladie, from Old French maladie.
malaga		A city and a province of Spain, on the Mediterranean. Hence, Malaga grapes, Malaga raisins, Malaga wines.	
malagash		Same as Malagasy.	
malagasy		A native or natives of Madagascar; also (sing.), the language.	
malaise		An indefinite feeling of uneasiness, or of being sick or ill at ease.	
malamate		A salt of malamic acid.	
malambo		A yellowish aromatic bark, used in medicine and perfumery, said to be from the South American shrub Croton Malambo.	
malamethane		A white crystalline substance forming the ethyl salt of malamic acid.	
malamic		Of or pertaining an acid intermediate between malic acid and malamide, and known only by its salts.	
malamide		The acid amide derived from malic acid, as a white crystalline substance metameric with asparagine.	
malanders		A scurfy eruption in the bend of the knee of the fore leg of a horse. See Sallenders.	French malandres.
malapert		Bold; forward; impudent; saucy; pert.	
malapropism		A grotesque misuse of a word; a word so used.	
malapropos		Unseasonable or unseasonably; unsuitable or unsuitably.	
malapterurus		A genus of African siluroid fishes, including the electric catfishes. See Electric cat, under Electric.	
malar		Of or pertaining to the region of the cheek bone, or to the malar bone; jugal.	
malaria		Air infected with some noxious substance capable of engendering disease; esp., an unhealthy exhalation from certain soils, as marshy or wet lands, producing fevers; miasma.	Italian malaria.
malarial		Of or pertaining, to or infected by, malaria.	
malarian		Of or pertaining, to or infected by, malaria.	
malarious		Of or pertaining, to or infected by, malaria.	
malashaganay		The fresh-water drumfish (Haploidonotus grunniens).	
malassimilation		(a) Imperfect digestion of the several leading constituents of the food.	
malate		A salt of malic acid.	
malax		To soften by kneading or stirring with some thinner substance.	
malaxate		To soften by kneading or stirring with some thinner substance.	Latin malaxo, from Greek μαλάσσω.
malaxation		The act of softening by mixing with a thinner substance; the formation of ingredients into a mass for pills or plasters.	
malaxator		One who, or that which, malaxates; esp., a machine for grinding, kneading, or stirring into a pasty or doughy mass.	
malay		One of a race of a brown or copper complexion in the Malay Peninsula and the western islands of the Indian Archipelago.	
malayalam		The name given to one the cultivated Dravidian languages, closely related to the Tamil.	
malayan		Of or pertaining to the Malays or their country. -- n.	
malbrouck		A West African arboreal monkey (Cercopithecus cynosurus).	
malconformation		Imperfect, disproportionate, or abnormal formation; ill form; disproportion of parts.	
malcontent		discontented; uneasy; dissatisfied; especially, dissatisfied with the government.	
malcontented		Malcontent. -- Mal`con*tent ed*ness, n.	
maldanian		Any species of marine annelids of the genus Maldane, or family Maldanidæ.	
male		Of or pertaining to the sex that begets or procreates young, or (in a wider sense) to the sex that produces spermatozoa, by which the ova are fertilized; not female; as, male organs.	Middle English male.
male-		. See Mal-.	
male-odor		See Malodor — an offensive to the sense of smell; ill-smelling. -- Mal*o"dor*ous*ness. n.	
male-spirited		Having the spirit of a male; vigorous; courageous.	
maleadministration		Maladministration.	
maleate		A salt of maleic acid.	
malebranchism		The philosophical system of Malebranche, an eminent French metaphysician.	
maleconformation		Malconformation.	
malecontent		Malcontent.	
maledicency	Obsolete	Evil speaking.	
maledicent	Obsolete	Speaking reproachfully; slanderous.	
maledict		Accursed; abominable.	
malediction		A proclaiming of evil against some one; a cursing; imprecation; a curse or execration; -- opposed to benediction.	Latin maledictio.
malefaction		A crime; an offense; an evil deed.	
malefactor		An evil doer; one who commits a crime; one subject to public prosecution and punishment; a criminal.	
malefactress		A female malefactor.	
malefeasance		See Malfeasance — the doing of an act which a person ought not to do; evil conduct; an illegal deed.	
malefic		Doing mischief; causing harm or evil; nefarious; hurtful.	Latin maleficus.
malefice	Obsolete	An evil deed; artifice; enchantment.	
maleficence		Evil doing, esp. to others.	
maleficent		Doing evil to others; harmful; mischievous.	
maleficial		Injurious.	
maleficiate	Obsolete	To bewitch; to harm.	
maleficiation	Obsolete	A bewitching.	
maleficience		The doing of evil, harm, or mischief.	
maleficient		Doing evil, harm, or mischief.	
maleformation		See Malformation — ill formation; irregular or anomalous formation; abnormal or wrong conformation or structure.	
maleic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the ethylene series, metameric with fumaric acid and obtained by heating malic acid.	
malengine	Obsolete	Evil machination; guile; deceit.	Anglo-Norman mal engin.
maleo		A bird of Celebes (megacephalon maleo), allied to the brush turkey.	
malepractice		See Malpractice — evil practice; illegal or immoral conduct; practice contrary to established rules; specifically…	
malet	Obsolete	A little bag or budget.	
maletreat		See Maltreat — to treat ill; to abuse; to treat roughly.	
malevolence		The quality or state of being malevolent; evil disposition toward another; inclination to injure others; ill will.	
malevolent		Wishing evil; disposed to injure others; rejoicing in another's misfortune.	
malevolently		In a malevolent manner.	
malevolous	Obsolete	Malevolent.	
malexecution		Bad execution.	
maleyl		A hypothetical radical derived from maleic acid.	
malfeasance		The doing of an act which a person ought not to do; evil conduct; an illegal deed.	Old French malfaisance.
malformation		Ill formation; irregular or anomalous formation; abnormal or wrong conformation or structure.	
malgracious	Obsolete	Not graceful; displeasing.	French malgracieux.
malgre		See Mauger — in spite of; in opposition to; notwithstanding.	
malic		Pertaining to, or obtained from, apples; as, malic acid.	Latin malum.
malice		Enmity of heart; malevolence; ill will; a spirit delighting in harm or misfortune to another; a disposition to injure another; a malignant design of evil.	
malicho	Obsolete	Mischief.	
malicious		Indulging or exercising malice; harboring ill will or enmity.	Latin malitiosus.
malign		Having an evil disposition toward others; harboring violent enmity; malevolent; malicious; spiteful; -- opposed to benign.	
malignance		The state or quality of being malignant; extreme malevolence; bitter enmity; malice; as, malignancy of heart.	
malignancy		The state or quality of being malignant; extreme malevolence; bitter enmity; malice; as, malignancy of heart.	
malignant		Disposed to do harm, inflict suffering, or cause distress; actuated by extreme malevolence or enmity; virulently inimical; bent on evil; malicious.	
malignantly		In a malignant manner.	
maligner		One who maligns.	
malignify		To make malign or malignant.	
malignity		The state or quality of being malignant; disposition to do evil; virulent enmity; malignancy; malice; spite.	
malignly		In a malign manner; with malignity.	
malinger		To act the part of a malingerer; to feign illness or inability.	French malingrer.
malingerer		In the army, a soldier who feigns himself sick, or who induces or protracts an illness, in order to avoid doing his duty; hence, in general, one who shirks his duty by pretending illness or inability.	
malingery		The spirit or practices of a malingerer; malingering.	
malison	Poetic	Malediction; curse; execration.	Old French malison, from Latin maledictio.
malkin		A mop made of clouts, used by the kitchen servant.	
mall		A large heavy wooden beetle; a mallet for driving anything with force; a maul.	French mail, from Latin malleus.
mallard		(Zoöl.) A drake; the male of Anas boschas.	Middle English malarde.
malleability		The quality or state of being malleable; -- opposed to friability and brittleness.	
malleable		Capable of being extended or shaped by beating with a hammer, or by the pressure of rollers; -- applied to metals.	Middle English malliable.
malleableize		To make malleable.	
malleableness		Quality of being malleable.	
malleal		Pertaining to the malleus.	
malleate		To hammer; to beat into a plate or leaf.	Latin malleatus.
malleation		The act or process of beating into a plate, sheet, or leaf, as a metal; extension by beating.	
mallecho		Same as Malicho.	
mallemock		See Mollemoke — any one of several species of large pelagic petrels and fulmars, as Fulmarus glacialis, of the North Atlantic, and several species of Æstrelata, of the Southern Ocean.	
mallemoke		See Mollemoke — any one of several species of large pelagic petrels and fulmars, as Fulmarus glacialis, of the North Atlantic, and several species of Æstrelata, of the Southern Ocean.	
mallenders		Same as Malanders.	
malleolar		Of or pertaining to the malleolus; in the region of the malleoli of the ankle joint.	
malleolus		(Anat.) A projection at the distal end of each bone of the leg at the ankle joint.	
mallet		A small maul with a short handle, -- used esp. for driving a tool, as a chisel or the like; also, a light beetle with a long handle, -- used in playing croquet.	Old French mallet.
malleus		(Anat.) The outermost of the three small auditory bones, ossicles; the hammer.	Latin malleus.
mallophaga		An extensive group of insects which are parasitic on birds and mammals, and feed on the feathers and hair; -- called also bird lice.	
mallotus		A genus of small Arctic fishes.	
mallow		A genus of plants (Malva) having mucilaginous qualities. See Malvaceous.	Old English mealwe, from Latin malva.
mallows		A genus of plants (Malva) having mucilaginous qualities. See Malvaceous.	
mallowwort		Any plant of the order Malvaceæ.	
malm		A kind of brick of a light brown or yellowish color, made of sand, clay, and chalk.	
malma		A spotted trout (Salvelinus malma), inhabiting Northern America, west of the Rocky Mountains; -- called also Dolly Varden trout, bull trout, red-spotted trout, and golet.	
malmag		The tarsius, or spectral lemur.	
malmbrick		A kind of brick of a light brown or yellowish color, made of sand, clay, and chalk.	
malmsey		A kind of sweet wine from Crete, the Canary Islands, etc. Shak.	
malnutrition		Faulty or imperfect nutrition.	
malobservation		Erroneous observation.	
malodor		An Offensive to the sense of smell; ill-smelling. -- Mal*o"dor*ous*ness. n.	
malodorous		Offensive to the sense of smell; ill-smelling. -- Mal*o"dor*ous*ness. n.	
malonate		At salt of malonic acid.	
malonic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid produced artifically as a white crystalline substance, CH2.(CO2H)2, and so called because obtained by the oxidation of malic acid.	
malonyl		A hydrocarbon radical, CH2.(CO)2, from malonic acid.	
malpais		The rough surface of a congealed lava stream.	Spanish malpaís.
malpighia		A genus of tropical American shrubs with opposite leaves and small white or reddish flowers.	
malpighiaceous		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of tropical trees and shrubs (Malpighiaceæ), some of them climbing plants, and their stems forming many of the curious lianes of South American forests.	
malpighian		Of, pertaining to, or discovered by, Marcello Malpighi, an Italian anatomist of the 17th century.	
malposition		A wrong position.	
malpractice		Evil practice; illegal or immoral conduct; practice contrary to established rules; specifically…	
malt		Barley or other grain, steeped in water and dried in a kiln, thus forcing germination until the saccharine principle has been evolved.	Old English mealt.
maltalent	Obsolete	Ill will; malice.	Anglo-Norman maltalent.
maltese		Of or pertaining to Malta or to its inhabitants. -- n. sing. & pl. A native or inhabitant of Malta; the people of Malta.	
maltha	Obsolete	A variety of bitumen, viscid and tenacious, like pitch, unctuous to the touch, and exhaling a bituminous odor. 2.	Greek μάλθα.
malthusian		Of or pertaining to the political economist, the Rev.	
malthusianism		The system of Malthusian doctrines relating to population.	
maltin		The fermentative principle of malt; malt diastase; also, a name given to various medicinal preparations made from or containing malt.	
maltine		The fermentative principle of malt; malt diastase; also, a name given to various medicinal preparations made from or containing malt.	
malting		The process of making, or of becoming malt.	
maltman		A man whose occupation is to make malt.	
maltonic		Of, pertaining to, or derived from, maltose; specif., designating an acid called also gluconic or dextronic acid.	
maltose		A crystalline sugar formed from starch by the action of distance of malt, and the amylolytic ferment of saliva and pancreatic juice.	
maltreat		To treat ill; to abuse; to treat roughly.	
maltreatment		Ill treatment; ill usage; abuse.	
maltster		A maltman.	
maltworm		A tippler.	
malty		Consisting, or like, malt.	
malum		An evil. See Mala.	Latin malum.
malvaceous		Pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of plants (Malvaceæ), of which the mallow is the type.	Latin malva.
malversation		Evil conduct; fraudulent practices; misbehavior, corruption, or extortion in office.	French malversation.
malvesie		Malmsey wine. See Malmsey.	
mama		See Mamma — mother; -- word of tenderness and familiarity.	
mamaluke		Same as Mameluke.	
mamelon		A rounded hillock; a rounded elevation or protuberance.	
mameluco		A child born of a white father and Indian mother.	
mameluke		One of a body of mounted soldiers recruited from slaves converted to Mohammedanism, who, during several centuries, had more or less control of the government of Egypt, until exterminated or dispersed by Mehemet Ali in 1811.	French mamelouk, from Arabic مملوك.
mamillated		See Mammillated — having small nipples, or small protuberances like nipples or mammæ.	
mamma		Mother; -- word of tenderness and familiarity.	Latin mamma.
mammal		One of the Mammalia.	
mammalia		The highest class of Vertebrata.	
mammalian		Of or pertaining to the Mammalia or mammals.	
mammaliferous		Containing mammalian remains; -- said of certain strata.	
mammalogical		Of or pertaining to mammalogy.	
mammalogist		One versed in mammalogy.	
mammalogy		The science which relates to mammals or the Mammalia. See Mammalia.	
mammary		Of or pertaining to the mammæ or breasts; as, the mammary arteries and veins.	
mammee		A fruit tree of tropical America, belonging to the genus Mammea (M.	
mammer	Obsolete	To hesitate; to mutter doubtfully.	Middle English mameren, from Old English mamrian.
mammet	Obsolete	An idol; a puppet; a doll.	Anglo-Norman maumet.
mammetry	Obsolete	See Mawmetry — the religion of Mohammed; also, idolatry. See Mawmet.	Anglo-Norman maumeterie.
mammifer		A mammal. See Mammalia.	
mammiferous		Having breasts; of, pertaining to, or derived from, the Mammalia.	
mammiform		Having the form of a mamma (breast) or mammæ.	
mammilla		The nipple.	
mammillary		Of or pertaining to the mammilla, or nipple, or to the breast; resembling a mammilla; mammilloid.	Middle French mamillaire.
mammillate		Having small nipples, or small protuberances like nipples or mammæ.	
mammillated		Having small nipples, or small protuberances like nipples or mammæ.	
mammilliform		Having the form of a mammilla.	
mammilloid		Like a mammilla or nipple; mammilliform.	
mammock	Obsolete	A shapeless piece; a fragment.	
mammodis		Coarse plain India muslins.	
mammology		Mastology. See Mammalogy.	
mammon		Riches; wealth; the god of riches; riches, personified.	
mammonish		Actuated or prompted by a devotion to money getting or the service of Mammon.	
mammonism		Devotion to the pursuit of wealth; worldliness.	
mammonist		A mammonite.	
mammonite		One devoted to the acquisition of wealth or the service of Mammon.	
mammonization		The process of making mammonish; the state of being under the influence of mammonism.	
mammonize		To make mammonish.	
mammose		Having the form of the breast; breast-shaped.	
mammoth		An extinct, hairy, maned elephant (Elephas primigenius), of enormous size, remains of which are found in the northern parts of both continents.	
mammothrept		A child brought up by its grandmother; a spoiled child.	Latin mammothreptus.
mammy		A child's name for mamma, mother.	
mamzer		A person born of relations between whom marriage was forbidden by the Mosaic law; a bastard.	Hebrew ממזר.
man		A human being; -- opposed tobeast.	Middle English mannen, from Old English mannian.
man-eater		One who, or that which, has an appetite for human flesh; specifically, one of certain large sharks (esp. Carcharodon Rondeleti); also, a lion or a tiger which has acquired the habit of feeding upon human flesh.	
man-of-war		A government vessel employed for the purposes of war, esp. one of large size; a ship of war.	
manable	Obsolete	Marriageable.	
manace	Obsolete	Same as Menace.	
manacle		A handcuff; a shackle for the hand or wrist; -- usually in the plural.	
manage		To have under control and direction; to conduct; to guide; to administer; to treat; to handle.	Old French manege.
manageability		The state or quality of being manageable; manageableness.	
manageable		Such as can be managed or used; suffering control; governable; tractable; subservient; as, a manageable horse.	
manageless		Unmanageable.	
management		The act or art of managing; the manner of treating, directing, carrying on, or using, for a purpose; conduct; administration; guidance; control; as, the management of a family or of a farm; the management of state affairs.	
manager		One who manages; a conductor or director; as, the manager of a theater.	
managerial		Of or pertaining to management or a manager; as, managerial qualities.	
managership		The office or position of a manager.	
managery		Management; manner of using; conduct; direction.	
manakin		Any one of numerous small birds belonging to Pipra, Manacus, and other genera of the family Pipridæ.	
manatee		Any species of Trichechus, a genus of sirenians; -- called alsosea cow.	Spanish manatí.
manation	Obsolete	The act of issuing or flowing out.	Latin manatio.
manbird	Colloquial	An aviator.	
manbote		A sum paid to a lord as a pecuniary compensation for killing his man (that is, his vassal, servant, or tenant).	Old English manbot.
manca		See Mancus — an old Anglo Saxon coin both of gold and silver, and of variously estimated values.	
manche	Obsolete	A sleeve.	
manchet	Archaic	Fine white bread; a loaf of fine bread.	
manchineel		A euphorbiaceous tree (Hippomane Mancinella) of tropical America, having a poisonous and blistering milky juice, and poisonous acrid fruit somewhat resembling an apple.	Spanish manzanillo.
manchu		Of or pertaining to Manchuria or its inhabitants. -- n.	
mancipate	Obsolete	To enslave; to bind; to restrict.	
mancipation	Obsolete	Slavery; involuntary servitude.	
manciple		A steward; a purveyor, particularly of a college or Inn of Court.	
mancus		An old Anglo Saxon coin both of gold and silver, and of variously estimated values.	
mand	Obsolete	A demand. See Demand.	
mandamus		A writ issued by a superior court and directed to some inferior tribunal, or to some corporation or person exercising authority, commanding the performance of some specified duty.	
mandarin		A Chinese public officer or nobleman; a civil or military official in China and Annam.	French mandarine.
mandarinate		The collective body of officials or persons of rank in China.	
mandarinic		Appropriate or peculiar to a mandarin.	
mandarining		The process of giving an orange color to goods formed of animal tissue, as silk or wool, not by coloring matter, but by producing a certain change in the fiber by the action of dilute nitric acid.	
mandarinism		A government mandarins; character or spirit of the mandarins.	
mandatary		One to whom a command or charge is given; hence, specifically, a person to whom the pope has, by his prerogative, given a mandate or order for his benefice.	
mandate		An official or authoritative command; an order or injunction; a commission; a judicial precept.	
mandator		A director; one who gives a mandate or order.	
mandatory		Containing a command; preceptive; directory.	Latin mandatorius.
mandelate		A salt of mandelic acid.	
mandelic		Pertaining to an acid first obtained from benzoic aldehyde (oil of better almonds), as a white crystalline substance; -- called also phenyl glycolic acid.	German Mandel, from Old High German mandala, from Latin amygdala, from Greek ἀμυγδάλη.
mander		See Maunder — to mutter; to mumble; to grumble; to speak indistinctly or disconnectedly; to talk incoherently.	
manderil		A mandrel.	
mandible		(Anat.) The bone, or principal bone, of the lower jaw; the inferior maxilla; -- also applied to either the upper or the lower jaw in the beak of birds.	Latin mandibula.
mandibular		Of or pertaining to a mandible; like a mandible. -- n.	
mandibulate		Provided with mandibles adapted for biting, as many insects.	
mandibulated		Provided with mandibles adapted for biting, as many insects.	
mandibuliform		Having the form of a mandible; -- said especially of the maxillæ of an insect when hard and adapted for biting.	
mandibulohyoid		Pertaining both to the mandibular and the hyoid arch, or situated between them.	
mandil		A loose outer garment worn the 16th and 17th centuries.	
mandilion		See Mandil — a loose outer garment worn the 16th and 17th centuries.	
mandingos		; sing. Mandingo. (Ethnol.) An extensive and powerful tribe of West African negroes.	
mandioc		See Manioc — the tropical plants (Manihot utilissima, and M.	
mandioca		See Manioc — the tropical plants (Manihot utilissima, and M.	
mandlestone		Amygdaloid.	
mandment	Obsolete	Commandment.	
mandola		An instrument closely resembling the mandolin, but of larger size and tuned lower.	
mandolin		A small and beautifully shaped instrument resembling the lute.	French mandoline, from Italian mandolino.
mandoline		A small and beautifully shaped instrument resembling the lute.	
mandore		A kind of four-stringed lute.	
mandragora		A genus of plants; the mandrake. See Mandrake, 1.	Latin mandragora.
mandragorite		One who habitually intoxicates himself with a narcotic obtained from mandrake.	
mandrake		(Bot.) A low plant (Mandragora officinarum) of the Nightshade family, having a fleshy root, often forked, and supposed to resemble a man.	
mandrel		(a) A bar of metal inserted in the work to shape it, or to hold it, as in a lathe, during the process of manufacture; an arbor.	French mandrin.
mandrill		a large West African baboon (Cynocephalus, or Papio, mormon).	
manducable		Such as can be chewed; fit to be eaten.	
manducate		To masticate; to chew; to eat.	
manducation		The act of chewing.	
manducatory		Pertaining to, or employed in, chewing.	
manducus		A grotesque mask, representing a person chewing or grimacing, worn in processions and by comic actors on the stage.	
mane		The long and heavy hair growing on the upper side of, or about, the neck of some quadrupedal animals, as the horse, the lion, etc. See Illust. of Horse.	
maned		Having a mane.	
manege		Art of horsemanship, or of training horses	
maneh		A Hebrew weight for gold or silver, being one hundred shekels of gold and sixty shekels of silver.	
maneless		Having no mane.	
manequin		An artist's model of wood or other material.	
manerial		See Manorial — of or pertaining to a manor.	
manes		The benevolent spirits of the dead, especially of dead ancestors, regarded as family deities and protectors.	Latin manes.
manesheet		A covering placed over the upper part of a horse's head.	
maneuver		Management; dexterous movement; specif., a military or naval evolution, movement, or change of position.	
maneuverer		One who maneuvers.	
manful		Showing manliness, or manly spirit; hence, brave, courageous, resolute, noble. -- Man ful*ness, n.	
mangabey		Any one of several African monkeys of the genus Cercocebus, as the sooty mangabey (C. fuliginosus), which is sooty black.	
mangan		See Mangonel — a military engine formerly used for throwing stones and javelins.	
manganate		A salt of manganic acid.	
manganesate	Obsolete	A manganate.	
manganese		An element obtained by reduction of its oxide, as a hard, grayish white metal, fusible with difficulty, but easily oxidized.	French manganèse, from Italian manganese.
manganesian		Manganic.	
manganesic	Obsolete	Manganic.	
manganesious		Manganous.	
manganesium		Manganese.	
manganesous		Manganous.	
manganic		Of, pertaining to resembling, or containing, manganese; specif., designating compounds in which manganese has a higher valence as contrasted with manganous compounds.	
manganiferous		Containing manganese.	
manganite		(Min.) One of the oxides of manganese; -- called also gray manganese ore.	
manganium		Manganese.	
manganous		Of, pertaining to, designating, those compounds of manganese in which the element has a lower valence as contrasted with manganic compounds; as, manganous oxide.	
mangcorn		A mixture of wheat and rye, or other species of grain.	
mange		The scab or itch in cattle, dogs, and other beasts.	Middle English manjewe.
mangel-wurzel		A kind of large field beet (B. macrorhiza), used as food for cattle, -- by some considered a mere variety of the ordinary beet.	
manger		A trough or open box in which fodder is placed for horses or cattle to eat.	Old French mangoire.
mangily		In a mangy manner; scabbily.	
manginess		The condition or quality of being mangy.	
mangle		To cut or bruise with repeated blows or strokes, making a ragged or torn wound, or covering with wounds; to tear in cutting; to cut in a bungling manner; to lacerate; to mutilate.	Middle English mangelen, from Anglo-Norman mangler.
mangler		One who mangles or tears in cutting; one who mutilates any work in doing it.	
mango		The fruit of the mango tree.	Portuguese manga, from Latin manica.
mangoldwurzel		See Mangel-wurzel — a kind of large field beet (B. macrorhiza), used as food for cattle, -- by some considered a mere variety of the ordinary beet.	
mangonel		A military engine formerly used for throwing stones and javelins.	Old French mangonel, from Latin manganellus.
mangonism	Obsolete	The art of mangonizing, or setting off to advantage.	
mangonist		One who mangonizes. (Zoöl.)	
mangonize	Obsolete	To furbish up for sale; to set off to advantage.	
mangostan		A tree of the East Indies of the genus Garcinia (G.	
mangosteen		A tree of the East Indies of the genus Garcinia (G.	
mangrove		(Bot.) The name of one or two trees of the genus Rhizophora (R.	
mangue		The kusimanse.	French manger, from Old French mangier, from Latin manducare.
mangy		Infected with the mange; scabby.	
manhaden		See Menhaden — an american marine fish of the Herring familt (Brevoortia tyrannus), chiefly valuable for its oil and as a component of fertilizers; -- called also mossbunker, bony fish, chebog, pogy…	
manhandle		To move, or manage, by human force without mechanical aid; as, to manhandle a cannon.	
manhead	Obsolete	Manhood.	
manhole		A hole through which a man may descend or creep into a drain, sewer, steam boiler, parts of machinery, etc., for cleaning or repairing.	
manhood		The state of being man as a human being, or man as distinguished from a child or a woman.	Middle English manhode.
mania		Violent derangement of mind; madness; insanity.	Latin mania, from Greek μανία.
maniable	Obsolete	Manageable.	
maniac		Raving with madness; raging with disordered intellect; affected with mania; mad.	Latin maniacus, from Greek μανιακός.
maniacal		Affected with, or characterized by, madness; maniac. -- Ma*ni"a*cal*ly, adv.	
manic		Of or pert. to, or characterized by, mania, or excitement.	
manicate		Covered with hairs or pubescence so platted together and interwoven as to form a mass easily removed.	
manichaean		A believer in the doctrines of Manes, a Persian of the third century A.	
manichaeism		The doctrines taught, or system of principles maintained, by the Manichæans.	
manichean		A believer in the doctrines of Manes, a Persian of the third century A.	
manichee		A believer in the doctrines of Manes, a Persian of the third century A.	
manicheism		The doctrines taught, or system of principles maintained, by the Manichæans.	
manicheist		Manichæan.	
manichord		The clavichord or clarichord; -- called also dumb spinet.	
manichordon		The clavichord or clarichord; -- called also dumb spinet.	
manicure		A person who makes a business of taking care of people's hands, especially their nails. who had taken good care of their hands by wearing gloves and availing themselves of the services of a manicure.	
manid		Any species of the genus Manis, or family Manidæ.	
manie	Obsolete	Mania; insanity.	
manifest		Evident to the senses, esp. to the sight; apparent; distinctly perceived; hence, obvious to the understanding; apparent to the mind; easily apprehensible; plain; not obscure or hidden.	Middle French manifeste, from Latin manifestus.
manifestable		Such as can be manifested.	
manifestation		The act of manifesting or disclosing, or the state of being manifested; discovery to the eye or to the understanding; also, that which manifests; exhibition; display; revelation; as, the manifestation of God's power in creation.	
manifestible		Manifestable.	
manifestly		In a manifest manner.	
manifestness		The quality or state of being manifest; obviousness.	
manifesto		A public declaration, usually of a prince, sovereign, or other person claiming large powers, showing his intentions, or proclaiming his opinions and motives in reference to some act done or contemplated by him; as…	
manifold		Various in kind or quality; many in number; numerous; multiplied; complicated.	Middle English manifolden, from Old English manigfealdan.
manifolded	Obsolete	Having many folds, layers, or plates; as, a manifolded shield.	
manifoldly		In a manifold manner.	
manifoldness		(Math.) A generalized concept of magnitude.	
maniform		Shaped like the hand.	
maniglion		Either one of two handles on the back of a piece of ordnance.	
manihoc		See Manioc — the tropical plants (Manihot utilissima, and M.	
manihot		See Manioc — the tropical plants (Manihot utilissima, and M.	
manikin		A little man; a dwarf; a pygmy; a manakin.	
manila		Of or pertaining to Manila or Manilla, the capital of the Philippine Islands; made in, or exported from, that city.	
manilio		See Manilla,	
manilla		Of or pertaining to Manila or Manilla, the capital of the Philippine Islands; made in, or exported from, that city.	Spanish manilla.
manille		See 1st Manilla, 1.	French manille, from Old Provençal manellie.
manioc		The tropical plants (Manihot utilissima, and M.	
maniple		A division of the Roman army numbering sixty men exclusive of officers, any small body of soldiers; a company.	Middle English maniple.
manipular		Of or pertaining to the maniple, or company.	
manipulate		To treat, work, or operate with the hands, especially when knowledge and dexterity are required; to manage in hand work; to handle; as, to manipulate scientific apparatus.	
manipulation		The act or process of manipulating, or the state of being manipulated; the act of handling work by hand; use of the hands, in an artistic or skillful manner, in science or art.	
manipulative		Of or pertaining to manipulation; performed by manipulation.	
manipulator		One who manipulates	
manipulatory		Of or pertaining to manipulation.	
manis		A genus of edentates, covered with large, hard, triangular scales, with sharp edges that overlap each other like tiles on a roof.	
manito		A name given by tribes of American Indians to a great spirit, whether good or evil, or to any object of worship.	
manitou		A name given by tribes of American Indians to a great spirit, whether good or evil, or to any object of worship.	Pidgin Delaware Manétto.
manitrunk		The anterior segment of the thorax in insects. See Insect.	
manitu		A name given by tribes of American Indians to a great spirit, whether good or evil, or to any object of worship.	
mankind		The human race; man, taken collectively.	Middle English mankinde.
manks		Of or pertaining to the language or people of the of Man. -- n.	
manless	Obsolete	Unmanly; inhuman.	
manlessly	Obsolete	Inhumanly.	
manlike		Like man, or like a man, in form or nature; having the qualities of a man, esp. the nobler qualities; manly.	
manliness		The quality or state of being manly.	
manling	Obsolete	A little man.	
manly		Having qualities becoming to a man; not childish or womanish; manlike, esp. brave, courageous, resolute, noble.	
manna		(Script.) The food supplied to the Israelites in their journey through the wilderness of Arabia; hence, divinely supplied food.	
manner		Mode of action; way of performing or effecting anything; method; style; form; fashion.	Anglo-Norman manere, from Old French maniere.
mannerchor		A German men's chorus or singing club.	
mannered		Having a certain way, esp a. polite way, of carrying and conducting one's self.	
mannerism		Adherence to a peculiar style or manner; a characteristic mode of action, bearing, or treatment, carried to excess, especially in literature or art.	Italian manierismo.
mannerist		One addicted to mannerism; a person who, in action, bearing, or treatment, carries characteristic peculiarities to excess.	
mannerliness		The quality or state of being mannerly; civility; complaisance.	
mannerly		Showing good manners; civil; respectful; complaisant.	
mannide		A white amorphous or crystalline substance, obtained by dehydration of mannite, and distinct from, but convertible into, mannitan.	
mannish		Resembling a human being in form or nature; human.	Middle English mannisshe.
mannitan		A white amorphous or crystalline substance obtained by the partial dehydration of mannite.	
mannitate		A salt of mannitic acid.	
mannite		(Chem.) A white crystalline substance of a sweet taste obtained from a so-called manna, the dried sap of the flowering ash (Fraxinus ornus); -- called also mannitol, and hydroxy hexane.	
mannitic		Of, pertaining to, resembling, or derived from, mannite.	
mannitol		The technical name of mannite. See Mannite.	
mannitose		A variety of sugar obtained by the partial oxidation of mannite, and closely resembling levulose.	
mano		The muller, or crushing and grinding stone, used in grinding corn on a metate.	Spanish mano, from Latin manus.
manoeuvre		Management; dexterous movement; specif., a military or naval evolution, movement, or change of position.	
manoeuvrer		One who maneuvers.	
manograph		An optical device for making an indicator diagram for high- speed engines.	
manometer		An instrument for measuring the tension or elastic force of gases, steam, etc., constructed usually on the principle of allowing the gas to exert its elastic force in raising a column of mercury in an open tube…	French manomètre.
manometric		Of or pertaining to the manometer; made by the manometer.	
manometrical		Of or pertaining to the manometer; made by the manometer.	
manor		(Eng. Law) The land belonging to a lord or nobleman, or so much land as a lord or great personage kept in his own hands, for the use and subsistence of his family.	Old French manoir.
manorial		Of or pertaining to a manor.	
manoscope		Same as Manometer.	
manoscopy		The science of the determination of the density of vapors and gases.	
manovery		A contrivance or maneuvering to catch game illegally.	
manqueller	Obsolete	A killer of men; a manslayer.	Middle English manquellere, from Old English mancwellere.
manred	Obsolete	Homage or service rendered to a superior, as to a lord; vassalage.	
manrent	Obsolete	Homage or service rendered to a superior, as to a lord; vassalage.	
manrope		One of the side ropes to the gangway of a ship.	
manse		A dwelling house, generally with land attached.	Middle English mansien.
manservant		A male servant.	
mansion		These poets near our princes sleep, And in one grave their mansions keep.	
mansionary		Resident; residentiary; as, mansionary canons.	
mansionry	Obsolete	The state of dwelling or residing; occupancy as a dwelling place.	
manslaughter		The slaying of a human being; destruction of men.	Middle English manslaȝter.
manslayer		One who kills a human being; one who commits manslaughter.	
manstealer		A person who steals or kidnaps a human being or beings.	
manstealing		The act or business of stealing or kidnaping human beings, especially with a view to e	
mansuete	Obsolete	Tame; gentle; kind.	
mansuetude	Archaic	Tameness; gentleness; mildness.	
manswear		To swear falsely.	
manta		See Coleoptera and Sea devil.	
mantchoo		Same as Manchu.	
manteau	Obsolete	A gown worn by women.	French manteau, from Latin mantellum.
mantel		The finish around a fireplace, covering the chimney-breast in front and sometimes on both sides; especially, a shelf above the fireplace, and its supports.	Old English mentel.
mantelet		(a) A short cloak formerly worn by knights. (b) A short cloak or mantle worn by women.	
mantelletta		A silk or woolen vestment without sleeves worn by cardinals, bishops, abbots, and the prelates of the Roman court.	
mantelpiece		Same as Mantel.	
mantelshelf		The shelf of a mantel.	
manteltree		The lintel of a fireplace when of wood, as frequently in early houses.	
mantic		Of or pertaining to divination, or to the condition of one inspired, or supposed to be inspired, by a deity; prophetic.	Greek μαντικός.
mantilla		A lady's light cloak of cape of silk, velvet, lace, or the like.	
mantis		Any one of numerous species of voracious orthopterous insects of the genus Mantis, and allied genera.	
mantispid		Any neuropterous insect of the genus Mantispa, and allied genera.	
mantissa		The decimal part of a logarithm, as distinguished from the integral part, or characteristic.	Latin mantissa.
mantle		A loose garment to be worn over other garments; an enveloping robe; a cloak.	Old English mentel.
mantlet		See Mantelet — (a) A short cloak formerly worn by knights. (b) A short cloak or mantle worn by women.	
mantling		The representation of a mantle, or the drapery behind and around a coat of arms: -- called also lambrequin.	
manto	Obsolete	See Manteau — a gown worn by women.	
mantologist		One who is skilled in mantology; a diviner.	
mantology		The act or art of divination.	
mantra		A prayer; an invocation; a religious formula; a charm.	Sanskrit मन्त्र.
mantrap		A trap for catching trespassers.	
mantua	Obsolete	A superior kind of rich silk formerly exported from Mantua in Italy.	French manteuil.
mantuamaker		One who makes dresses, cloaks, etc., for women; a dressmaker.	
mantuan		Of or pertaining to Mantua. -- n.	
manu		One of a series of progenitors of human beings, and authors of human wisdom.	
manual		Of or pertaining to the hand; done or made by the hand; as, manual labor; the king's sign manual.	Old French manuel, from Latin manuale.
manualist		One who works wi	
manually		By hand.	
manuary	Obsolete	Manual. -- n.	
manubial	Obsolete	Belonging to spoils; taken in war.	Latin manubialis.
manubrial		Of or pertaining to a manubrium; shaped like a manubrium; handlelike.	
manubrium		(Anat.) A handlelike process or part; esp., the anterior segment of the sternum, or presternum, and the handlelike process of the malleus.	Latin manubrium.
manucode		Any bird of the genus Manucodia, of Australia and New Guinea.	
manuducent	Obsolete	One who leads by the hand; a manuductor.	
manuduction	Obsolete	Guidance by the hand.	Latin manuductio.
manuductor		A conductor; an officer in the ancient church who gave the signal for the choir to sing, and who beat time with the hand, and regulated the music.	
manufactory		A building or place where anything is manufactured; a factory.	
manufactural		Of or pertaining to manufactures.	
manufacture		The operation of making wares or any products by hand, by machinery, or by other agency.	Middle French manufacture.
manufacturer		One who manufactures.	
manufacturing		Employed, or chiefly employed, in manufacture; as, a manufacturing community; a manufacturing town.	
manul		A wild cat (Felis manul), having long, soft, light-colored fur.	Mongolian мануул.
manumise	Obsolete	To manumit.	
manumission		The act of manumitting, or of liberating a slave from bondage.	
manumit		To release from slavery; to liberate from personal bondage or servitude; to free, as a slave.	Latin manumittere.
manumotive		Movable by hand.	
manumotor		A small wheel carriage, so constructed that a person sitting in it may move it.	
manurable		Capable of receiving a fertilizing substance.	
manurage	Obsolete	Cultivation.	
manurance	Obsolete	Cultivation.	
manure		To apply manure to; to enrich, as land, by the application of a fertilizing substance.	Middle English manuren, from Old French manovrer.
manurement	Obsolete	Cultivation.	
manurer		One who manures land.	
manurial		Relating to manures.	
manuring		The act of process of applying manure; also, the manure applied.	
manus		The distal segment of the fore limb, including the carpus and fore foot or hand.	Latin manus.
manuscript		Written with or by the hand; not printed; as, a manuscript volume.	
manuscriptal	Obsolete	Manuscript.	
manutenency	Obsolete	Maintenance.	
manway		A small passageway, as in a mine, that a man may pass through.	
manx		Of or pertaining to the Isle of Man, or its inhabitants; as, the Manx language.	
many		The populace; the common people; the majority of people, or of a community.	Middle English manye.
many-minded		Having many faculties; versatile; many-sided.	
many-sided		Having many sides; -- said of figures. Hence, presenting many questions or subjects for consideration; as, a many-sided topic.	
manyplies		The third division, or that between the reticulum, or honeycomb stomach, and the abomasum, or rennet stomach, in the stomach of ruminants; the omasum; the psalterium.	
manyways		In many different ways; variously.	
manywise		In many different ways; variously.	
manzanilla		A kind of small roundish olive with a small freestone pit, a fine skin, and a peculiar bitterish flavor.	
manzanita		A name given to several species of Arctostaphylos, but mostly to A. glauca and A. pungens, shrubs of California, Oregon, etc., with reddish smooth bark, ovate or oval coriaceous evergreen leaves…	
maori		One of the aboriginal inhabitants of New Zealand; also, the original language of New Zealand. -- a.	
map		A representation of the surface of the earth, or of some portion of it, showing the relative position of the parts represented; -- usually on a flat surface.	
mapach		The raccoon.	
maple		A tree of the genus Acer, including about fifty species.	Old English mapultreow.
maplike		Having or consisting of lines resembling a map; as, the maplike figures in which certain lichens grow.	
mappery	Obsolete	The making, or study, of maps.	
maqui		A Chilian shrub (Aristotelia Maqui).	
mar	English dialect	A small lake. See Mere.	Middle English merren, from Old English mierran.
mar-text		A blundering preacher.	
mara		The principal or ruling evil spirit.	
marabou		(Zoöl.) A large stork of the genus Leptoptilos (formerly Ciconia), esp. the African species (L. crumenifer), which furnishes plumes worn as ornaments.	
marabout		A Mohammedan saint; especially, one who claims to work cures supernaturally.	Arabic مُرابِط‎.
maracan		A macaw.	
marai		A sacred inclosure or temple; -- so called by the islanders of the Pacific Ocean.	
maranatha		-- an expression used by St. Paul at the conclusion of his first Epistle to the Corinthians (xvi. 22).	
maranta		A genus of endogenous plants found in tropical America, and some species also in India.	
maraschino		A liqueur distilled from fermented cherry juice, and flavored with the pit of a variety of cherry which grows in Dalmatia.	
marasmus		A wasting of flesh without fever or apparent disease; a kind of consumption; atrophy; phthisis.	
marathi		A Sanskritic language of western India, prob. descended from the Maharastri Prakrit, spoken by the Marathas and neighboring peoples.	
maraud		To rove in quest of plunder; to make an excursion for booty; to plunder.	
marauder		A rover in quest of booty or plunder; a plunderer; one who pillages.	
maravedi		A small copper coin of Spain, equal to three mils American money, less than a farthing sterling.	
marble		A massive, compact limestone; a variety of calcite, capable of being polished and used for architectural and ornamental purposes.	
marble-edged		Having the edge veined or spotted with different colors like marble, as a book.	
marbled		Made to resemble marble; veined or spotted like marble.	
marbleize		To stain or grain in imitation of marble; to cover with a surface resembling marble; as, to marbleize slate, wood, or iron.	
marbler		One who works upon marble or other stone.	
marbling		An intermixture of fat and lean in meat, giving it a marbled appearance.	
marbly		Containing, or resembling, marble.	
marbrinus		A cloth woven so as to imitate the appearance of marble; -- much used in the 15th and 16th centuries.	
marc		The refuse matter which remains after the pressure of fruit, particularly of grapes.	French marc.
marcantant	Obsolete	A merchant.	Italian mercatante.
marcasite	Obsolete	A sulphide of iron resembling pyrite or common iron pyrites in composition, but differing in form; white iron pyrites.	
marcasitic		Containing, or having the nature of, marcasite.	
marcasitical		Containing, or having the nature of, marcasite.	
marcassin		A young wild boar.	French marcassin.
marcato		In a marked emphatic manner; -- used adverbially as a direction.	
marceline		A thin silk fabric used for linings, etc., in ladies' dresses.	
marcescent		Withering without	Latin marcescens.
march		To move with regular steps, as a soldier; to walk in a grave, deliberate, or stately manner; to advance steadily.	Middle English marche, from Old French marche.
march-mad		Extremely rash; foolhardy. See under March, the month.	
march-ward		A warden of the marches; a marcher.	
marcher		One who marches.	
marchet		In old English and in Scots law, a fine paid to the lord of the soil by a tenant upon the marriage of one the tenant's daughters.	
marchioness		The wife or the widow of a marquis; a woman who has the rank and dignity of a marquis.	
marchman		A person living in the marches between England and Scotland or Wales.	
marchpane	Obsolete	A kind of sweet bread or biscuit; a cake of pounded almonds and sugar. marzipan Shak.	
marcian	Obsolete	Under the influence of Mars; courageous; bold.	
marcid		Pining; lean; withered.	Latin marcidus.
marcidity		The state or quality of being withered or lean.	
marcionite		A follower of Marcion, a Gnostic of the second century, who adopted the Oriental notion of the two conflicting principles, and imagined that between them there existed a third power, neither wholly good nor evil…	
marcobrunner		A celebrated Rhine wine.	
marconi		Designating, or pert. to, Marconi's system of wireless telegraphy; as, Marconi aërial, coherer, station, system, etc.	
marconigram		A Marconi wireless message.	
marconigraph		The apparatus used in Marconi wireless telegraphy.	
marconism		The theory or practice of Marconi's wireless telegraph system.	
marcor	Obsolete	A wasting away of flesh; decay.	
marcosian		One of a Gnostic sect of the second century, so called from Marcus, an Egyptian, who was reputed to be a margician.	
mare		The female of the horse and other equine quadrupeds.	Old English mare.
mareis	Obsolete	A Marsh.	
marena		A European whitefish of the genus Coregonus.	
mareschal		A long streaky cloud, spreading out like a horse's tail, and believed to indicate rain; a cirrus cloud.	
margarate		A compound of the so-called margaric acid with a base.	
margaric		Pertaining to, or resembling, pearl; pearly.	French margarique.
margarin		A fatty substance, extracted from animal fats and certain vegetable oils, formerly supposed to be a definite compound of glycerin and margaric acid…	
margarine		Artificial butter; oleomargarine.	
margaritaceous		Pertaining to, or resembling, pearl; pearly.	
margarite		(Min.) A mineral related to the micas, but low in silica and yielding brittle folia with pearly luster.	
margaritic		Margaric.	
margaritiferous		Producing pearls.	
margarodite		A hidrous potash mica related to muscovite.	
margarone		The ketone of margaric acid.	
margarous	Obsolete	Margaric; -- formerly designating a supposed acid.	
margay		An American wild cat (Felis tigrina), ranging from Mexico to Brazil.	
marge	Poetic	Border; margin; edge; verge.	French marge, from Latin margo.
margent	Obsolete	A margin; border; brink; edge.	
margin		A border; edge; brink; verge; as, the margin of a river or lake.	Latin marginis.
marginal		Written or printed in the margin; as, a marginal note or gloss.	
marginalia		Marginal notes.	
marginally		In the margin of a book.	
marginate		Having a margin distinct in appearance or structure.	
marginated		Same as Marginate, a.	
margined		(Zoöl.) Bordered with a distinct line of color.	
marginella		A genus of small, polished, marine univalve shells, native of all warm seas.	
marginicidal		Dehiscent by the separation of united carpels; -- said of fruits.	
margosa		A large tree of genus Melia (M.	
margravate		The territory or jurisdiction of a margrave.	
margrave		Originally, a lord or keeper of the borders or marches in Germany.	Middle Dutch marcgrave.
margraviate		The territory or jurisdiction of a margrave.	
margravine		The wife of a margrave.	
marguerite		The daisy (Bellis perennis).	French marguerite.
marian		Pertaining to the Virgin Mary, or sometimes to Mary, Queen of England, daughter of Henry VIII.	
mariet		A kind of bellflower, Companula Trachelium, once called Viola Mariana; but it is not a violet.	French mariette.
marigenous		Produced in or by the sea.	
marigold		A name for several plants with golden yellow blossoms, especially the Calendula officinalis (see Calendula), and the cultivated species of Tagetes.	
marikina		A small marmoset (Midas rosalia); the silky tamarin.	
marimba		A musical istrument of percussion, consisting of bars yielding musical tones when struck.	
marimonda		A spider monkey (Ateles belzebuth) of Central and South America.	
marinade		A brine or pickle containing wine and spices, for enriching the flavor of meat and fish.	
marinate		To salt or pickle, as fish, and then preserve in oil or vinegar; to prepare by the use of marinade.	
marine		Of or pertaining to the sea; having to do with the ocean, or with navigation or naval affairs; nautical; as, marine productions or bodies; marine shells; a marine engine.	
marined		Having the lower part of the body like a fish.	
mariner		One whose occupation is to assist in navigating ships; a seaman or sailor.	Anglo-Norman mariner.
marinership	Obsolete	Seamanship.	
marinism		A bombastic literary style marked by the use of metaphors and antitheses characteristic of the Italian poet Giambattista Marini (1569-1625). -- Ma*ri"nist (#), n.	
marinorama		A representation of a sea view.	
mariolater		One who worships the Virgin Mary.	
mariolatry		The worship of the Virgin Mary.	
marionette		A puppet moved by strings, as in a puppet show.	French marionnette.
mariput		A species of civet; the zoril.	
marish	Archaic	Low, wet ground; a marsh; a fen; a bog; a moor.	Anglo-Norman mareis, from English mariscus.
marital		Of or pertaining to a husband; as, marital rights, duties, authority.	Latin maritalis.
maritated	Obsolete	Having a husband; married.	
maritimal	Obsolete	See Maritime — bordering on, or situated near, the ocean; connected with the sea by site, interest, or power; having shipping and commerce or a navy; as, maritime states.	
maritimale	Obsolete	See Maritime — bordering on, or situated near, the ocean; connected with the sea by site, interest, or power; having shipping and commerce or a navy; as, maritime states.	
maritime		Bordering on, or situated near, the ocean; connected with the sea by site, interest, or power; having shipping and commerce or a navy; as, maritime states.	Middle French maritime.
marjoram		A genus of mintlike plants (Origanum) comprising about twenty- five species.	Old French majorane, from Latin maiorana.
mark		An old weight and coin. See Marc.	Old English mearc.
markable	Obsolete	Remarkable.	
marked		Designated or distinguished by, or as by, a mark; hence; noticeable; conspicuous; as, a marked card; a marked coin; a marked instance. -- Mark"ed*ly, adv.	
markee		See Marquee — a large field tent; esp., one adapted to the use of an officer of high rank.	
marker		One who or that which marks. Specifically: (a) One who keeps account of a game played, as of billiards.	
market		A meeting together of people, at a stated time and place, for the purpose of traffic (as in cattle, provisions, wares, etc.) by private purchase and sale, and not by auction; as, a market is held in the town every week.	
marketable		Fit to be offered for sale in a market; such as may be justly and lawfully sold; as, dacayemarketable.	
marketableness		Quality of being marketable.	
marketer		One who attends a market to buy or sell; one who carries goods to market.	
marketing		Articles in, or from, a market; supplies.	
marketstead	Obsolete	A market place.	
markhoor		A large wild goat (Capra megaceros), having huge flattened spiral horns.	
marking		The act of one who, or that which, marks; the mark or marks made; arrangement or disposition of marks or coloring; as, the marking of a bird's plumage.	
markis	Obsolete	A marquis.	
markisesse	Obsolete	A marchioness.	
markman	Obsolete	A marksman.	
marksman		One skillful to hit a mark with a missile; one who shoots well.	
marksmanship		Skill of a marksman.	
marl		To cover, as part of a rope, with marline, marking a pecular hitch at each turn to prevent unwinding.	Old French marle, from Latin marglia.
marlaceous		Resembling marl; partaking of the qualities of marl.	
marlin		The American great marbled godwit (Limosa fedoa).	
marline		A small line composed of two strands a little twisted, used for winding around ropes and cables, to prevent their being weakened by fretting.	French merliner.
marlite		A variety of marl.	
marlitic		Partaking of the qualites of marlite.	
marlpit		Apit where marl is dug.	
marlstone		A sandy calcareous straum, containing, or impregnated with, iron, and lying between the upper and lower Lias of England.	
marly		Consisting or partaking of marl; resembling marl; abounding with marl.	
marmalade		A preserve or confection made of the pulp of fruit, as the quince, pear, apple, orange, etc., boiled with sugar, and brought to a jamlike consistence.	French marmelade, from Portuguese marmelada.
marmalet	Obsolete	See Marmalade — a preserve or confection made of the pulp of fruit, as the quince, pear, apple, orange, etc., boiled with sugar, and brought to a jamlike consistence.	
marmatite		A ferruginous variety of shalerite or zinc blende, nearly black in color.	
marmolite		A thin, laminated variety of serpentine, usually of a pale green color.	
marmoraceous		Pertaining to, or like, marble.	
marmorate		Variegated like marble; covered or overlaid with marble.	
marmorated		Variegated like marble; covered or overlaid with marble.	
marmoration		A covering or incrusting with marble; a casing of marble; a variegating so as to resemble marble.	Latin marmoratio.
marmoreal		Pertaining to, or resembling, marble; made of marble.	Latin marmoreus.
marmorean		Pertaining to, or resembling, marble; made of marble.	Latin marmoreus.
marmorosis		The metamorphism of limestone, that is, its conversion into marble.	
marmose		A species of small opossum (Didelphus murina) ranging from Mexico to Brazil.	
marmoset		Any one of numerous species of small South American monkeys of the genera Hapale and Midas, family Hapalidæ.	French marmouset.
marmot		(Zoöl.) Any rodent of the genus Arctomys.	
marmozet		See Marmoset — any one of numerous species of small South American monkeys of the genera Hapale and Midas, family Hapalidæ.	
marone		See Maroon, the color.	
maronite		One of a body of nominal Christians, who speak the Arabic language, and reside on Mount Lebanon and in different parts of Syria.	
maroon		In the West Indies and Guiana, a fugitive slave, or a free negro, living in the mountains.	French marron, from Italian marrone.
marplot		One who, by his officious	
marque		A license to pass the limits of a jurisdiction, or boundary of a country, for the purpose of making reprisals.	
marquee		A large field tent; esp., one adapted to the use of an officer of high rank.	
marquess	Obsolete	A marquis.	
marquetry		Inlaid work; work inlaid with pieces of wood, shells, ivory, and the like, of several colors.	
marquis		A nobleman in England, France, and Germany, of a rank next below that of duke.	
marquisate		The seigniory, dignity, or lordship of a marquis; the territory governed by a marquis.	
marquisdom	Obsolete	A marquisate.	
marquise		The wife of a marquis; a marchioness.	French marquise.
marquisship		A marquisate.	
marram		A coarse grass found on sandy beaches (Ammophila arundinacea). See Beach grass, under Beach.	
marrer		One who mars or injures.	
marriable		Marriageable.	
marriage		The act of marrying, or the state of being married; legal union of a man and a woman for life, as husband and wife; wedlock; matrimony.	Old French mariage.
marriageability		The quality or state of being marriageable.	
marriageable		Fit for, or capable of, marriage; of an age at which marriage is allowable. -- Mar"riage*a*ble*ness, n.	
married		Being in the state of matrimony; wedded; as, a married man or woman.	
marrier		One who marries.	
marron		A chestnut color; maroon.	Nyunga marran.
marroon		Same as 1st Maroon.	
marrot	English dialect	(a) The razor-billed auk. See Auk. (b) The common guillemot. (c) The puffin.	
marrow		(Anat.) The tissue which fills the cavities of most bones; the medulla.	Old Norse margr.
marrowbone		A bone containing marrow; pl. ludicrously, knee bones or knees; as, to get down on one's marrowbones, i. e., to kneel.	
marrowfat		A rich but late variety of pea.	
marrowish		Of the nature of, or like, marrow.	
marrowless		Destitute of marrow.	
marrowy		Full of marrow; pithy.	
marrubium		A genus of bitter aromatic plants, sometimes used in medicine; hoarhound.	
marry		To unite in wedlock or matrimony; to perform the ceremony of joining, as a man and a woman, for life; to constitute (a man and a woman) husband and wife according to the laws or customs of the place.	Middle English marien, from Anglo-Norman marier, from Latin maritare.
mars		(Astron.) One of the planets of the solar system, the fourth in order from the sun, or the next beyond the earth, having a diameter of about 4,200 miles, a period of 687 days, and a mean distance of 141,000,000 miles.	
marsala		A kind of wine exported from Marsala in Sicily.	
marsdenia		A genus of plants of the Milkweed family, mostly woody climbers with fragrant flowers, several species of which furnish valuable fiber, and one species (Marsdenia tinctoria) affords indigo.	
marsebanker		The menhaden.	
marseillais		Of or pertaining to Marseilles, in France, or to its inhabitants.	
marseillaise		Of or pertaining to Marseilles, in France, or to its inhabitants.	
marseilles		A general term for certain kinds of fabrics, which are formed of two series of threads interlacing each other, thus forming double cloth, quilted in the loom; -- so named because first made in Marseilles, France.	
marsh		A tract of soft wet land, commonly covered partially or wholly with water; a fen; a swamp; a morass.	Middle English mersh.
marshal		An officer of high rank, charged with the arrangement of ceremonies, the conduct of operations, or the like; as, specifically: (a) One who goes before a prince to declare his coming and provide entertainment; a harbinger…	Anglo-Norman marescal.
marshaler		One who marshals.	
marshaling		The act of arranging in due order.	
marshalsea		The court or seat of a marshal; hence, the prison in Southwark, belonging to the marshal of the king's household.	
marshalship		The office of a marshal.	
marshbanker		The menhaden.	
marshiness		The state or condition of being marshy.	
marshy		Resembling a marsh; wet; boggy; fenny.	
marsipobranch		One of the Marsipobranchia.	
marsipobranchia		A class of Vertebrata, lower than fishes, characterized by their purselike gill cavities, cartilaginous skeletons, absence of limbs, and a suckerlike mouth destitute of jaws.	
marsupial		(Zoöl.) Having a pouch for carrying the immature young; of or pertaining to the Marsupialia.	
marsupialia		A subclass of Mammalia, including nearly all the mammals of Australia and the adjacent islands, together with the opossums of America.	
marsupialian		One of the Marsupialia.	
marsupian		One of the Marsupialia.	
marsupiate		Related to or resembling the marsupials; furnished with a pouch for the young, as the marsupials, and also some fishes and Crustacea.	
marsupion		Same as Marsupium.	
marsupite		A fossil crinoid of the genus Marsupites, resembling a purse in form.	
marsupium		(a) The pouch, formed by a fold of the skin of the abdomen, in which marsupials carry their young; also, a pouch for similar use in other animals, as certain Crustacea.	Latin marsupium, from Greek μαρσίππιον.
mart	Obsolete	Battle; contest.	Latin Mars.
martagon		A lily (Lilium Martagon) with purplish red flowers, found in Europe and Asia.	
martel	Obsolete	To make a blow with, or as with, a hammer.	Old French martel, from Latin martellus.
marteline		A small hammer used by marble workers and sculptors.	
marten		(Zoöl.) Any one of several fur-bearing carnivores of the genus Mustela, closely allied to the sable.	Middle English martren.
martern	Obsolete	Same as Marten.	
martial		Of, pertaining to, or suited for, war; military; as, martial music; a martial appearance.	Latin martialis.
martialism	Obsolete	The quality of being warlike; exercises suitable for war.	
martialist	Obsolete	A warrior.	
martialize		To render warlike; as, to martialize a people.	
martially		In a martial manner.	
martialness		The quality of being martial.	
martian		Of or pertaining to Mars, the Roman god of war, or to the planet bearing his name; martial.	
martin		A perforated stone-faced runner for grinding.	
martinet		In military language, a strict disciplinarian; in general, one who lays stress on a rigid adherence to the details of discipline, or to forms and fixed methods.	
martineta		A species of tinamou (Calopezus elegans), having a long slender crest.	
martinetism		The principles or practices of a martinet; rigid adherence to discipline, etc.	
martingal		A strap fastened to a horse's girth, passing between his fore legs, and fastened to the bit, or now more commonly ending in two rings, through which the reins pass.	
martingale		A strap fastened to a horse's girth, passing between his fore legs, and fastened to the bit, or now more commonly ending in two rings, through which the reins pass.	
martinmas		The feast of St. Martin, the eleventh of November; -- often called martlemans.	
martite		Iron sesquioxide in isometric form, probably a pseudomorph after magnetite.	
martlemas	Obsolete	See Martinmas — the feast of St. Martin, the eleventh of November; -- often called martlemans.	
martlet		(Zoöl.) The European house martin.	
martyr		One who, by his death, bears witness to the truth of the gospel; one who is put to death for his religion; as, Stephen was the first Christian martyr.	
martyrdom		The condition of a martyr; the death of a martyr; the suffering of death on account of adherence to the Christian faith, or to any cause.	
martyrization		Act of martyrizing, or state of being martyrized; torture.	
martyrize		To make a martyr of.	
martyrly		In the manner of a martyr.	
martyrologe	Obsolete	A martyrology.	
martyrologic		Pertaining to martyrology or martyrs; registering, or registered in, a catalogue of martyrs.	
martyrological		Pertaining to martyrology or martyrs; registering, or registered in, a catalogue of martyrs.	
martyrologist		A writer of martyrology; an historian of martyrs.	
martyrology		A history or account of martyrs; a register of martyrs.	
martyrship		Martyrdom.	
marvel		That which causes wonder; a prodigy; a miracle.	
marvelous		Exciting wonder or surprise; astonishing; wonderful.	
marvelously		In a marvelous manner; wonderfully; strangely.	
marvelousness		The quality or state of being marvelous; wonderfulness; strangeness.	
marver		A stone, or cast-iron plate, or former, on which hot glass is rolled to give it shape.	
mary-bud		The marigold; a blossom of the marigold.	
maryolatry		Mariolatry.	
marysole		A large British fluke, or flounder (Rhombus megastoma); -- called also carter, and whiff. marchpane.	
mascagnin		Native sulphate of ammonia, found in volcanic districts; -- so named from Mascagni, who discovered it.	
mascagnite		Native sulphate of ammonia, found in volcanic districts; -- so named from Mascagni, who discovered it.	
mascle		A lozenge voided.	
mascled		Composed of, or covered with, lozenge-shaped scales; having lozenge-shaped divisions.	
mascot		A person who is supposed to bring good luck to the household to which he or she belongs; anything that brings good luck.	French mascotte.
mascotte		A person who is supposed to bring good luck to the household to which he or she belongs; anything that brings good luck.	
masculate	Obsolete	To make strong.	
masculine		Of the male sex; not female.	Old French masculin, from Latin masculinus.
masculinity		The state or quality of being masculine; masculineness.	
mase	Obsolete	See Maze — confusion of thought; perplexity; uncertainty; state of bewilderment.	
maselyn		A drinking cup. See 1st Maslin,	
maser		Same as Mazer.	
mash		A mass of mixed ingredients reduced to a soft pulpy state by beating or pressure; a mass of anything in a soft pulpy state.	Middle English mash.
masher		One who, or that which, mashes; also (Brewing), a machine for making mash.	
mashie		A golf club like the iron, but with a shorter head, slightly more lofted, used chiefly for short approaches.	
mashlin		See Maslin — a mixture composed of different materials; especially: (a) A mixture of metals resembling brass.	
mashy		A golf club like the iron, but with a shorter head, slightly more lofted, used chiefly for short approaches.	
mask		A cover, or partial cover, for the face, used for disguise or protection; as, a dancer's mask; a fencer's mask; a ball player's mask.	Middle English masken.
masked		Wearing a mask or masks; characterized by masks; cincealed; hidden.	
masker	Obsolete	One who wears a mask; one who appears in disguise at a masquerade.	
maskery	Obsolete	The dress or disguise of a maske Marston.	
maskinonge		The muskellunge.	
maslach		An excitant containing opium, much used by the Turks.	
maslin		A mixture composed of different materials; especially: (a) A mixture of metals resembling brass.	Ndonga missellane.
mason		One whose occupation is to build with stone or brick; also, one who prepares stone for building purposes.	Middle English masoun.
masonic		Of or pertaining to Freemasons or to their craft or mysteries.	
masonry		The work or performance of a mason; as, good or bad masonry; skillful masonry.	French maçonnerie.
masora		A Jewish critical work on the text of the Hebrew Scriptures, composed by several learned rabbis of the school of Tiberias, in the eighth and ninth centuries.	
masoret		A Masorite.	
masoretic		Of or relating to the Masora, or to its authors.	
masoretical		Of or relating to the Masora, or to its authors.	
masorite		One of the writers of the Masora.	
masque		A mask; a masquerade.	
masquerade		An assembly of persons wearing masks, and amusing themselves with dancing, conversation, or other diversions.	French mascarade, from Italian mascherata.
masquerader		One who masquerades; a person wearing a mask; one disguised.	
mass		A quantity of matter cohering together so as to make one body, or an aggregation of particles or things which collectively make one body or quantity, usually of considerable size; as, a mass of ore, metal, sand, or water.	Middle English masse, from Old English mæsse.
massacre	Obsolete	The killing of a considerable number of human beings under circumstances of atrocity or cruelty, or contrary to the usages of civilized people; as, the massacre on St. Bartholomew's Day. 2.	
massacrer		One who massacres.	
massage		A rubbing or kneading of the body, especially when performed as a hygienic or remedial measure.	French massage.
massagist		One who practices massage; a masseur or masseuse.	
massasauga		The black rattlesnake (Crotalus, or Caudisona, tergemina), found in the Mississippi Valley.	Ojibwa massasauga.
masse		A stroke made with the cue held vertically.	
masser		A priest who celebrates Mass.	
masseter		The large muscle which raises the under jaw, and assists in mastication.	
masseteric		Of or pertaining to the masseter.	
masseterine		Masseteric.	
masseur		One who performs massage.	French masseur.
masseuse		One who performs massage.	French masseuse.
massicot		Lead protoxide, PbO, obtained as a yellow amorphous powder, the fused and crystalline form of which is called litharge; lead ocher.	
massiness		The state or quality of being massy; ponderousness.	
massive		Forming, or consisting of, a large mass; compacted; weighty; heavy; massy.	French massif.
massively		In a heavy mass.	
massiveness		The state or quality of being massive; massiness.	
massora		Same as Masora.	
massoret		Same as Masorite.	
massy		Compacted into, or consisting of, a mass; having bulk and weight ot substance; ponderous; bulky and heavy; weight; heavy; as, a massy shield; a massy rock.	
mast		The fruit of the oak and beech, or other forest trees; nuts; acorns.	Old English mæst.
mastaba		In Mohammedan countries, a fixed seat, common in dwellings and in public places.	Arabic مصطبة.
mastabah		In Mohammedan countries, a fixed seat, common in dwellings and in public places.	
mastax		(a) The pharynx of a rotifer.	
masted		Furnished with a mast or masts; -- chiefly in composition; as, a three-masted schooner.	
master		A vessel having (so many) masts; -- used only in compounds; as, a two-master.	Old English mægester, from Latin magister.
masterdom		Dominion; rule; command.	
masterful		Inclined to play the master; domineering; imperious; arbitrary.	
masterfully		In a masterful manner; imperiously.	
masterhood		The state of being a master; hence, disposition to command or hector.	
masterless		Destitute of a master or owner; ungoverned or ungovernable. -- Mas"ter*less*ness, n.	
masterliness		The quality or state of being masterly; ability to control wisely or skillfully.	
masterly		Suitable to, or characteristic of, a master; indicating thorough knowledge or superior skill and power; showing a master's hand; as, a masterly design; a masterly performance; a masterly policy.	
masterous	Obsolete	Masterly.	
masterpiece		Anything done or made with extraordinary skill; a capital performance; a chef-d'oeuvre; a supreme achievement.	
mastership		Mastery; dominion; superior skill; superiority.	
mastersinger		One of a class of poets which flourished in Nuremberg and some other cities of Germany in the 15th and 16th centuries.	German Meistersinger.
masterwort		(a) A tall and coarse European umbelliferous plant (Peucedanum Ostruthium, formerly Imperatoria).	
mastery		The position or authority of a master; dominion; command; supremacy; superiority.	French maistrie.
mastful		Abounding in mast; producing mast in abundance; as, the mastful forest; a mastful chestnut.	
masthead		The top or head of a mast; the part of a mast above the hounds.	
masthouse		A building in which vessels' masts are shaped, fitted, etc.	
mastic		(Bot.) A low shrubby tree of the genus Pistacia (P.	Latin mastiche, from Greek μαστίχη.
masticable		Capable of being masticated.	
masticador		A part of a bridle, the slavering bit.	
masticate		To grind or crush with, or as with, the teeth and prepare for swallowing and digestion; to chew; as, to masticate food.	
masticater		One who masticates.	
mastication		The act or operation of masticating; chewing, as of food.	
masticator		One who masticates.	
masticatory		Chewing; adapted to perform the office o A substance to be chewed to increase the saliva.	
mastich		See Mastic — (Bot.) A low shrubby tree of the genus Pistacia (P.	
masticin		A white, amorphous, tenacious substance resembling caoutchouc, and obtained as an insoluble residue of mastic.	
masticot	Obsolete	Massicot.	
mastiff		A breed of large dogs noted for strength and courage.	
mastigopod		One of the Mastigopoda.	
mastigopoda		The Infusoria.	
mastigure		Any one of several large spiny-tailed lizards of the genus Uromastix.	
masting		The act or process of putting a mast or masts into a vessel; also, the scientific principles which determine the position of masts, and the mechanical methods of placing them.	
mastitis		Inflammation of the breast.	
mastless		Bearing no mast; as, a mastless oak or beech.	
mastlin		See Maslin — a mixture composed of different materials; especially: (a) A mixture of metals resembling brass.	
mastodon		An extinct genus of mammals closely allied to the elephant, but having less complex molar teeth, and often a pair of lower, as well as upper, tusks, which are incisor teeth.	
mastodonsaurus		A large extinct genus of labyrinthodonts, found in the European Triassic rocks.	
mastodontic		Pertaining to, or resembling, a mastodon; as, mastodontic dimensions.	
mastodynia		Pain occuring in the mamma or female breast, -- a form of neuralgia.	
mastodyny		Pain occuring in the mamma or female breast, -- a form of neuralgia.	
mastoid		(a) Resembling the nipple or the breast; -- applied specifically to a process of the temporal bone behind the ear.	Greek μάσταξ.
mastoidal		Same as Mastoid.	
mastoiditis		Inflammation in the mastoid process of the temporal bone.	
mastology		The natural history of Mammalia.	
mastress	Obsolete	Mistress.	
masturbation		Onanism; self-pollution.	Middle French masturbation.
masty		Full of mast; abounding in acorns, etc.	
mat		A fabric of sedge, rushes, flags, husks, straw, hemp, or similar material, used for wiping and cleaning shoes at the door, for covering the floor of a hall or room, and for other purposes.	Old English matte, from Latin matta.
matabele		A warlike South African Kaffir tribe.	
matabeles		A warlike South African Kaffir tribe.	
matachin		An old dance with swords and bucklers; a sword dance.	
mataco		The three-banded armadillo (Tolypeutis tricinctus). See Illust. under Loricata.	
matador		The killer; the man appointed to kill the bull in bullfights.	Spanish matador.
matadore		The killer; the man appointed to kill the bull in bullfights.	
matagasse	English dialect	A shrike or butcher bird; -- called also mattages.	
matajuelo		A large squirrel fish (Holocentrus ascensionis) of Florida and the West Indies.	
matamata		The bearded tortoise (Chelys fimbriata) of South American rivers.	
matanza		A place where animals are slaughtered for their hides and tallow.	
match		Anything used for catching and retaining or communicating fire, made of some substance which takes fire readily, or remains burning some time; esp.…	Middle English macche, from Old English mæcca.
match-cloth		A coarse cloth.	
match-coat		A coat made of match-cloth.	
matchable		Capable of being matched; comparable on equal conditions; adapted to being joined together; correspondent. -- Match"a*ble*ness, n.	
matcher		One who, or that which, matches; a matching machine. See under 3d Match.	
matchless		Having no equal; unequaled.	
matchlock		An old form of gunlock containing a match for firing the priming; hence, a musket fired by means of a match.	
matchmaker		One who makes matches for burning or kinding.	
matchmaking		The act or process of making matches for kindling or burning.	
mate		One who customarily associates with another; a companion; an associate; any object which is associated or combined with a similar object.	
matelasse		Ornamented by means of an imitation or suggestion of quilting, the surface being marked by depressed lines which form squares or lozenges in relief; as, matelassé silks.	
mateless		Having no mate.	
matelote		A dish of food composed of many kings of fish.	
matelotte		A stew, commonly of fish, flavored with wine, and served with a wine sauce containing onions, mushrooms, etc.	
mateology		A vain, unprofitable discourse or inquiry.	
mateotechny	Obsolete	Any unprofitable science.	
mater		See Alma mater, Dura mater, and Pia mater.	Latin mater.
material		Consisting of matter; not spiritual; corporeal; physical; as, material substance or bodies.	Middle English material, from Latin materialis.
materialism		The doctrine of materialists; materialistic views and tenets.	
materialist		One who denies the existence of spiritual substances or agents, and maintains that spiritual phenomena, so called, are the result of some peculiar organization of matter.	
materialistic		Of or pertaining to materialism or materialists; of the nature of materialism.	
materialistical		Of or pertaining to materialism or materialists; of the nature of materialism.	
materiality		The quality or state of being material; material existence; corporeity.	
materialization		The act of materializing, or the state of being materialized.	
materialize		To invest wich material characteristics; to make perceptible to the senses; hence, to present to the mind through the medium of material objects.	
materially		In the state of matter.	
materialness		The state of being material.	
materiarian	Obsolete	See Materialist — one who denies the existence of spiritual substances or agents, and maintains that spiritual phenomena, so called, are the result of some peculiar organization of matter.	Latin materiarius.
materiate	Obsolete	Consisting of matter.	
materiated	Obsolete	Consisting of matter.	
materiation	Obsolete	Act of forming matter.	
materiel		That in a complex system which constitutes the materials, or instruments employed, in distinction from the personnel, or men; as, the baggage, munitions, provisions, etc., of an army; or the buildings, libraries…	French matériel, from Latin materialis.
materious	Obsolete	See Material — consisting of matter; not spiritual; corporeal; physical; as, material substance or bodies.	
maternal		Of or pertaining to a mother; becoming to a mother; motherly; as, maternal love; maternal tenderness.	
maternally		In a motherly manner.	
maternity		The state of being a mother; the character or relation of a mother.	
matfelon		The knapweed (Centaurea nigra).	
math	Obsolete	A mowing, or that which is gathered by mowing; -- chiefly used in composition; as, an aftermath.	Middle English math, from Old English mæþ.
mathematic		See Mathematical — of or pertaining to mathematics; according to mathematics; hence, theoretically precise; accurate; as, mathematical geography; mathematical instruments…	
mathematical		Of or pertaining to mathematics; according to mathematics; hence, theoretically precise; accurate; as, mathematical geography; mathematical instruments; mathematical exactness. -- Math`e*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.	
mathematician		One versed in mathematics.	
mathematics		That science, or class of sciences, which treats of the exact relations existing between quantities or magnitudes, and of the methods by which, in accordance with these relations…	Latin mathematica.
mather		See Madder — a plant of the Rubia (R. tinctorum).	
mathes		The mayweed.	
mathesis		Learning; especially, mathematics.	
mathurin		See Trinitarian — of or pertaining to the Trinity, the doctrine of the Trinity, or believers in that doctrine.	
matico		A Peruvian plant (Piper, or Artanthe, elongatum), allied to the pepper, the leaves of which are used as a styptic and astringent.	
matie		A fat herring with undeveloped roe.	
matin		pl. Etym: Morning worship or service; morning prayers or songs.	
matinal		Relating to the morning, or to matins; matutinal.	
matinee		A reception, or a musical or dramatic entertainment, held in the daytime.	French matinée, from Old French matinee.
matrass		A round-bottomed glass flask having a long neck; a bolthead.	
matress		See Matress.	
matriarch		The mother and ruler of a family or of her descendants; a ruler by maternal right.	
matriarchal		Of or pertaining to a matriarch; governed by a matriarch.	
matriarchate		The office or jurisdiction of a matriarch; a matriarchal form of government.	
matrice		See Matrix — hence, that which gives form or origin to anything; as: (a) (Mech.) The cavity in which anything is formed, and which gives it shape; a die; a mold, as for the face of a type.	
matricidal		Of or pertaining to matricide.	
matricide		The murder of a mother by her son or daughter.	
matriculate		To enroll; to enter in a register; specifically, to enter or admit to membership in a body or society, particularly in a college or university, by enrolling the name in a register.	Latin matrix, from Greek μέτρα.
matriculation		The act or process of matriculating; the state of being matriculated.	
matrimoine	Obsolete	Matrimony.	
matrimonial		Of or pertaining to marriage; derived from marriage; connubial; nuptial; hymeneal; as, matrimonial rights or duties.	
matrimonially		In a matrimonial manner.	
matrimonious		Matrimonial.	
matrimony		The union of man and woman as husband and wife; the nuptial state; marriage; wedlock.	
matrix		Hence, that which gives form or origin to anything; as: (a) (Mech.) The cavity in which anything is formed, and which gives it shape; a die; a mold, as for the face of a type.	Old French matrice, from Latin matricem.
matron		A wife or a widow, especially, one who has borne children; a woman of staid or motherly manners.	
matronage		The collective body of matrons.	
matronal		Of or pertaining to a matron; suitable to an elderly lady or to a married woman; grave; motherly.	
matronhood		The state of being a matron.	
matronize		To make a matron of; to make matronlike.	
matronlike		Like a matron; sedate; grave; matronly.	
matronly		Advanced in years; elderly.	
matronymic		See Metronymic — derived from the name of one's mother, or other female ancestor; as, a metronymic name or appellation. -- A metronymic appellation.	
matross	Obsolete	Formerly, in the British service, a gunner or a gunner's mate; one of the soldiers in a train of artillery, who assisted the gunners in loading, firing, and sponging the guns.	
matt		See Matte — (Metallurgy) A partly reduced copper sulphide, obtained by alternately roasting and melting copper ore in separating the metal from associated iron ores, and called coarse metal…	
mattages	English dialect	A shrike or butcher bird; -- written also matagasse.	
mattamore		A subterranean repository for wheat.	
matte		(Metallurgy) A partly reduced copper sulphide, obtained by alternately roasting and melting copper ore in separating the metal from associated iron ores, and called coarse metal, fine metal, etc.…	
matted		Having a dull surface; unburnished; as, matted gold leaf or gilding.	
matter		That of which anything is composed; constituent substance; material; the material or substantial part of anything; the constituent elements of conception; that into which a notion may be analyzed; the essence; the pith…	Middle English mater, from Anglo-Norman materie, from Old French materie, from Latin materia.
matter-of-fact		Adhering to facts; not turning aside from absolute realities; not fanciful or imaginative; commonplace; dry.	
matterless		Not being, or having, matter; as, matterless spirits.	
mattery		Generating or containing pus; purulent.	
matting		The act of interweaving or tangling together so as to make a mat; the process of becoming matted.	
mattock		An implement for digging and grubbing.	Middle English mattok, from Old English mattuc.
mattoid		A person of congenitally abnormal mind bordering on insanity or degeneracy.	
mattoir		A kind of coarse punch with a rasplike face, used for making a rough surface on etching ground, or on the naked copper, the effect after biting being very similar to stippled lines.	
mattowacca		An American clupeoid fish (Clupea mediocris), similar to the shad in habits and appearance, but smaller and less esteemed for food; -- called also hickory shad, tailor shad, fall herring, and shad herring.	
mattress		A quilted bed; a bed stuffed with hair, moss, or other suitable material, and quilted or otherwise fastened.	Middle English materas.
maturant		A medicine, or application, which promotes suppuration.	
maturate		To promote the perfect suppuration of (an abscess).	
maturation		The process of bringing, or of coming, to maturity; hence, specifically, the process of suppurating perfectly; the formation of pus or matter.	
maturative		Conducing to ripeness or maturity; hence, conducing to suppuration.	
mature		Brought by natural process to completeness of growth and development; fitted by growth and development for any function, action, or state, appropriate to its kind; full-grown; ripe.	
maturely		In a mature manner; with ripeness; completely.	
matureness		The state or quality of being mature; maturity.	
maturer		One who brings to maturity.	
maturescent		Approaching maturity.	
maturing		Approaching maturity; as, maturing fruits; maturing notes of hand.	
maturity		The state or quality of being mature; ripeness; full development; as, the maturity of corn or of grass; maturity of judgment; the maturity of a plan.	
matutinal		Of or pertaining to the morning; early.	Latin mātūtīnālis.
matutinary		Matutinal.	
matutine		Matutinal.	
matweed		A name of several maritime grasses, as the sea sand-reed (Ammophila arundinacea) which is used in Holland to bind the sand of the seacoast dikes (see Beach grass, under Beach); also, the Lygeum Spartum…	
maty		A native house servant in India.	
matzoth		A cake of unleavened bread eaten by the Jews at the feast of the Passover.	
maucaco		A lemur; -- applied to several species, as the White-fronted, the ruffed, and the ring-tailed lemurs.	
maud		A gray plaid; -- used by shepherds in Scotland.	
maudeline		An aromatic composite herb, the costmary; also, the South European Achillea Ageratum, a kind of yarrow.	
maudle	Obsolete	To throw onto confusion or disorder; to render maudlin.	
maudlin		Tearful; easily moved to tears; exciting to tears; excessively sentimental; weak and silly.	
maudlinism		A maudlin state.	
maudlinwort		The oxeye daisy.	
mauger		In spite of; in opposition to; notwithstanding.	
maugre	Obsolete	In spite of; in opposition to; notwithstanding.	
maukin		See Malkin — a mop made of clouts, used by the kitchen servant.	
maul		A heavy wooden hammer or beetle.	Middle English malle, from Anglo-Norman mail, from Old French mail, from Latin malleus.
maul-stick		A stick used by painters as a rest for the hand while working.	
maule		The common mallow.	
mauling		A severe beating with a stick, cudgel, or the fist.	
maumet	Obsolete	See Mawmet — a puppet; a doll; originally, an idol, because in the Middle Ages it was generally believed that the Mohammedans worshiped images representing Mohammed.	
maunch	Obsolete	To munch. See Manche.	French manche, from Latin manica.
maund		To mutter; to mumble; to grumble; to speak indistinctly or disconnectedly; to talk incoherently.	Middle English maunde.
maunder	Obsolete	To mutter; to mumble; to grumble; to speak indistinctly or disconnectedly; to talk incoherently.	
maunderer		One who maunders.	
maundril		A pick with two prongs, to pry with.	
mauresque		See Moresque — of or pertaining to, or in the manner or style of, the Moors; Moorish. -- n.	
maurist		A member of the Congregation of Saint Maur, an offshoot of the Benedictines, originating in France in the early part of the seventeenth century.	
mausolean		Pertaining to a mausoleum; monumental.	
mausoleum		A magnificent tomb, or stately sepulchral monument.	Middle English mausoleum, from Latin mausoleum, from Greek Μαυσωλεῖον.
mauther	English dialect	A girl; esp., a great, awkward girl; a wench.	
mauvaniline		See Mauve aniline, under Mauve.	
mauve		A color of a delicate purple, violet, or lilac.	French mauve, from Latin malva.
mauveine		An artificial organic base, obtained by oxidizing a mixture of aniline and toluidine, and valuable for the dyestuffs it forms.	
mauvine		Mauve-colored.	
maverick		In the southwestern part of the united States, a bullock or heifer that has not been branded, and is unclaimed or wild; -- said to be from Maverick, the name of a cattle owner in Texas who naglected to brand his cattle.	
mavis		The European throstle or song thrush (Turdus musicus).	
mavourneen		My darling; -- an Irish term of endearment for a girl or woman.	
mavournin		My darling; -- an Irish term of endearment for a girl or woman.	
maw		A stomach; the receptacle into which food is taken by swallowing; in birds, the craw; -- now used only of the lower animals, exept humorously or in contempt.	Middle English mawe, from Old English maga.
mawk	Scots	A maggot.	Middle English mawk.
mawkin		See Malkin, and Maukin.	Scots maukin.
mawkingly	Obsolete	Slatternly.	
mawkish		Apt to cause satiety or loathing; nauseous; disgusting.	
mawkishly		In a mawkish way.	
mawkishness		The quality or state of being mawkish.	
mawks	English dialect	A slattern; a mawk.	
mawky	English dialect	Maggoty.	
mawmet	Obsolete	A puppet; a doll; originally, an idol, because in the Middle Ages it was generally believed that the Mohammedans worshiped images representing Mohammed.	
mawmetry	Obsolete	The religion of Mohammed; also, idolatry. See Mawmet.	
mawmish	Obsolete	Nauseous.	
mawseed		The seed of the opium poppy.	
mawworm		(a) Any intestinal worm found in the stomach, esp. the common round worm (Ascaris lumbricoides), and allied species.	
maxilla		(Anat.) (a) The bone of either the upper or the under jaw. (b) The bone, or principal bone, of the upper jaw, the bone of the lower jaw being the mandible.	Latin maxilla.
maxillar		(Anat.) Pertaining to either the upper or the lower jaw, but now usually applied to the upper jaw only. -- n.	
maxillary		(Anat.) Pertaining to either the upper or the lower jaw, but now usually applied to the upper jaw only. -- n.	
maxilliform		Having the form, or structure, of a maxilla.	
maxilliped		One of the mouth appendages of Crustacea, situated next behind the maxillæ.	
maxillo-mandibular		Pertaining to the maxilla and mandible; as, the maxillo- mandibular nerve.	
maxillo-palatine		Pertaining to the maxillary and palatine regions of the skull; as, the maxillo-palatine process of the maxilla.	
maxilloturbinal		Pertaining to the maxillary and turbinal regions of the skull. -- n.	
maxim		An established principle or proposition; a condensed proposition of important practical truth; an axiom of practical wisdom; an adage; a proverb; an aphorism.	
maximilian		A gold coin of Bavaria, of the value of about 13s. 6d. sterling, or about three dollars and a quarter.	
maximization		The act or process of increasing to the highest degree.	
maximize		To increase to the highest degree.	
maximum		The greatest quantity or value attainable in a given case; or, the greatest value attained by a quantity which first increases and then begins to decrease; the highest point or degree; -- opposed to Ant: minimum.	
may		An auxiliary verb qualifyng the meaning of another verb, by expressing: (a) Ability, competency, or possibility; -- now oftener expressed by can.	Old English magan.
maya		The name for the doctrine of the unreality of matter, called, in English, idealism; hence, nothingness; vanity; illusion.	
mayan		Designating, or pertaining to, an American Indian linguistic stock occupying the Mexican States of Veracruz, Chiapas, Tabasco, Campeche, and Yucatan, together with a part of Guatemala and a part of Salvador.	
maybe		Perhaps; possibly; peradventure.	
maybird		(a) The whimbrel; -- called also May fowl, May curlew, and May whaap. (b) The knot.	
maybloom		The hawthorn.	
maybush		The hawthorn.	
mayduke		A large dark-red cherry of excellent quality.	
mayfish		A common American minnow (Fundulus majalis). See Minnow.	
mayflower		In England, the hawthorn; in New England, the trailing arbutus (see Arbutus); also, the blossom of these plants.	
mayhap		Perhaps; peradventure.	
mayhem		The maiming of a person by depriving him of the use of any of his members which are necessary for defense or protection.	Middle English mayme.
maying		The celebrating of May Day.	
mayonnaise		A sauce compounded of raw yolks of eggs beaten up with olive oil to the consistency of a sirup, and seasoned with vinegar, pepper, salt, etc.; -- used in dressing salads, fish, etc. Also, a dish dressed with this sauce.	French mayonnaise.
mayor		The chief magistrate of a city or borough; the chief officer of a municipal corporation.	
mayoral		The conductir of a mule team; also, a head shepherd.	
mayoralty		The office, or the term of office, of a mayor.	
mayoress		The wife of a mayor.	
mayorship		The office of a mayor.	
maypole		A tall pole erected in an open place and wreathed with flowers, about which the rustic May-day sports were had.	
maypop		The edible fruit of a passion flower, especially that of the North American Passiflora incarnata, an oval yellowish berry as large as a small apple.	
mayweed		(a) A composite plant (Anthemis Cotula), having a strong odor; dog's fennel.	
mazama		A goatlike antelope (Haplocerus montanus) which inhabits the Rocky Mountains, frequenting the highest parts; -- called also mountain goat.	
mazame		A goatlike antelope (Haplocerus montanus) which inhabits the Rocky Mountains, frequenting the highest parts; -- called also mountain goat.	
mazard	Obsolete	A kind of small black cherry.	
mazarine		Of or pertaining to Cardinal Mazarin, prime minister of France, 1643-1661.	
mazdean		Of or pertaining to Ahura-Mazda, or Ormuzd, the beneficent deity in the Zoroastrian dualistic system; hence, Zoroastrian.	
mazdeism		The Zoroastrian religion.	
maze		Confusion of thought; perplexity; uncertainty; state of bewilderment.	Middle English mase.
mazedness	Obsolete	The condition of being mazed; confusion; astonishment.	
mazer	Obsolete	A large drinking bowl; -- originally made of maple.	Anglo-Norman mazer.
mazily		In a mazy manner.	
maziness		The state or quality of being mazy.	
mazological		Of or pertaining to mazology.	
mazologist		One versed in mazology or mastology.	
mazology		Same as Mastology.	
mazourka		A Polish dance, or the music which accompanies it, usually in 3-4 or 3-8 measure, with a strong accent on the second beat.	
mazurka		A Polish dance, or the music which accompanies it, usually in 3-4 or 3-8 measure, with a strong accent on the second beat.	
mazy		Perplexed with turns and windings; winding; intricate; confusing; perplexing; embarrassing; as, mazy error.	
