me	Obsolete	One. See Men, pron.	Middle English me, from Old English me.
meach		To skulk; to cower. See Mich.	
meacock	Obsolete	An uxorious, effeminate, or spiritless man.	
mead		A fermented drink made of water and honey with malt, yeast, etc.; metheglin; hydromel.	Middle English mede, from Old English medu.
meadow		A tract of low or level land producing grass which is mown for hay; any field on which grass is grown for hay.	Old English mædwe.
meadowsweet		The name of several plants of the genus Spiræa, especially the white- or pink-flowered S. salicifolia, a low European and American shrub, and the herbaceous S.	
meadowwort		The name of several plants of the genus Spiræa, especially the white- or pink-flowered S. salicifolia, a low European and American shrub, and the herbaceous S.	
meadowy		Of or pertaining to meadows; resembling, or consisting of, meadow.	
meager		Destitue of, or having little, flesh; lean.	Anglo-Norman megre.
meagerly		Poorly; thinly.	
meagerness		The state or quality of being meager; leanness; scantiness; barrenness.	
meagre		Destitue of, or having little, flesh; lean.	Middle French maigre.
meagrely		Poorly; thinly.	
meagreness		The state or quality of being meager; leanness; scantiness; barrenness.	
meak	Obsolete	A hook with a long handle.	
meaking		The process of picking out the oakum from the seams of a vessel which is to be recalked.	
meal		Grain (esp. maize, rye, or oats) that is coarsely ground and unbolted; also, a kind of flour made from beans, pease, etc.; sometimes, any flour, esp. if coarse.	Middle English mele, from Old English melu.
meal-mouthed		See Mealy-mouthed — using soft words; plausible; affectedly or timidly delicate of speech; unwilling to tell the truth in plain language.	
mealies		Maize or Indian corn; -- the common name in South Africa.	
mealiness		The quality or state of being mealy.	
mealtime		The usual time of eating a meal.	
mealy		Having the qualities of meal; resembling meal; soft, dry, and friable; easily reduced to a condition resembling meal; as, a mealy potato.	
mealy-mouthed		Using soft words; plausible; affectedly or timidly delicate of speech; unwilling to tell the truth in plain language.	
mean		To have in the mind, as a purpose, intention, etc.; to intend; to purpose; to design; as, what do you mean to do What mean ye by this service Ex. xii. 26.	Middle English meene, from Old French meien.
mean-spirited		Of a mean spirit; base; groveling. -- Mean"-spir`it*ed*ness, n.	
meander		A winding, crooked, or involved course; as, the meanders of the veins and arteries.	
meandrian		Winding; having many turns.	
meandrina		A genus of corals with meandering grooves and ridges, including the brain corals.	
meandrous		Winding; flexuous.	
meandry		Winding; flexuous.	
meaning		That which is meant or intended; intent; purpose; aim; object; as, a mischievous meaning was apparent.	Middle English mening.
meanly	Obsolete	Moderately.	
meanness		The condition, or quality, of being mean; want of excellence; poorness; lowness; baseness; sordidness; stinginess.	
meant		of Mean — to have in the mind, as a purpose, intention, etc.; to intend; to purpose; to design; as, what do you mean to do What mean ye by this service Ex. xii. 26.	
meantime		The intervening time; as, in the meantime (or mean time).	
meanwhile		The intervening time; as, in the meantime (or mean time).	
mear	Obsolete	A boundary. See Mere.	
mease	English dialect	Five hundred; as, a mease of herrings.	
measelry	Obsolete	Leprosy.	Middle English meselrie.
measle	Obsolete	A leper.	Old French mesel, from Latin misellus.
measled		Infected or spotted with measles, as pork. -- Mea"sled*ness, n.	
measles		(Med.) A contagious febrile disorder commencing with catarrhal symptoms, and marked by the appearance on the third day of an eruption of distinct red circular spots, which coalesce in a crescentic form…	
measly		Infected with measles.	
measurable		Capable of being measured; susceptible of mensuration or computation.	
measure		A standard of dimension; a fixed unit of quantity or extent; an extent or quantity in the fractions or multiples of which anything is estimated and stated; hence, a rule by which anything is adjusted or judged.	Middle English mesure, from French mesure, from Latin mensura.
measured		Regulated or determined by a standard; hence, equal; uniform; graduated; limited; moderated; as, he walked with measured steps; he expressed himself in no measured terms. -- Meas"ured*ly, adv.	
measureless		Without measure; unlimited; immeasurable. -- Meas"ure*less*ness, n.	
measurement		The act or result of measuring; mensuration; as, measurement is required.	
measurer		One who measures; one whose occupation or duty is to measure commondities in market.	
measuring		Used in, or adapted for, ascertaining measurements, or dividing by measure.	
meat		Food, in general; anything eaten for nourishment, either by man or beast.	Old English mete.
meatal		Of or pertaining to a meatus; resembling a meatus.	
meated		Having (such) meat; -- used chiefly in composition; as, thick- meated.	
meath	Obsolete	A sweet liquor; mead.	
meathe	Obsolete	A sweet liquor; mead.	
meatiness		Quality of being meaty.	
meatless		Having no meat; without food.	
meatoscope		A speculum for examining a natural passage, as the urethra.	
meatotome		An instrument for cutting into the urethra so as to enlarge its orifice.	
meatus		A natural passage or canal; as, the external auditory meatus. See Illust. of Ear.	Latin meatus.
meaty		Abounding in meat.	
meaw	Obsolete	The sea mew.	
meawl		See Mewl, and Miaul.	
meazel	Obsolete	See 1st Measle.	
meazling	Obsolete	Falling in small drops; mistling; mizzing.	
mebles	Obsolete	See Moebles — movables; furniture; -- also used in the singular (moeble).	
mecate		A rope of hair or of maguey fiber, for tying horses, etc.	
meccawee		Of or pertaining to Mecca, in Arabia. -- n.	
mechanic		A mechanician; an artisan; an artificer; one who practices any mechanic art; one skilled or employed in shaping and uniting materials, as wood, metal, etc., into any kind of structure, machine, or other object…	Middle English mechanike, from Old French mecanique, from Latin mechanicus, from Greek μηχανικός.
mechanical		Pertaining to, governed by, or in accordance with, mechanics, or the laws of motion; pertaining to the quantitative relations of force and matter, as distinguished from mental, vital, chemical, etc.; as, mechanical principles…	
mechanicalize		To cause to become mechanical.	
mechanically		In a mechanical manner.	
mechanicalness		The state or quality of being mechanical.	
mechanician		One skilled in the theory or construction of machines; a machinist.	
mechanico-chemical		Pertaining to, connected with, or dependent upon, both mechanics and chemistry; -- said especially of those sciences which treat of such phenomena as seem to depend on the laws both of mechanics and chemistry…	
mechanics		That science, or branch of applied mathematics, which treats of the action of forces on bodies.	Latin mechanicus, from Greek μηχανικός.
mechanism		The arrangement or relation of the parts of a machine; the parts of a machine, taken collectively; the arrangement or relation of the parts of anything as adapted to produce an effect; as, the mechanism of a watch…	Latin mechanismus.
mechanist		A maker of machines; one skilled in mechanics.	
mechanize		To cause to be mechanical.	
mechanograph		One of a number of copies of anything multiplied mechanically.	
mechanographic		Written, copied, or recorded by machinery; produced by mechanography; as, a mechanographic record of changes of temperature; mechanographic prints.	
mechanographist		An artist who, by mechanical means, multiplies copies of works of art.	
mechanography		The art of mechanically multiplying copies of a writing, or any work of art.	
mechanurgy		That branch of science which treats of moving machines.	
mechitarist		One of a religious congregation of the Roman Catholic Church devoted to the improvement of Armenians.	
mechlin		A kind of lace made at, or originating in, Mechlin, in Belgium.	
mechoacan		A species of jalap, of very feeble properties, said to be obtained from the root of a species of Convolvulus (C.	
meckelian		Pertaining to, or discovered by, J.	
meconate		A salt of meconic acid.	
meconic		Pertaining to, or obtained from, the poppy or opium; specif. (Chem.), designating an acid related to aconitic acid, found in opium and extracted as a white crystalline substance.	
meconidine		An alkaloid found in opium, and extracted as a yellow amorphous substance which is easily decomposed.	
meconidium		A kind of gonophore produced by hydroids of the genus Gonothyræa.	
meconin		A substance regarded as an anhydride of meconinic acid, existing in opium and extracted as a white crystalline substance.	
meconinic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid which occurs in opium, and which may be obtained by oxidizing narcotine.	
meconium	Obsolete	(a) Opium. (b) The contents of the fetal intestine; hence, first excrement.	Latin meconium, from Greek μηκώνιον.
medal		A piece of metal in the form of a coin, struck with a device, and intended to preserve the remembrance of a notable event or an illustrious person, or to serve as a reward.	Middle French medaille.
medalet		A small medal.	
medalist		A person that is skilled or curious in medals; a collector of medals.	
medallic		Of or pertaining to a medal, or to medals.	
medallion		A large medal or memorial coin.	
medalurgy		The art of making and striking medals and coins.	
meddle	Obsolete	To interest or engage one's self; to have to do; -- Barrow.	Anglo-Norman medler.
meddler		One who meddles; one who interferes or busies himself with things in which he has no concern; an officious person; a busybody.	
meddlesome		Given to meddling; apt to interpose in the affairs of others; officiously intrusive. -- Med"dle*some*ness, n.	
meddling		Meddlesome.	
meddlingly		In a meddling manner.	
mede	Obsolete	A native or inhabitant of Media in Asia. See lst & 2d Mead, and Meed.	
media		pl. of Medium — that which lies in the middle, or between other things; intervening body or quantity.	
mediacy		The state or quality of being mediate.	
mediaeval		Of or relating to the Middle Ages; as, mediæval architecture.	
mediaevalism		The method or spirit of the Middle Ages; devotion to the institutions and practices of the Middle Ages; a survival from the Middle Ages.	
mediaevalist		One who has a taste for, or is versed in, the history of the Middle Ages; one in sympathy with the spirit or forms of the Middle Ages.	
mediaevally		In the manner of the Middle Ages; in accordance with mediævalism.	
mediaevals		The people who lived in the Middle Ages.	
medial		Of or pertaining to a mean or average; mean; as, medial alligation. See 2d Media.	Latin medialis.
medialuna		See Half-moon — the moon at the quarters, when half its disk appears illuminated.	
median		Being in the middle; running through the middle; as, a median groove.	Middle French median, from Latin medianus.
mediant		The third above the keynote; -- so called because it divides the interval between the tonic and dominant into two thirds.	
mediastinal		Of or pertaining to a mediastinum.	
mediastine		A partition; a septum; specifically, the folds of the pleura (and the space included between them) which divide the thorax into a right and left cavity.	
mediastinum		A partition; a septum; specifically, the folds of the pleura (and the space included between them) which divide the thorax into a right and left cavity.	
mediate		Being between the two extremes; middle; interposed; intervening; intermediate.	Latin mediatus.
mediately		In a mediate manner; by a secondary cause or agent; not directly or primarily; by means; -- opposed to immediately.	
mediateness		The state of being mediate.	
mediation		The act of mediating; action or relation of anything interposed; action as a necessary condition, means, or instrument; interposition; intervention.	Latin mediatio.
mediative		Pertaining to mediation; used in mediation; as, mediative efforts.	
mediatization		The act of mediatizing.	
mediatize		To cause to act through an agent or to hold a subordinate position; to annex; -- specifically applied to the annexation during the former German empire of a smaller German state to a larger…	
mediator		One who mediates; especially, one who interposes between parties at variance for the purpose of reconciling them; hence, an intercessor.	Latin mediator.
mediatorial		Of or pertaining to a mediator, or to mediation; mediatory; as, a mediatorial office. -- Me`di*a*to"ri*al*ly, adv.	Latin mediatorius.
mediatorship		The office or character of a mediator.	
mediatory		Mediatorial.	
mediatress		A female mediator.	
mediatrix		A female mediator.	
medic		A leguminous plant of the genus Medicago.	Latin medicus.
medicable		Capable of being medicated; admitting of being cured or healed.	Latin medicabilis.
medical		Of, pertaining to, or having to do with, the art of healing disease, or the science of medicine; as, the medical profession; medical services; a medical dictionary; medical jurisprudence.	
medically		In a medical manner; with reference to healing, or to the principles of the healing art.	
medicament		Anything used for healing diseases or wounds; a medicine; a healing application.	
medicamental		Of or pertaining to medicaments or healing applications; having the qualities of medicaments. -- Med`ica*men"tal*ly, adv.	
medicaster		A quack.	
medicate		To tincture or impregnate with anything medicinal; to drug.	Latin medicatus.
medication		The act or process of medicating.	
medicative		Medicinal; acting like a medicine.	
medicean		Of or relating to the Medici, a noted Italian family; as, the Medicean Venus.	
medicinable	Obsolete	Medicinal; having the power of healing.	Anglo-Norman medicinable.
medicinal		Having curative or palliative properties; used for the cure or alleviation of bodily disorders; as, medicinal tinctures, plants, or springs.	Latin medicinalis.
medicinally		In a medicinal manner.	
medicine		The science which relates to the prevention, cure, or alleviation of disease.	Middle English medicin.
medico-legal		Of or pertaining to law as affected by medical facts.	
medicommissure		A large transverse commissure in the third ventricle of the brain; the middle or soft commissure.	
medicornu		The middle or inferior horn of each lateral ventricle of the brain.	
medics	Obsolete	Science of medicine.	
mediety	Obsolete	The middle part; half; moiety.	Latin medietas.
medieval		Same as Medi, Medi, etc.	
medievalism		Same as Medi, Medi, etc.	
medievalist		Same as Medi, Medi, etc.	
medino		Same as Para.	
mediocral		Mediocre.	
mediocre		Of a middle quality; of but a moderate or low degree of excellence; indifferent; ordinary.	
mediocrist		A mediocre person.	
mediocrity		The quality of being mediocre; a middle state or degree; a moderate degree or rate.	Latin mediocritas.
mediostapedial		Pertaining to that part of the columella of the ear which, in some animals, connects the stapes with the other parts of the columella. -- n.	
medioxumous	Obsolete	Intermediate.	
meditance	Obsolete	Meditation.	
meditate		To keep the mind in a state of contemplation; to dwell on anything in thought; to think seriously; to muse; to cogitate; to reflect.	Latin meditatus.
meditation		The act of meditating; close or continued thought; the turning or revolving of a subject in the mind; serious contemplation; reflection; musing.	Latin meditatio.
meditatist		One who is given to meditation.	
meditative		Disposed to meditate, or to meditation; as, a meditative man; a meditative mood. -- Med i*ta*tive*ness, n.	
mediterranean		Inclosed, or nearly inclosed, with land; as, the Mediterranean Sea, between Europe and Africa.	
medium		That which lies in the middle, or between other things; intervening body or quantity.	Latin medium.
medium-sized		Having a medium size; as, a medium-sized man.	
medius		The third or middle finger; the third digit, or that which corresponds to it.	
medjidie		(a) A silver coin of Turkey formerly rated at twenty, but since 1880 at nineteen, piasters (about 83 cents).	
medjidieh		(a) A silver coin of Turkey formerly rated at twenty, but since 1880 at nineteen, piasters (about 83 cents).	
medlar		A tree of the genus Mespilus (M.	
medle	Obsolete	To mix; to mingle; to meddle.	
medley		A mixture; a mingled and confused mass of ingredients, usually inharmonious; a jumble; a hodgepodge; -- often used contemptuously.	Middle English medle, from Anglo-Norman medlee.
medly		See Medle — to mix; to mingle; to meddle.	
medoc		A class of claret wines, including several varieties, from the district of Médoc in the department of Gironde.	
medregal		See Bonito, 3.	
medrick		A species of gull or tern.	
medulla		(Anat.) The marrow of bones; the deep or inner portion of an organ or part; as, the medulla, or medullary substance, of the kidney; specifically, the medula oblongata.	
medullar		See Medullary — (Anat.) (a) Pertaining to, consisting of, or resembling, marrow or medulla.	
medullary		(Anat.) (a) Pertaining to, consisting of, or resembling, marrow or medulla.	
medullated		Furnished with a medulla or marrow, or with a medullary sheath; as, a medullated nerve fiber.	
medullin		A variety of lignin or cellulose found in the medulla, or pith, of certain plants.	
medusa		(Zoöl.) Any free swimming acaleph; a jellyfish.	
medusian		A medusa.	
medusiform		Resembling a medusa in shape or structure.	
medusoid		Like a medusa; having the fundamental structure of a medusa, but without a locomotive disk; -- said of the sessile gonophores of hydroids. -- n.	
meech	Obsolete	See Mich — to lie hid; to skulk; to act, or carry one's self, sneakingly.	
meed		That which is bestowed or rendered in consideration of merit; reward; recompense.	Middle English meden.
meedful		Worthy of meed, reward, or recompense; meritorious.	Middle English medeful.
meedfully		According to merit; suitably.	Middle English medefully.
meek		Mild of temper; not easily provoked or orritated; patient under injuries; not vain, or haughty, or resentful; forbearing; submissive.	Middle English meek.
meeken	Obsolete	To make meek; to nurture in gentleness and humility.	
meekly		In a meek manner.	
meekness		The quality or state of being meek.	
meer	Obsolete	Simple; unmixed. See Mere, a. See Mere, a lake.	
meerkat		A South African carnivore (Cynictis penicillata), allied to the ichneumons.	Afrikaans meerkat.
meerschaum		(Min.) A fine white claylike mineral, soft, and light enough when in dry masses to float in water.	
meet		To join, or come in contact with; esp., to come in contact with by approach from an opposite direction; to come upon or against, front to front, as distinguished from contact by following and overtaking.	Middle English meten, from Old English metan.
meeten		To render fit.	
meeter		One who meets.	
meeth	Obsolete	, Mead. See Meathe.	
meeting		A coming together; an assembling; as, the meeting of Congress.	
meetinghouse		A house used as a place of worship; a church; -- in England, applied only to a house so used by Dissenters.	
meetly		Fitly; suitably; properly.	
meetness		Fitness; suitableness; propriety.	
meg-		Combining forms signifying: (a) Great, extended, powerful; as, megascope, megacosm.	
mega		Combining forms signifying: (a) Great, extended, powerful; as, megascope, megacosm.	
megacephalic		Large headed; -- applied to animals, and to plants when they have large flower heads.	
megacephalous		Large headed; -- applied to animals, and to plants when they have large flower heads.	
megaceros		The Irish elk.	
megachile		A leaf-cutting bee of the genus Megachilus. See Leaf cutter, under Leaf.	
megacosm		See Macrocosm — the great world; that part of the universe which is exterior to man; -- contrasted with microcosm, or man.	French mégacosme.
megacoulomb		A million coulombs.	
megaderm		Any one of several species of Old World blood-sucking bats of the genus Megaderma.	
megadyne		One of the larger measures of force, amounting to one million dynes.	
megafarad		One of the larger measures of electrical capacity, amounting to one million farads; a macrofarad.	
megalerg		A million ergs; a megerg.	
megalesian		Pertaining to, or in honor of, Cybele; as, the Megalesian games at Rome.	
megalethoscope		An optical apparatus in which pictures are viewed through a large lens with stereoptical effects.	
megalith		A large stone; especially, a large stone used in ancient building. -- Meg`a*lith"ic, a.	
megalo-		Combining forms signifying: (a) Great, extended, powerful; as, megascope, megacosm.	Greek μέγας.
megalocephalia		The condition of having an abnormally large head. -- Meg`a*lo*ce*phal"ic (#), a.	
megalocephaly		The condition of having an abnormally large head. -- Meg`a*lo*ce*phal"ic (#), a.	
megalocyte		A large, flattened corpuscle, twice the diameter of the ordinary red corpuscle, found in considerable numbers in the blood in profound anæmia.	
megalomania		A form of mental alienation in which the patient has grandiose delusions.	
megalonyx		An extinct quaternary mammal, of great size, allied to the sloth.	
megalophonous		Having a loud voice.	
megalopolis		A chief city; a metropolis.	
megalops		A larva, in a stage following the zoëa, in the development of most crabs.	
megalopsychy	Obsolete	Greatness of soul.	
megalosaur		A gigantic carnivorous dinosaur, whose fossil remains have been found in England and elsewhere.	
megalosaurus		A gigantic carnivorous dinosaur, whose fossil remains have been found in England and elsewhere.	
megameter		An instrument for determining longitude by observation of the stars.	
megametre		In the metric system, one million meters, or one thousand kilometers.	
megampere		A million ampères.	
megaphone		A device to magnify sound, or direct it in a given direction in a greater volume, as a very large funnel used as an ear trumpet or as a speaking trumpet.	
megaphyton		An extinct genus of tree ferns with large, two-ranked leaves, or fronds.	
megapode		Any one of several species of large-footed, gallinaceous birds of the genera Megapodius and Leipoa, inhabiting Australia and other Pacific islands.	
megapolis	Obsolete	A metropolis.	
megarian		Belonging, or pertaining, to Megara, a city of ancient Greece.	
megaric		Belonging, or pertaining, to Megara, a city of ancient Greece.	
megascope		A modification of the magic lantern, used esp. for throwing a magnified image of an opaque object on a screen, solar or artificial light being used.	
megascopic		(Physics) Of or pertaining to the megascope or the projection upon a screen of images of opaque objects.	
megascopical		(Physics) Of or pertaining to the megascope or the projection upon a screen of images of opaque objects.	
megaseme		Having the orbital index relatively large; having the orbits narrow transversely; -- opposed to microseme.	
megass		See Bagasse — sugar cane, as it	
megasse		See Bagasse — sugar cane, as it	
megasthene		One of a group which includes the higher orders of mammals, having a large size as a typical characteristic.	
megasthenic		Having a typically large size; belonging to the megasthenes.	
megastome		One of a group of univalve shells, having a large aperture or mouth.	
megathere		An extinct gigantic quaternary mammal, allied to the ant-eaters and sloths.	
megatherium		An extinct gigantic quaternary mammal, allied to the ant-eaters and sloths.	
megatheroid		One of a family of extinct edentates found in America.	
megavolt		One of the larger measures of electro-motive force, amounting to one million volts.	
megaweber		A million webers.	
megerg		One of the larger measures of work, amounting to one million ergs; -- called also megalerg.	
megilp		A gelatinous compound of linseed oil and mastic varnish, used by artists as a vehicle for colors.	
megilph		A gelatinous compound of linseed oil and mastic varnish, used by artists as a vehicle for colors.	
megohm		One of the larger measures of electrical resistance, amounting to one million ohms.	
megrim		A kind of sick or nevrous headache, usually periodical and confined to one side of the head.	French migraigne.
meibomian		Of, pertaining to, or discovered by, Meibomius.	
meine	Obsolete	A family, including servants, etc.; household; retinue; train.	
meiny	Obsolete	A family, including servants, etc.; household; retinue; train.	
meiocene		See Miocene — of or pertaining to the middle division of the Tertiary. -- n.	
meionite		A member of the scapolite, group, occuring in glassy crystals on Monte Somma, near Naples.	
meiosis		Diminution; a species of hyperbole, representing a thing as being less than it really is.	
meiostemonous		Having fever stamens than the parts of the corolla.	
meistersinger		See Mastersinger — one of a class of poets which flourished in Nuremberg and some other cities of Germany in the 15th and 16th centuries.	
mekhitarist		See Mechitarist — one of a religious congregation of the Roman Catholic Church devoted to the improvement of Armenians.	
melaconite		An earthy black oxide of copper, arising from the decomposition of other ores.	
melada		A mixture of sugar and molasses; crude sugar as it comes from the pans without being drained.	
melado		A mixture of sugar and molasses; crude sugar as it comes from the pans without being drained.	
melaena		A discharge from the bowels of black matter, consisting of altered blood.	
melain		The dark coloring matter of the liquid of the cuttlefish.	
melainotype		See Melanotype — a positive picture produced with sensitized collodion on a smooth surface of black varnish, coating a thin plate of iron; also, the process of making such a picture.	
melam		A white or buff-colored granular powder,	
melamine		A strong nitrogenous base, C3H6N6, produced from several cyanogen compounds, and obtained as a white crystalline substance, -- formerly supposed to be produced by the decomposition of melam.	
melampode	Obsolete	The black hellebore.	
melampyrin		The saccharine substance dulcite; -- so called because found in the leaves of cowwheat (Melampyrum).	
melampyrite		The saccharine substance dulcite; -- so called because found in the leaves of cowwheat (Melampyrum).	
melanaemia		A morbid condition in which the blood contains black pigment either floating freely or imbedded in the white blood corpuscles.	
melanagogue	Obsolete	A medicine supposed to expel black bile or choler.	
melancholia		A kind of mental unsoundness characterized by extreme depression of spirits, ill-grounded fears, delusions, and brooding over one particular subject or train of ideas.	Latin melancholia.
melancholian	Obsolete	A person affected with melancholy; a melancholic.	
melancholic		Given to melancholy; depressed; melancholy; dejected; unhappy.	Greek μελαγχολικός.
melancholily		In a melancholy manner.	
melancholiness		The state or quality of being melancholy.	
melancholious		Melancholy.	
melancholist	Obsolete	One affected with melancholy or dejection.	
melancholize		To become gloomy or dejected in mind.	
melancholy		Depression of spirits; a gloomy state continuing a considerable time; deep dejection; gloominess.	Greek μελαγχολία.
melanconiaceae		A family of fungi constituting the order Melanconiales. -- Mel`an*co`ni*a"ceous (#), a.	
melanconiales		The smallest of the three orders of Fungi Imperfecti, including those with no asci nor pycnidia, but as a rule having the spores in cavities without special walls.	
melanesian		Of or pertaining to Melanesia.	
melange		A mixture; a medley.	French mélange, from Middle French mélange.
melanian		One of a family of fresh-water pectinibranchiate mollusks, having a turret-shaped shell.	
melanic		(Ethnol.) Of or pertaining to the black-haired races.	
melaniline		A complex nitrogenous hydrocarbon obtained artificially (as by the action of cyanogen chloride on aniline) as a white, crystalline substance; -- called also diphenyl guanidin.	
melanin		A black pigment found in the pigment-bearing cells of the skin (particularly in the skin of the negro), in the epithelial cells of the external layer of the retina (then called fuscin), in the outer layer of the choroid…	
melanism		An indue development of dark-colored pigment in the skin or its appendages; -- the opposite of albinism.	
melanistic		Affected with melanism; of the nature of melanism.	
melanite		A black variety of garnet.	
melanochroi		A group of the human race, including the dark whites.	
melanochroic		Having a dark complexion; of or pertaining to the Melanochroi.	
melanochroite		A mineral of a red, or brownish or yellowish red color.	
melanocomous		Having very dark or black hair; black-haired.	
melanoma		(a) A tumor containing dark pigment. (b) Development of dark-pigmented tumors.	
melanorrhoea		An East Indian genus of large trees.	
melanoscope		An instrument containing a combination of colored glasses such that they transmit only red light, so that objects of other colors, as green leaves, appear black when seen through it.	
melanosis		The morbid deposition of black matter, often of a malignant character, causing pigmented tumors.	
melanosperm		An alga of any kind that produces blackish spores, or seed dust.	
melanotic		, Melanistic.	
melanotype		A positive picture produced with sensitized collodion on a smooth surface of black varnish, coating a thin plate of iron; also, the process of making such a picture.	
melanterite		A hydrous sulphate of iron of a green color and vitreous luster; iron vitriol.	
melanure		A small fish of the Mediterranean; a gilthead. See Gilthead (a).	Greek μελάνουρος.
melanuric		Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acid obtained by decomposition of melam, or of urea, as a white crystalline powder; -- called also melanurenic acid.	
melaphyre		Any one of several dark-colored augitic, eruptive rocks allied to basalt.	
melasma		A dark discoloration of the skin, usually local; as, Addison's melasma, or Addison's disease. -- Me*las"mic, a.	
melasses		See Molasses — the thick, brown or dark colored, viscid, uncrystallizable sirup which drains from sugar, in the process of manufacture; any thick, viscid, sweet sirup made from vegetable juice or sap…	
melassic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from molasses or glucose, and probably identical with saccharic acid.	
melastoma		A genus of evergreen tropical shrubs; -- so called from the black berries of some species, which stain the mouth.	
melastomaceous		Belonging to the order of which Melastoma is the type.	
melchite		One of a sect, chiefly in Syria and Egypt, which acknowledges the authority of the pope, but adheres to the liturgy and ceremonies of the Eastern Church.	
meld		In the game of pinochle, to declare or announce for a score; as, to meld a sequence.	
meleagrine		Of or pertaining to the genus Meleagris.	
meleagris		A genus of American gallinaceous birds, including the common and the wild turkeys.	
melee		A fight in which the combatants are mingled	
melena		See Mel.	
melene		An unsaturated hydrocarbon, C30H60, of the ethylene series, obtained from beeswax as a white, scaly, crystalline wax; -- called also melissene, and melissylene.	
melenite		An explosive of great destructive power; -- so called from its color, which resembles honey.	
meletin		See Quercitin — a yellow crystalline substance, occurring quite widely distributed in the vegetable kingdom, as is apple-tree bark, horse- chestnut leaves, etc.…	
melezitose		A variety of sugar, isomeric with sucrose, extracted from the manna of the larch (Larix).	French mélèze.
meliaceous		Pertaining to a natural order (Meliacæ) of plants of which the genus Melia is the type.	
melibean		Alternately responsive, as verses.	
meliboean		Alternately responsive, as verses.	
melic		Of or pertaining to song; lyric; tuneful.	
melicerous		Consisting of or containing matter like honey; -- said of certain encysted tumors.	
melicotoon		See Melocoton — (a) A quince. (b) A kind of peach having one side deep red, and the flesh yellow.	
melicratory	Obsolete	A meadlike drink.	
melilite		A mineral occurring in small yellow crystals, found in the lavas (melilite basalt) of Vesuvius, and elsewhere.	
melilot		Any species of Melilotus, a genus of leguminous herbs having a vanillalike odor; sweet clover; hart's clover.	Latin melilotos, from Greek μελίλωτος.
melilotic		Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, sweet clover or meliot; specifically, designating an acid of the aromatic series, obtained from melilot as a white crystalline substance.	
melinite		A high explosive similar to lyddite, consisting principally of picric acid, used in the French military service.	
meliorate		To make better; to improve; to ameliorate; to soften; to make more tolerable.	
meliorater		Same as Meliorator.	
melioration		The act or operation of meliorating, or the state of being meliorated; improvement.	
meliorator		One who meliorates.	
meliorism		The doctrine that there is a tendency throughout nature toward improvement.	
meliority	Obsolete	The state or quality of being better; melioration.	Latin melioritas.
meliphagan		Belonging to the genus Meliphaga.	
meliphagous		Eating, or feeding upon, honey.	
melisma		(a) A piece of melody; a song or tune, -- as opposed to recitative or musical declamation.	Greek μέλισμα.
melissa		A genus of labiate herbs, including the balm, or bee balm (Melissa officinalis).	Latin melissa, from Greek μέλισσα.
melissic		Pertaining to, or derived from, beeswax; specif., denoting an acid obtained by oxidation of myricin.	
melissyl		See Myricyl — a hypothetical radical regarded as the essential residue of myricin; -- called also melissyl.	
melissylene		See Melene — an unsaturated hydrocarbon, C30H60, of the ethylene series, obtained from beeswax as a white, scaly, crystalline wax; -- called also melissene, and melissylene.	
melitose		A variety of sugar isomeric with sucrose, extracted from cotton seeds and from the so-called Australian manna (a secretion of certain species of Eucalyptus).	
mell	Obsolete	To mix; to meddle.	Old French meller.
mellate		A mellitate.	
mellay		A mêlée; a conflict.	
mellic		See Mellitic — (a) Containing saccharine matter; marked by saccharine secretions; as, mellitic diabetes.	
melliferous		Producing honey.	
mellific		Producing honey.	Latin mel.
mellification		The making or production of honey.	
mellifluence		A flow of sweetness, or a sweet, smooth flow.	
mellifluent		Flowing as with honey; smooth; mellifluous.	
mellifluently		In a mellifluent manner.	
mellifluous		Flowing as with honey; smooth; flowing sweetly or smoothly; as, a mellifluous voice. -- Mel*lif"lu*ous*ly, adv.	Latin mellifluus.
melligenous		Having the qualities of honey.	Latin mel.
melligo		Honeydew.	
melliloquent		Speaking sweetly or harmoniously.	Latin mel.
melliphagan		See Meliphagan — belonging to the genus Meliphaga.	
melliphagous		See Meliphagous — eating, or feeding upon, honey.	
mellitate		A salt of mellitic acid.	
mellite		A mineral of a honey color, found in brown coal, and partly the result of vegetable decomposition; honeystone.	
mellitic		(a) Containing saccharine matter; marked by saccharine secretions; as, mellitic diabetes.	
mellone		A yellow powder, C6H3N9, obtained from certain sulphocyanates.	
mellonide		See Mellone — a yellow powder, C6H3N9, obtained from certain sulphocyanates.	
mellow		Soft or tender by reason of ripeness; having a tender pulp; as, a mellow apple.	Middle English melowe.
mellowly		In a mellow manner.	
mellowness		Quality or state of being mellow.	
mellowy		Soft; unctuous.	
melluco		A climbing plant (Ullucus officinalis) of the Andes, having tuberous roots which are used as a substitute for potatoes.	
melocoton		(a) A quince. (b) A kind of peach having one side deep red, and the flesh yellow.	
melocotoon		(a) A quince. (b) A kind of peach having one side deep red, and the flesh yellow.	
melodeon		(Mus.) A kind of small reed organ; -- a portable form of the seraphine.	
melodic		Of the nature of melody; relating to, containing, or made up of, melody; melodious.	
melodics		The department of musical science which treats of the pitch of tones, and of the laws of melody.	
melodiograph		A contrivance for preserving a record of music, by recording the action of the keys of a musical instrument when played upon.	
melodious		Containing, or producing, melody; musical; agreeable to the ear by a sweet succession of sounds; as, a melodious voice. -- Me*lo di*ous*ness, n.	
melodist		A composer or singer of melodies.	
melodize		To make melodious; to form into, or set to, melody.	
melodrama		Formerly, a kind of drama having a musical accompaniment to intensify the effect of certain scenes.	French mélodrame.
melodramatic		Of or pertaining to melodrama; like or suitable to a melodrama; unnatural in situation or action. -- Mel`o*dra*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.	
melodramatist		One who acts in, or writes, melodramas.	
melodrame		Melodrama.	
melody		A sweet or agreeable succession of sounds.	Middle English melodie, from Old French melodie, from Latin melodia, from Greek μελῳδία.
meloe		A genus of beetles without wings, but having short oval elytra; the oil beetles.	
melograph		Same as Melodiograph.	
melolonthidian		A beetle of the genus Melolontha, and allied genera. See May beetle, under May.	
melon		(Bot.) The juicy fruit of certain cucurbitaceous plants, as the muskmelon, watermelon, and citron melon; also, the plant that produces the fruit.	Old French melon, from Latin melonem.
melopiano		A piano having a mechanical attachment which enables the player to prolong the notes at will.	
meloplastic		Of or pertaining to meloplasty, or the artificial formation of a new cheek.	
meloplasty		The process of restoring a cheek which has been destroyed wholly or in part.	
melopoeia		The art of forming melody; melody; -- now often used for a melodic passage, rather than a complete melody.	Greek μελοποιΐα.
melotype		A picture produced by a process in which development after exposure may be deferred indefinitely, so as to permit transportation of exposed plates; also, the process itself.	
melpomene		(Astron.) The eighteenth asteroid.	
melrose		Honey of roses.	
melt		To reduce from a solid to a liquid state, as by heat; to liquefy; as, to mell wax, tallow, or lead; to melt ice or snow.	Old English meltan.
meltable		Capable of being melted.	
melter		, One who, or that which, melts.	
melting		Liquefaction; the act of causing (something) to melt, or the process of becoming melted.	
melton		A kind of stout woolen cloth with unfinished face and without raised nap.	
melungeon		One of a mixed white and Indian people living in parts of Tennessee and the Carolinas.	
mem-sahib		Lady; mistress; -- used by Hindustani-speaking natives in India in addressing European women.	
member		(Anat.) A part of an animal capable of performing a distinct office; an organ; a limb.	Middle English membre, from Old French membre, from Latin membrum.
membered		Having limbs; -- chiefly used in composition.	
membership		The collective body of members, as of a society.	
membral		Relating to a member.	
membranaceous		(Bot.) Thin and rather soft or pliable, as the leaves of the rose, peach tree, and aspen poplar.	Latin membranaceus.
membrane		A thin layer or fold of tissue, usually supported by a fibrous network, serving to cover or line some part or organ, and often secreting or absorbing certain fluids.	Latin membrana.
membraneous		See Membranous — pertaining to, consisting of, or resembling, membrane; as, a membranous covering or lining.	
membraniferous		Having or producing membranes.	
membraniform		Having the form of a membrane or of parchment.	
membranology		The science which treats of membranes.	
membranous		Pertaining to, consisting of, or resembling, membrane; as, a membranous covering or lining.	French membraneux, from Latin membraneus.
memento		A hint, suggestion, token, or memorial, to awaken memory; that which reminds or recalls to memory; a souvenir.	
meminna		A small deerlet, or chevrotain, of India.	
memnon		A celebrated Egyptian statue near Thebes, said to have the property of emitting a harplike sound at sunrise.	
memoir		A memorial account; a history composed from personal experience and memory; an account of transactions or events (usually written in familiar style) as they are remembered by the writer.	French mémoire, from Latin memoria.
memoirist		A writer of memoirs.	
memoirs		A memorial account; a history composed from personal experience and memory; an account of transactions or events (usually written in familiar style) as they are remembered by the writer.	
memorabilia		Things remarkable and worthy of remembrance or record; also, the record of them.	
memorability		The quality or state of being memorable.	
memorable		Worthy to be remembered; very important or remarkable. -- Mem o*ra*bly, adv.	Latin memorabilis.
memorandum		A record of something which it is desired to remember; a note to help the memory.	Latin memorandum.
memorate	Obsolete	To commemorate.	Latin memoratus.
memorative	Obsolete	Commemorative.	
memorial		Serving to preserve remembrance; commemorative; as, a memorial building.	Latin memoriale.
memorialist		One who writes or signs a memorial.	
memorialize		To address or petition by a memorial; to present a memorial to; as, to memorialize the legislature.	
memorializer		One who petitions by a memorial.	
memorist	Obsolete	One who, or that which, causes to be remembered.	
memoriter		By, or from, memory.	
memorize	Obsolete	To cause to be remembered; hence, to record.	
memory		The faculty of the mind by which it retains the knowledge of previous thoughts, impressions, or events.	Anglo-Norman memorie.
memphian		Of or pertaining to the ancient city of Memphis in Egypt; hence, Egyptian; as, Memphian darkness.	
men	Obsolete	pl. of Man — a human being; -- opposed tobeast.	
men-pleaser		One whose motive is to please men or the world, rather than God.	
menaccanite		An iron-black or steel-gray mineral, consisting chiefly of the oxides of iron and titanium.	
menace		The show of an intention to inflict evil; a threat or threatening; indication of a probable evil or catastrophe to come.	
menacer		One who menaces.	
menacingly		In a threatening manner.	
menage	Obsolete	See Manage — to have under control and direction; to conduct; to guide; to administer; to treat; to handle.	
menagerie		A piace where animals are kept and trained.	French ménagerie.
menagogue		Emmenagogue.	French ménagogue.
menaion		A work of twelve volumes, each containing the offices in the Greek Church for a month; also, each volume of the same.	
menald	Obsolete	Covered with spots; speckled; variegated.	
mend		To repair, as anything that is torn, broken, defaced, decayed, or the like; to restore from partial decay, injury, or defacement; to patch up; to put in shape or order again; to re-create; as, to mend a garment or a machine.	Middle English menden.
mendable		Capable of being mended.	
mendacious		Given to deception or falsehood; lying; as, a mendacious person.	Middle French mendacieux, from Latin mendacium.
mendacity		The quality or state of being mendacious; a habit of lying.	
mendelian		Pert. to Mendel, or to Mendel's law. -- Men*de ism (#), n.	
mender		One who mends or repairs.	
mendiant	Obsolete	See Mendinant — a mendicant or begging friar.	
mendicancy		The condition of being mendicant; beggary; begging.	
mendicant		Practicing beggary; begging; living on alms; as, mendicant friars.	Latin mendicans.
mendication		The act or practice of begging; beggary; mendicancy.	
mendicity		The practice of begging; the life of a beggar; mendicancy.	
mendinant	Obsolete	A mendicant or begging friar.	
mendment	Obsolete	Amendment.	
mendole		The cackerel.	
mendregal		Medregal.	
mends	Obsolete	See Amends — compensation for a loss or injury; recompense; reparation.	
menhaden		An American marine fish of the Herring familt (Brevoortia tyrannus), chiefly valuable for its oil and as a component of fertilizers; -- called also mossbunker, bony fish, chebog, pogy, hardhead, whitefish, etc.	Narragansett munnawhatteaug.
menhir		A large stone set upright in olden times as a memorial or monument.	Breton maen-hir.
menial		Belonging to a retinue or train of servants; performing servile office; serving.	Middle English meinial, from Anglo-Norman meignial.
menild	Obsolete	Covered with spots; speckled; variegated.	
menilite		See Opal — a mineral consisting, like quartz, of silica, but inferior to quartz in hardness and specific gravity.	French ménilite.
meningeal		Of or pertaining to the meninges.	
meninges		The three membranes that envelop the brain and spinal cord; the pia mater, dura mater, and arachnoid membrane.	
meningitis		Inflammation of the membranes of the brain or spinal cord.	
meniscal		Pertaining to, or having the form of, a meniscus.	
meniscoid		Concavo-convex, like a meniscus.	
meniscus		(Opt.) A lens convex on one side and concave on the other.	Greek μηνίσκος.
menispermaceous		Pertaining to a natural order (Menispermaceæ) of climbing plants of which moonseed (Menispermum) is the type.	
menispermic		Pertaining to, or obtained from, moonseed (Menispermum), or other plants of the same family, as the Anamirta Cocculus.	
menispermine		An alkaloid distinct from picrotoxin and obtained from the cocculus indicus (the fruit of Anamirta Cocculus, formerly Menispermum Cocculus) as a white, crystalline, tasteless powder; -- called also menispermina.	
meniver		Same as Miniver.	
mennonist		One of a small denomination of Christians, so called from Menno Simons of Friesland, their founder.	
mennonite		One of a small denomination of Christians, so called from Menno Simons of Friesland, their founder.	
menobranch		A large aquatic American salamander of the genus Necturus, having permanent external gills.	
menobranchus		A large aquatic American salamander of the genus Necturus, having permanent external gills.	
menologium		(Gr. Church) A brief calendar of the lives of the saints for each day in the year, or a simple remembrance of those whose lives are not written.	
menology		(Gr. Church) A brief calendar of the lives of the saints for each day in the year, or a simple remembrance of those whose lives are not written.	
menopause		The period of natural cessation of menstruation. See Change of life, under Change.	Latin menopausis.
menopoma		The hellbender.	
menopome		The hellbender.	
menorrhagia		(a) Profuse menstruation. (b) Any profuse bleeding from the uterus; Metrorrhagia.	
menostasis		Stoppage of the mences.	
menostation		Same as Menostasis.	
menow		A minnow.	
mensal		Belonging to the table; transacted at table; as, mensa conversation.	
mense	English dialect	Manliness; dignity; comeliness; civility. -- Mense less, a.	
menses		The catamenial or menstrual discharge, a periodic flow of blood or bloody fluid from the uterus or female generative organs.	Latin mensis.
menstrual		Recurring once a month; monthly; gone through in a month; as, the menstrual revolution of the moon; pertaining to monthly changes; as, the menstrual equation of the sun's place.	Middle English menstruall, from Latin menstrualis.
menstruant		Subject to monthly flowing or menses.	
menstruate	Obsolete	Menstruous.	
menstruation		The discharge of the menses; also, the state or the period of menstruating.	
menstrue	Obsolete	The menstrual flux; menses.	
menstruous		Having the monthly flow or discharge; menstruating.	Anglo-Norman menstruus.
menstruum		Any substance which dissolves a solid body; a solvent.	Latin menstruum.
mensurability		The quality of being mensurable.	
mensurable		Capable of being measured; measurable.	
mensurableness		The quality or state of being mensurable; measurableness.	
mensural		Of or pertaining to measure.	
mensurate	Obsolete	To measure.	Latin mensuratus.
mensuration		The act, process, or art, of measuring.	
ment		of Menge.	
mentagra		Sycosis.	
mental		Of or pertaining to the chin; genian; as, the mental nerve; the mental region.	Middle French mental, from Latin mentalis.
mentality		Quality or state of mind.	
mentally		In the mind; in thought or meditation; intellectually; in idea.	
mentha		A widely distributed genus of fragrant herbs, including the peppermint, spearmint, etc. The plants have small flowers, usually arranged in dense axillary clusters.	
menthene		A colorless liquid hydrocarbon resembling oil of turpentine, obtained by dehydrating menthol.	
menthol		A white, crystalline, aromatic substance resembling camphor, extracted from oil of peppermint (Mentha); -- called also mint camphor or peppermint camphor.	
menthyl		A compound radical forming the base of menthol.	
menticultural		Of or pertaining to mental culture; serving to improve or strengthen the mind.	
mention		A speaking or notice of anything, -- usually in a brief or cursory manner.	Old French mention, from Latin mentio.
mentionable		Fit to be mentioned.	
mentomeckelian		Of or pertaining to the chin and lower jaw. -- n.	
mentor		A wise and faithful counselor or monitor.	French mentor, from Greek Μέντωρ.
mentorial		Containing advice or admonition.	
mentum		The front median plate of the labium in insects. See Labium.	Latin mentum.
menu		The details of a banquet; a bill of fare.	French menu, from Latin minutus.
menuse	Obsolete	See Amenuse — to lessen.	
meow		See 6th and 7th Mew.	
mephistophelian		Pertaining to, or resembling, the devil Mephistopheles, devilish; crafty.	
mephitic		Tending to destroy life; poisonous; noxious; as, mephitic exhalations; mephitic regions.	
mephitical		Tending to destroy life; poisonous; noxious; as, mephitic exhalations; mephitic regions.	
mephitis		Noxious, pestilential, or foul exhalations from decomposing substances, filth, or other source.	
mephitism		Same as Mephitis, 1.	
meracious	Obsolete	Being without mixture or adulteration; hence, strong; racy.	Latin meracus.
mercable	Obsolete	Capable of being bought or sold.	Latin mercabilis.
mercantile		Of or pertaining to merchants, or the business of merchants; having to do with trade, or the buying and selling of commodities; commercial.	
mercaptal		Any one of a series of compounds of mercaptans with aldehydes.	
mercaptan		Any one of series of compounds, hydrosulphides of alcohol radicals, in composition resembling the alcohols, but containing sulphur in place of oxygen, and hence called also the sulphur alcohols.	German Mercaptan.
mercaptide		A compound of mercaptan formed by replacing its sulphur hydrogen by a metal; as, potassium mercaptide, C2H5SK.	
mercat	Obsolete	Market; trade.	
mercatante	Obsolete	A foreign trader.	
mercature	Obsolete	Commerce; traffic; trade.	
merce	Obsolete	To subject to fine or amercement; to mulct; to amerce.	
mercenaria		The quahog.	
mercenarian	Obsolete	A mercenary.	
mercenarily		In a mercenary manner.	
mercenariness		The quality or state of being mercenary; venality.	
mercenary		Acting for reward; serving for pay; paid; hired; hireling; venal; as, mercenary soldiers.	Latin mercenarius.
mercer		Originally, a dealer in any kind of goods or wares; now restricted to a dealer in textile fabrics, as silks or woolens.	Anglo-Norman marcer.
mercerize		To treat (cotton fiber or fabrics) with a solution of caustic alkali.	
mercership		The business of a mercer.	
mercery		The trade of mercers; the goods in which a mercer deals.	French mercerie.
merchand	Obsolete	To traffic.	French marchander.
merchandisable		Such as can be used or transferred as merchandise.	
merchandise		The objects of commerce; whatever is usually bought or sold in trade, or market, or by merchants; wares; goods; commodities.	Anglo-Norman marchaundise.
merchandiser		A trader.	
merchandry	Obsolete	Trade; commerce.	
merchant		One who traffics on a large scale, especially with foreign countries; a trafficker; a trader.	Middle English marchant, from Anglo-Norman marchant, from Latin mercans.
merchantable		Fit for market; such as is usually sold in market, or such as will bring the ordinary price; as, merchantable wheat; sometimes, a technical designation for a particular kind or class.	
merchantly	Obsolete	Merchantlike; suitable to the character or business of a merchant.	
merchantman		A trading vessel; a ship employed in the transportation of goods, as, distinguished from a man-of-war.	
merchantry		The body of merchants taken collectively; as, the merchantry of a country.	
merchet		In old English and in Scots law, a fine paid to the lord of the soil by a tenant upon the marriage of one the tenant's daughters.	
merciable	Obsolete	Merciful.	
merciful		Full of mercy; having or exercising mercy; disposed to pity and spare offenders; unwilling to punish.	
mercify	Obsolete	To pity.	
merciless		Destitute of mercy; cruel; unsparing; -- said of animate beings, and also, figuratively, of things; as, a merciless tyrant; merciless waves.	
mercurammonium		A radical regarded as derived from ammonium by the substitution of mercury for a portion of the hydrogen.	
mercurial		Having the qualities fabled to belong to the god Mercury; swift; active; sprightly; fickle; volatile; changeable; as, a mercurial youth; a mercurial temperament.	
mercurialism		The morbid condition produced by the excessive use of mercury, or by exposure to its fumes, as in mining or smelting.	
mercurialist		One under the influence of Mercury; one resembling Mercury in character.	
mercurialize		(Med.) To affect with mercury.	
mercurially		In a mercurial manner.	
mercuric		Of, pertaining to, or derived from, mercury; containing mercury; -- said of those compounds of mercury into which this element enters in its lowest proportion.	
mercurification		(Metal.) The process or operation of obtaining the mercury, in its fluid form, from mercuric minerals.	
mercurify		To obtain mercury from, as mercuric minerals, which may be done by any application of intense heat that expels the mercury in fumes, which are afterward condensed.	
mercurism	Obsolete	A communication of news; an announcement.	
mercurous		Of, pertaining to, or derived from, mercury; containing mercury; -- said of those compounds of mercury in which it is present in its highest proportion.	
mercury		(Chem.) A metallic element mostly obtained by reduction from cinnabar, one of its ores.	
mercy		Forbearance to inflict harm under circumstances of provocation, when one has the power to inflict it; compassionate treatment of an offender or adversary; clemency.	Middle English merci, from Anglo-Norman merci, from Latin mercedem.
merd	Obsolete	Ordure; dung.	French merde.
mere		Unmixed; pure; entire; absolute; unqualified.	Old English mere.
merely		Purely; unmixedly; absolutely.	
merenchyma		Tissue composed of spheroidal cells.	
meresman		An officer who ascertains meres or boundaries.	
merestead	Archaic	The land within the boundaries of a farm; a farmstead or farm.	
merestone		A stone designating a limit or boundary; a landmark.	
meretricious		Of or pertaining to prostitutes; having to do with harlots; lustful; as, meretricious traffic.	Latin meretricius.
merganser		Any bird of the genus Merganser, and allied genera.	Latin mergus.
merge		To cause to be swallowed up; to immerse; to sink; to absorb.	Latin mergere.
merger		One who, or that which, merges.	
mericarp		One carpel of an umbelliferous fruit. See Cremocarp.	
meride		A permanent colony of cells or plastids which may remain isolated, like Rotifer, or may multiply by gemmation to form higher aggregates, termed zoides.	French méride, from Greek μερίς.
meridian		Being at, or pertaining to, midday; belonging to, or passing through, the highest point attained by the sun in his diurnal course.	
meridional		Of or pertaining to the meridian.	French meridional, from Latin meridionalis.
meridionality		The state of being in the meridian.	
meridionally		In the direction of the meridian.	
merils		A boy's play, called also fivepenny morris. See Morris.	French mérelle.
meringue		A delicate pastry made of powdered sugar and the whites of eggs whipped up, -- with jam or cream added.	French meringue, from Middle Dutch meringue.
merino		Of or pertaining to a variety of sheep with very fine wool, originally bred in Spain.	
merismatic		Dividing into cells or segments; characterized by separation into two or more parts or sections by the formation of internal partitions; as, merismatic growth, where one cell divides into many.	
meristem		A tissue of growing cells, or cells capable of further division.	
merit		The quality or state of deserving well or ill; desert.	Middle English merite, from Old French merite, from Latin meritum.
meritable		Deserving of reward.	
meritedly		By merit; deservedly.	
merithal		Same as Internode.	
merithallus		Same as Internode.	
meritmonger	Obsolete	One who depends on merit for salvation.	
meritorious		Possessing merit; deserving of reward or honor; worthy of recompense; valuable.	
meritory	Obsolete	Meritorious.	
meritot		A play of children, in swinging on ropes, or the like, till they are dizzy.	
merk	Scots	An old Scotch silver coin; a mark or marc.	
merkin		Originally, a wig; afterwards, a mop for cleaning cannon.	
merl		The European blackbird. See Blackbird.	
merle		The European blackbird. See Blackbird.	
merlin		A small European falcon (Falco lithofalco, or F. æsalon).	
merling		The European whiting.	French merlanke, from Latin merula.
merlon		One of the solid parts of a battlemented parapet; a battlement. See Illust. of Battlement.	
merluce		The European hake; -- called also herring hake and sea pike.	French merluche.
mermaid		A fabled marine creature, typically represented as having the upper part like that of a woman, and the lower like a fish; a sea nymph, sea woman, or woman fish.	Middle English mermayde.
merman		The male corresponding to mermaid; a sea man, or man fish.	Middle English mereman.
mero		Any of several large groupers of warm seas, esp. the guasa (Epinephelus guaza), the red grouper (E. morio), the black grouper (E. nigritas), distinguished as Me to, and a species called also rock hind, distinguished as Me la.	
meroblast		An ovum, as that of a mammal, only partially composed of germinal matter, that is, consisting of both a germinal portion and an albuminous or nutritive one; -- opposed to holoblast.	
meroblastic		Consisting only in part of germinal matter; characterized by partial segmentation only; as, meroblastic ova, in which a portion of the yolk only undergoes fission; meroblastic segmentation; -- opposed to holoblastic.	
merocele		Hernia in the thigh; femoral hernia.	
meroistic		Applied to the ovaries of insects when they secrete vitelligenous cells, as well as ova.	
meropidan		One of a family of birds (Meropidæ), including the bee-eaters.	
meropodite		The fourth joint of a typical appendage of Crustacea.	
merorganization		Organization in part.	
meros		The plain surface between the channels of a triglyph.	Greek μηρός.
merosome		One of the serial segments, or metameres, of which the bodies of vertebrate and articulate animals are composed.	
merostomata		A class of Arthropoda, allied to the Crustacea.	
merou		See Jack, 8 (c).	
merovingian		Of or pertaining to the first Frankish dynasty in Gaul or France. -- n.	
merozoite		A form of spore, usually elongate or falciform, and somewhat amoboid, produced by segmentation of the schizonts of certain Sporozoa, as the malaria parasite.	
merrily		In a merry manner; with mirth; with gayety and laughter; jovially. See Mirth, and Merry.	
merrimake		See Merrymake, n. See Merrymake, v.	
merriment		Gayety, with laughter; mirth; frolic.	
merriness		The quality or state of being merry; merriment; mirth; gayety, with laughter.	
merry		Laughingly gay; overflowing with good humor and good spirits; jovial; inclined to laughter or play; sportive.	Middle English merie.
merry-andrew		One whose business is to make sport for others; a buffoon; a zany; especially, one who attends a mountebank or quack doctor.	
merry-go-round		Any revolving contrivance for affording amusement; esp., a ring of flying hobbyhorses.	
merrymake		Mirth; frolic; a meeting for mirth; a festival.	
merrymaker		One who makes merriment or indulges in conviviality; a jovial comrade.	
merrymaking		Making or producing mirth; convivial; jolly.	
merrymeeting		A meeting for mirth.	
merrythought		The forked bone of a fowl's breast; -- called also wishbone. See Furculum.	
mersion		Immersion Barrow.	Latin mersio.
merulidan		A bird of the Thrush family.	
merus		See Meros — the plain surface between the channels of a triglyph.	
mes-		See Meso- — a combining form denoting in the middle, intermediate; specif. (Chem.), denoting a type of hydrocarbons which are regarded as methenyl derivatives.	
mesa		A high tableland; a plateau on a hill.	
mesaconate		A salt of mesaconic acid.	
mesaconic		Pertaining to, or designating, one of several isomeric acids obtained from citric acid.	
mesad		Same as Mesiad.	
mesal		Same as Mesial.	
mesalliance		A marriage with a person of inferior social position; a misalliance.	
mesally		Same as Mesially.	
mesameboid		One of a class of independent, isolated cells found in the mesoderm, while the germ layers are undergoing differentiation.	
mesamoeboid		One of a class of independent, isolated cells found in the mesoderm, while the germ layers are undergoing differentiation.	
mesaraic		Mesenteric.	
mesaticephalic		Having the ratio of the length to the breadth of the cranium a medium one; neither brachycephalic nor dolichocephalic.	
mesaticephalous		Mesaticephalic.	
mescal		A distilled liquor prepared in Mexico from a species of agave. See Agave.	
mesdames		pl. of Madame and Madam.	
meseems	Poetic	It seems to me.	
mesel	Obsolete	A leper.	Anglo-Norman mesel.
meselry	Obsolete	Leprosy.	
mesembryanthemum		A genus of herbaceous or suffruticose plants, chiefly natives of South Africa.	
mesencephalic		Of or pertaining to the mesencephalon or midbrain.	
mesencephalon		The middle segment of the brain; the midbrain.	
mesenchyma		The part of the mesoblast which gives rise to the connective tissues and blood.	
mesenteric		Pertaining to a mesentery; mesaraic.	
mesenteron		All that part of the alimentary canal which is developed from the primitive enteron and is lined with hypoblast.	
mesentery		(Anat.) The membranes, or one of the membranes (consisting of a fold of the peritoneum and inclosed tissues), which connect the intestines and their appendages with the dorsal wall of the abdominal cavity.	
meseraic		Mesaraic.	Latin meseraicus.
mesethmoid		Of or pertaining to the middle of the ethmoid region or ethmoid bone. -- n.	
mesh		The opening or space inclosed by the threads of a net between knot and knot, or the threads inclosing such a space; network; a net.	Middle English mesche.
meshed	Obsolete	Mashed; brewed.	
meshy		Formed with meshes; netted.	
mesiad		Toward, or on the side toward, the mesial plane; mesially; -- opposed to laterad.	
mesial		Middle; median; in, or in the region of, the mesial plane; internal; -- opposed to lateral.	
mesially		In, near, or toward, the mesial plane; mesiad.	
mesityl		A hypothetical radical formerly supposed to exist in mesityl oxide.	
mesitylenate		A salt of mesitylenic acid.	
mesitylene		A colorless, fragrant liquid, C6H3(CH3)3, of the benzene series of hydrocarbons, obtained by distilling acetone with sulphuric acid. -- Me*sit`y*len"ic, a.	
mesitylol		A crystalline substance obtained from mesitylene.	
meslin		See Maslin — a mixture composed of different materials; especially: (a) A mixture of metals resembling brass.	
mesmeree		A person subjected to mesmeric influence; one who is mesmerized.	
mesmeric		Of, pertaining to, or induced by, mesmerism; as, mesmeric sleep.	
mesmerical		Of, pertaining to, or induced by, mesmerism; as, mesmeric sleep.	
mesmerism		The art of inducing an extraordinary or abnormal state of the nervous system, in which the actor claims to control the actions, and communicate directly with the mind, of the recipient.	
mesmerist		One who practices, or believes in, mesmerism.	
mesmerization		The act of mesmerizing; the state of being mesmerized.	
mesmerize		To bring into a state of mesmeric sleep.	
mesmerizer		One who mesmerizes.	
mesne		Middle; intervening; as, a mesne lord, that is, a lord who holds land of a superior, but grants a part of it to another person, in which case he is a tenant to the superior, but lord or superior to the second grantee…	
meso-		A combining form denoting in the middle, intermediate; specif. (Chem.), denoting a type of hydrocarbons which are regarded as methenyl derivatives.	Greek μέσος.
mesoarium		The fold of peritoneum which suspends the ovary from the dorsal wall of the body cavity.	
mesoblast		(a) The mesoderm. (b) The cell nucleus; mesoplast.	
mesoblastic		Relating to the mesoblast; as, the mesoblastic layer.	
mesobranchial		Of or pertaining to a region of the carapace of a crab covering the middle branchial region.	
mesobronchium		The main bronchus of each lung.	
mesocaecum		The fold of peritoneum attached to the cæcum. -- Mes`o*cæ"cal, a.	
mesocarp		The middle layer of a pericarp which consists of three distinct or dissimilar layers.	
mesocephalic		(a) Of or pertaining to, or in the region of, the middle of the head; as, the mesocephalic flexure.	
mesocephalon		The pons Varolii.	
mesocephalous		Mesocephalic.	
mesocoele		The cavity of the mesencephalon; the iter.	
mesocoelia		The cavity of the mesencephalon; the iter.	
mesocolon		The fold of peritoneum, or mesentery, attached to the colon. -- Mes`o*col"ic, a.	
mesocoracoid		A process from the middle of the coracoid in some animals.	
mesocuneiform		One of the bones of the tarsus. See 2d Cuneiform.	
mesocuniform		One of the bones of the tarsus. See 2d Cuneiform.	
mesoderm		(a) The layer of the blastoderm, between the ectoderm and endoderm; mesoblast.	
mesodermal		Pertaining to, or derived from, the mesoderm; as, mesodermal tissues.	
mesodermic		Same as Mesodermal.	
mesodont		Having teeth of moderate size.	
mesogaster		The fold of peritoneum connecting the stomach with the dorsal wall of the abdominal cavity; the mesogastrium.	
mesogastric		(Anat.) (a) Of or pertaining to the middle region of the abdomen, or of the stomach.	
mesogastrium		(a) The umbilical region. (b) The mesogaster.	
mesoglea		A thin gelatinous tissue separating the ectoderm and endoderm in certain coelenterates. -- Mes`o*gloeal, a.	
mesogloea		A thin gelatinous tissue separating the ectoderm and endoderm in certain coelenterates. -- Mes`o*gloeal, a.	
mesognathous		Having the jaws slightly projecting; between prognathous and orthognathous.	
mesohepar		A fold of the peritoneum connecting the liver with the dorsal wall of the abdominal cavity.	
mesohippus		An extinct mammal of the Horse family, but not larger than a sheep, and having three toes on each foot.	
mesolabe		An instrument of the ancients for finding two mean proportionals between two given lines, required in solving the problem of the duplication of the cube.	Latin mesolabium.
mesole		Same as Thomsonite.	
mesolite		A zeolitic mineral, grayish white or yellowish, occuring in delicate groups of crystals, also fibrous massive.	
mesologarithm	Obsolete	A logarithm of the cosine or cotangent.	
mesometrium		The fold of the peritoneum supporting the oviduct.	
mesomycetes		One of the three classes into which the fungi are divided in Brefeld's classification. -- Mes`o*my*ce"tous (#), a.	
mesomyodian		A bird having a mesomyodous larynx.	
mesomyodous		Having the intrinsic muscles of the larynx attached to the middle of the semirings.	
meson		The mesial plane dividing the body of an animal into similar right and left halves.	Greek μέσον.
mesonasal		Of or pertaining to the middle portion of the nasal region.	
mesonephric		Of or pertaining to the mesonephros; as, the mesonephric, or Wolffian, duct.	
mesonephros		The middle one of the three pairs of embryonic renal organs developed in most vertebrates; the Wolffian body.	
mesonotum		The dorsal portion of the mesothorax of insects.	
mesophloeum		The middle bark of a tree; the green layer of bark, usually soon covered by the outer or corky layer, and obliterated.	
mesophryon		See Glabella — the space between the eyebrows, also including the corresponding part of the frontal bone; the mesophryon. -- Gla*bel"lar, a.	
mesophyllum		The parenchyma of a leaf between the skin of the two surfaces.	
mesoplast		The nucleus of a cell; mesoblast.	
mesopodial		Of or pertaining to the mesopodialia or to the parts of the limbs to which they belong.	
mesopodiale		One of the bones of either the carpus or tarsus.	
mesopodium		The middle portion of the foot in the Gastropoda and Pteropoda.	
mesopterygium		The middle one of the three principal basal cartilages in the fins of fishes. -- Me*sop`ter*yg"i*al, a.	
mesorchium		The fold of peritoneum which attaches the testis to the dorsal wall of the body cavity or scrotal sac.	
mesorectum		The fold of peritoneum, or mesentery, attached to the rectum. -- Mes`o*rec"tal, a.	
mesorhine		Having the nose of medium width; between leptorhine and platyrhine.	
mesosauria		Same as Mosasauria.	
mesoscapula		A process from the middle of the scapula in some animals; the spine of the scapula.	
mesoscapular		Of or pertaining to the mesoscapula.	
mesoscutum		The scutum or dorsal plate of the middle thoracic segment of an insect.	
mesoseme		Having a medium orbital index; having orbits neither broad nor narrow; between megaseme and microseme.	
mesosiderite		See the Note under Meteorite.	
mesosperm		A membrane of a seed. See Secundine.	
mesostate		A product of metabolic action.	
mesosternal		Of or pertaining to the mesosternum.	
mesosternum		(Anat.) The middle portion, or body, of the sternum.	
mesotartaric		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid called also inactive tartaric acid.	
mesotheca		The middle layer of the gonophore in the Hydrozoa.	
mesothelium		Epithelial mesoderm; a layer of cuboidal epithelium cells, formed from a portion of the mesoderm during the differetiation of the germ layers.	
mesothoracic		Of or pertaining to the mesothorax.	
mesothorax		The middle segment of the thorax in insects. See Illust. of Coleoptera.	
mesothorium		A radioactive product intermediate between thorium and radiothorium, with a period of 5.5 years.	
mesotrochal		Having the middle of the body surrounded by bands of cilia; -- said of the larvæ of certain marine annelids.	
mesotype		An old term covering natrolite or soda mesolite, scolecite or lime mesotype, and mesolite or lime-soda mesotype.	
mesovarium		The fold of peritoneum connecting the ovary with the wall of the abdominal cavity.	
mesoxalate		A salt of mesoxalic acid.	
mesoxalic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, CH2O2(CO2H)2, obtained from amido malonic acid.	
mesozoa		A group of very lowly organized, wormlike parasites, including the Dicyemata.	
mesozoic		Belonging, or relating, to the secondary or reptilian age, or the era between the Paleozoic and Cenozoic.	
mesprise	Obsolete	Contempt; scorn.	Old French mespris.
mesquit		A name for two trees of the southwestern part of North America, the honey mesquite, and screw-pod mesquite.	
mesquite		A name for two trees of the southwestern part of North America, the honey mesquite, and screw-pod mesquite.	Spanish mezquite, from Classical Nahuatl mizquitl.
mess		A quantity of food set on a table at one time; provision of food for a person or party for one meal; as, a mess of pottage; also, the food given to a beast at one time.	Middle English mes.
message		Any notice, word, or communication, written or verbal, sent from one person to another.	
messager	Obsolete	A messenger.	
messenger		One who bears a message; the bearer of a verbal or written communication, notice, or invitation, from one person to another, or to a public body; specifically, an office servant who bears messages.	Old French messagier.
messiad		A German epic poem on the Messiah, by Klopstock.	
messiah		The expected king and deliverer of the Hebrews; the Savior; Christ.	Latin Messias.
messiahship		The state or office of the Messiah.	
messianic		Of or relating to the Messiah; as, the Messianic office or character.	
messias		The Messiah.	
messidor		The tenth month of the French republican calendar dating from September 22, 1792.	
messieurs		Sirs; gentlemen; -- abbreviated to Messrs., which is used as the plural of Mr.	
messinese		Of or pertaining to Messina, or its inhabitans.	
messmate		An associate in a mess.	
messuage		A dwelling house, with the adjacent buildings and curtilage, and the adjoining lands appropriated to the use of the household.	Anglo-Norman mesuage.
mestee		The offspring of a white person and a quadroon; -- so called in the West Indies.	
mester		See Mister, a trade.	
mestino		See Mestizo — the offspring of an Indian or a negro and a European or person of European stock.	
mestizo		The offspring of an Indian or a negro and a European or person of European stock.	
mestling	Obsolete	A kind of brass. See Maslin.	
mesymnicum		A repetition at the end of a stanza.	
met		of Meet. of Mete, to measure.	
met-		A prefix meaning between, with, after, behind, over, about, reversely; as, metachronism, the error of placing after the correct time; metaphor, lit., a carrying over; metathesis, a placing reversely.	
meta-		A prefix meaning between, with, after, behind, over, about, reversely; as, metachronism, the error of placing after the correct time; metaphor, lit., a carrying over; metathesis, a placing reversely.	Greek μετά.
metabasis		(Rhet.) A transition from one subject to another.	Latin metabasis, from Greek μετάβασις.
metabola		A change or mutation; a change of disease, symptoms, or treatment.	
metabole		A change or mutation; a change of disease, symptoms, or treatment.	
metabolia		A comprehensive group of insects, including those that undegro a metamorphosis.	
metabolian		An insect which undergoes a metamorphosis.	
metabolic		(Biol.) Of or pertaining to metamorphosis; pertaining to, or involving, change.	
metabolisis		Metabolism.	
metabolism		The act or process, by which living tissues or cells take up and convert into their own proper substance the nutritive material brought to them by the blood…	Greek μεταβολή.
metabolite		A product of metabolism; a substance produced by metabolic action, as urea.	
metabolize		To change by a metabolic process. See Metabolism.	
metabranchial		Of or pertaining to the lobe of the carapace of crabs covering the posterior branchiæ.	
metacarpal		Of or pertaining to the metacarpus. -- n.	
metacarpus		That part of the skeleton of the hand or forefoot between the carpus and phalanges.	
metacenter		The point of intersection of a vertical line through the center of gravity of the fluid displaced by a floating body which is tipped through a small angle from its position of equilibrium…	French métacentre.
metacentre		The point of intersection of a vertical line through the center of gravity of the fluid displaced by a floating body which is tipped through a small angle from its position of equilibrium…	French métacentre.
metacetone		A colorless liquid of an agreeable odor, C6H10O, obtained by distilling a mixture of sugar and lime; -- so called because formerly regarded as a polymeric modification of acetone.	
metachloral		A white, amorphous, insoluble substance regarded as a polymeric variety of chloral.	
metachronism		An error committed in chronology by placing an event after its real time.	
metachrosis		The power og changing color at will by the expansion of special pigment cells, under nerve influence, as seen in many reptiles, fishes, etc. Cope.	
metacinnabarite		Sulphide of mercury in isometric form and black in color.	
metacism		A defect in pronouncing the letter m, or a too frequent use of it.	Latin metacismus.
metacrolein		A polymeric modification of acrolein obtained by heating it with caustic potash.	
metacromion		A process projecting backward and downward from the acromion of the scapula of some mammals.	
metadiscoidal		Discoidal by derivation; -- applied especially to the placenta of man and apes, because it is supposed to have been derived from a diffused placenta.	
metagastric		Of or pertaining to the two posterior gastric lobes of the carapace of crabs.	
metage		Measurement, especially of coal.	
metagenesis		(Biol.) The change of form which one animal species undergoes in a series of successively produced individuals, extending from the one developed from the ovum to the final perfected individual.	
metagenetic		Of or pertaining to metagenesis.	
metagenic		Metagenetic.	
metagnathous		Cross-billed; -- said of certain birds, as the crossbill.	
metagrammatism		Anagrammatism.	
metagraphic		By or pertaining to metagraphy.	
metagraphy		The art or act of rendering the letters of the alphabet of one language into the possible equivalents of another; transliteration.	
metal		(Chem.) An elementary substance, as sodium, calcium, or copper, whose oxide or hydroxide has basic rather than acid properties, as contrasted with the nonmetals, or metalloids.	
metalammonium		A hypothetical radical derived from ammonium by the substitution of metallic atoms in place of hydrogen.	
metalbumin		A form of albumin found in ascitic and certain serous fluids.	
metaldehyde		A white crystalline substance isomeric with, and obtained from, acetic aldehyde by polymerization, and reconvertible into the same.	
metalepsis		The continuation of a trope in one word through a succession of significations, or the union of two or more tropes of a different kind in one word.	
metalepsy		Exchange; replacement; substitution; metathesis.	
metaleptic		Transverse; as, the metaleptic motion of a muscle.	
metaleptical		Metaleptic. -- Met`a*lep"tic*al*ly, adv.	
metallic		Of or pertaining to a metal; of the nature of metal; resembling metal; as, a metallic appearance; a metallic alloy.	Latin metallicus.
metallical	Obsolete	See Metallic — of or pertaining to a metal; of the nature of metal; resembling metal; as, a metallic appearance; a metallic alloy.	
metallicly		In a metallic manner; by metallic means.	
metallifacture		The production and working or manufacture of metals.	
metalliferous		Producing metals; yielding metals.	
metalliform		Having the form or structure of a metal.	
metalline		(a) Pertaining to, or resembling, a metal; metallic; as, metalline properties.	
metallist		A worker in metals, or one skilled in metals.	
metallization		The act or process of metallizing.	
metallize		To impart metallic properties to; to impregnate with a metal.	
metallochrome		A coloring produced by the deposition of some metallic compound; specifically, the prismatic tints produced by depositing a film of peroxide of lead on polished steel by electricity.	
metallochromy		The art or process of coloring metals.	
metallograph		A print made by metallography.	
metallographic		Pertaining to, or by means of, metallography.	
metallographist		One who writes on the subject of metals.	
metallography		The science or art of metals and metal working; also, a treatise on metals.	
metalloid		(a) Formerly, the metallic base of a fixed alkali, or alkaline earth; -- applied by Sir H.	
metalloidal		Metalloid.	
metallophone		(a) An instrument like a pianoforte, but having metal bars instead of strings.	
metallorganic		Metalorganic.	
metallotherapy		Treatment of disease by applying metallic plates to the surface of the body.	
metallurgic		Of or pertaining to metallurgy.	
metallurgical		Of or pertaining to metallurgy.	
metallurgist		One who works in metals, or prepares them for use; one who is skilled in metallurgy.	
metallurgy		The art of working metals, comprehending the whole process of separating them from other matters in the ore, smelting, refining, and parting them; sometimes, in a narrower sense…	Greek μεταλλουργός.
metalman		A worker in metals.	
metalogical		Beyond the scope or province of logic.	
metalorganic		Pertaining to, or denoting, any one of a series of compounds of certain metallic elements with organic radicals; as, zinc methyl, sodium ethyl, etc.	
metamer		Any one of several metameric forms of the same substance, or of different substances having the same composition; as, xylene has three metamers, viz., orthoxylene, metaxylene, and paraxylene.	
metamere		One of successive or homodynamous parts in animals and plants; one of a series of similar parts that follow one another in a vertebrate or articulate animal, as in an earthworm; a segment; a somite.	
metameric		(Chem.) Having the same elements united in the same proportion by weight, and with the same molecular weight, but possessing a different structure and different properties; as…	
metamerically		In a metameric manner.	
metamerism		(Biol.) The symmetry of a metameric structure; serial symmetry; the state of being made up of metameres.	
metamorphic		Subject to change; changeable; variable.	
metamorphism		The state or quality of being metamorphic; the process by which the material of rock masses has been more or less recrystallized by heat, pressure, etc., as in the change of sedimentary limestone to marble.	
metamorphist		One who believes that the body of Christ was merged into the Deity when he ascended.	
metamorphize		To metamorphose.	
metamorphose		To change into a different form; to transform; to transmute.	
metamorphoser		One who metamorphoses.	
metamorphosic		Changing the form; transforming.	
metamorphosis		Change of form, or structure; transformation.	
metanauplius		A larval crustacean in a stage following the nauplius, and having about seven pairs of appendages.	
metanephritic		Of or pertaining to the metanephros.	
metanephros		The most posterior of the three pairs of embryonic renal organs developed in many vertebrates.	
metanotum		The dorsal portion of the metaphorax of insects.	
metantimonate		A salt of metantimonic acid.	
metantimonic		(a) Pertaining to, or designating, an acid (formerly called antimonic acid) analogous to metaphosphoric acid, and obtained as a white amorphous insoluble substance, (HSbO3).	
metapectic		Pertaining to, or designating, a supposed acid obtained from pectin.	
metapectin		A substance obtained from, and resembling, pectin, and occurring in overripe fruits.	
metapeptone		An intermediate product formed in the gastric digestion of albuminous matter.	
metaphor		The transference of the relation between one set of objects to another set for the purpose of brief explanation; a compressed simile; e. g., the ship plows the sea.	Latin metaphora, from Greek μεταφορά.
metaphoric		Of or pertaining to metaphor; comprising a metaphor; not literal; figurative; tropical; as, a metaphorical expression; a metaphorical sense. -- Met`a*phor ic*al*ness, n.	
metaphorical		Of or pertaining to metaphor; comprising a metaphor; not literal; figurative; tropical; as, a metaphorical expression; a metaphorical sense. -- Met`a*phor ic*al*ness, n.	
metaphorist		One who makes metaphors.	
metaphosphate		A salt of metaphosphoric acid.	
metaphosphoric		Pertaining to, or designating, a monobasic acid, HPO3, analogous to nitric acid, and, by heating phosphoric acid, obtained as a crystalline substance, commonly called glacial phosphoric acid.	
metaphrase		A verbal translation; a version or translation from one language into another, word for word; -- opposed to paraphrase.	Greek μεταφράζομαι.
metaphrased		Translated literally.	
metaphrasis		Metaphrase.	
metaphrast		A literal translator.	
metaphrastic		Close, or literal.	
metaphrastical		Close, or literal.	
metaphysic		See Metaphysics — the science of real as distinguished from phenomenal being; ontology; also, the science of being, with reference to its abstract and universal conditions…	
metaphysical		According to rules or principles of metaphysics; as, metaphysical reasoning.	
metaphysically		In the manner of metaphysical science, or of a metaphysician.	
metaphysician		One who is versed in metaphysics.	
metaphysics		The science of real as distinguished from phenomenal being; ontology; also, the science of being, with reference to its abstract and universal conditions, as distinguished from the science of determined or concrete being…	Latin metaphysica.
metaphysis		Change of form; transformation.	
metaplasm		A change in the letters or syllables of a word.	
metaplast		A word having more than one form of the root.	
metapode		The posterior division of the foot in the Gastropoda and Pteropoda.	
metapodial		Of or pertaining to the metapodialia, or to the parts of the limbs to which they belong.	
metapodiale		One of the bones of either the metacarpus or metatarsus.	
metapodium		Same as Metapode.	
metapophysis		A tubercle projecting from the anterior articular processes of some vertebræ; a mammillary process.	
metapterygium		The posterior of the three principal basal cartilages in the fins of fishes. -- Me*tap`ter*yg"i*al, a.	
metasilicate		A salt of metasilicic acid.	
metasilicic		Designating an acid derived from silicic acid by the removal of water; of or pertaining to such an acid.	
metasomatism		An alteration in a mineral or rock mass when involving a chemical change of the substance, as of chrysolite to serpentine; -- opposed to ordinary metamorphism, as implying simply a recrystallization. -- Met`a*so*mat"ic, a.	
metasome		One of the component segments of the body of an animal.	
metastannate		A salt of metastannic acid.	
metastannic		Pertaining to, or designating, a compound of tin (metastannic acid), obtained, as an isomeric modification of stannic acid, in the form of a white amorphous substance.	
metastasis		(Theol.) A spiritual change, as during baptism.	
metastatic		Of, pertaining to, or caused by, metastasis; as, a metastatic abscess; the metastatic processes of growth.	
metasternal		Of or pertaining to the metasternum.	
metasternum		(Anat.) The most posterior element of the sternum; the ensiform process; xiphisternum.	
metastoma		A median elevation behind the mouth in the arthropods.	
metastome		A median elevation behind the mouth in the arthropods.	
metatarsal		Of or pertaining to the metatarsus. -- n.	
metatarse		Metatarsus.	
metatarsus		That part of the skeleton of the hind or lower limb between the tarsus and phalanges; metatarse.	Latin metatarsus.
metate		A flat or somewhat hollowed stone upon which grain or other food is ground, by means of a smaller stone or pestle.	
metathesis		(Gram.) Transposition, as of the letters or syllables of a word; as, pistris for pristis; meagre for meager.	Latin metathesis, from Greek μετάθεσις.
metathetic		Of or pertaining to metathesis.	
metathetical		Of or pertaining to metathesis.	
metathoracic		Of or pertaining to the metathorax.	
metathorax		The last or posterior segment of the thorax in insects. See Illust. of Coleoptera.	
metatitanic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid of titanium analogous to metasilicic acid.	
metatungstate		A salt of metatungstic acid.	
metatungstic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid known only in its salts (the metatungstates) and properly called polytungstic, or pyrotungstic, acid.	
metavanadate		A salt of metavanadic acid.	
metavanadic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, a vanadic acid analogous to metaphosphoric acid.	
metaxylene		That variety of xylene, or dimethyl benzene, in which the two methyl groups occupy the meta position with reference to each other.	
metayage		A system of farming on halves.	French métayage.
metayer		One who cultivates land for a share (usually one half) of its yield, receiving stock, tools, and seed from the landlord.	French métayer.
metazoa		Those animals in which the protoplasmic mass, constituting the egg, is converted into a multitude of cells, which are metamorphosed into the tissues of the body.	
metazoan		One of the Metazoa.	
metazoic		Of or pertaining to the Metazoa.	
metazooen		One of the Metazoa.	
metazoon		One of the Metazoa.	
metecorn		A quantity of corn formerly given by the lord to his customary tenants, as an encouragement to, or reward for, labor and faithful service.	
metely	Obsolete	According to measure or proportion; proportionable; proportionate.	
metempiric		Related, or belonging, to the objects of knowledge within the province of metempirics.	
metempirical		Related, or belonging, to the objects of knowledge within the province of metempirics.	
metempiricism		The science that is concerned with metempirics.	
metempirics		The concepts and relations which are conceived as beyond, and yet as related to, the knowledge gained by experience.	
metempsychose		To translate or transfer, as the soul, from one body to another.	
metempsychosis		The passage of the soul, as an immortal essence, at the death of the animal body it had inhabited, into another living body, whether of a brute or a human being; transmigration of souls.	Latin metempsychosis.
metemptosis		The suppression of a day in the calendar to prevent the date of the new moon being set a day too late, or the suppression of the bissextile day once in 134 years.	
metencephalon		The posterior part of the brain, including the medulla; the afterbrain.	
metensomatosis		The assimilation by one body or organism of the elements of another.	
meteor		Any phenomenon or appearance in the atmosphere, as clouds, rain, hail, snow, etc. Hail, an ordinary meteor.	
meteoric		Of or pertaining to a meteor, or to meteors; atmospheric, as, meteoric phenomena; meteoric stones.	
meteorical		Meteoric.	
meteorism		Flatulent distention of the abdomen; tympanites.	
meteorite		A mass of stone or iron which has fallen to the earth from space; an aërolite.	
meteorize		To ascend in vapors; to take the form of a meteor.	
meteorograph		An instrument which registers meteorologic phases or conditions.	
meteorographic		Of or pertaining to meteorography.	
meteorography		The registration of meteorological phenomena.	
meteoroid		A small body moving through space, or revolving about the sun, which on entering the earth's atmosphere would be deflagrated and appear as a meteor.	
meteoroidal		Of or pertaining to a meteoroid or to meteoroids.	
meteorolite		A meteoric stone; an aërolite; a meteorite.	
meteorologic		Of or pertaining to the atmosphere and its phenomena, or to meteorology.	
meteorological		Of or pertaining to the atmosphere and its phenomena, or to meteorology.	
meteorologist		A person skilled in meteorology.	
meteorology		The science which treats of the atmosphere and its phenomena, particularly of its variations of heat and moisture, of its winds, storms, etc.	
meteoromancy		A species of divination by meteors, chiefly by thunder and lightning, which was held in high estimation by the Romans.	
meteorometer		An apparatus which transmits automatically to a central station atmospheric changes as marked by the anemometer, barometer, thermometer, etc.	
meteoroscope	Obsolete	(a) An astrolabe; a planisphere. (b) An instrument for measuring the position, length, and direction, of the apparent path of a shooting star.	
meteorous		Of the nature or appearance of a meteor.	
meter		One who, or that which, metes or measures. See Coal-meter.	French mètre, from Greek μέτρον.
meterage		The act of measuring, or the cost of measuring.	
metergram		A measure of energy or work done; the power exerted in raising one gram through the distance of one meter against gravitation.	
metewand		A measuring rod.	
meteyard	Obsolete	A yard, staff, or rod, used as a measure.	
meth	Obsolete	See Meathe — a sweet liquor; mead.	
methaemoglobin		A stable crystalline compound obtained by the decomposition of hemoglobin.	
methal		A white waxy substance, found in small quantities in spermaceti as an ethereal salt of several fatty acids, and regarded as an alcohol of the methane series.	
methane		A light, colorless, gaseous, inflammable hydrocarbon, CH4; marsh gas. See Marsh gas, under Gas.	
methanometer		An instrument, resembling a eudiometer, to detect the presence and amount of methane, as in coal mines.	
metheglin		A fermented beverage made of honey and water; mead.	Welsh meddyglyn.
methene		See Methylene — a hydrocarbon radical, CH2, not known in the free state, but regarded as an essential residue and component of certain derivatives of methane; as, methylene bromide, CH2Br2…	
methenyl		The hypothetical hydrocarbon radical CH, regarded as an essential residue of certain organic compounds.	
methide		A binary compound of methyl with some element; as, aluminium methide, Al2(CH3)6.	
methinks		It seems to me; I think. See Me.	
methionate		A salt of methionic acid.	
methionic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, a sulphonic (thionic) acid derivative of methane, obtained as a stable white crystalline substance, CH2.(SO3H)2, which forms well defined salts.	
method		An orderly procedure or process; regular manner of doing anything; hence, manner; way; mode; as, a method of teaching languages; a method of improving the mind.	Greek μέθοδος.
methodic		Arranged with regard to method; disposed in a suitable manner, or in a manner to illustrate a subject, or to facilitate practical observation; as, the methodical arrangement of arguments; a methodical treatise.	
methodical		Arranged with regard to method; disposed in a suitable manner, or in a manner to illustrate a subject, or to facilitate practical observation; as, the methodical arrangement of arguments; a methodical treatise.	
methodios		The art and principles of method.	
methodism		The system of doctrines, polity, and worship, of the sect called Methodists.	
methodist		One of an ancient school of physicians who rejected observation and founded their practice on reasoning and theory.	
methodistic		Of or pertaining to methodists, or to the Methodists. -- Meth`o*dis"tic*al*ly, adv.	
methodistical		Of or pertaining to methodists, or to the Methodists. -- Meth`o*dis"tic*al*ly, adv.	
methodization		The act or process of methodizing, or the state of being methodized.	
methodize		To reduce to method; to dispose in due order; to arrange in a convenient manner; as, to methodize one's work or thoughts.	
methodizer		One who methodizes.	
methodological		Of or pertaining to methodology.	
methodology		The science of method or arrangement; a treatise on method.	
methol		The technical name of methyl alcohol or wood spirit; also, by extension, the class name of any of the series of alcohols of the methane series of which methol proper is the type.	
methought		of Methinks — it seems to me; I think. See Me.	
methoxyl		A hypothetical radical, CH3O, analogous to hydroxyl.	
methyl		A hydrocarbon radical, CH3, not existing alone but regarded as an essential residue of methane, and appearing as a component part of many derivatives; as, methyl alcohol, methyl ether, methyl amine, etc. Methyl alcohol (Chem.)…	
methylal		A light, volatile liquid, H2C(OCH3)2, regarded as a complex ether, and having a pleasant ethereal odor.	
methylamine		See Methyl amine, under Methyl.	
methylate		An alcoholate of methyl alcohol in which the hydroxyl hydrogen is replaced by a metal, after the analogy of a hydrate; as, sodium methylate, CH3ONa.	
methylated		Impregnated with, or containing, methyl alcohol or wood spirit; as, methylated spirits.	
methylene		A hydrocarbon radical, CH2, not known in the free state, but regarded as an essential residue and component of certain derivatives of methane; as, methylene bromide, CH2Br2; -- formerly called also methene.	French méthylène.
methylic		Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, methyl; specifically, designating methyl alcohol.	
methysticin		A white, silky, crystalline substance extracted from the thick rootstock of a species of pepper (Piper methysticum) of the South Sea Islands; -- called also kanakin.	
metic		A sojourner; an immigrant; an alien resident in a Grecian city, but not a citizen.	
meticulous		Timid; fearful. -- Me*tic"u*lous*ly, adv.	Latin meticulosus.
metier		Calling; vocation; business; trade.	
metif		See Métis.	
metis		The offspring of a white person and an American Indian.	French métis, from Latin mixticius.
metisse		The offspring of a white person and an American Indian.	
metive		See Métis.	
metoche		(a) The space between two dentils. (b) The space between two triglyphs.	
metol		A whitish soluble powder used as a developer in photography.	
metonic		Pertaining to, or discovered by, Meton, the Athenian.	
metonymic		Used by way of metonymy. -- Met`o*nym"ic*al*ly, adv.	Greek μετωνυμικός.
metonymical		Used by way of metonymy. -- Met`o*nym"ic*al*ly, adv.	
metonymy		A trope in which one word is put for another that suggests it; as, we say, a man keeps a good table instead of good provisions; we read Virgil, that is, his poems; a man has a warm heart, that is, warm affections.	Latin metonymia, from Greek μετονομασία.
metope		(Arch.) The space between two triglyphs of the Doric frieze, which, among the ancients, was often adorned with carved work.	
metopic		Of or pertaining to the forehead or frontal bones; frontal; as, the metopic suture.	
metopomancy		Fortune telling by physiognomy.	
metoposcopic		Of or relating to metoposcopy.	
metoposcopical		Of or relating to metoposcopy.	
metoposcopist		One versed in metoposcopy.	
metoposcopy		The study of physiognomy; the art of discovering the character of persons by their features, or the lines of the face.	Middle French metoposcopie.
metosteon		The postero-lateral ossification in the sternum of birds; also, the part resulting from such ossification.	
metre		Rhythmical arrangement of syllables or words into verses, stanzas, strophes, etc.; poetical measure, depending on number, quantity, and accent of syllables; rhythm; measure; verse; also, any specific rhythmical arrangements; as…	French mètre, from Greek μέτρον.
metric		Relating to measurement; involving, or proceeding by, measurement.	French métrique, from Latin metricus.
metrical		Of or pertaining to the meter; arranged in meter; consisting of verses; as, metrical compositions.	
metrically		In a metrical manner.	
metrician	Obsolete	A composer of verses.	
metrification		Composition in metrical form; versification.	
metrify		To make verse.	
metrist		A maker of verses.	
metritis		Inflammation of the womb.	
metrochrome		An instrument for measuring colors.	
metrograph		An instrument attached to a locomotive for recording its speed and the number and duration of its stops.	
metrological		Of or pertaining to metrology.	
metrology		The science of, or a system of, weights and measures; also, a treatise on the subject.	
metromania		A mania for writing verses.	
metromaniac		One who has metromania.	
metrometer		An instrument for measuring the size of the womb.	
metronome		An instrument consisting of a short pendulum with a sliding weight.	
metronomy		Measurement of time by an instrument.	
metronymic		Derived from the name of one's mother, or other female ancestor; as, a metronymic name or appellation. -- A metronymic appellation.	
metropole	Obsolete	A metropolis.	
metropolis		The mother city; the chief city of a kingdom, state, or country. gray metropolis of the North.	
metropolitan		Of or pertaining to the capital or principal city of a country; as, metropolitan luxury.	Latin metropolitanus, from Greek μητροπολίτης.
metropolitanate		The see of a metropolitan bishop.	
metropolite		A metropolitan.	
metropolitical		Of or pertaining to a metropolis; being a metropolis; metropolitan; as, the metropolitical chair.	
metrorrhagia		Profuse bleeding from the womb, esp. such as does not occur at the menstrual period.	
metroscope		A modification of the stethoscope, for directly auscultating the uterus from the vagina.	
metrosideros		A myrtaceous genus of trees or shrubs, found in Australia and the South Sea Islands, and having very hard wood.	
metrotome		An instrument for cutting or scarifying the uterus or the neck of the uterus.	
metrotomy		The operation of cutting into the uterus; hysterotomy; the Cæsarean section.	
mette		of Mete, to dream.	
mettle		Substance or quality of temperament; spirit, esp. as regards honor, courage, fortitude, ardor, etc.; disposition; -- usually in a good sense.	
mettled		Having mettle; high-spirited; ardent; full of fire.	
mettlesome		Full of spirit; possessing constitutional ardor; fiery; as, a mettlesome horse. -- Met tle*some*ness, n.	
meum		Lit., mine; that which is mine; -- used in the phrase meum et tuum, or meum and tuum; as, to confound meum and tuum, to fail to distinguish one's own property from that of others; to be dishonest.	
meute		A cage for hawks; a mew. See 4th Mew,	
meve	Obsolete	To move.	
mew		A gull, esp. the common British species (Larus canus); called also sea mew, maa, mar, mow, and cobb.	Middle English mewe, from Old English mæw.
mewl		To cry, as a young child; to squall.	
mewler		One that mewls.	
mews		An alley where there are stables; a narrow passage; a confined place.	
mexal		See Mescal — a distilled liquor prepared in Mexico from a species of agave. See Agave.	
mexical		See Mescal — a distilled liquor prepared in Mexico from a species of agave. See Agave.	
mexican		Of or pertaining to Mexico or its people. -- n.	
mexicanize		To cause to be like the Mexicans, or their country, esp. in respect of frequent revolutions of government.	
meyne		Same as Meine.	
mezcal		Same as Mescal.	
mezereon		A small European shrub (Daphne Mezereum), whose acrid bark is used in medicine.	Arabic مازريون.
mezquita		A mosque.	
mezuzoth		A piece of parchment bearing the Decalogue and attached to the doorpost; -- in use among orthodox Hebrews.	
mezzanine		(a) Same as Entresol. (b) A partial story which is not on the same level with the story of the main part of the edifice, as of a back building, where the floors are on a level with landings of the staircase of the main house.	Italian mezzanino.
mezzo		Mean; not extreme.	
mezzo-relievo		Mezzo-rilievo.	
mezzo-rilievo		(a) A middle degree of relief in figures, between high and low relief.	
mezzo-soprano		Having a medium compass between the soprano and contralto; -- said of the voice of a female singer. -- n.	Italian mezzosoprano.
mezzotint		A manner of engraving on copper or steel by drawing upon a surface previously roughened, and then removing the roughness in places by scraping, burnishing, etc., so as to produce the requisite light and shade.	
mezzotinter		One who engraves in mezzotint.	
mezzotinto		Mezzotint.	
