mi		A syllable applied to the third tone of the scale of C, i. e., to E, in European solmization, but to the third tone of any scale in the American system.
miamis		A tribe of Indians that formerly occupied the country between the Wabash and Maumee rivers.
miargyrite		A mineral of an iron-black color, and very sectile, consisting principally of sulphur, antimony, and silver.
mias		The orang-outang.
miascite		A granitoid rock containing feldspar, biotite, elæolite, and sodalite.
miasma		Infectious particles or germs floating in the air; air made noxious by the presence of such particles or germs; noxious effluvia; malaria.
miasmal		Containing miasma; miasmatic.
miasmatic		Containing, or relating to, miasma; caused by miasma; as, miasmatic diseases.
miasmatical		Containing, or relating to, miasma; caused by miasma; as, miasmatic diseases.
miasmatist		One who has made a special study of miasma.
miasmology		That department of medical science which treats of miasma.
miaul		To cry as a cat; to mew; to caterwaul.
mica		The name of a group of minerals characterized by highly perfect cleavage, so that they readily separate into very thin leaves, more or less elastic.
micaceo-calcareous		Partaking of the nature of, or consisting of, mica and lime; -- applied to a mica schist containing carbonate of lime.
micaceous		Pertaining to, or containing, mica; splitting into laminæ or leaves like mica.
mice		pl of Mouse.
micella		A theoretical aggregation of molecules constituting a structural particle of protoplasm, capable of increase or diminution without change in chemical nature.
mich	Obsolete	To lie hid; to skulk; to act, or carry one's self, sneakingly.
michaelmas		The feat of the archangel Michael, a church festival, celebrated on the 29th of September.
miche	Obsolete	To lie hid; to skulk; to act, or carry one's self, sneakingly.
micher	Obsolete	One who skulks, or keeps out of sight; hence, a truant; an idler; a thief, etc. Shak.
michery	Obsolete	Theft; cheating.
miching	Colloquial	Hiding; skulking; cowardly.
mickle		Much; great.
micmacs		A tribe of Indians inhabiting Nova Scotia and New Brunswick.
mico		A small South American monkey (Mico melanurus), allied to the marmoset.
micr-		A combining form signifying: (a) Small, little, trivial, slight; as, microcosm, microscope.
micracoustic		Same as Microustic.
micraster		A genus of sea urchins, similar to Spatangus, abounding in the chalk formation; -- from the starlike disposal of the ambulacral furrows.
micrencephalous		Having a small brain.
micro-		A combining form signifying: (a) Small, little, trivial, slight; as, microcosm, microscope.
micro-chemical		Of or pertaining to micro-chemistry; as, a micro-chemical test.
micro-chemistry		The application of chemical tests to minute objects or portions of matter, magnified by the use of the microscopy; -- distinguished from macro-chemistry.
micro-geological		Of or pertaining to micro-geology.
micro-geology		The part of geology relating to structure and organisms which require to be studied with a microscope.
micro-organism		Any microscopic form of life; -- particularly applied to bacteria and similar organisms, esp. such are supposed to cause infectious diseases.
microampere		One of the smaller measures of electrical currents; the millionth part of one ampère.
microanalysis		Analysis of the structure of materials from careful observation of photomicrographs.
microbacteria		In the classification of Cohn, one of the four tribes of Bacteria.
microbarograph		An instrument for recording minor fluctuations of atmospheric pressure, as opposed to general barometric surges.
microbe		A microscopic organism; -- particularly applied to bacteria and especially to pathogenic forms; as, the microbe of fowl cholera.
microbian		Of, pertaining to, or caused by, microbes; as, the microbian theory; a microbian disease.
microbic		Of or pertaining to a microbe.
microbicide		Any agent detrimental to, or destructive of, the life of microbes or bacterial organisms.
microbiology		The study of minute organisms, or microbes, as the bacteria. -- Mi`cro*bi`o*log o*gist (#), n.
microbion		A microscopic organism; -- particularly applied to bacteria and especially to pathogenic forms; as, the microbe of fowl cholera.
microcephalic		Having a small head; having the cranial cavity small; -- opposed to Ant: megacephalic.
microcephalous		Having a small head; having the cranial cavity small; -- opposed to Ant: megacephalic.
microchronometer		A chronoscope.
microcline		A mineral of the feldspar group, like orthoclase or common feldspar in composition, but triclinic in form.
micrococcal		Of or pertaining to micrococci; caused by micrococci.
micrococcus		A genus of Spherobacteria, in the form of very small globular or oval cells, forming, by transverse division, filaments, or chains of cells, or in some cases single organisms shaped like dumb-bells (Diplococcus)…
microcosm		A little world; a miniature universe. Hence (so called by Paracelsus), a man, as a supposed epitome of the exterior universe or great world.
microcosmic		Of or pertaining to the microcosm.
microcosmical		Of or pertaining to the microcosm.
microcosmography		Description of man as a microcosm.
microcoulomb		A measure of electrical quantity; the millionth part of one coulomb.
microcoustic		Pertaining, or suited, to the audition of small sounds; fitted to assist hearing.
microcrith		The weight of the half hydrogen molecule, or of the hydrogen atom, taken as the standard in comparing the atomic weights of the elements; thus, an atom of oxygen weighs sixteen microcriths.
microcrystalline		Crystalline on a fine, or microscopic, scale; consisting of fine crystals; as, the ground mass of certain porphyrics is microcrystalline.
microcyte		One of the elementary granules found in blood.
microdont		Having small teeth.
microfarad		The millionth part of a farad.
microform		A microscopic form of life; an animal or vegetable organism microscopic size.
micrograph		An instrument for executing minute writing or engraving.
micrographic		Of or pertaining to micrography.
micrography		The description of microscopic objects.
microhm		The millionth part of an ohm.
microlepidoptera		A tribe of Lepidoptera, including a vast number of minute species, as the plume moth, clothes moth, etc.
microlestes		An extinct genus of small Triassic mammals, the oldest yet found in European strata.
microlite		A rare mineral of resinous luster and high specific gravity.
microlith		Same as Microlite, 2.
microlithic		Formed of small stones.
micrologic		Of or pertaining to micrology; very minute; as, micrologic examination. -- Mi`cro*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
micrological		Of or pertaining to micrology; very minute; as, micrologic examination. -- Mi`cro*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
micrology		That part of science which treats of microscopic objects, or depends on microscopic observation.
micromere		One of the smaller cells, or blastomeres, resulting from the complete segmentation of a telolecithal ovum.
micrometer		An instrument, used with a telescope or microscope, for measuring minute distances, or the apparent diameters of objects which subtend minute angles.
micrometric		Belonging to micrometry; made by the micrometer. -- Mi`cro*met"ric*al*ly, adv.
micrometrical		Belonging to micrometry; made by the micrometer. -- Mi`cro*met"ric*al*ly, adv.
micrometry		The art of measuring with a micrometer.
micromillimeter		The millionth part of a meter.
micron		A measure of length; the thousandth part of one millimeter; the millionth part of a meter.
micronesian		Of or pertaining to Micronesia, a collective designation of the islands in the western part of the Pacific Ocean, embracing the Marshall and Gilbert groups, the Ladrones, the Carolines, etc.
micronesians		A dark race inhabiting the Micronesian Islands.
micronometer		An instrument for noting minute portions of time.
microorganism		Any microscopic form of life; -- particularly applied to bacteria and similar organisms, esp. such are supposed to cause infectious diseases.
micropantograph		A kind of pantograph which produces copies microscopically minute.
microparasite		A parasitic microörganism. -- Mi`cro*par`a*sit"ic (#), a.
micropegmatite		A rock showing under the microscope the structure of a graphic granite (pegmatite). -- Mi`cro*peg`ma*tit"ic, a.
microphone		An instrument for intensifying and making audible very feeble sounds.
microphonic		Of or pert. to a microphone; serving to intensify weak sounds.
microphonics		The science which treats of the means of increasing the intensity of low or weak sounds, or of the microphone.
microphonous		Serving to augment the intensity of weak sounds; microcoustic.
microphotograph		A microscopically small photograph of a picture, writing, printed page, etc.
microphotography		The art of making microphotographs.
microphthalmia		An unnatural smallness of the eyes, occurring as the result of disease or of imperfect development.
microphthalmy		An unnatural smallness of the eyes, occurring as the result of disease or of imperfect development.
microphyllous		Small-leaved.
microphytal		Pertaining to, or of the nature of, microphytes.
microphyte		A very minute plant, one of certain unicellular algæ, such as the germs of various infectious diseases are believed to be.
micropyle		(a) An opening in the membranes surrounding the ovum, by which nutrition is assisted and the entrance of the spermatozoa permitted.
microscopal		Pertaining to microscopy, or to the use of the microscope.
microscope		An optical instrument, consisting of a lens, or combination of lenses, for making an enlarged image of an object which is too minute to be viewed by the naked eye.
microscopial		Microscopic.
microscopic		Of or pertaining to the microscope or to microscopy; made with a microscope; as, microscopic observation.
microscopical		Of or pertaining to the microscope or to microscopy; made with a microscope; as, microscopic observation.
microscopically		By the microscope; with minute inspection; in a microscopic manner.
microscopist		One skilled in, or given to, microscopy.
microscopy		The use of the microscope; investigation with the microscope.
microseism		A feeble earth tremor not directly perceptible, but detected only by means of specially constructed apparatus. -- Mi`cro*seis mic*al (#), a.
microseismograph		A microseismometer; specif., a microseismometer producing a graphic record.
microseismology		Science or study of microseisms.
microseismometer		A seismometer for measuring amplitudes or periods, or both, of microseisms. --Mi`cro*seis*mom"e*try (#), n.
microseme		Having the orbital index relatively small; having the orbits broad transversely; -- opposed to Ant: megaseme.
microspectroscope		A spectroscope arranged for attachment to a microscope, for observation of the spectrum of light from minute portions of any substance.
microsporangium		A sporangium or conceptacle containing only very minute spores.
microspore		One of the exceedingly minute spores found in certain flowerless plants, as Selaginella and Isoetes, which bear two kinds of spores, one very much smaller than the other.
microsporic		Of or pertaining to microspores.
microsthene		One of a group of mammals having a small size as a typical characteristic.
microsthenic		Having a typically small size; of or pertaining to the microsthenes.
microtasimeter		A tasimeter, especially when arranged for measuring very small extensions.
microtome		An instrument for making very thin sections for microscopical examination.
microtomic		Of or pert. to the microtome or microtomy; cutting thin slices.
microtomical		Of or pert. to the microtome or microtomy; cutting thin slices.
microtomist		One who is skilled in or practices microtomy.
microtomy		The art of using the microtome; investigation carried on with the microtome.
microvolt		A measure of electro-motive force; the millionth part of one volt.
microweber		The millionth part of one weber.
microzoa		The Infusoria.
microzooespore		A small motile spore furnished with two vibratile cilia, found in certain green algæ.
microzoospore		A small motile spore furnished with two vibratile cilia, found in certain green algæ.
microzyme		A microörganism which is supposed to act like a ferment in causing or propagating certain infectious or contagious diseases; a pathogenic bacterial organism.
micturition		The act of voiding urine; also, a morbidly frequent passing of the urine, in consequence of disease.
mid		Denoting the middle part; as, in mid ocean.
mid-sea	Obsolete	The middle part of the sea or ocean.
mida		The larva of the bean fly.
midas		A genus of longeared South American monkeys, including numerous species of marmosets.
midbrain		The middle segment of the brain; the mesencephalon. See Brain.
midday		The middle part of the day; noon.
midden		An accumulation of refuse about a dwelling place; especially, an accumulation of shells or of cinders, bones, and other refuse on the supposed site of the dwelling places of prehistoric tribes…
middest	Obsolete	Situated most nearly in the middle; middlemost; midmost.
midding		Same as Midden.
middle		Equally distant from the extreme either of a number of things or of one thing; mean; medial; as, the middle house in a row; a middle rank or station in life; flowers of middle summer; men of middle age.
middle-age		Of or pertaining to the Middle Ages; mediæval.
middle-aged		Being about the middle of the ordinary age of man; between 30 and 50 years old.
middle-earth	Obsolete	The world, considered as lying between heaven and hell.
middle-ground		That part of a picture between the foreground and the background.
middleman		An agent between two parties; a broker; a go-between; any dealer between the producer and the consumer; in Ireland, one who takes land of the proprietors in large tracts, and then rents it out in small portions to the peasantry.
middlemost		Being in the middle, or nearest the middle; midmost.
middler		One of a middle or intermediate class in some schools and seminaries.
middling		Of middle rank, state, size, or quality; about equally distant from the extremes; medium; moderate; mediocre; ordinary.
middlings		A combination of the coarser parts of ground wheat the finest bran, separated from the fine flour and coarse bran in bolting; -- formerly regarded as valuable only for feed; but now, after separation of the bran…
middy		A colloquial abbreviation of midshipman.
midfeather		(Steam Boilers) A vertical water space in a fire box or combustion chamber.
midgard		The middle space or region between heaven and hell; the abode of human beings; the earth.
midgarth		The middle space or region between heaven and hell, the abode of human beings; the earth.
midge		Any one of many small, delicate, long-legged flies of the Chironomus, and allied genera, which do not bite.
midget	Dialect	(Zoöl.) A minute bloodsucking fly.
midgut		The middle part of the alimentary canal from the stomach, or entrance of the bile duct, to, or including, the large intestine.
midheaven		The midst or middle of heaven or the sky.
midland		Being in the interior country; distant from the coast or seashore; as, midland towns or inhabitants.
midmain	Poetic	The middle part of the main or sea.
midmost		Middle; middlemost.
midnight		The middle of the night; twelve o'clock at night.
midrash		A talmudic exposition of the Hebrew law, or of some part of it.
midrib		A continuation of the petiole, extending from the base to the apex of the lamina of a leaf.
midriff		Smote him into the midriff with a stone.
midship		Of or pertaining to, or being in, the middle of a ship.
midshipman		(a) Formerly, a kind of naval cadet, in a ship of war, whose business was to carry orders, messages, reports, etc., between the officers of the quarter-deck and those of the forecastle, and render other services as required.
midships		In the middle of a ship; -- properly amidships.
midst		The interior or central part or place; the middle; -- used chiefly in the objective case after in; as, in the midst of the forest.
midsummer		The middle of summer.
midward		Situated in the middle.
midway		The middle of the way or distance; a middle way or course.
midweek		The middle of the week.
midwife		A woman who assists other women in childbirth; a female practitioner of the obstetric art.
midwifery		The art or practice of assisting women in childbirth; obstetrics.
midwinter		The middle of winter.
midwive	Obsolete	To midwife.
mien		Aspect; air; manner; demeanor; carriage; bearing.
miff	Colloquial	A petty falling out; a tiff; a quarrel; offense.
might		imp. of May — an auxiliary verb qualifyng the meaning of another verb, by expressing: (a) Ability, competency, or possibility; -- now oftener expressed by can.
mightily		In a mighty manner; with might; with great earnestness; vigorously; powerfully.
mightiness		The quality of being mighty; possession of might; power; greatness; high dignity.
mightless	Obsolete	Without; weak.
mighty		Possessing might; having great power or authority.
migniard	Obsolete	Soft; dainty.
migniardise	Obsolete	Delicate fondling.
mignon		See 3d Minion.
mignonette		A plant (Reseda odorata) having greenish flowers with orange- colored stamens, and exhaling a delicious fragrance.
migraine		Same as Megrim. -- Mi*grain"ous, a.
migrant		Migratory.
migrate		To remove from one country or region to another, with a view to residence; to change one's place of residence; to remove; as, the Moors who migrated from Africa into Spain; to migrate to the West.
migration		The act of migrating.
migratory		Removing regularly or occasionally from one region or climate to another; as, migratory birds.
mikado		The popular designation of the hereditary sovereign of Japan.
mikmaks		Same as Micmacs.
milady		Lit., my lady; hence (as used on the Continent), an English noblewoman or gentlewoman.
milage		Same as Mileage.
milanese		Of or pertaining to Milan in Italy, or to its inhabitants. -- n. sing. & pl. A native or inhabitant of Milan; people of Milan.
milch		Giving milk; -- now applied only to beasts. xxxii.
mild		Gentle; pleasant; kind; soft; bland; clement; hence, moderate in degree or quality; -- the opposite of harsh, severe, irritating, violent, disagreeable, etc.; -- applied to persons and things; as, a mild disposition; a mild eye…
milden		To make mild, or milder.
mildew		A growth of minute powdery or webby fungi, whitish or of different colors, found on various diseased or decaying substances.
mildly		In a mild manner.
mildness		The quality or state of being mild; as, mildness of temper; the mildness of the winter.
mile		A certain measure of distance, being equivalent in England and the United States to 320 poles or rods, or 5,280 feet.
mileage		An allowance for traveling expenses at a certain rate per mile.
milepost		A post, or one of a series of posts, set up to indicate spaces of a mile each or the distance in miles from a given place.
milesian		(Irish Legendary Hist.) Descended from King Milesius of Spain, whose two sons are said to have conquered Ireland about 1300 b. c.; or pertaining to the descendants of King Milesius; hence, Irish.
milestone		A stone serving the same purpose as a milepost.
milfoil		A common composite herb (Achillea Millefolium) with white flowers and finely dissected leaves; yarrow.
miliaria		A fever accompanied by an eruption of small, isolated, red pimples, resembling a millet seed in form or size; miliary fever.
miliary		Like millet seeds; as, a miliary eruption.
milice	Obsolete	Militia.
milieu		Environment.
miliola		A genus of Foraminifera, having a porcelanous shell with several longitudinal chambers.
miliolite		A fossil shell of, or similar to, the genus Miliola.
miliolitic		Of or pertaining to the genus Miliola; containing miliolites.
militancy		The state of being militant; warfare.
militant		Engaged in warfare; fighting; combating; serving as a soldier. -- Mil"i*tant*ly, adv.
militar	Obsolete	Military.
militarily		In a military manner.
militarism		A military state or condition; reliance on military force in administering government; a military system.
militarist	Obsolete	A military man.
military		Of or pertaining to soldiers, to arms, or to war; belonging to, engaged in, or appropriate to, the affairs of war; as, a military parade; military discipline; military bravery; military conduct; military renown.
militate		To make war; to fight; to contend; -- usually followed by against and with.
militia		In the widest sense, the whole military force of a nation, including both those engaged in military service as a business, and those competent and available for such service; specifically…
militiaman		One who belongs to the militia.
militiate	Obsolete	To carry on, or prepare for, war.
milk		(Physiol.) A white fluid secreted by the mammary glands of female mammals for the nourishment of their young, consisting of minute globules of fat suspended in a solution of casein, albumin, milk sugar, and inorganic salts.
milk-livered		White-livered; cowardly; timorous.
milken	Obsolete	Consisting of milk.
milker		One who milks; also, a mechanical apparatus for milking cows.
milkful		Full of milk; abounding with food.
milkily		In a milky manner.
milkiness		State or quality of being milky.
milkmaid		A woman who milks cows or is employed in the dairy.
milkman		A man who sells milk or delivers is to customers.
milksop		A piece of bread sopped in milk; figuratively, an effeminate or weak-minded person.
milkweed		Any plant of the genera Asclepias and Acerates, abounding in a milky juice, and having its seed attached to a long silky down; silkweed.
milkwort		A genus of plants (Polygala) of many species.
milky		Consisting of, or containing, milk.
mill		A money of account of the United States, having the value of the tenth of a cent, or the thousandth of a dollar.
mill-cake		The incorporated materials for gunpowder, in the form of a dense mass or cake, ready to be subjected to the process of granulation.
mill-sixpence		A milled sixpence; -- the sixpence being one of the first English coins milled (1561).
millboard		A kind of stout pasteboard.
milldam		A dam or mound to obstruct a water course, and raise the water to a height sufficient to turn a mill wheel.
milled		Having been subjected to some process of milling.
millenarian		Consisting of a thousand years; of or pertaining to the millennium, or to the Millenarians.
millenarianism		The doctrine of Millenarians.
millenarism		The doctrine of Millenarians.
millenary		Consisting of a thousand; millennial.
millennial		Of or pertaining to the millennium, or to a thousand years; as, a millennial period; millennial happiness.
millennialism		Belief in, or expectation of, the millennium; millenarianism.
millennialist		One who believes that Christ will reign personally on earth a thousand years; a Chiliast; also, a believer in the universal prevalence of Christianity for a long period.
millenniarism		Belief in, or expectation of, the millennium; millenarianism.
millennist	Obsolete	One who believes in the millennium.
millennium		A thousand years; especially, thousand years mentioned in the twentieth chapter in the twentieth chapter of Revelation, during which holiness is to be triumphant throughout the world.
milleped		A myriapod with many legs, esp. a chilognath, as the galleyworm.
millepora		A genus of Hydrocorallia, which includes the millipores.
millepore		Any coral of the genus Millepora, having the surface nearly smooth, and perforated with very minute unequal pores, or cells.
milleporite		A fossil millepore.
miller		One who keeps or attends a flour mill or gristmill.
millerite		A believer in the doctrine of William Miller (d. 1849), who taught that the end of the world and the second coming of Christ were at hand.
millesimal		Thousandth; consisting of thousandth parts; as, millesimal fractions.
millet		The name of several cereal and forage grasses which bear an abundance of small roundish grains.
milli-		A prefix denoting a thousandth part of; as, millimeter, milligram, milliampère.
milliampere		The thousandth part of one ampère.
milliard		A thousand millions; -- called also billion. See Billion.
milliary		Of or pertaining to a mile, or to distance by miles; denoting a mile or miles.
millier		A weight of the metric system, being one million grams; a metric ton.
millifold		Thousandfold.
milligram		A measure of weight, in the metric system, being the thousandth part of a gram, equal to the weight of a cubic millimeter of water, or.01543 of a grain avoirdupois.
milligramme		A measure of weight, in the metric system, being the thousandth part of a gram, equal to the weight of a cubic millimeter of water, or.01543 of a grain avoirdupois.
milliliter		A measure of capacity in the metric system, containing the thousandth part of a liter.
millilitre		A measure of capacity in the metric system, containing the thousandth part of a liter.
millimeter		A lineal measure in the metric system, containing the thousandth part of a meter; equal to.03937 of an inch.
millimetre		A lineal measure in the metric system, containing the thousandth part of a meter; equal to.03937 of an inch.
millimicron		The thousandish part of a micron or the millionth part of a millimeter; -- a unit of length used in measuring light waves, etc.
milliner		A person, usually a woman, who makes, trims, or deals in hats, bonnets, headdresses, etc., for women.
millinery		The articles made or sold by milliners, as headdresses, hats or bonnets, laces, ribbons, and the like.
millinet		A stiff cotton fabric used by milliners for lining bonnets.
milling		The act or employment of grinding or passing through a mill; the process of fulling; the process of making a raised or intented edge upon coin, etc.; the process of dressing surfaces of various shapes with rotary cutters.
million		The number of ten hundred thousand, or a thousand thousand, -- written 1,000, 000.
millionaire		One whose wealth is counted by millions of francs, dollars, or pounds; a very rich person; a person worth a million or more.
millionairess		A woman who is a millionaire, or the wife of a millionaire.
millionary		Of or pertaining to millions; consisting of millions; as, the millionary chronology of the pundits.
millioned	Obsolete	Multiplied by millions; innumerable.
millionnaire		Millionaire.
millionth		Being the last one of a million of units or objects counted in regular order from the first of a series or succession; being one of a million.
milliped		The same Milleped.
millistere		A liter, or cubic decimeter.
milliweber		The thousandth part of one weber.
millrea		See Milreis — a portuguese money of account rated in the treasury department of the United States at one dollar and eight cents; also, a Brazilian money of account rated at fifty-four cents and six mills.
millree		See Milreis — a portuguese money of account rated in the treasury department of the United States at one dollar and eight cents; also, a Brazilian money of account rated at fifty-four cents and six mills.
millreis		See Milreis — a portuguese money of account rated in the treasury department of the United States at one dollar and eight cents; also, a Brazilian money of account rated at fifty-four cents and six mills.
millrind		A figure supposed to represent the iron which holds a millstone by being set into its center.
millrynd		A figure supposed to represent the iron which holds a millstone by being set into its center.
millstone		One of two circular stones used for grinding grain or other substance.
millwork		The shafting, gearing, and other driving machinery of mils.
millwright		A mechanic whose occupation is to build mills, or to set up their machinery.
milord		Lit., my lord; hence (as used on the Continent), an English nobleman or gentleman.
milreis		A Portuguese money of account rated in the treasury department of the United States at one dollar and eight cents; also, a Brazilian money of account rated at fifty-four cents and six mills.
milt		The spleen. (a) The spermatic fluid of fishes. (b) The testes, or spermaries, of fishes when filled with spermatozoa.
milter		A male fish.
miltonian		Miltonic.
miltonic		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, Milton, or his writings; as, Miltonic prose.
miltwaste		A small European fern (Asplenium Ceterach) formerly used in medicine.
milvine		Of or resembling birds of the kite kind.
milvus		A genus of raptorial birds, including the European kite.
mime		A kind of drama in which real persons and events were generally represented in a ridiculous manner.
mimeograph		An autographic stencil copying device invented by Edison.
mimesis		Imitation; mimicry.
mimetene		See Mimetite — a mineral occurring in pale yellow or brownish hexagonal crystals.
mimetic		Apt to imitate; given to mimicry; imitative.
mimetical		Apt to imitate; given to mimicry; imitative.
mimetism		Same as Mimicry.
mimetite		A mineral occurring in pale yellow or brownish hexagonal crystals.
mimic		Imitative; mimetic.
mimical		Imitative; mimetic.
mimically		In an imitative manner.
mimicker		One who mimics; a mimic.
mimicry		The act or practice of one who mimics; ludicrous imitation for sport or ridicule.
mimographer		A writer of mimes.
mimosa		A genus of leguminous plants, containing many species, and including the sensitive plants (Mimosa sensitiva, and M. pudica).
mimotannic		Pertaining to, or designating, a variety of tannin or tannic acid found in Acacia, Mimosa, etc.
mina		An ancient weight or denomination of money, of varying value.
minable		Such as can be mined; as, minable earth.
minaceous		Of the color of minium or red lead; miniate.
minacious		Threatening; menacing.
minacity		Disposition to threaten.
minaret		A slender, lofty tower attached to a mosque and surrounded by one or more projecting balconies, from which the summon to prayer is cried by the muezzin.
minargent		An alloy consisting of copper, nickel, tungsten, and aluminium; -- used by jewelers.
minatorially		In a minatory manner; with threats.
minatorily		In a minatory manner; with threats.
minatory		Threatening; menacing.
minaul		Same as Manul.
mince		To cut into very small pieces; to chop fine; to hash; as, to mince meat.
mince-meat		Minced meat; meat chopped very fine; a mixture of boiled meat, suet, apples, etc., chopped very fine, to which spices and raisins are added; -- used in making mince pie.
mincer		One who minces.
mincing		That minces; characterized by primness or affected nicety.
mincingly		In a mincing manner; not fully; with affected nicety.
mind		The intellectual or rational faculty in man; the understanding; the intellect; the power that conceives, judges, or reasons; also, the entire spiritual nature; the soul; -- often in distinction from the body.
minded		Disposed; inclined; having a mind.
minder		One who minds, tends, or watches something, as a child, a machine, or cattle; as, a minder of a loom.
mindful		Bearing in mind; regardful; attentive; heedful; observant.
minding		Regard; mindfulness.
mindless		Not indued with mind or intellectual powers; stupid; unthinking.
mine		To dig a mine or pit in the earth; to get ore, metals, coal, or precious stones, out of the earth; to dig in the earth for minerals; to dig a passage or cavity under anything in order to overthrow it by explosives or otherwise.
miner		One who mines; a digger for metals, etc.; one engaged in the business of getting ore, coal, or precious stones, out of the earth; one who digs military mines; as, armies have sappers and miners.
mineral		An inorganic species or substance occurring in nature, having a definite chemical composition and usually a distinct crystalline form.
mineralist		One versed in minerals; mineralogist.
mineralization		The process of mineralizing, or forming a mineral by combination of a metal with another element; also, the process of converting into a mineral, as a bone or a plant.
mineralize		To transform into a mineral.
mineralizer		An element which is combined with a metal, thus forming an ore.
mineralogical		Of or pertaining to mineralogy; as, a mineralogical table.
mineralogically		According to the principles of, or with reference to, mineralogy.
mineralogist		One versed in mineralogy; one devoted to the study of minerals.
mineralogize		To study mineralogy by collecting and examining minerals.
mineralogy		The science which treats of minerals, and teaches how to describe, distinguish, and classify them.
minerva		The goddess of wisdom, of war, of the arts and sciences, of poetry, and of spinning and weaving; -- identified with the Grecian Pallas Athene.
minette		The smallest of regular sizes of portrait photographs.
minever		Same as Miniver.
minge	Obsolete	To mingle; to mix.
mingle		To mix; intermix; to combine or join, as an individual or part, with other parts, but commonly so as to be distinguishable in the product; to confuse; to confound.
mingle-mangle	Obsolete	To mix in a disorderly way; to make a mess of.
mingleable		That can be mingled.
mingledly		Confusedly.
minglement		The act of mingling, or the state of being mixed.
mingler		One who mingles.
minglingly		In a mingling manner.
miniaceous		Of the color of minium or red lead; miniate.
miniard	Obsolete	Migniard.
miniardize	Obsolete	To render delicate or dainty.
miniate		To paint or tinge with red lead or vermilion; also, to decorate with letters, or the like, painted red, as the page of a manuscript.
miniature		Originally, a painting in colors such as those in mediæval manuscripts; in modern times, any very small painting, especially a portrait.
miniaturist		A painter of miniatures.
minibus		A kind of light passenger vehicle, carrying four persons.
minify		To make small, or smaller; to diminish the apparent dimensions of; to lessen.
minikin	Obsolete	A little darling; a favorite; a minion.
minim		Anything very minute; as, the minims of existence; -- applied to animalcula; and the like.
minimal		Of, pertaining to, or having a character of, a minim or minimum; least; smallest; as, a minimal amount or value.
miniment	Obsolete	A trifle; a trinket; a token.
minimization		The act or process of minimizing.
minimize		To reduce to the smallest part or proportion possible; to reduce to a minimum.
minimum		The least quantity assignable, admissible, or possible, in a given case; hence, a thing of small consequence; -- opposed to Ant: maximum.
minimus		(Anat.) The little finger; the fifth digit, or that corresponding to it, in either the manus or pes.
mining		The act or business of making mines or of working them.
minion		An obsequious or servile dependent or agent of another; a fawning favorite.
minionette	Obsolete	Small; delicate.
minioning	Obsolete	Kind treatment.
minionize	Obsolete	To flavor.
minionlike		Like a minion; daintily.
minionly		Like a minion; daintily.
minionship		State of being a minion.
minious	Obsolete	Of the color of red or vermilion.
minish		To diminish; to lessen.
minishment	Obsolete	The act of diminishing, or the state of being diminished; diminution.
minister		A servant; a subordinate; an officer or assistant of inferior rank; hence, an agent, an instrument.
ministerial		Of or pertaining to ministry or service; serving; attendant.
ministerialist		A supporter of the ministers, or the party in power.
ministerially		In a ministerial manner; in the character or capacity of a minister.
ministery		See Ministry — the act of ministering; ministration; service.
ministracy	Obsolete	Ministration.
ministral	Obsolete	Ministerial.
ministrant		Performing service as a minister; attendant on service; acting under command; subordinate. -- n.
ministration		The act of ministering; service; ministry.
ministrative		Serving to aid; ministering.
ministress		A woman who ministers.
ministry		The act of ministering; ministration; service.
ministryship		The office of a minister.
minium		A heavy, brilliant red pigment, consisting of an oxide of lead, Pb3O4, obtained by exposing lead or massicot to a gentle and continued heat in the air.
miniver		A fur esteemed in the Middle Ages as a part of costume.
minivet		A singing bird of India of the family Campephagidæ.
mink		A carnivorous mammal of the genus Putorius, allied to the weasel.
minnesinger		A love-singer; specifically, one of a class of German poets and musicians who flourished from about the middle of the twelfth to the middle of the fourteenth century.
minnow		(Zoöl.) A small European fresh-water cyprinoid fish (Phoxinus lævis, formerly Leuciscus phoxinus); sometimes applied also to the young of larger kinds; -- called also minim and minny.
minny		A minnow.
minor		Inferior in bulk, degree, importance, etc.; less; smaller; of little account; as, minor divisions of a body.
minorat		A custom or right, analogous to borough-English in England, formerly existing in various parts of Europe, and surviving in parts of Germany and Austria, by which certain entailed estates, as a homestead and adjacent land…
minorate		To diminish.
minoration		A diminution.
minoress		See Franciscan Nuns, under Franciscan, a.
minorite		A Franciscan friar.
minority		The state of being a minor, or under age.
minos		A king and lawgiver of Crete, fabled to be the son of Jupiter and Europa.
minotaur		A fabled monster, half man and half bull, confined in the labyrinth constructed by Dædalus in Crete.
minow		See Minnow — (Zoöl.) A small European fresh-water cyprinoid fish (Phoxinus lævis, formerly Leuciscus phoxinus); sometimes applied also to the young of larger kinds; -- called also minim and minny.
minster		A church of a monastery.
minstrel		In the Middle Ages, one of an order of men who subsisted by the arts of poetry and music, and sang verses to the accompaniment of a harp or other instrument; in modern times, a poet; a bard; a singer and harper; a musician.
minstrelsy		The arts and occupation of minstrels; the singing and playing of a minstrel.
mint		The name of several aromatic labiate plants, mostly of the genus Mentha, yielding odoriferous essential oils by distillation.
mint-master		The master or superintendent of a mint.
mintage		The coin, or other production, made in a mint.
minter		One who mints.
mintman		One skilled in coining, or in coins; a coiner.
minuend		The number from which another number is to be subtracted.
minuet		A slow graceful dance consisting of a coupee, a high step, and a balance.
minum		A small kind of printing type; minion.
minus		Less; requiring to be subtracted; negative; as, a minus quantity.
minuscule		Any very small, minute object.
minutary	Obsolete	Pertaining to, or consisting of, minutes.
minute		The sixtieth part of an hour; sixty seconds. (Abbrev. m.; as, 4 h. 30 m.) Four minutes, that is to say, minutes of an hour.
minute-jack		A figure which strikes the hour on the bell of some fanciful clocks; -- called also jack of the clock house.
minutely	Obsolete	In a minute manner; with minuteness; exactly; nicely.
minuteman		A militiaman who was to be ready to march at a moment's notice; -- a term used in the American Revolution.
minuteness		The quality of being minute.
minutia		A minute particular; a small or minor detail; -- used chiefly in the plural.
minx		A pert or a wanton girl.
miny		Abounding with mines; like a mine.
minyan		A quorum, or number necessary, for conducting public worship.
miocene		Of or pertaining to the middle division of the Tertiary. -- n.
miohippus		An extinct Miocene mammal of the Horse family, closely related to the genus Anhithecrium, and having three usable hoofs on each foot.
miquelet		An irregular or partisan soldier; a bandit.
mir		A Russian village community.
mira		A remarkable variable star in the constellation Cetus (o Ceti).
mirabilary	Obsolete	One who, or a work which, narrates wonderful things; one who writes of wonders.
mirabilis		A genus of plants. See Four-o'clock.
mirabilite		Native sodium sulphate; Glauber's salt.
mirable	Obsolete	Wonderful; admirable.
miracle		A wonder or wonderful thing.
miraculize		To cause to seem to be a miracle.
miraculous		Of the nature of a miracle; performed by supernatural power; effected by the direct agency of almighty power, and not by natural causes.
mirador		Same as Belvedere.
mirage		An optical effect, sometimes seen on the ocean, but more frequently in deserts, due to total reflection of light at the surface common to two strata of air differently heated.
mirbane		See Nitrobenzene — a yellow aromatic liquid (C6H5.NO2), produced by the action of nitric acid on benzene, and called from its odor imitation oil of bitter almonds, or essence of mirbane.
mire		To cause or permit to stick fast in mire; to plunge or fix in mud; as, to mire a horse or wagon.
mirific		Working wonders; wonderful.
mirifical		Working wonders; wonderful.
mirificent	Obsolete	Wonderful.
miriness		The quality of being miry.
mirk		Dark; gloomy; murky.
mirksome	Archaic	Dark; gloomy; murky.
mirky		Dark; gloomy. See Murky.
mirliton		A kind of musical toy into which one sings, hums, or speaks, producing a coarse, reedy sound.
mirror		A looking-glass or a speculum; any glass or polished substance that forms images by the reflection of rays of light.
mirrorscope		See Projector, below.
mirth		Merriment; gayety accompanied with laughter; jollity.
mirthful		Full of mirth or merriment; merry; as, mirthful children.
mirthless		Without mirth. -- Mirth"less*ness, n.
miry		Abounding with deep mud; full of mire; muddy; as, a miry road.
miryachit		A nervous disease in which the patient involuntarily imitates the words or action of another.
mirza		The common title of honor in Persia, prefixed to the surname of an individual.
mis	Obsolete	Wrong; amiss.
mis-		A prefix used adjectively and adverbially in the sense of amiss, wrong, ill, wrongly, unsuitably; as, misdeed, mislead, mischief, miscreant.
misacceptation		Wrong acceptation; understanding in a wrong sense.
misaccompt	Obsolete	To account or reckon wrongly.
misadjust		To adjust wrongly of unsuitably; to throw of adjustment.
misadjustment		Wrong adjustment; unsuitable arrangement.
misadventure		Mischance; misfortune; ill lick; unlucky accident; ill adventure.
misadventured	Obsolete	Unfortunate.
misadventurous		Unfortunate.
misadvertence		Inadvertence.
misadvice		Bad advice.
misadvise		To give bad counsel to.
misadvised		Ill advised. -- Mis`ad*vis"ed*ly, adv.
misaffect	Obsolete	To dislike.
misaffected	Obsolete	Ill disposed.
misaffection	Obsolete	An evil or wrong affection; the state of being ill affected.
misaffirm		To affirm incorrectly.
misaimed		Not rightly aimed.
misallegation		A erroneous statement or allegation.
misallege		To state erroneously.
misalliance		A marriage with a person of inferior rank or social station; an improper alliance; a mesalliance.
misallied		Wrongly allied or associated.
misallotment		A wrong allotment.
misalter		To alter wrongly; esp., to alter for the worse.
misanthrope		A hater of mankind; a misanthropist.
misanthropic		Hating or disliking mankind.
misanthropical		Hating or disliking mankind.
misanthropist		A misanthrope.
misanthropos	Obsolete	A misanthrope.
misanthropy		Hatred of, or dislike to, mankind; -- opposed to philanthropy.
misapplication		A wrong application.
misapply		To apply wrongly; to use for a wrong purpose; as, to misapply a name or title; to misapply public money.
misappreciated		Improperly appreciated.
misapprehend		To take in a wrong sense; to misunderstand.
misapprehension		A mistaking or mistake; wrong apprehension of one's meaning of a fact; misconception; misunderstanding.
misapprehensively		By, or with, misapprehension.
misappropriate		To appropriate wrongly; to use for a wrong purpose.
misappropriation		Wrong appropriation; wrongful use.
misarrange		To place in a wrong order, or improper manner.
misarrangement		Wrong arrangement.
misascribe		To ascribe wrongly.
misassay	Obsolete	To assay, or attempt, improperly or unsuccessfully.
misassign		To assign wrongly.
misattend	Obsolete	To misunderstand; to disregard.
misaventure	Obsolete	Misadventure.
misavize	Obsolete	To misadvise.
misbear	Obsolete	To carry improperly; to carry (one's self) wrongly; to misbehave.
misbecome		Not to become; to suit ill; not to befit or be adapted to.
misbecoming		Unbecoming.
misbede	Obsolete	To wrong; to do injury to.
misbefitting		No befitting.
misbegot		Unlawfully or irregularly begotten; of bad origin; pernicious.
misbegotten		Unlawfully or irregularly begotten; of bad origin; pernicious.
misbehave		To behave ill; to conduct one's self improperly; -- often used with a reciprocal pronoun.
misbehaved		Guilty of ill behavior; illbred; rude.
misbehavior		Improper, rude, or uncivil behavior; ill conduct.
misbelief		Erroneous or false belief.
misbelieve		To believe erroneously, or in a false religion.
misbeliever		One who believes wrongly; one who holds a false religion.
misbeseem		To suit ill.
misbestow		To bestow improperly.
misbestowal		The act of misbestowing.
misbileve	Obsolete	Misbelief; unbelief; suspicion.
misbode		of Misbede — to wrong; to do injury to.
misboden		of Misbede — to wrong; to do injury to.
misborn		Born to misfortune.
miscalculate		To calculate erroneously; to judge wrongly. -- Mis*cal`cu*la"tion, n.
miscall		To call by a wrong name; to name improperly.
miscarriage		Unfortunate event or issue of an undertaking; failure to attain a desired result or reach a destination.
miscarriageable		Capable of miscarrying; liable to fail.
miscarry		To carry, or go, wrong; to fail of reaching a destination, or fail of the intended effect; to be unsuccessful; to suffer defeat.
miscast		To cast or reckon wrongly.
miscegenation		A mixing of races; amalgamation, as by intermarriage of black and white.
miscellanarian		Of or pertaining to miscellanies.
miscellane		A mixture of two or more sorts of grain; -- now called maslin and meslin.
miscellanea		A collection of miscellaneous matters; matters of various kinds.
miscellaneous		Mixed; mingled; consisting of several things; of diverse sorts; promiscuous; heterogeneous; as, a miscellaneous collection. -- Mis`cel*la ne*ous*ness, n.
miscellanist		A writer of miscellanies; miscellanarian.
miscellany	Obsolete	A mass or mixture of various things; a medley; esp., a collection of compositions on various subjects.
miscensure	Obsolete	To misjudge.
mischance		Ill luck; ill fortune; mishap.
mischanceful		Unlucky.
mischaracterize		To characterize falsely or erroneously; to give a wrong character to.
mischarge		To charge erroneously, as in account. -- n.
mischief		Harm; damage; esp., disarrangement of order; trouble or vexation caused by human agency or by some living being, intentionally or not; often, calamity, mishap; trivial evil caused by thoughtlessness, or in sport.
mischief-maker		One who makes mischief; one who excites or instigates quarrels or enmity.
mischief-making		Causing harm; exciting enmity or quarrels.
mischiefable		Mischievous.
mischiefful	Obsolete	Mischievous.
mischievous		Causing mischief; harmful; hurtful; -- now often applied where the evil is done carelessly or in sport; as, a mischievous child.
mischna		See Mishna — a collection or digest of Jewish traditions and explanations of Scripture, forming the text of the Talmud.
mischnic		See Mishnic — of or pertaining to the Mishna.
mischoose		To choose wrongly.
mischristen		To christen wrongly.
miscibility		Capability of being mixed.
miscible		Capable of being mixed; mixable; as, water and alcohol are miscible in all proportions.
miscitation		Erroneous citation.
miscite		To cite erroneously.
misclaim		A mistaken claim.
miscognizant		Not cognizant; ignorant; not knowing.
miscognize	Obsolete	To fail to apprehend; to misunderstand.
miscollocation		Wrong collocation.
miscolor		To give a wrong color to; figuratively, to set forth erroneously or unfairly; as, to miscolor facts.
miscomfort	Obsolete	Discomfort.
miscomprehend		To get a wrong idea of or about; to misunderstand.
miscomputation		Erroneous computation; false reckoning.
miscompute		To compute erroneously.
misconceit	Obsolete	Misconception.
misconceive		To conceive wrongly; to interpret incorrectly; to receive a false notion of; to misjudge; to misapprehend.
misconceiver		One who misconceives.
misconception		Erroneous conception; false opinion; wrong understanding.
misconclusion		An erroneous inference or conclusion.
misconduct		Wrong conduct; bad behavior; mismanagement.
misconfident		Having a mistaken confidence; wrongly trusting.
misconjecture		A wrong conjecture or guess.
misconsecrate		To consecrate amiss.
misconsecration		Wrong consecration.
misconsequence		A wrong consequence; a false deduction.
misconstruable		Such as can be misconstrued, as language or conduct.
misconstruct		To construct wrongly; to construe or interpret erroneously.
misconstruction		Erroneous construction; wrong interpretation.
misconstrue		To construe wrongly; to interpret erroneously.
misconstruer		One who misconstrues.
miscontent	Obsolete	Discontent.
miscontinuance		Discontinuance; also, continuance by undue process.
miscopy		To copy amiss.
miscorrect		To fail or err in attempting to correct.
miscounsel		To counsel or advise wrongly.
miscount		To count erroneously.
miscovet	Obsolete	To covet wrongfully.
miscreance	Obsolete	The quality of being miscreant; adherence to a false religion; false faith.
miscreancy	Obsolete	The quality of being miscreant; adherence to a false religion; false faith.
miscreant		One not restrained by Christian principles; an unscrupulous villain; a while wretch.
miscreate	Obsolete	Miscreated; illegitimate; forged; as, miscreate titles.
miscreated		Formed unnaturally or illegitimately; deformed.
miscreative		Creating amiss.
miscredent	Obsolete	A miscreant, or believer in a false religious doctrine.
miscredulity		Wrong credulity or belief; misbelief.
miscue		A false stroke with a billiard cue, the cue slipping from the ball struck without impelling it as desired.
misdate		To date erroneously.
misdeal		To deal or distribute wrongly, as cards; to make a wrong distribution.
misdeed		An evil deed; a wicked action.
misdeem	Obsolete	To misjudge.
misdemean		To behave ill; -- with a reflexive pronoun; as, to misdemean one's self.
misdemeanant		One guilty of a misdemeanor.
misdemeanor		Ill behavior; evil conduct; fault.
misdempt		of Misdeem — to misjudge.
misdepart	Obsolete	To distribute wrongly.
misderive		To derive erroneously.
misdescribe		To describe wrongly.
misdesert	Obsolete	Ill desert.
misdevotion		Mistaken devotion.
misdiet	Obsolete	Improper.
misdight	Archaic	Arrayed, prepared, or furnished, unsuitably.
misdirect		To give a wrong direction to; as, to misdirect a passenger, or a letter; to misdirect one's energies.
misdirection		The act of directing wrongly, or the state of being so directed.
misdisposition		Erroneous disposal or application.
misdistinguish		To make wrong distinctions in or concerning.
misdivide		To divide wrongly.
misdivision		Wrong division.
misdo		To do wrongly.
misdoer		A wrongdoer.
misdoing		A wrong done; a fault or crime; an offense; as, it was my misdoing.
misdoubt	Obsolete	To be suspicious of; to have suspicion.
misdoubtful	Obsolete	Misgiving; hesitating.
misdread	Obsolete	Dread of evil.
mise	Obsolete	Expense; cost; disbursement.
misease	Obsolete	Want of ease; discomfort; misery.
miseased	Obsolete	Having discomfort or misery; troubled.
miseasy	Obsolete	Not easy; painful.
misedition	Obsolete	An incorrect or spurious edition.
miseducate		To educate in a wrong manner.
misemploy		To employ amiss; as, to misemploy time, advantages, talents, etc. Their frugal father's gains they misemploy.
misemployment		Wrong or mistaken employment.
misenter		To enter or insert wrongly, as a charge in an account.
misentreat	Obsolete	To treat wrongfully.
misentry		An erroneous entry or charge, as of an account.
miser		A covetous, grasping, mean person; esp., one having wealth, who lives miserably for the sake of saving and increasing his hoard.
miserable		Very unhappy; wretched.
miserableness		The state or quality of being miserable.
miserably		In a miserable; unhappily; calamitously; wretchedly; meanly.
miseration	Obsolete	Commiseration.
miserere		A musical composition adapted to the 50th psalm.
misericorde	Obsolete	Compassion; pity; mercy.
misericordia		(Eccl.) An indulgence as to food or dress granted to a member of a religious order.
miserly		Like a miser; very covetous; sordid; niggardly.
misery		Great unhappiness; extreme pain of body or mind; wretchedness; distress; woe.
misesteem		Want of esteem; disrespect.
misestimate		To estimate erroneously.
misexplanation		An erroneous explanation.
misexplication		Wrong explication.
misexposition		Wrong exposition.
misexpound		To expound erroneously.
misexpression		Wrong expression.
misfaith		Want of faith; distrust.
misfall	Obsolete	To befall, as ill luck; to happen to unluckily.
misfare	Obsolete	To fare ill. -- n.
misfashion		To form wrongly.
misfeasance		A trespass; a wrong done; the improper doing of an act which a person might lawfully do.
misfeature		Ill feature.
misfeeling	Obsolete	Insensate.
misfeign	Obsolete	To feign with an evil design.
misfit		The act or the state of fitting badly; as, a misfit in making a coat; a ludicrous misfit.
misform		To make in an ill form.
misformation		Malformation.
misfortunate	Obsolete	Producing misfortune.
misfortune	Obsolete	Bad fortune or luck; calamity; an evil accident; disaster; mishap; mischance.
misfortuned	Obsolete	Unfortunate.
misframe		To frame wrongly.
misget	Obsolete	To get wrongfully.
misgie	Obsolete	See Misgye — to misguide.
misgive		Specifically: To give doubt and apprehension to, instead of confidence and courage; to impart fear to; to make irresolute; -- usually said of the mind or heart, and followed by the objective personal pronoun.
misgiving		Evil premonition; doubt; distrust.
misgo		To go astray.
misgotten		Unjustly gotten.
misgovern		To govern ill; as, to misgovern a country.
misgovernance	Obsolete	Misgovernment; misconduct; misbehavior.
misgoverned		Ill governed, as a people; ill directed.
misgovernment		Bad government; want of government.
misgracious	Obsolete	Not gracious.
misgraff	Obsolete	To misgraft.
misgraft		To graft wrongly.
misground		To found erroneously.
misgrowth		Bad growth; an unnatural or abnormal growth.
misguess		To guess wrongly.
misguidance		Wrong guidance.
misguide	Obsolete	To guide wrongly; to lead astray; as, to misguide the understanding.
misguiding		Misleading. -- Mis*guid"ing*ly, adv.
misgye	Obsolete	To misguide.
mishandle		To handle ill or wrongly; to maltreat.
mishap	Obsolete	Evil accident; ill luck; misfortune; mischance.
mishappen		To happen ill or unluckily.
mishappy	Obsolete	Unhappy.
mishcup	Dialect	The scup.
mishear		To hear incorrectly.
mishmash		A hotchpotch.
mishna		A collection or digest of Jewish traditions and explanations of Scripture, forming the text of the Talmud.
mishnic		Of or pertaining to the Mishna.
misimagination		Wrong imagination; delusion.
misimprove		To use for a bad purpose; to abuse; to misuse; as, to misimprove time, talents, advantages, etc. South.
misimprovement		Ill use or employment; use for a bad purpose.
misincline		To cause to have a wrong inclination or tendency; to affect wrongly.
misinfer		To infer incorrectly.
misinform		To give untrue information to; to inform wrongly.
misinformant		A misinformer.
misinformation		Untrue or incorrect information.
misinformer		One who gives or incorrect information.
misinstruct		To instruct amiss.
misinstruction		Wrong or improper instruction.
misintelligence		Wrong information; misinformation.
misintend	Obsolete	To aim amiss.
misinterpret		To interpret erroneously; to understand or to explain in a wrong sense.
misinterpretable		Capable of being misinterpreted; liable to be misunderstood.
misinterpretation		The act of interpreting erroneously; a mistaken interpretation.
misinterpreter		One who interprets erroneously.
misjoin		To join unfitly or improperly.
misjoinder		An incorrect union of parties or of causes of action in a procedure, criminal or civil.
misjudge		To judge erroneously or unjustly; to err in judgment; to misconstrue.
misjudgment		A wrong or unjust judgment.
miskeep		To keep wrongly.
misken	Obsolete	Not to know.
miskin	Obsolete	A little bagpipe.
miskindle		To kindle amiss; to inflame to a bad purpose; to excite wrongly.
misknow	Obsolete	To have a mistaken notion of or about.
mislactation		Defective flow or vitiated condition of the milk.
mislay		To lay in a wrong place; to ascribe to a wrong source.
mislayer		One who mislays.
misle		To rain in very fine drops, like a thick mist; to mizzle.
mislead		To lead into a wrong way or path; to lead astray; to guide into error; to cause to mistake; to deceive.
misleader		One who leads into error.
misleading		Leading astray; delusive.
mislearn		To learn wrongly.
misled		of Mislead — to lead into a wrong way or path; to lead astray; to guide into error; to cause to mistake; to deceive.
mislen		See Maslin — a mixture composed of different materials; especially: (a) A mixture of metals resembling brass.
misletoe		See Mistletoe — a parasitic evergreen plant of Europe (Viscum album), bearing a glutinous fruit.
mislight		To deceive or lead astray with a false light.
mislike		To dislike; to disapprove of; to have aversion to; as, to mislike a man.
misliker		One who dislikes.
misliking		Dislike; aversion.
mislin		See Maslin — a mixture composed of different materials; especially: (a) A mixture of metals resembling brass.
mislive		To live amiss.
mislodge	Obsolete	To lodge amiss.
misluck		Ill luck; misfortune.
misly		Raining in very small drops.
mismake		To make or form amiss; to spoil in making.
mismanage		To manage ill or improperly; as, to mismanage public affairs.
mismanagement		Wrong or bad management; as, he failed through mismagement.
mismanager		One who manages ill.
mismark		To mark wrongly.
mismatch		To match unsuitably.
mismate		To mate wrongly or unsuitably; as, to mismate gloves or shoes; a mismated couple.
mismeasure		To measure or estimate incorrectly.
mismeasurement		Wrong measurement.
mismeter		To give the wrong meter to, as to a line of verse.
misname		To call by the wrong name; to give a wrong or inappropriate name to.
misnomer		The misnaming of a person in a legal instrument, as in a complaint or indictment; any misnaming of a person or thing; a wrong or inapplicable name or title.
misnumber		To number wrongly.
misnurture		To nurture or train wrongly; as, to misnurture children.
misobedience	Obsolete	Mistaken obedience; disobedience.
misobserve		To observe inaccurately; to mistake in observing.
misobserver		One who misobserves; one who fails to observe properly.
misogamist		A hater of marriage.
misogynist		A woman hater.
misogynous		Hating women.
misogyny		Hatred of women.
misology		Hatred of argument or discussion; hatred of enlightenment.
misopinion	Obsolete	Wrong opinion.
misorder	Obsolete	To order ill; to manage erroneously; to conduct badly.
misorderly	Obsolete	Irregular; disorderly.
misordination		Wrong ordination.
misotheism		Hatred of God.
mispaint		To paint ill, or wrongly.
mispassion	Obsolete	Wrong passion or feeling.
mispay	Obsolete	To dissatisfy.
mispell		See Misspell, Misspend, etc.
mispend		See Misspell, Misspend, etc.
mispense		See Misspense — a spending improperly; a wasting.
misperception		Erroneous perception.
mispersuade		To persuade amiss.
mispersuasion		A false persuasion; wrong notion or opinion.
mispickel		Arsenical iron pyrites; arsenopyrite.
misplace		To put in a wrong place; to set or place on an improper or unworthy object; as, he misplaced his confidence.
misplacement		The act of misplacing, or the state of being misplaced.
misplead		To err in pleading.
mispleading		An error in pleading.
mispoint		To point improperly; to punctuate wrongly.
mispolicy		Wrong policy; impolicy.
mispractice		Wrong practice.
mispraise		To praise amiss.
misprint		To print wrong.
misprise	Obsolete	See Misprize — to slight or undervalue.
misprision		(Law) A neglect, negligence, or contempt.
misprize		To slight or undervalue.
misproceeding		Wrong or irregular proceding.
misprofess		To make a false profession; to make pretensions to skill which is not possessed.
mispronounce		To pronounce incorrectly.
mispronunciation		Wrong or improper pronunciation.
misproportion		To give wrong proportions to; to join without due proportion.
misproud	Obsolete	Viciously proud.
mispunctuate		To punctuate wrongly or incorrectly.
misquotation		Erroneous or inaccurate quotation.
misquote		To quote erroneously or incorrectly.
misraise		To raise or exite unreasonable.
misrate		To rate erroneously.
misread		To read amiss; to misunderstand in reading.
misreceive		To receive wrongly.
misrecital		An inaccurate recital.
misrecite		To recite erroneously.
misreckon		To reckon wrongly; to miscalculate.
misreckoning		An erroneous computation.
misrecollect		To have an erroneous remembrance of; to suppose erroneously that one recollects.
misrecollection		Erroneous or inaccurate recollection.
misreform		To reform wrongly or imperfectly.
misregard	Obsolete	Wrong understanding; misconstruction.
misregulate		To regulate wrongly or imperfectly; to fail to regulate.
misrehearse		To rehearse or quote incorrectly.
misrelate		To relate inaccurately.
misrelation		Erroneous relation or narration.
misreligion		False religion.
misremember		To mistake in remembering; not to remember correctly.
misrender		To render wrongly; to translate or recite wrongly.
misrepeat		To repeat wrongly; to give a wrong version of.
misreport		To report erroneously; to give an incorrect account of.
misrepresent		To represent incorrectly (almost always, unfacorably); to give a false erroneous representation of, either maliciously, ignirantly, or carelessly.
misrepresentation		Untrue representation; false or incorrect statement or account; -- usually unfavorable to the thing represented; as, a misrepresentation of a person's motives.
misrepresentative		Tending to convey a wrong impression; misrepresenting.
misrepresenter		One who misrepresents.
misrepute		To have in wrong estimation; to repute or estimate erroneously.
misrule		To rule badly; to misgovern.
miss		A title of courtesy prefixed to the name of a girl or a woman who has not been married.
missa		The service or sacrifice of the Mass.
missal		The book containing the service of the Mass for the entire year; a Mass book.
missay		To say wrongly.
misseek	Obsolete	To seek for wrongly.
misseem	Obsolete	To make a false appearance.
missel	Obsolete	Mistletoe.
misseldine	Obsolete	The mistletoe.
misseltoe		See Mistletoe — a parasitic evergreen plant of Europe (Viscum album), bearing a glutinous fruit.
missemblance	Obsolete	False resemblance or semblance.
missend		To send amiss or incorrectly.
misserve		To serve unfaithfully.
misset		To set pr place wrongly.
misshape		To shape ill; to give an ill or unnatural from to; to deform.
misshapen		Having a bad or ugly form. -- Mis*shap en*ness, n.
missheathed		Sheathed by mistake; wrongly sheathed; sheathed in a wrong place.
missificate	Obsolete	To perform Mass.
missile		Capable of being thrown; adapted for hurling or to be projected from the hand, or from any instrument or rngine, so as to strike an object at a distance.
missing		Absent from the place where it was expected to be found; lost; wanting; not present when called or looked for.
missingly	Obsolete	With a sense of loss.
mission		The act of sending, or the state of being sent; a being sent or delegated by authority, with certain powers for transacting business; comission.
missionary		One who is sent on a mission; especially, one sent to propagate religion.
missioner		A missionary; an envoy; one who conducts a mission. See Mission, n., 6.
missis		A mistress; a wife; -- so used by the illiterate.
missish		Like a miss; prim; affected; sentimental. -- Miss"ish*ness, n.
missit	Obsolete	To sit badly or imperfectly upon; to misbecome.
missive		Specially sent; intended or prepared to be sent; as, a letter missive.
missound		To sound wrongly; to utter or pronounce incorrectly.
misspeak		To err in speaking.
misspeech	Obsolete	Wrong speech.
misspell		To spell incorrectly.
misspelling		A wrong spelling.
misspend		To spend amiss or for wrong purposes; to aquander; to waste; as, to misspend time or money.
misspender		One who misspends.
misspense	Obsolete	A spending improperly; a wasting.
misspent		of Misspend — to spend amiss or for wrong purposes; to aquander; to waste; as, to misspend time or money.
misstate		To state wrongly; as, to misstate a question in debate.
misstatement		An incorrect statement.
misstayed		Having missed stays; -- said of a ship.
misstep		A wrong step; an error of conduct.
missuccess	Obsolete	Failure.
missuggestion	Obsolete	Wrong or evil suggestion.
missummation		Wrong summation.
misswear		To swear falsely.
missy		See Misy — an impure yellow sulphate of iron; yellow copperas or copiapite.
mist		Visible watery vapor suspended in the atmosphere, at or near the surface of the earth; fog.
mistakable		Liable to be mistaken; capable of being misconceived.
mistake		To take in a wrong sense; to misunderstand misapprehend, or misconceive; as, to mistake a remark; to mistake one's meaning.
mistaken		Being in error; judging wrongly; having a wrong opinion or a misconception; as, a mistaken man; he is mistaken.
mistakenly		By mistake.
mistakenness		Erroneousness.
mistaker		One who mistakes.
mistaking		An error; a mistake.
mistakingly		Erroneously.
mistaught		Wrongly taught; as, a mistaught youth.
misteach		To teach wrongly; to instruct erroneously.
mistell		To tell erroneously.
mistemper		To temper ill; to disorder; as, to mistemper one's head.
mister	Colloquial	A title of courtesy prefixed to the name of a man or youth.
misterm		To call by a wrong name; to miscall.
mistery		See Mystery, a trade.
mistful		Clouded with, or as with, mist.
misthink	Obsolete	To think wrongly.
misthought	Obsolete	Erroneous thought; mistaken opinion; error.
misthrive	Obsolete	To thrive poorly; to be not thrifty or prosperous.
misthrow		To throw wrongly.
mistic		A kind of small sailing vessel used in the Mediterranean.
mistico		A kind of small sailing vessel used in the Mediterranean.
mistide	Obsolete	To happen or come to pass unfortunately; also, to suffer evil fortune.
mistigri		A variety of the game of poker in which the joker is used, and called mistigris or mistigri.
mistigris		A variety of the game of poker in which the joker is used, and called mistigris or mistigri.
mistihead	Obsolete	Mistiness.
mistily		With mist; darkly; obscurely.
mistime		To time wrongly; not to adapt to the time.
mistiness		State of being misty.
mistion	Obsolete	Mixture.
mistitle		To call by a wrong title.
mistle		To fall in very fine drops, as rain.
mistletoe		A parasitic evergreen plant of Europe (Viscum album), bearing a glutinous fruit.
mistonusk		The American badger.
mistook		of Mistake — to take in a wrong sense; to misunderstand misapprehend, or misconceive; as, to mistake a remark; to mistake one's meaning.
mistradition		A wrong tradition.
mistrain		To train amiss.
mistral		A violent and cold northwest wind experienced in the Mediterranean provinces of France, etc.
mistranslate		To translate erroneously.
mistranslation		Wrong translation.
mistransport	Obsolete	To carry away or mislead wrongfully, as by passion.
mistreading		Misstep; misbehavior.
mistreat		To treat amiss; to abuse.
mistreatment		Wrong treatment.
mistress		A woman having power, authority, or ownership; a woman who exercises authority, is chief, etc.; the female head of a family, a school, etc. The late queen's gentlewoman! a knight's daughter!
mistressship		Female rule or dominion.
mistrial		A false or erroneous trial; a trial which has no result.
mistrist	Obsolete	To mistrust.
mistrow	Obsolete	To think wrongly.
mistrust		Want of confidence or trust; suspicion; distrust.
mistruster		One who mistrusts.
mistrustful		Having or causing mistrust, suspicions, or forebodings.
mistrustingly		With distrust or suspicion.
mistrustless		Having no mistrust or suspicion.
mistune		To tune wrongly.
mistura		(a) A mingled compound in which different ingredients are contained in a liquid state; a mixture.
misturn		To turn amiss; to pervert.
mistutor		To instruct amiss.
misty		Accompained with mist; characterized by the presence of mist; obscured by, or overspread with, mist; as, misty weather; misty mountains; a misty atmosphere.
misunderstand		To misconceive; to mistake; to miscomprehend; to take in a wrong sense.
misunderstander		One who misunderstands.
misunderstanding		Mistake of the meaning; error; misconception.
misurato		Measured; -- a direction to perform a passage in strict or measured time.
misusage		Bad treatment; abuse.
misuse		To treat or use improperly; to use to a bad purpose; to misapply; as, to misuse one's talents.
misuser		One who misuses.
misvalue		To value wrongly or too little; to undervalue.
misvouch		To vouch falsely.
miswander	Obsolete	To wander in a wrong path; to stray; to go astray.
misway	Obsolete	A wrong way.
miswear	Obsolete	To wear ill.
miswed		To wed improperly.
misween	Obsolete	To ween amiss; to misjudge; to distrust; to be mistaken.
miswend	Obsolete	To go wrong; to go astray.
misword	Obsolete	To word wrongly; as, to misword a message, or a sentence.
misworship		Wrong or false worship; mistaken practices in religion.
misworshiper		One who worships wrongly.
miswrite		To write incorrectly.
miswrought		Badly wrought.
misy		An impure yellow sulphate of iron; yellow copperas or copiapite.
misyoke		To yoke improperly.
miszealous	Obsolete	Mistakenly zealous.
mite		(Zoöl.) A minute arachnid, of the order Acarina, of which there are many species; as, the cheese mite, sugar mite, harvest mite, etc. See Acarina.
miter		A covering for the head, worn on solemn occasions by church dignitaries.
miterwort		Any plant of the genus Mitella, -- slender, perennial herbs with a pod slightly resembling a bishop's miter; bishop's cap.
mithgarthr		The middle space or region between heaven and hell, the abode of human beings; the earth.
mithic		See Mythic — of or relating to myths; described in a myth; of the nature of a myth; fabulous; imaginary; fanciful. -- Myth"ic*al*ly, adv.
mithras		The sun god of the Persians.
mithridate		An antidote against poison, or a composition in form of an electuary, supposed to serve either as a remedy or a preservative against poison; an alexipharmic; -- so called from King Mithridates…
mithridatic		Of or pertaining to King Mithridates, or to a mithridate.
mitigable		Admitting of mitigation; that may be mitigated.
mitigant		Tending to mitigate; mitigating; lentitive.
mitigate		To make less severe, intense, harsh, rigorous, painful, etc.; to soften; to meliorate; to alleviate; to diminish; to lessen; as, to mitigate heat or cold; to mitigate grief.
mitigation		The act of mitigating, or the state of being mitigated; abatement or diminution of anything painful, harsh, severe, afflictive, or calamitous; as, the mitigation of pain, grief, rigor, severity, punishment, or penalty.
mitigative		Tending to mitigate; alleviating.
mitigator		One who, or that which, mitigates.
mitigatory		Tending to mitigate or alleviate; mitigative.
miting	Obsolete	A little one; -- used as a term of endearment.
mitome		The denser part of the protoplasm of a cell.
mitosis		See Karyokinesis — the indirect division of cells in which, prior to division of the cell protoplasm, complicated changes take place in the nucleus, attended with movement of the nuclear fibrils…
mitotic		Of or pertaining to mitosis; karyokinetic; as, mitotic cell division; -- opposed to amitotic. --Mi*tot"ic*al*ly (#), adv.
mitraille		Shot or bits of iron used sometimes in loading cannon.
mitrailleur		One who serves a mitrailleuse.
mitrailleuse		A breech-loading machine gun consisting of a number of barrels fitted together, so arranged that the barrels can be fired simultaneously, or successively, and rapidly.
mitral		Pertaining to a miter; resembling a miter; as, the mitral valve between the left auricle and left ventricle of the heart.
mitre		A covering for the head, worn on solemn occasions by church dignitaries.
mitriform		Having the form of a miter, or a peaked cap; as, a mitriform calyptra.
mitt		A mitten; also, a covering for the wrist and hand and not for the fingers.
mitten		A covering for the hand, worn to defend it from cold or injury.
mittened		Covered with a mitten or mittens.
mittent	Obsolete	Sending forth; emitting.
mittimus		(a) A precept or warrant granted by a justice for committing to prison a party charged with crime; a warrant of commitment to prison.
mitty	English dialect	The stormy petrel.
mitu		A South American curassow of the genus Mitua.
mity		Having, or abounding with, mites.
mix		To cause a promiscuous interpenetration of the parts of, as of two or more substances with each other, or of one substance with others; to unite or blend into one mass or compound, as by stirring together; to mingle; to blend…
mixable		Capable of being mixed.
mixed		Formed by mixing; united; mingled; blended. See Mix, v. t. & i.
mixedly		In a mixed or mingled manner.
mixen		A compost heap; a dunghill.
mixer		One who, or that which, mixes.
mixogamous		Pairing with several males; -- said of certain fishes of which several males accompany each female during spawning.
mixtilineal		Containing, or consisting of, lines of different kinds, as straight, curved, and the like; as, a mixtilinear angle, that is, an angle contained by a straight line and a curve.
mixtilinear		Containing, or consisting of, lines of different kinds, as straight, curved, and the like; as, a mixtilinear angle, that is, an angle contained by a straight line and a curve.
mixtion		A kind of cement made of mastic, amber, etc., used as a mordant for gold leaf.
mixtly		With mixture; in a mixed manner; mixedly.
mixture		The act of mixing, or the state of being mixed; as, made by a mixture of ingredients.
mizmaze	Obsolete	A maze or labyrinth.
mizzen		Hindmost; nearest the stern; as, the mizzen shrouds, sails, etc. The hindmost of the fore and aft sails of a three-masted vessel; also, the spanker.
mizzenmast		The hindmost mast of a three-masted vessel, or of a yawl-rigged vessel.
mizzle		To rain in very fine drops.
mizzy	Obsolete	A bog or quagmire.
