mo	Obsolete	More; -- usually, more in number.	
moa		Any one of several very large extinct species of wingless birds belonging to Dinornis, and other related genera, of the suborder Dinornithes, found in New Zealand.	Maori moa.
moabite		One of the posterity of Moab, the son of Lot. (Gen. xix. 37.) Also used adjectively.	
moabitess		A female Moabite.	
moabitish		Moabite.	
moan		To make a low prolonged sound of grief or pain, whether articulate or not; to groan softly and continuously.	Middle English mone, from Old English mona.
moanful		Full of moaning; expressing sorrow. -- Moan"ful*ly, adv.	
moat		A deep trench around the rampart of a castle or other fortified place, sometimes filled with water; a ditch.	Middle English mote.
moate	Obsolete	To void the excrement, as a bird; to mute.	
mob		The lower classes of a community; the populace, or the lowest part of it.	
mobbish		Like a mob; tumultuous; lawless; as, a mobbish act.	
mobcap		A plain cap or headdress for women or girls; especially, one tying under the chin by a very broad band, generally of the same material as the cap itself.	
mobile		Capable of being moved; not fixed in place or condition; movable.	
mobility		The quality or state of being mobile; as, the mobility of a liquid, of an army, of the populace, of features, of a muscle.	Latin mobilitas.
mobilization		The act of mobilizing.	
mobilize		To put in a state of readiness for active service in war, as an army corps.	
moble	Obsolete	To wrap the head of in a hood.	
mobles	Obsolete	See Moebles — movables; furniture; -- also used in the singular (moeble).	
mobocracy		A condition in which the lower classes of a nation control public affairs without respect to law, precedents, or vested rights.	
mobocrat		One who favors a form of government in which the unintelligent populace rules without restraint.	
mobocratic		Of, or relating to, a mobocracy.	
moccasin		A shoe made of deerskin, or other soft leather, the sole and upper part being one piece.	Powhatan mockasins.
moccasined		Covered with, or wearing, a moccasin or moccasins.	
mocha		A seaport town of Arabia, on the Red Sea.	
moche	Obsolete	A bale of raw silk.	
mochila		A large leather flap which covers the saddletree.	
mock		To imitate; to mimic; esp., to mimic in sport, contempt, or derision; to deride by mimicry.	Middle English mokken, from Middle French mocquer, from Middle Dutch mokken.
mockable		Such as can be mocked.	
mockado	Obsolete	A stuff made in imitation of velvet; -- probably the same as mock velvet.	
mockadour	Obsolete	See Mokadour — a handkerchief.	
mockage	Obsolete	Mockery.	
mockbird		The European sedge warbler (Acrocephalus phragmitis).	
mocker		One who, or that which, mocks; a scorner; a scoffer; a derider.	
mockery		The act of mocking, deriding, and exposing to contempt, by mimicry, by insincere imitation, or by a false show of earnestness; a counterfeit appearance.	
mocking		Imitating, esp. in derision, or so as to cause derision; mimicking; derisive.	
mockingly		By way of derision; in a contemptuous or mocking manner.	
mockingstock		A butt of sport; an object of derision.	
mockish	Obsolete	Mock; counterfeit; sham.	
mockle		See Mickle — much; great.	
moco		A South American rodent (Cavia rupestris), allied to the Guinea pig, but larger; -- called also rock cavy.	
modal		Of or pertaining to a mode or mood; consisting in mode or form only; relating to form; having the form without the essence or reality.	Latin modalis.
modalist		One who regards Father, Son, and Spirit as modes of being, and not as persons, thus denying personal distinction in the Trinity.	
modality		The quality or state of being modal.	
modally		In a modal manner.	
mode		Manner of doing or being; method; form; fashion; custom; way; style; as, the mode of speaking; the mode of dressing.	French mode, from Latin modus.
model		A miniature representation of a thing, with the several parts in due proportion; sometimes, a facsimile of the same size.	Middle French modelle, from Italian modello, from Latin modellus.
modeler		One who models; hence, a worker in plastic art.	
modeling		The act or art of making a model from which a work of art is to be executed; the formation of a work of art from some plastic material.	
modelize	Obsolete	To model.	
modena		A certain crimsonlike color.	
modenese		Of or pertaining to Modena or its inhabitants. -- n. sing. & pl. A native or inhabitant of Modena; the people of Modena.	
moder	Obsolete	The principal piece of an astrolabe, into which the others are fixed.	
moderable	Obsolete	Modeate; temperate.	Latin moderabilis.
moderance	Obsolete	Moderation.	
moderate		Kept within due bounds; observing reasonable limits; not excessive, extreme, violent, or rigorous; limited; restrained; as: (a) Limited in quantity; sparing; temperate; frugal; as, moderate in eating or drinking; a moderate table.	Middle English moderat, from Latin moderatus.
moderately		In a moderate manner or degree; to a moderate extent.	
moderateness		The quality or state of being moderate; temperateness; moderation.	
moderation		The act of moderating, or of imposing due restraint.	
moderatism		Moderation in doctrines or opinion, especially in politics or religion.	
moderato		With a moderate degree of quickness; moderately.	
moderator		One who, or that which, moderates, restrains, or pacifies.	Latin moderator.
moderatorship		The office of a moderator.	
moderatress		A female moderator.	
moderatrix		A female moderator.	
modern		Of or pertaining to the present time, or time not long past; late; not ancient or remote in past time; of recent period; as, modern days, ages, or time; modern authors; modern fashions; modern taste; modern practice.	Middle French moderne.
modernism		Modern practice; a thing of recent date; esp., a modern usage or mode of expression.	
modernist		One who admires the moderns, or their ways and fashions.	
modernity		Modernness; something modern.	
modernization		The act of rendering modern in style; the act or process of causing to conform to modern of thinking or acting.	
modernize		To render modern; to adapt to modern person or things; to cause to conform to recent or present usage or taste.	
modernizer		One who modernizes.	
modernly		In modern times.	
modernness		The quality or state of being modern; recentness; novelty.	
modest		Restraining within due limits of propriety; not forward, bold, boastful, or presumptious; rather retiring than pushing one's self forward; not obstructive; as, a modest youth; a modest man.	
modestly		In a modest manner.	
modesty		The quality or state of being modest; that lowly temper which accompanies a moderate estimate of one's own worth and importance; absence of self-assertion, arrogance, and presumption; humility respecting one's own merit.	
modicity	Obsolete	Moderateness; smallness; meanness.	
modicum		A little; a small quantity; a measured simply.	
modifiability		Capability of being modified; state or quality of being modifiable.	
modifiable		Capable of being modified; liable to modification.	
modificable	Obsolete	Modifiable.	
modificate	Obsolete	To qualify.	
modification		The act of modifying, or the state of being modified; a modified form or condition; state as modified; a change; as, the modification of an opinion, or of a machine; the various modifications of light.	French modification, from Latin modificatio.
modificative		That which modifies or qualifies, as a word or clause.	
modificatory		Tending or serving to modify; modifying.	
modifier		One who, or that which, modifies.	
modify		To change somewhat the form or qualities of; to alter somewhat; as, to modify a contrivance adapted to some mechanical purpose; to modify the terms of a contract.	Middle English modifien, from French modifier, from Latin modificare.
modillion		The enriched block or horizontal bracket generally found under the cornice of the Corinthian and Composite entablature, and sometimes, less ornamented, in the Ionic and other orders…	
modiolar		Shaped like a bushel measure.	Latin modiolus.
modiolus		The central column in the osseous cochlea of the ear.	
modish		According to the mode, or customary manner; conformed to the fashion; fashionable; hence, conventional; as, a modish dress; a modish feast.	
modist		One who follows the fashion.	
modiste		A female maker of, or dealer in, articles of fashion, especially of the fashionable dress of ladies; a woman who gives direction to the style or mode of dress.	French modiste.
modius		A dry measure, containing about a peck.	
modocs		A tribe of warlike Indians formerly inhabiting Northern California.	
modular		Of or pertaining to mode, modulation, module, or modius; as, modular arrangement; modular accent; modular measure.	
modulate		To form, as sound, to a certain key, or to a certain portion.	Latin modulatus.
modulation		The act of modulating, or the state of being modulated; as, the modulation of the voice.	
modulator		One who, or that which, modulates.	
module	Obsolete	(Arch.) The size of some one part, as the diameter of semi-diameter of the base of a shaft, taken as a unit of measure by which the proportions of the other parts of the composition are regulated.	French module, from Latin modulus.
modulus		A quantity or coefficient, or constant, which expresses the measure of some specified force, property, or quality, as of elasticity, strength, efficiency, etc.; a parameter.	
modus		The arrangement of, or mode of expressing, the terms of a contract or conveyance.	
mody		Fashionable.	
moe	Obsolete	A wry face or mouth; a mow.	
moebles	Obsolete	Movables; furniture; -- also used in the singular (moeble).	
moelline		An unguent for the hair.	French moelle, from Latin medulla.
moellon		Rubble masonry.	
moesogothic		Belonging to the Moesogoths, a branch of the Goths who settled in Moesia.	
moeve	Obsolete	To move.	
moff		A thin silk stuff made in Caucasia.	
mog	English dialect	To move away; to go off.	
moggan	Scots	A closely fitting knit sleeve; also, a legging of knitted material.	
mogul		A person of the Mongolian race.	Persian مغول‎.
moha		A kind of millet (Setaria Italica); German millet.	
mohair		The long silky hair or wool of the Angora goat of Asia Minor; also, a fabric made from this material, or an imitation of such fabric.	Italian mocaiaro, from Arabic مخير.
mohammedan		Of or pertaining to Mohammed, or the religion and institutions founded by Mohammed.	
mohammedanism		The religion, or doctrines and precepts, of Mohammed, contained in the Koran; Islamism.	
mohammedanize		To make conformable to the principles, or customs and rites, of Mohammedanism.	
mohammedism		The religion, or doctrines and precepts, of Mohammed, contained in the Koran; Islamism.	
mohammedize		To make conformable to the principles, or customs and rites, of Mohammedanism.	
mohawk		(Ethnol.) One of a tribe of Indians who formed part of the Five Nations.	
mohicans		A tribe of Lenni-Lenape Indians who formerly inhabited Western Connecticut and Eastern New York.	
moho		A gallinule (Notornis Mantelli) formerly inhabiting New Zealand, but now supposed to be extinct.	
mohock		See Mohawk — (Ethnol.) One of a tribe of Indians who formed part of the Five Nations.	
moholi		See Maholi — a south African lemur (Galago maholi), having very large ears.	
mohr		A West African gazelle (Gazella mohr), having horns on which are eleven or twelve very prominent rings.	
mohur		A British Indian gold coin, of the value of fifteen silver rupees, or $7.21.	
mohurrum		The first month of the Mohammedan year.	
moider	English dialect	To toil.	
moidore		A gold coin of Portugal, valued at about 27s. sterling.	
moiety		One of two equal parts; a half; as, a moiety of an estate, of goods, or of profits; the moiety of a jury, or of a nation.	
moil		To daub; to make dirty; to soil; to defile.	Middle English mollen.
moile		A kind of high shoe anciently worn.	
moineau		A small flat bastion, raised in the middle of an overlong curtain.	
moira		The deity who assigns to every man his lot.	
moire		Originally, a fine textile fabric made of the hair of an Asiatic goat; afterwards, any textile fabric to which a watered appearance is given in the process of calendering.	French moire, from English mohair, from Italian mocaiaro, from Arabic مخير.
moist		Moderately wet; damp; humid; not dry; as, a moist atmosphere or air.	Middle English moiste.
moisten		To make damp; to wet in a small degree.	
moistener		One who, or that which, moistens.	
moistful		Full of moisture.	
moistless		Without moisture; dry.	
moistness		The quality or state of being moist.	
moisture		A moderate degree of wetness.	
moistureless		Without moisture.	
moither	English dialect	To perplex; to confuse.	
mojarra		Any of certain basslike marine fishes (mostly of tropical seas, and having a deep, compressed body, protracile mouth, and large silvery scales) constituting the family Gerridæ, as Gerres plumieri…	
mokadour	Obsolete	A handkerchief.	
moke		A donkey.	
moky	Obsolete	Misty; dark; murky; muggy.	
mola		See Sunfish, 1.	
molar		Of or pertaining to a mass of matter; -- said of the properties or motions of masses, as distinguished from those of molecules or atoms.	
molary		Same as 2d Molar.	
molasse		A soft Tertiary sandstone; -- applied to a rock occurring in Switzerland.	French molasse, from Latin mollis.
molasses		The thick, brown or dark colored, viscid, uncrystallizable sirup which drains from sugar, in the process of manufacture; any thick, viscid, sweet sirup made from vegetable juice or sap, as of the sorghum or maple.	
mold		Crumbling, soft, friable earth; esp., earth containing the remains or constituents of organic matter, and suited to the growth of plants; soil.	Old English molde.
moldable		Capable of being molded or formed.	
moldboard		A curved plate of iron (originally of wood) back of the share of a plow, which turns over the earth in plowing.	
molder		One who, or that which, molds or forms into shape; specifically (Founding), one skilled in the art of making molds for castings.	
moldery		Covered or filled with mold; consisting of, or resembling, mold.	
moldiness		The state of being moldy.	
molding		The act or process of shaping in or on a mold, or of making molds; the art or occupation of a molder.	
moldwarp		See Mole the animal.	
moldy		Overgrown with, or containing, mold; as, moldy cheese or bread.	
mole		A spot, mark, or small permanent protuberance on the human body; esp., a spot which is dark-colored, from which commonly issue one or more hairs.	
mole-eyed		Having eyes like those of the mole; having imperfect sight.	
molebut		The sunfish (Orthagoriscus, or Mola).	
molecast		A little elevation of earth made by a mole; a molehill.	
molech		The fire god of the Ammonites, to whom human sacrifices were offered; Moloch.	
molecular		Pertaining to, connected with, produced by, or consisting of, molecules; as, molecular forces; molecular groups of atoms, etc. Molecular attraction (Phys.), attraction acting between the molecules of bodies…	
molecularity		The state of consisting of molecules; the state or quality of being molecular.	
molecularly		With molecules; in the manner of molecules.	
molecule		One of the very small invisible particles of which all matter is supposed to consist.	
molehill		A little hillock of earth thrown up by moles working under ground; hence, a very small hill, or an insignificant obstacle or difficulty.	
molendinaceous		Resembling the sails of a windmill.	
molendinarious		Resembling the sails of a windmill.	
moleskin		Any fabric having a thick soft shag, like the fur of a mole; esp., a kind of strong twilled fustian.	
molest	Obsolete	To trouble; to disturb; to render uneasy; to interfere with; to vex.	Middle English molesten, from Old French molester, from Latin molestare.
molestation		The act of molesting, or the state of being molested; disturbance; annoyance.	
molester		One who molests.	
molestful		Troublesome; vexatious.	
molestie	Obsolete	Molestation.	
molesty	Obsolete	Molestation.	
molewarp		See Moldwarp — see Mole the animal.	
moliminous	Obsolete	Of great bulk or consequence; very important.	
moline		The crossed iron that supports the upper millstone by resting on the spindle; a millrind.	
molinism		The doctrines of the Molinists, somewhat resembling the tenets of the Arminians.	
molinist		A follower of the opinions of Molina, a Spanish Jesuit (in respect to grace); an opposer of the Jansenists.	
moll		Minor; in the minor mode; as, A moll, that is, A minor.	
mollah		One of the higher order of Turkish judges; also, a Turkish title of respect for a religious and learned man.	
molle		Lower by a semitone; flat; as, E molle, that is, E flat.	
mollebart		An agricultural implement used in Flanders, consisting of a kind of large shovel drawn by a horse and guided by a man.	
mollemoke		Any one of several species of large pelagic petrels and fulmars, as Fulmarus glacialis, of the North Atlantic, and several species of Æstrelata, of the Southern Ocean.	
mollient		Serving to soften; assuaging; emollient.	
molliently		Assuagingly.	
mollifiable		Capable of being mollified.	
mollification		The act of mollifying, or the state of being mollified; a softening.	
mollifier		One who, or that which, mollifies.	
mollify		To soften; to make tender; to reduce the hardness, harshness, or asperity of; to qualify; as, to mollify the ground.	Latin mollio.
mollinet		A little mill.	
mollipilose		Having soft hairs; downy.	
mollities		Unnatural softness of any organ or part.	
mollitude		Softness; effeminacy; weakness.	Latin mollitudo.
mollusc		Same as Mollusk.	French mollusque, from Latin Mollusca.
mollusca		One of the grand divisions of the animal kingdom, including the classes Cephalopoda, Gastropoda, PteropodaScaphopoda, and Lamellibranchiata, or Conchifera.	
molluscan		Of or pertaining to mollusks. -- n.	
molluscoid		Resembling the true mollusks; belonging to the Molluscoidea. -- n.	
molluscoidal		Molluscoid.	
molluscoidea		A division of Invertebrata which includes the classes Brachiopoda and Bryozoa; -- called also Anthoid Mollusca.	
molluscous		Molluscan.	
molluscum		A cutaneous disease characterized by numerous tumors, of various forms, filled with a thick matter; -- so called from the resemblance of the tumors to some molluscous animals.	Latin molluscum.
mollusk		One of the Mollusca.	
molly		Same as Mollemoke.	
molly-mawk		See Mollemoke — any one of several species of large pelagic petrels and fulmars, as Fulmarus glacialis, of the North Atlantic, and several species of Æstrelata, of the Southern Ocean.	
moloch		(Script.) The fire god of the Ammonites in Canaan, to whom human sacrifices were offered; Molech.	
molokane		See Raskolnik — one of the separatists or dissenters from the established or Greek church in Russia.	
molokany		See Raskolnik — one of the separatists or dissenters from the established or Greek church in Russia.	
molosse		See Molossus — a foot of three long syllables.	
molosses	Obsolete	Molasses.	
molossine		A bat of the genus Molossus, as the monk bat.	
molossus		A foot of three long syllables.	
molt		of Melt — to reduce from a solid to a liquid state, as by heat; to liquefy; as, to mell wax, tallow, or lead; to melt ice or snow.	
moltable	Obsolete	Capable of assuming a molten state; meltable; fusible.	
molten		Melted; being in a state of fusion, esp. when the liquid state is produced by a high degree of heat; as, molten iron.	
molto		Much; very; as, molto adagio, very slow.	
moly		A fabulous herb of occult power, having a black root and white blossoms, said by Homer to have been given by Hermes to Ulysses to counteract the spells of Circe.	Latin moly, from Greek μῶλυ.
molybdate		A salt of molybdic acid.	
molybdena		See Molybdenite — a mineral occurring in soft, lead-gray, foliated masses or scales, resembling graphite; sulphide of molybdenum.	
molybdenite		A mineral occurring in soft, lead-gray, foliated masses or scales, resembling graphite; sulphide of molybdenum.	
molybdenous		See Molybdous — of, pertaining to, or containing, molybdenum; specif., designating those compounds in which molybdenum has a lower valence as contrasted with molybdic compounds.	
molybdenum		A rare element of the chromium group, occurring in nature in the minerals molybdenite and wulfenite, and when reduced obtained as a hard, silver-white, difficulty fusible metal.	Latin molybdenum.
molybdic		Of, pertaining to, or containing, molybdenum; specif., designating those compounds in which the element has a higher valence, as contrasted with molybdous compounds; as, molybdic oxide.	
molybdite		Molybdic ocher.	
molybdous		Of, pertaining to, or containing, molybdenum; specif., designating those compounds in which molybdenum has a lower valence as contrasted with molybdic compounds.	
mome	Obsolete	A dull, silent person; a blockhead.	
moment		A minute portion of time; a point of time; an instant; as, at thet very moment.	Old French moment, from Latin momentum.
momental		Lasting but a moment; brief.	
momentally	Obsolete	For a moment.	
momentaneous	Obsolete	Momentary.	
momentany	Obsolete	Momentary.	Middle French momentané, from Latin momentaneus.
momentarily		Every moment; from moment to moment.	
momentariness		The state or quality of being momentary; shortness of duration.	
momentary		Done in a moment; continuing only a moment; lasting a very short time; as, a momentary pang.	
momently		In a moment; every moment; momentarily.	
momentous		Of moment or consequence; very important; weighty; as, a momentous decision; momentous affairs. -- Mo*men tous*ness, n.	
momentum		(Mech.) The quantity of motion in a moving body, being always proportioned to the quantity of matter multiplied into the velocity; impetus.	Latin momentum.
momier		A name given in contempt to strict Calvinists in Switzerland, France, and some parts of Germany, in the early part of the 19th century.	
mommery		See Mummery — masking; frolic in disguise; buffoonery.	
momot		See Motmot — any one of several species of long-tailed, passerine birds of the genus Momotus, having a strong serrated beak.	
momus		The god of mockery and censure.	
mon-		Same as Mono-.	
mona		A small, handsome, long-tailed West American monkey (Cercopithecus mona).	Spanish mona.
monachal		Of or pertaining to monks or a monastic life; monastic.	
monachism		The system and influences of a monastic life; monasticism.	
monacid		Having one hydrogen atom replaceable by a negative or acid atom or radical; capable of neutralizing a monobasic acid; -- said of bases, and of certain metals.	
monad		An ultimate atom, or simple, unextended point; something ultimate and indivisible.	
monadaria		The Infusoria.	
monadelphia		A Linnæan class of plants having the stamens united into a tube, or ring, by the filaments, as in the Mallow family.	
monadelphian		Of or pertaining to the Monadelphia; having the stamens united in one body by the filaments.	
monadelphous		Of or pertaining to the Monadelphia; having the stamens united in one body by the filaments.	
monadic		Of, pertaining to, or like, a monad, in any of its senses. See Monad, n.	Greek μοναδικός.
monadical		Of, pertaining to, or like, a monad, in any of its senses. See Monad, n.	
monadiform		Having the form of a monad; resembling a monad in having one or more filaments of vibratile protoplasm; as, monadiform young.	
monadology		The doctrine or theory of monads.	
monal		Any Asiatic pheasant of the genus Lophophorus, as the Impeyan pheasant.	
monamide		An amido compound with only one amido group.	
monamine		A basic compound containing one amido group; as, methyl amine is a monamine.	
monander		One of the Monandria.	
monandria		A Linnæan class of plants embracing those having but a single stamen.	
monandrian		Same as Monandrous.	
monandric		Of or pertaining to monandry; practicing monandry as a system of marriage.	
monandrous		Of or pertaining to the monandria; having but one stamen.	
monandry		The possession by a woman of only one husband at the same time; -- contrasted with polyandry.	
monanthous		Having but one flower; one-flowered.	
monarch		A sole or supreme ruler; a sovereign; the highest ruler; an emperor, king, queen, prince, or chief.	Latin monarchia, from Greek μονάρχης.
monarchal		Pertaining to a monarch; suiting a monarch; sovoreign; regal; imperial.	
monarchess	Obsolete	A female monarch.	
monarchial		Monarchic.	
monarchian		One of a sect in the early Christian church which rejected the doctrine of the Trinity; -- called also patripassian.	
monarchic		Of or pertaining to a monarch, or to monarchy.	
monarchical		Of or pertaining to a monarch, or to monarchy.	
monarchism		The principles of, or preference for, monarchy.	
monarchist		An advocate of, or believer in, monarchy.	
monarchize		To play the sovereign; to act the monarch.	
monarchizer		One who monarchizes; also, a monarchist.	
monarcho	Obsolete	The nickname of a crackbrained Italian who fancied himself an emperor.	
monarchy		A state or government in which the supreme power is lodged in the hands of a monarch.	Greek μοναρχία.
monas		A genus of minute flagellate Infusoria of which there are many species, both free and attached.	
monasterial		Of or pertaining to monastery, or to monastic life. -- Mon`as*te"ri*al*ly, adv.	
monastery		A house of religious retirement, or of secusion from ordinary temporal concerns, especially for monks; -- more rarely applied to such a house for females.	Latin monasterium, from Greek μοναστήριον.
monastic		Of or pertaining to monasteries, or to their occupants, rules, etc., as, monastic institutions or rules.	
monastical		Of or pertaining to monasteries, or to their occupants, rules, etc., as, monastic institutions or rules.	
monastically		In a monastic manner.	
monasticism		The monastic life, system, or condition.	
monasticon		A book giving an account of monasteries.	
monatomic		(a) Consisting of, or containing, one atom; as, the molecule of mercury is monatomic.	
monaxial		Having only one axis; developing along a single line or plane; as, monaxial development.	
monazite		A mineral occurring usually in small isolated crystals, -- phosphate of the cerium metals.	
monday		The second day of the week; the day following Sunday.	
monde		The world; a globe as an ensign of royalty.	
mone	Obsolete	The moon.	Middle English monien, from Old English monian.
monecian		See Monoecian, and Monoecious.	
monecious		See Monoecian, and Monoecious.	
monembryony		The condition of an ovule having but a single embryo. -- Mon*em`bry*on"ic, a.	
moner		One of the Monera.	
monera		The lowest division of rhizopods, including those which resemble the amoebas, but are destitute of a nucleus.	
moneral		Of or pertaining to the Monera.	
moneran		Of or pertaining to the Monera. -- n.	
moneron		One of the Monera.	
monerula		A germ in that stage of development in which its form is simply that of a non-nucleated mass of protoplasm.	
monesia		The bark, or a vegetable extract brought in solid cakes from South America and believed to be derived from the bark, of the tree Chrysophyllum glycyphloeum.	
monesin		The acrid principle of Monesia, sometimes used as a medicine.	
monest	Obsolete	To warn; to admonish; to advise.	
monetary		Of or pertaining to money, or consisting of money; pecuniary.	Latin monetarius.
moneth	Obsolete	A month.	
monetization		The act or process of converting into money, or of adopting as money; as, the monetization of silver.	
monetize		To convert into money; to adopt as current money; as, to monetize silver.	
money		A piece of metal, as gold, silver, copper, etc., coined, or stamped, and issued by the sovereign authority as a medium of exchange in financial transactions between citizens and with government; also, any number of such pieces…	Middle English moneie.
money-maker		One who coins or prints money; also, a counterfeiter of money.	
money-making		The act or process of making money; the acquisition and accumulation of wealth.	
moneyage		A tax paid to the first two Norman kings of England to prevent them from debashing the coin.	
moneyed		Supplied with money; having money; wealthy; as, moneyey men.	
moneyer		An authorized coiner of money.	Anglo-Norman moneour.
moneyless		Destitute of money; penniless; impecunious.	
moneywort		A trailing plant (Lysimachia Nummularia), with rounded opposite leaves and solitary yellow flowers in their axils.	
mongcorn		See Mangcorn — a mixture of wheat and rye, or other species of grain.	
monger		A trader; a dealer; -- now used chiefly in composition; as, fishmonger, ironmonger, newsmonger.	
mongol		One of the Mongols. -- a.	
mongolian		Of or pertaining to Mongolia or the Mongols. -- n.	
mongolians		One of the great races of man, including the greater part of the inhabitants of China, Japan, and the interior of Asia, with branches in Northern Europe and other parts of the world.	
mongolic		See Mongolian — of or pertaining to Mongolia or the Mongols. -- n.	
mongoloid		Resembling a Mongol or the Mongols; having race characteristics, such as color, hair, and features, like those of the Mongols.	
mongols		One of the great races of man, including the greater part of the inhabitants of China, Japan, and the interior of Asia, with branches in Northern Europe and other parts of the world.	
mongoos		A species of ichneumon (Herpestes griseus), native of India.	
mongoose		A species of ichneumon (Herpestes griseus), native of India.	Portuguese mangus, from Marathi मुंगूस, from Telugu ముంగిస.
mongrel		The progeny resulting from a cross between two breeds, as of domestic animals; anything of mixed breed.	
mongrelize		To cause to be mongrel; to cross breeds, so as to produce mongrels.	
monied		See Moneyed — supplied with money; having money; wealthy; as, moneyey men.	
monifier		A fossil fish.	
moniliales		The largest of the three orders into which the Fungi Imperfecti are divided, including various forms.	
moniliform		Joined or constricted, at regular intervals, so as to resemble a string of beads; as, a moniliform root; a moniliform antenna.	
moniment	Obsolete	Something to preserve memory; a reminder; a monument; hence, a mark; an image; a superscription; a record.	Latin monimentum.
monish	Archaic	To admonish; to warn. See Admonish.	
monisher	Archaic	One who monishes; an admonisher.	
monishment	Archaic	Admonition.	
monism		(Metaph.) That doctrine which refers all phenomena to a single ultimate constituent or agent; -- the opposite of dualism.	
monist		A believer in monism.	
monistic		Of, pertaining to, or involving, monism.	
monition		Instruction or advice given by way of caution; an admonition; a warning; a caution.	Latin monitio.
monitive		Conveying admonition; admonitory.	
monitor		One who admonishes; one who warns of faults, informs of duty, or gives advice and instruction by way of reproof or caution.	Latin monitor.
monitorial		Done or performed by a monitor; as, monitorial work; conducted or taught by monitors; as, a monitorial school; monitorial instruction.	
monitorially		In a monitorial manner.	
monitorship		The post or office of a monitor.	
monitory		Giving admonition; instructing by way of caution; warning.	
monitress		A female monitor.	
monitrix		A female monitor.	
monk		A man who retires from the ordinary temporal concerns of the world, and devotes himself to religion; one of a religious community of men inhabiting a monastery, and bound by vows to a life of chastity, obedience, and poverty.	Old English munuc, from Latin monachus, from Greek μοναχός.
monkery		The life of monks; monastic life; monastic usage or customs; -- now usually applied by way of reproach.	
monkey		(Zoöl.) (a) In the most general sense, any one of the Quadrumana, including apes, baboons, and lemurs.	Middle Low German Moneke.
monkey-bread		The fruit of the Adansonia digitata; also, the tree. See Adansonia.	
monkey-cup		See Nepenthes — (Bot.) A genus of climbing plants found in India, Malaya, etc., which have the leaves prolonged into a kind of stout tendril terminating in a pitcherlike appendage…	
monkey-pot		The fruit of two South American trees (Lecythis Ollaria, and L.	
monkeytail		A short, round iron bar or lever used in naval gunnery.	
monkfish		(a) The angel fish (Squatina). (b) The angler (Lophius).	
monkflower		A name of certain curious orchids which bear three kinds of flowers formerly referred to three genera, but now ascertained to be sexually different forms of the same genus (Catasetum tridentatum, etc.).	
monkhood		Monks, regarded collectively.	Middle English monkehode.
monking		Monkish.	
monkish		Like a monk, or pertaining to monks; monastic; as, monkish manners; monkish dress; monkish solitude. -- Monk"ish*ness, n.	
monkly		Like, or suitable to, a monk.	
monkshood		A plant of the genus Aconitum; aconite. See Aconite.	
mono		The black howler of Central America (Mycetes villosus).	
mono-		A prefix signifying one, single, alone; as, monocarp, monopoly; (Chem.) indicating that a compound contains one atom, radical, or group of that to the name of which it is united; as, monoxide, monosulphide, monatomic, etc.	Greek μόνος.
monobasic		Capable of being neutralized by a univalent base or basic radical; having but one acid hydrogen atom to be replaced; -- said of acids; as, acetic, nitric, and hydrochloric acids are monobasic.	
monocarbonic		Containing one carboxyl group; as, acetic acid is a monocarbonic acid.	
monocardian		Having a single heart, as fishes and amphibians. -- n.	
monocarp		A monocarpic plant.	
monocarpellary		Consisting of a single carpel, as the fruit of the pea, cherry, and almond.	
monocarpic		Bearing fruit but once, and dying after fructification, as beans, maize, mustard, etc.	
monocarpous		Bearing fruit but once, and dying after fructification, as beans, maize, mustard, etc.	
monocephalous		Having a solitary head; -- said of unbranched composite plants.	
monoceros		A one-horned creature; a unicorn; a sea monster with one horn.	Old French monoceros, from Latin monoceros, from Greek μονόκερως.
monochlamydeous		Having a single floral envelope, that is, a calyx without a corolla, or, possibly, in rare cases, a corolla without a calyx.	
monochord		An instrument for experimenting upon the mathematical relations of musical sounds.	Latin monochordon.
monochromatic		Consisting of one color, or presenting rays of light of one color only.	
monochrome		A painting or drawing in a single color; a picture made with a single color.	Greek μονόχρωμος.
monochromic		Made, or done, with a single color; as, a monochromic picture.	
monochromy		The art of painting or drawing in monochrome.	
monochronic		Existing at the same time; contemporaneous.	
monociliated		Having but one cilium.	
monocle		An eyeglass for one eye.	French monocle, from Latin monoculus.
monoclinal		Having one oblique inclination; -- applied to strata that dip in only one direction from the axis of elevation.	
monocline		A monoclinal fold.	
monoclinic		Having one oblique intersection; -- said of that system of crystallization in which the vertical axis is inclined to one, but at right angles to the other, lateral axis.	
monoclinous		Hermaphrodite, or having both stamens and pistils in every flower.	
monocondyla		A group of vertebrates, including the birds and reptiles, or those that have only one occipital condyle; the Sauropsida.	
monocotyl		Any monocotyledonous plant.	
monocotyle		Monocotyledonous.	
monocotyledon		A plant with only one cotyledon, or seed lobe.	
monocotyledonous		Having only one cotyledon, seed lobe, or seminal leaf.	
monocracy		Government by a single person; undivided rule.	
monocrat		One who governs alone.	
monocrotic		Of, pertaining to, or showing, monocrotism; as, a monocrotic pulse; a pulse of the monocrotic type.	
monocrotism		That condition of the pulse in which the pulse curve or sphygmogram shows but a single crest, the dicrotic elevation entirely disappearing.	
monocular		Having only one eye; with one eye only; as, monocular vision.	
monocule		A small crustacean with one median eye.	
monoculous		Monocular.	
monocystic		Of or pertaining to a division (Monocystidea) of Gregarinida, in which the body consists of one sac.	
monodactylous		Having but one finger or claw.	
monodelph		One of the Monodelphia.	
monodelphia		The group that includes all ordinary or placental mammals; the Placentalia.	
monodelphian		One of the Monodelphia.	
monodelphic		Of or pertaining to the Monodelphia.	
monodelphous		Of or pertaining to the Monodelphia.	
monodic		(Mus.) (a) For one voice; monophonic. (b) Homophonic; -- applied to music in which the melody is confined to one part, instead of being shared by all the parts as in the style called polyphonic.	
monodical		(Mus.) (a) For one voice; monophonic. (b) Homophonic; -- applied to music in which the melody is confined to one part, instead of being shared by all the parts as in the style called polyphonic.	
monodimetric		Dimetric.	
monodist		A writer of a monody.	
monodrama		A drama acted, or intended to be acted, by a single person.	
monodramatic		Pertaining to a monodrama.	
monodrame		A drama acted, or intended to be acted, by a single person.	
monody		A species of poem of a mournful character, in which a single mourner expresses lamentation; a song for one voice.	Latin monodia, from Greek μονῳδία.
monodynamic		Possessing but one capacity or power.	
monodynamism		The theory that the various forms of activity in nature are manifestations of the same force.	
monoecia		A Linnæan class of plants, whose stamens and pistils are in distinct flowers in the same plant.	
monoecian		(Bot.) Of or pertaining to the Monoecia; monoecious. -- n.	
monoecious		Having the sexes united in one individual, as when male and female flowers grow upon the same individual plant; hermaphrodite; -- opposed to Ant: dioecious.	
monoecism		The state or condition of being monoecious.	
monogam		One of the Monogamia.	
monogamia		A Linnæan order of plants, having solitary flowers with united anthers, as in the genus Lobelia.	
monogamian		Pertaining to, or involving, monogamy.	
monogamic		Pertaining to, or involving, monogamy.	
monogamist		One who practices or upholds monogamy.	
monogamous		Upholding, or practicing, monogamy.	
monogamy		Single marriage; marriage with but one person, husband or wife, at the same time; -- opposed to polygamy.	
monogastric		Having but a single stomach.	
monogenesis		Oneness of origin; esp. (Biol.), development of all beings in the universe from a single cell; -- opposed to polygenesis.	
monogenetic		(Geol.) One in genesis; resulting from one process of formation; -- used of a mountain range.	
monogenic		(Zoöl.) Producing only one kind of germs, or young; developing only in one way.	
monogenism		The theory or doctrine that the human races have a common origin, or constitute a single species.	
monogenist		One who maintains that the human races are all of one species; -- opposed to polygenist.	
monogenistic		Monogenic.	
monogenous		Of or pertaining to monogenesis; as, monogenous, or asexual, reproduction.	
monogeny		(Anthropol.) The doctrine that the members of the human race have all a common origin.	
monogoneutic		Having but one brood in a season.	
monogram		A character or cipher composed of two or more letters interwoven or combined so as to represent a name, or a part of it (usually the initials).	
monogrammal		See Monogrammic — of, pertaining to, or resembling, a monogram.	
monogrammatic		Monogrammic.	
monogrammic		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a monogram.	
monogrammous		Monogrammic.	
monograph		A written account or description of a single thing, or class of things; a special treatise on a particular subject of limited range.	
monographer		A writer of a monograph.	
monographic		Of or pertaining to a monograph, or to a monography; as, a monographic writing; a monographic picture. -- Mon`o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.	
monographical		Of or pertaining to a monograph, or to a monography; as, a monographic writing; a monographic picture. -- Mon`o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.	
monographist		One who writes a monograph.	
monographous	Obsolete	Monographic.	
monography		Representation by lines without color; an outline drawing.	
monogyn		One of the Monogynia.	
monogynia		A Linnæan order of plants, including those which have only one style or stigma.	
monogynian		Pertaining to the Monogynia; monogynous. -- n.	
monogynous		Of or pertaining to Monogynia; having only one style or stigma.	
monogyny		Marriage with the one woman only.	
monohemerous		Lasting but one day.	
monoicous		Monoecious.	
monolatry		Worship of a single deity.	
monolith		A single stone, especially one of large size, shaped into a pillar, statue, or monument.	French monolithe, from Latin monolithus.
monolithal		Monolithic.	
monolithic		Of or pertaining to a monolith; consisting of a single stone.	
monologist		One who soliloquizes; esp., one who monopolizes conversation in company.	
monologue		A speech uttered by a person alone; soliloquy; also, talk or discourse in company, in the strain of a soliloquy; as, an account in monologue.	
monology		The habit of soliloquizing, or of monopolizing conversation.	
monomachia		A duel; single combat.	
monomachist		One who fights in single combat; a duelist.	
monomachy		A duel; single combat.	Middle French monomachie.
monomane		A monomaniac.	
monomania		Derangement of the mind in regard of a single subject only; also, such a concentration of interest upon one particular subject or train of ideas to show mental derangement.	
monomaniac		A person affected by monomania.	
monomaniacal		Affected with monomania, or partial derangement of intellect; caused by, or resulting from, monomania; as, a monomaniacal delusion.	
monome		A monomial.	
monomerous		(Bot.) Composed of solitary parts, as a flower with one sepal, one petal, one stamen, and one pistil.	
monometallic		Consisting of one metal; of or pertaining to monometallism.	
monometallism		The legalized use of one metal only, as gold, or silver, in the standard currency of a country, or as a standard of money values.	
monometallist		One who believes in monometallism as opposed to bimetallism, etc.	
monometer		A rhythmic series, consisting of a single meter.	
monometric		Same as Isometric.	
monomial		A single algebraic expression; that is, an expression unconnected with any other by the sign of addition, substraction, equality, or inequality.	
monomorphic		Having but a single form; retaining the same form throughout the various stages of development; of the same or of an essentially similar type of structure; -- opposed to dimorphic, trimorphic, and polymorphic.	
monomorphous		Having but a single form; retaining the same form throughout the various stages of development; of the same or of an essentially similar type of structure; -- opposed to dimorphic, trimorphic, and polymorphic.	
monomphalus		A form of double monster, in which two individuals are united by a common umbilicus.	
monomya		An order of lamellibranchs having but one muscle for closing the shell, as the oyster.	
monomyaria		An order of lamellibranchs having but one muscle for closing the shell, as the oyster.	
monomyarian		Of or pertaining to the Monomya. -- n.	
monomyary		Of or pertaining to the Monomya. -- n.	
mononomial		Monomyal.	
monoousian		Having but one and the same nature or essence.	Greek μονοούσιος.
monoousious		Having but one and the same nature or essence.	
monopathy		Suffering or sensibility in a single organ or function. -- Mon`o*path"ic, a.	
monopersonal		Having but one person, or form of existence.	
monopetalous		Having only one petal, or the corolla in one piece, or composed of petals cohering so as to form a tube or bowl; gamopetalous.	
monophanous		Having one the same appearance; having a mutual resemblance.	
monophonic		Single-voiced; having but one part; as, a monophonic composition; -- opposed to Ant: polyphonic.	
monophthong		A single uncompounded vowel sound.	Greek μονόφθογγος.
monophthongal		Consisting of, or pertaining to, a monophthong.	
monophyletic		Of or pertaining to a single family or stock, or to development from a single common parent form; -- opposed to polyphyletic; as, monophyletic origin.	
monophyllous		One-leaved; composed of a single leaf; as, a monophyllous involucre or calyx.	
monophyodont		Having but one set of teeth; -- opposed to diphyodont.	
monophysite		One of a sect, in the ancient church, who maintained that the human and divine in Jesus Christ constituted but one composite nature.	
monophysitical		Of or pertaining to Monophysites, or their doctrines.	
monoplast		A monoplastic element.	
monoplastic		That has one form, or retains its primary form, as, a monoplastic element.	
monoplegia		Paralysis affecting a single limb.	
monopneumona		A suborder of Dipnoi, including the Ceratodus.	
monopode		One of a fabulous tribe or race of Ethiopians having but one leg and foot.	
monopodial		Having a monopodium or a single and continuous axis, as a birchen twig or a cornstalk.	
monopodium		A single and continuous vegetable axis; -- opposed to sympodium.	
monopody		A measure of but a single foot.	
monopoler	Obsolete	A monopolist.	
monopolist		One who monopolizes; one who has a monopoly; one who favors monopoly.	
monopolistic		Of or pertaining to a monopolist.	
monopolite		A monopolist.	
monopolize		To acquire a monopoly of; to have or get the exclusive privilege or means of dealing in, or the exclusive possession of; to engross the whole of; as, to monopolize the coffee trade; to monopolize land.	
monopolizer		One who monopolizes.	
monopoly		The exclusive power, or privilege of selling a commodity; the exclusive power, right, or privilege of dealing in some article, or of trading in some market; sole command of the traffic in anything, however obtained; as…	Latin monopolium, from Greek μονοπώλιον.
monopolylogue		An exhibition in which an actor sustains many characters.	
monopsychism		The doctrine that there is but one immortal soul or intellect with which all men are endowed.	
monopteral		Round and without a cella; consisting of a single ring of columns supporting a roof; -- said esp. of a temple.	
monopteron		A circular temple consisting of a roof supported on columns, without a cella.	
monoptote		A noun having only one case.	Latin monoptotum.
monopyrenous		Having but a single stone or kernel.	
monorganic		Belonging to, or affecting, a single organ, or set of organs.	
monorhina		The Marsipobranchiata.	
monorhyme		A composition in verse, in which all the lines end with the same rhyme.	
monosaccharid		A simple sugar; any of a number of sugars (including the trioses, tetroses, pentoses, hexoses, etc.), not decomposable into simpler sugars by hydrolysis.	
monosaccharide		A simple sugar; any of a number of sugars (including the trioses, tetroses, pentoses, hexoses, etc.), not decomposable into simpler sugars by hydrolysis.	
monosepalous		Having only one sepal, or the calyx in one piece or composed of the sepals united into one piece; gamosepalous.	
monosperm		A monospermous plant.	
monospermal		Having only one seed.	
monospermous		Having only one seed.	
monospherical		Consisting of one sphere only.	
monostich		A composition consisting of one verse only.	
monostichous		Arranged in a single row on one side of an axis, as the flowers in grasses of the tribe Chloridæ.	
monostrophe		A metrical composition consisting of a single strophe.	
monostrophic		Having one strophe only; not varied in measure; written in unvaried measure.	
monosulphide		A sulphide containing one atom of sulphur, and analogous to a monoxide; -- contrasted with a Ant: polysulphide; as, galena is a monosulphide.	
monosulphuret		See Monosulphide — a sulphide containing one atom of sulphur, and analogous to a monoxide; -- contrasted with a Ant: polysulphide; as, galena is a monosulphide.	
monosyllabic		Being a monosyllable, or composed of monosyllables; as, a monosyllabic word; a monosyllabic language. -- Mon`o*syl*lab"ic*al*ly, adv.	Latin monosyllabicus.
monosyllabism		The state of consisting of monosyllables, or having a monosyllabic form; frequent occurrence of monosyllables.	
monosyllable		A word of one syllable.	
monosyllabled		Formed into, or consisting of, monosyllables.	
monosymmetric		Same as Monoclinic.	
monosymmetrical		Same as Monoclinic.	
monotessaron		A single narrative framed from the statements of the four evangelists; a gospel harmony.	
monothalama		A division of Foraminifera including those that have only one chamber.	
monothalaman		A foraminifer having but one chamber.	
monothalamous		One-chambered.	
monothalmic		Formed from one pistil; -- said of fruits.	
monothecal		Having a single loculament.	
monotheism		The doctrine or belief that there is but one God.	
monotheist		One who believes that there is but one God.	
monotheistic		Of or pertaining to monotheism.	
monothelism		The doctrine of the Monothelites.	
monothelite		One of an ancient sect who held that Christ had but one will as he had but one nature.	
monothelitic		Of or pertaining to the Monothelites, or their doctrine.	
monothelitism		The doctrine of the Monothelites.	
monotocous		(Bot.) Bearing fruit but once; monocarpic.	
monotomous		Having a distinct cleavage in a single direction only.	
monotone		(Mus.) A single unvaried tone or sound.	
monotonic		Of, pertaining to, or uttered in, a monotone; monotonous.	
monotonical		Of, pertaining to, or uttered in, a monotone; monotonous.	
monotonist		One who talks in the same strain or on the same subject until weariness is produced.	
monotonous		Uttered in one unvarying tone; continued with dull uniformity; characterized by monotony; without change or variety; wearisome. -- Mo*not o*nous*ness, n.	
monotony		A frequent recurrence of the same tone or sound, producing a dull uniformity; absence of variety, as in speaking or singing.	
monotremata		A subclass of Mammalia, having a cloaca in which the ducts of the urinary, genital, and alimentary systems terminate, as in birds.	
monotrematous		Of or pertaining to the Monotremata.	
monotreme		One of the Monotremata.	
monotriglyph		A kind of intercolumniation in an entablature, in which only one triglyph and two metopes are introduced.	
monotropa		A genus of parasitic or saprophytic plants including the Indian pipe and pine sap.	
monotype		Having but one type; containing but one representative; as, a monotypic genus, which contains but one species.	
monotypic		Having but one type; containing but one representative; as, a monotypic genus, which contains but one species.	
monovalent		Having a valence of one; univalent. See Univalent.	
monoxide		An oxide containing one atom of oxygen in each molecule; as, barium monoxide.	
monoxylon		A canoe or boat made from one piece of timber.	
monoxylous		Made of one piece of wood.	
monozoa		A division of Radiolaria; -- called also Monocyttaria. -- Mon`o*zo"ic, a.	
monseigneur		My lord; -- a title in France of a person of high birth or rank; as, Monseigneur the Prince, or Monseigneur the Archibishop.	French monseigneur.
monsieur		The common title of civility in France in speaking to, or of, a man; Mr. or Sir.	
monsignore		My lord; -- an ecclesiastical dignity bestowed by the pope, entitling the bearer to social and domestic rank at the papal court.	
monsoon		A wind blowing part of the year from one direction, alternating with a wind from the opposite direction; -- a term applied particularly to periodical winds of the Indian Ocean…	Arabic موسم.
monster		Something of unnatural size, shape, or quality; a prodigy; an enormity; a marvel.	
monstrance		A transparent pyx, in which the consecrated host is exposed to view.	
monstration	Obsolete	The act of demonstrating; proof.	Latin monstratio.
monstrosity		The state of being monstrous, or out of the common order of nature; that which is monstrous; a monster.	Latin monstrositas.
monstrous		Having the qualities of a monster; deviating greatly from the natural form or character; abnormal; as, a monstrous birth.	
monstrously		In a monstrous manner; unnaturally; extraordinarily; as, monstrously wicked.	
monstrousness		The state or quality of being monstrous, unusual, extraordinary.	
monstruosity	Obsolete	Monstrosity.	
monstruous	Obsolete	Monstrous.	
mont		Mountain.	
montaigne	Obsolete	A mountain.	
montanic		Of or pertaining to mountains; consisting of mountains.	Latin montanus.
montanist		A follower of Mintanus, a Phrygian enthusiast of the second century, who claimed that the Holy Spirit, the Paraclete, dwelt in him…	
montant		(Fencing) An upward thrust or blow.	Italian montante.
monte		A favorite gambling game among Spaniards, played with dice or cards.	
monte-acid		An acid elevator, as a tube through which acid is forced to some height in a sulphuric acid manufactory.	
monte-jus		An apparatus for raising a liquid by pressure of air or steam in a reservoir containing the liquid.	
monteith		See Monteth — a vessel in which glasses are washed; -- so called from the name of the inventor.	
montem		A custom, formerly practiced by the scholars at Eton school, England, of giing every third year, on Whittuesday, to a hillock near the Bath road, and exacting money from all passers-by…	
montero		An ancient kind of cap worn by horsemen or huntsmen.	Spanish huntsman.
monteth		A vessel in which glasses are washed; -- so called from the name of the inventor.	
montgolfier		A balloon which ascends by the buoyancy of air heated by a fire; a fire balloon; -- so called from two brothers, Stephen and Joseph Montgolfier, of France, who first constructed and sent up a fire balloon.	
month	Obsolete	One of the twelve portions into which the year is divided; the twelfth part of a year, corresponding nearly to the length of a synodic revolution of the moon, -- whence the name.	Middle English month.
monthling		That which is a month old, or which lives for a month.	
monthly		Continued a month, or a performed in a month; as, the monthly revolution of the moon.	
monticle		A little mount; a hillock; a small elevation or prominence.	Latin monticulus.
monticulate		Furnished with monticles or little elevations.	
monticule		See Monticle — a little mount; a hillock; a small elevation or prominence.	
monticulous		Monticulate.	
montiform		Resembling a mountain in form.	Latin mons.
montigenous		Produced on a mountain.	
montoir		A stone used in mounting a horse; a horse block.	
monton		A heap of ore; a mass undergoing the process of amalgamation.	
montre		(Organ Building) A stop, usually the open diapason, having its pipes "shown" as part of the organ case, or otherwise specially mounted.	
montross	Obsolete	See Matross — formerly, in the British service, a gunner or a gunner's mate; one of the soldiers in a train of artillery, who assisted the gunners in loading, firing, and sponging the guns.	
montrue	Obsolete	That on which anything is mounted; a setting; hence, a saddle horse.	
monument		Something which stands, or remains, to keep in remembrance what is past; a memorial.	Latin monumentum.
monumental		Of, pertaining to, or suitable for, a monument; as, a monumental inscription.	
monumentally		By way of memorial.	
monureid		Any one of a series of complex nitrogenous substances regarded as derived from one molecule of urea; as, alloxan is a monureid.	
moo	Obsolete	See Mo — more; -- usually, more in number.	
mood		Manner; style; mode; logical form; musical style; manner of action or being.	Old English mod.
moodily		In a moody manner.	
moodiness		The quality or state of being moody; specifically, liability to strange or violent moods.	
moodir		The governor of a province in Egypt, etc.	
moodishly	Obsolete	Moodily.	
moody		Subject to varying moods, especially to states of mind which are unamiable or depressed.	Old English modig.
moolah		See Mollah — one of the higher order of Turkish judges; also, a Turkish title of respect for a religious and learned man.	
moollah		See Mollah — one of the higher order of Turkish judges; also, a Turkish title of respect for a religious and learned man.	
moolley		A mulley or polled animal.	
moon		The celestial orb which revolves round the earth; the satellite of the earth; a secondary planet, whose light, borrowed from the sun, is reflected to the earth, and serves to dispel the darkness of night.	Middle English mone, from Old English mona.
moon-culminating		Culminating, or coming to the meredian, at or about the same time with the moon; -- said of a star or stars, esp. of certain stars selected beforehand, and named in an ephemeris (as the Nautical Almanac)…	
moon-eye		A eye affected by the moon; also, a disease in the eye of a horse.	
moon-eyed		Having eyes affected by the moon; moonblind; dim-eyed; purblind.	
moon-faced		Having a round, full face.	
moonbeam		A ray of light from the moon.	
moonblind		Dim-sighted; purblind.	
moonblink		A temporary blindness, or impairment of sight, said to be caused by sleeping in the moonlight; -- sometimes called nyctalopia.	
mooncalf		A monster; a false conception; a mass of fleshy matter, generated in the uterus.	
mooned		Of or resembling the moon; symbolized by the moon.	
mooner		One who abstractedly wanders or gazes about, as if moonstruck.	
moonery		Conduct of one who moons.	
moonet		A little moon.	
moonfish		(a) An American marine fish (Vomer setipennis); -- called also bluntnosed shiner, horsefish, and sunfish.	
moonflower		(a) The oxeye daisy; -- called also moon daisy. (b) A kind of morning glory (Ipomoea Bona-nox) with large white flowers opening at night.	
moong		Same as Mung.	
moonglade	Poetic	The bright reflection of the moon's light on an expanse of water.	
moonie		The European goldcrest.	
moonish		Like the moon; variable.	
moonless		Being without a moon or moonlight.	
moonlight		The light of the moon. -- a.	
moonlighter	Dialect	(a) A moonshiner. (b) In Ireland, one of a band that engaged in agrarian outrages by night.	
moonling	Obsolete	A simpleton; a lunatic.	
moonlit		Illumined by the moon.	
moonraker		Same as Moonsail.	
moonrise		The rising of the moon above the horizon; also, the time of its rising.	
moonsail		A sail sometimes carried in light winds, above a skysail.	
moonseed		A climbing plant of the genus Menispermum; -- so called from the crescentlike form of the seeds.	
moonset		The descent of the moon below the horizon; also, the time when the moon sets.	
moonshee		A Mohammedan professor or teacher of language.	
moonshine		The light of the moon.	
moonshiner		A person engaged in illicit distilling; -- so called because the work is largely done at night.	
moonshining	Slang or colloq	Illicit distilling.	
moonshiny	Colloquial	Moonlight.	
moonstone		A nearly pellucid variety of feldspar, showing pearly or opaline reflections from within.	
moonstricken		See Moonstruck — mentally affected or deranged by the supposed influence of the moon; lunatic.	
moonstruck		Mentally affected or deranged by the supposed influence of the moon; lunatic.	
moonwort		(a) The herb lunary or honesty. See Honesty. (b) Any fern of the genus Botrychium, esp. B.	
moony		Of or pertaining to the moon.	
moor		One of a mixed race inhabiting Morocco, Algeria, Tunis, and Tripoli, chiefly along the coast and in towns.	Old English mor.
moorage		A place for mooring.	
moorball		A fresh-water alga (Cladophora Ægagropila) which forms a globular mass.	
moorband		See Moorpan — a clayey layer or pan underlying some moors, etc.	
mooress		A female Moor; a Moorish woman.	
mooring		The act of confining a ship to a particular place, by means of anchors or fastenings.	
moorish		Having the characteristics of a moor or heath.	
moorland		Land consisting of a moor or moors.	
moorpan		A clayey layer or pan underlying some moors, etc.	
moorstone		A species of English granite, used as a building stone.	
mooruk		A species of cassowary (Casuarius Bennetti) found in New Britain, and noted for its agility in running and leaping.	
moory		Of or pertaining to moors; marshy; fenny; boggy; moorish.	
moose		A large cervine mammal (Alces machlis, or A.	Dutch moes, from Middle Dutch moes, from Old Dutch muos.
moosewood		(a) The striped maple (Acer Pennsylvanicum). (b) Leatherwood.	
moot		To argue for and against; to debate; to discuss; to propose for discussion.	Middle English moot.
moot-hall	Obsolete	A hall for public meetings; a hall of judgment.	
moot-hill		A hill of meeting or council; an elevated place in the open air where public assemblies or courts were held by the Saxons; -- called, in Scotland, mute-hill.	
moot-house	Obsolete	A hall for public meetings; a hall of judgment.	
mootable		Capable of being mooted.	
mooter		A disputer of a mooted case.	Spanish mota.
mootman		One who argued moot cases in the inns of court.	
mop		An implement for washing floors, or the like, made of a piece of cloth, or a collection of thrums, or coarse yarn, fastened to a handle.	
mopboard		A narrow board nailed against the wall of a room next to the floor; skirting board; baseboard.	
mope	Obsolete	To be dull and spiritless.	
mope-eyed		Shortsighted; purblind.	
mopish		Dull; spiritless; dejected. -- Mop ish*ness, n.	
moplah		One of a class of Mohammedans in Malabar.	
moppet		A rag baby; a puppet made of cloth; hence, also, in fondness, a little girl, or a woman.	
mopsey		A slatternly, untidy woman.	
mopsical		Shortsighted; mope-eyed.	
mopstick		The long handle of a mop.	
mopsy		A slatternly, untidy woman.	
mopus	Obsolete	A mope; a drone.	
moquette		A kind of carpet having a short velvety pile.	French moquette.
mora		A game of guessing the number of fingers extended in a quick movement of the hand, -- much played by Italians of the lower classes.	Latin mora.
moraine		An accumulation of earth and stones carried forward and deposited by a glacier.	French moraine.
morainic		Of or pertaining to a moranie.	
moral		Relating to duty or obligation; pertaining to those intentions and actions of which right and wrong, virtue and vice, are predicated, or to the rules by which such intentions and actions ought to be directed…	French moral, from Latin moralis.
morale		The moral condition, or the condition in other respects, so far as it is affected by, or dependent upon, moral considerations, such as zeal, spirit, hope, and confidence; mental state, as of a body of men, an army, and the like.	French moral, from Latin moralis.
moraler	Obsolete	A moralizer.	
moralism		A maxim or saying embodying a moral truth.	
moralist		One who moralizes; one who teaches or animadverts upon the duties of life; a writer of essays intended to correct vice and inculcate moral duties.	
morality		The relation of conformity or nonconformity to the moral standard or rule; quality of an intention, a character, an action, a principle, or a sentiment, when tried by the standard of right.	Anglo-Norman moralité.
moralization		The act of moralizing; moral reflections or discourse.	
moralize		To apply to a moral purpose; to explain in a moral sense; to draw a moral from.	
moralizer		One who moralizes.	
morally		In a moral or ethical sense; according to the rules of morality.	
morass		A tract of soft, wet ground; a marsh; a fen.	
morassy		Marshy; fenny.	
morate		A salt of moric acid.	
moration		A delaying tarrying; delay.	Latin moratio.
moratorium		A period during which an obligor has a legal right to delay meeting an obligation, esp. such a period granted, as to a bank, by a moratory law.	
moratory		Of or pertaining to delay; esp., designating a law passed, as in a time of financial panic, to postpone or delay for a period the time at which notes, bills of exchange, and other obligations, shall mature or become due.	
moravian		Of or pertaining to Moravia, or to the United Brethren. See Moravian, n.	
moravianism		The religious system of the Moravians.	
moray		A muræna.	Portuguese moreia, from Latin muraena, from Greek σμυραινα.
morbid		Not sound and healthful; induced by a diseased or abnormal condition; diseased; sickly; as, morbid humors; a morbid constitution; a morbid state of the juices of a plant.	Latin morbidus.
morbidezza		(Fine Arts) Delicacy or softness in the representation of flesh.	Italian morbidezza.
morbidity		The quality or state of being morbid.	
morbidly		In a morbid manner.	
morbidness		The quality or state of being morbid; morbidity.	
morbific		Causing disease; generating a sickly state; as, a morbific matter.	Latin morbus.
morbifical		Causing disease; generating a sickly state; as, a morbific matter.	
morbillous		Pertaining to the measles; partaking of the nature of measels, or resembling the eruptions of that disease; measly.	
morbose		Proceeding from disease; morbid; unhealthy.	Latin morbosus.
morbosity		A diseased state; unhealthiness.	Latin morbositas.
morceau		A bit; a morsel.	
mordacious		Biting; given to biting; hence, figuratively, sarcastic; severe; scathing. -- Mor*da"cious*ly, adv.	
mordacity		The quality of being mordacious; biting severity, or sarcastic quality.	
mordant		Biting; caustic; sarcastic; keen; severe.	
mordantly		In the manner of a mordant.	
mordente		An embellishment resembling a trill.	
mordicancy		A biting quality; corrosiveness.	
mordicant		Biting; acrid; as, the mordicant quality of a body.	Latin mordicans.
mordication		The act of biting or corroding; corrosion.	Latin mordicatio.
mordicative		Biting; corrosive.	Latin mordicativus.
more		Greater; superior; increased; as: (a) Greater in quality, amount, degree, quality, and the like; with the singular.	Middle English moren.
moreen		A thick woolen fabric, watered or with embossed figures; -- used in upholstery, for curtains, etc.	
morel		An edible fungus (Morchella esculenta), the upper part of which is covered with a reticulated and pitted hymenium.	
moreland		Moorland.	
morelle		Nightshade. See 2d Morel.	
morello		A kind of nearly black cherry with dark red flesh and juice, -- used chiefly for preserving.	
morendo		Dying; a gradual decrescendo at the end of a strain or cadence.	
moreness	Obsolete	Greatness.	
moreover		Beyond what has been said; further; besides; in addition; furthermore; also; likewise.	
morepork		The Australian crested goatsucker (Ægotheles Novæ-Hollandiæ).	
mores		Customs; habits; esp., customs conformity to which is more or less obligatory; customary law.	
moresk	Obsolete	Moresque.	
moresque		Of or pertaining to, or in the manner or style of, the Moors; Moorish. -- n.	
morgan		One of a celebrated breed of American trotting horses; -- so called from the name of the stud from which the breed originated in Vermont.	
morganatic		Pertaining to, in the manner of, or designating, a kind of marriage, called also left-handed marriage, between a man of superior rank and a woman of inferior…	Latin morganaticus.
morgay		The European small-spotted dogfish, or houndfish. See the Note under Houndfish.	
morglay	Obsolete	A sword.	
morgue		A place where the bodies of persons found dead are exposed, that they may be identified, or claimed by their friends; a deadhouse.	French morgue.
moria		Idiocy; imbecility; fatuity; foolishness.	
moribund		In a dying state; dying; at the point of death.	Latin moribundus.
moric		Pertaining to, or derived from, fustic (see Morin); as, moric acid.	
morice		See Morisco — moresque.	
morigerate	Obsolete	Obedient.	
morigeration	Obsolete	Obsequiousness; obedience.	Latin morigeratio.
morigerous	Obsolete	Obedient; obsequious.	
moril		An edible fungus.	
morin		A yellow crystalline substance of acid properties extracted from fustic (Maclura tinctoria, formerly called Morus tinctoria); -- called also moric acid.	
morinda		A genus of rubiaceous trees and shrubs, mostly East Indian, many species of which yield valuable red and yellow dyes.	
morindin		A yellow dyestuff extracted from the root bark of an East Indian plant (Morinda citrifolia).	
morinel		The dotterel.	
moringa		A genus of trees of Southern India and Northern Africa.	
moringic		Designating an organic acid obtained from oil of ben. See Moringa.	
morintannic		Pertaining to, or designating, a variety of tannic acid extracted from fustic (Maclura, formerly Morus, tinctoria) as a yellow crystalline substance; -- called also maclurin.	
morion		A kind of open helmet, without visor or beaver, and somewhat resembling a hat.	French morion, from Spanish morrión.
morioplasty		The restoration of lost parts of the body.	
morisco		Moresque.	
morisk		Same as Morisco.	
morkin	Obsolete	A beast that has died of disease or by mischance.	
morland	Obsolete	Moorland.	
morling		Mortling.	
mormal	Obsolete	A bad sore; a gangrene; a cancer.	
mormo	Obsolete	A bugbear; false terror.	
mormon		(a) A genus of sea birds, having a large, thick bill; the puffin. (b) The mandrill.	
mormondom		The country inhabited by the Mormons; the Mormon people.	
mormonism		The doctrine, system, and practices of the Mormons.	
mormonite		A Mormon. -- a.	
morn		The first part of the day; the morning; -- used chiefly in poetry.	Middle English mōrn.
morne		The first or early part of the day, variously understood as the earliest hours of light, the time near sunrise; the time from midnight to noon, from rising to noon, etc.	
morning		Pertaining to the first part or early part of the day; being in the early part of the day; as, morning dew; morning light; morning service.	Middle English morwening.
morning-glory		A climbing plant (Ipomoea purpurea) having handsome, funnel- shaped flowers, usually red, pink, purple, white, or variegated, sometimes pale blue.	
morningtide	Poetic	Morning time.	
mornward	Poetic	Towards the morn.	
moro		A small abscess or tumor having a resemblance to a mulberry.	
moroccan		Of or pertaining to Morocco, or its inhabitants.	
morocco		A fine kind of leather, prepared commonly from goatskin (though an inferior kind is made of sheepskin), and tanned with sumac and dyed of various colors; -- said to have been first made by the Moors.	
morology	Obsolete	Foolish talk; nonsense; folly.	
moron		A person whose intellectual development proceeds normally up to about the eighth year of age and is then arrested so that there is little or no further development.	Greek μωρός.
morone		Maroon; the color of an unripe black mulberry.	
moros		The Mohammedan tribes of the southern Philippine Islands, said to have formerly migrated from Borneo.	
morosaurus		An extinct genus of large herbivorous dinosaurs, found in Jurassic strata in America.	
morose		Of a sour temper; sullen and austere; ill-humored; severe.	Latin morosus.
morosely		Sourly; with sullen austerity.	
moroseness		Sourness of temper; sulenness.	
morosis		Idiocy; fatuity; stupidity.	Greek μώρωσις.
morosity		Moroseness.	French morosité, from Latin morositas.
morosoph	Obsolete	A philosophical or learned fool.	
moroxite		A variety of apatite of a greenish blue color.	
moroxylate		A morate.	
moroxylic		Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the mulberry; moric.	
morphean		Of or relating to Morpheus, to dreams, or to sleep.	
morpheus		The god of dreams.	
morphew	Obsolete	A scurfy eruption.	
morphia		Morphine.	
morphine		A bitter white crystalline alkaloid found in opium, possessing strong narcotic properties, and much used as an anodyne; -- called also morphia, and morphina.	
morphinism		A morbid condition produced by the excessive or prolonged use of morphine.	
morpho		Any one of numerous species of large, handsome, tropical American butterflies, of the genus Morpho.	
morphogeny		History of the evolution of forms; that part of ontogeny that deals with the germ history of forms; -- distinguished from physiogeny.	
morphologic		Of, pertaining to, or according to, the principles of morphology. -- Mor`pho*log"ic*al*ly, adv.	
morphological		Of, pertaining to, or according to, the principles of morphology. -- Mor`pho*log"ic*al*ly, adv.	
morphologist		One who is versed in the science of morphology.	
morphology		That branch of biology which deals with the structure of animals and plants, treating of the forms of organs and describing their varieties, homologies, and metamorphoses.	
morphon		A morphological individual, characterized by definiteness of form bion, a physiological individual.	Greek μορφῶν.
morphonomy		The laws of organic formation.	
morphophyly		The tribal history of forms; that part of phylogeny which treats of the tribal history of forms, in distinction from the tribal history of functions.	
morphosis		The order or mode of development of an organ or part.	Latin morphosis, from Greek μόρφωσις.
morphotic		Connected with, or becoming an integral part of, a living unit or of the morphological framework; as, morphotic, or tissue, proteids.	Greek μόρφωσις.
morpion		A louse.	
morrice		Same as 1st Morris.	
morricer	Obsolete	A morris dancer.	
morrimal		See Mormal — a bad sore; a gangrene; a cancer.	
morris		A Moorish dance, usually performed by a single dancer, who accompanies the dance with castanets.	
morris-chair		A kind of easy-chair with a back which may be lowered or raised.	
morris-pike	Obsolete	A Moorish pike.	
morro		A round hill or point of land; hence, Morro castle, a castle on a hill.	
morrot		See Marrot — (a) The razor-billed auk. See Auk. (b) The common guillemot. (c) The puffin.	
morrow		The next following day; the day subsequent to any day specified or understood.	Middle English morwe.
morse		The walrus. See Walrus.	Latin morsus.
morsel		A little bite or bit of food.	Middle English morsel, from Old French morsel, from Latin morsellum.
morsitation	Obsolete	The act of biting or gnawing.	
morsure		The act of biting.	
mort	English dialect	A great quantity or number.	
mortal		Subject to death; destined to die; as, man is mortal.	Anglo-Norman mortal.
mortality		The condition or quality of being mortal; subjection to death or to the necessity of dying.	
mortalize		To make mortal.	
mortally		In a mortal manner; so as to cause death; as, mortally wounded.	
mortalness		Quality of being mortal; mortality.	
mortar		A strong vessel, commonly in form of an inverted bell, in which substances are pounded or rubbed with a pestle.	Old French mortier, from Latin mortarium.
mortgage		(Law) A conveyance of property, upon condition, as security for the payment of a debt or the preformance of a duty, and to become void upon payment or performance according to the stipulated terms; also…	Anglo-Norman mortgage.
mortgagee		The person to whom property is mortgaged, or to whom a mortgage is made or given.	
mortgageor		One who gives a mortgage.	
mortgager		gives a mortgage.	
mortgagor		One who gives a mortgage.	
mortiferous		Bringing or producing death; deadly; destructive; as, a mortiferous herb.	
mortification		That which mortifies; the cause of humiliation, chagrin, or vexation.	
mortified		of Mortify — to destroy the organic texture and vital functions of; to produce gangrene in.	
mortifiedness		The state of being mortified; humiliation; subjection of the passions.	
mortifier		One who, or that which, mortifies.	
mortify		To destroy the organic texture and vital functions of; to produce gangrene in.	Anglo-Norman mortifier, from Latin mortifico.
mortifying		Tending to mortify; affected by, or having symptoms of, mortification; as, a mortifying wound; mortifying flesh.	
mortifyingly		In a mortifying manner.	
mortise		A cavity cut into a piece of timber, or other material, to receive something (as the end of another piece) made to fit it, and called a tenon.	
mortling		An animal, as a sheep, dead of disease or privation; a mortling.	
mortmain		Possession of lands or tenements in, or conveyance to, dead hands, or hands that cannot alienate.	Anglo-Norman mortmayn.
mortmal	Obsolete	See Mormal — a bad sore; a gangrene; a cancer.	
mortpay	Obsolete	Dead pay; the crime of taking pay for the service of dead soldiers, or for services not actually rendered by soldiers.	
mortress		A dish of meats and other ingredients, cooked together; an ollapodrida.	
mortrew		A dish of meats and other ingredients, cooked together; an ollapodrida.	
mortuary		A sort of ecclesiastical heriot, a customary gift claimed by, and due to, the minister of a parish on the death of a parishioner.	Anglo-Norman mortuarie, from Latin mortuarium.
morula		The sphere or globular mass of cells (blastomeres), formed by the clevage of the ovum or egg in the first stages of its development; -- called also mulberry mass, segmentation sphere, and blastosphere.	
morulation		The process of cleavage, or segmentation, of the ovum, by which a morula is formed.	
morus		A genus of trees, some species of which produce edible fruit; the mulberry.	
morwe	Obsolete	See Morrow — the next following day; the day subsequent to any day specified or understood.	
morwening	Obsolete	Morning.	
mos		sing. of Mores — customs; habits; esp., customs conformity to which is more or less obligatory; customary law.	
mosaic		(Fine Arts) A surface decoration made by inlaying in patterns small pieces of variously colored glass, stone, or other material; -- called also mosaic work.	Middle French mosaïque, from Italian mosaico, from Latin musaicum.
mosaical		Mosaic (in either sense).	
mosaically		In the manner of a mosaic.	
mosaism		Attachment to the system or doctrines of Moses; that which is peculiar to the Mosaic system or doctrines.	
mosasaur		One of an extinct order of reptiles, including Mosasaurus and allied genera.	
mosasauria		An order of large, extinct, marine reptiles, found in the Cretaceous rocks, especially in America.	
mosasaurian		One of an extinct order of reptiles, including Mosasaurus and allied genera.	
mosasaurus		A genus of extinct marine reptiles allied to the lizards, but having the body much elongated, and the limbs in the form of paddles.	
moschatel		A plant of the genus Adoxa (A. moschatellina), the flowers of which are pale green, and have a faint musky smell.	
moschine		Of or pertaining to Moschus, a genus including the musk deer.	
mosel	Obsolete	See Muzzle — the projecting mouth and nose of a quadruped, as of a horse; a snout.	
moselle		A light wine, usually white, produced in the vicinity of the river Moselle.	
moses		A large flatboat, used in the West Indies for taking freight from shore to ship.	
mosey	Colloquial	To go, or move (in a certain manner); -- usually with out, off, along, etc. E.	
mosk		See Mosque — a mohammedan church or place of religious worship.	French mosquée, from Italian moschea, from Spanish mezquita, from Arabic مسجد.
moslem		A Mussulman; an orthodox Mohammedan.	
moslings		Thin shreds of leather shaved off in dressing skins.	
mososaurus		Same as Mosasaurus.	
mosque		A Mohammedan church or place of religious worship.	French mosquée, from Italian moschea, from Spanish mezquita, from Arabic مسجد.
mosquito		Any one of various species of gnats of the genus Culex and allied genera.	Spanish mosquito.
moss		(Bot.) A cryptogamous plant of a cellular structure, with distinct stem and simple leaves.	Middle English mos, from Old English mos.
moss-grown		Overgrown with moss.	
mossback		A veteran partisan; one who is so conservative in opinion that he may be likened to a stone or old tree covered with moss.	
mossbanker		The menhaded.	
mossbunker		The menhaded.	
mossiness		The state of being mossy.	
mosstrooper		One of a class of marauders or bandits that formerly infested the border country between England and Scotland; -- so called in allusion to the mossy or boggy character of much of the border country.	
mossy		Overgrown with moss; abounding with or edged with moss; as, mossy trees; mossy streams.	
most		Consisting of the greatest number or quantity; greater in number or quantity than all the rest; nearly all. xx. 6.	Old English mæst.
mostahiba		See Mustaiba — a close-grained, neavy wood of a brownish color, brought from Brazil, and used in turning, for making the handles of tools, and the like.	
moste		of Mote — a meeting of persons for discussion; as, a wardmote in the city of London.	
mostic		A painter's maul-stick.	
mostick		A painter's maul-stick.	
mostly		For the greatest part; for the most part; chiefly; in the main.	
mostra		See Direct, n.	
mostwhat	Obsolete	For the most part.	
mot		May; must; might.	French mot, from Latin muttum.
motacil		Any singing bird of the genus Motacilla; a wagtail.	
motation	Obsolete	The act of moving; motion.	Latin motare.
mote		A meeting of persons for discussion; as, a wardmote in the city of London.	Middle English moten, from Old English motan.
moted		Filled with motes, or fine floating dust; as, the air.	
motet		A composition adapted to sacred words in the elaborate polyphonic church style; an anthem.	
moth		(Zoöl.) Any nocturnal lepidopterous insect, or any not included among the butterflies; as, the luna moth; Io moth; hawk moth.	
moth-eat		To eat or prey upon, as a moth eats a garment.	
mothen	Obsolete	Full of moths.	
mother		A female parent; especially, one of the human race; a woman who has borne a child.	Middle English moder, from Old English modor.
mother-in-law		The mother of one's husband or wife.	
mother-naked		Naked as when born.	
mother-of-pearl		The hard pearly internal layer of several kinds of shells, esp. of pearl oysters, river mussels, and the abalone shells; nacre.	
mother-of-thyme		An aromatic plant (Thymus Serphyllum); -- called also wild thyme.	
mothered		Thick, like mother; viscid.	
motherhood		The state of being a mother; the character or office of a mother.	
mothering		A rural custom in England, of visiting one's parents on Midlent Sunday, -- supposed to have been originally visiting the mother church to make offerings at the high altar.	
motherland		The country of one's ancestors; -- same as fatherland.	
motherless		Destitute of a mother; having lost a mother; as, motherless children.	
motherliness		The state or quality of being motherly.	
motherly		Of or pertaining to a mother; like, or suitable for, a mother; tender; maternal; as, motherly authority, love, or care.	
motherwort		(a) A labiate herb (Leonurus Cardiaca), of a bitter taste, used popularly in medicine; lion's tail.	
mothery		Consisting of, containing, or resembling, mother (in vinegar).	
mothy		Infested with moths; moth-eaten.	
motific		Producing motion.	
motile		(Biol.) Having powers of self-motion, though unconscious; as, the motile spores of certain seaweeds.	Latin motus.
motility		Capability of motion; contractility.	
motion		The act, process, or state of changing place or position; movement; the passing of a body from one place or position to another, whether voluntary or involuntary; -- opposed to rest.	Anglo-Norman motion.
motioner		One who makes a motion; a mover.	
motionist	Obsolete	A mover.	
motionless		Without motion; being at rest.	
motivate		To provide with a motive; to move; impel; induce; incite. -- Mo`ti*va"tion (#), n.	
motive		That which incites to action; anything prompting or exciting to choise, or moving the will; cause; reason; inducement; object.	
motiveless		Destitute of a motive; not incited by a motive. -- Mo"tive*less*ness, n.	
motivity		The power of moving or producing motion.	
motivo		See Motive, n., 3, 4.	
motley		Variegated in color; consisting of different colors; dappled; party-colored; as, a motley coat.	
motley-minded		Having a mind of a jester; foolish.	
motmot		Any one of several species of long-tailed, passerine birds of the genus Momotus, having a strong serrated beak.	
moto		Movement; manner of movement; particularly, movement with increased rapidity; -- used especially in the phrase con moto, directing to a somewhat quicker movement; as, andante con moto, a little more rapidly than andante, etc.	
motograph		A device utilized in the making of a loud-speaking telephone, depending on the fact that the friction between a metallic point and a moving cylinder of moistened chalk, or a moving slip of paper…	
moton		A small plate covering the armpit in armor of the 14th century and later.	
motor		One who, or that which, imparts motion; a source of mechanical power.	Latin moto.
motor-driven		Driven or actuated by a motor, esp. by an individual electric motor.	
motorcar		An automobile, locomobile, or locomotive designed to run and be steered on a street or roadway; esp., an automobile specially designed for passengers.	
motorcycle		A bicycle having a motor attached so as to be self-propelled.	
motorial		Causing or setting up motion; pertaining to organs of motion; - - applied especially in physiology to those nerves or nerve fibers which only convey impressions from a nerve center to muscles, thereby causing motion.	
motoring		Act or recreation of riding in or driving a motor car or automobile.	
motorize		To substitute motor-driven vehicles, or automobiles, for the horses and horse-drawn vehicles of (a fire department, city, etc.). - -Mo`tor*i*za"tion (#), n.	
motorman		A man who controls a motor.	
motorpathic		Of or pertaining to motorpathy.	
motorpathy		Kinesiatrics.	
motory		Causing or setting up motion; pertaining to organs of motion; - - applied especially in physiology to those nerves or nerve fibers which only convey impressions from a nerve center to muscles, thereby causing motion.	
motte	Dialect	A clump of trees in a prairie.	
mottle		To mark with spots of different color, or shades of color, as if stained; to spot; to maculate.	
mottled		Marked with spots of different colors; variegated; spotted; as, mottled wood.	
motto		(Her.) A sentence, phrase, or word, forming part of an heraldic achievment.	Italian motto.
mottoed		Bearing or having a motto; as, a mottoed coat or device.	
motty	Scots	Full of, or consisting of, motes.	
mouchoir		A handkerchief.	French mouchoir.
mouezzin		See Muezzin — a mohammedan crier of the hour of prayer.	
mouflon		A wild sheep (Ovis musimon), inhabiting the mountains of Sardinia, Corsica, etc. Its horns are very large, with a triangular base and rounded angles.	French mouflon, from Italian muflone, from Latin mufro.
mought		of May — an auxiliary verb qualifyng the meaning of another verb, by expressing: (a) Ability, competency, or possibility; -- now oftener expressed by can.	
mouillation		The act of uttering the sound of a mouillé letter.	
mouille		Applied to certain consonants having a or softened sound; e.g., in French, l or ll and gn (like the lli in million and ni in minion); in Italian, gl and gn; in Spanish, ll and ñ; in Portuguese, lh and nh.	
mould		Crumbling, soft, friable earth; esp., earth containing the remains or constituents of organic matter, and suited to the growth of plants; soil.	
mouldable		Capable of being molded or formed.	
mouldboard		A curved plate of iron (originally of wood) back of the share of a plow, which turns over the earth in plowing.	
moulder		One who, or that which, molds or forms into shape; specifically (Founding), one skilled in the art of making molds for castings.	
mouldery		Covered or filled with mold; consisting of, or resembling, mold.	
mouldiness		The state of being moldy.	
moulding		The act or process of shaping in or on a mold, or of making molds; the art or occupation of a molder.	
mouldwarp		See Mole the animal.	Middle English moldwarp.
mouldy		Overgrown with, or containing, mold; as, moldy cheese or bread. See Mold, Molder, Moldy, etc.	
moule	Obsolete	To contract mold; to grow moldy; to mold.	
mouline		The drum upon which the rope is wound in a capstan, crane, or the like.	
moulinet		The drum upon which the rope is wound in a capstan, crane, or the like.	
moult		To shed or cast the hair, feathers, skin, horns, or the like, as an animal or a bird.	
moulten	Obsolete	Having molted.	
moun	Obsolete	pl. of Mow, may.	Middle English mown.
mounch	Obsolete	To munch.	
mound		A ball or globe forming part of the regalia of an emperor or other sovereign.	
mount		A mass of earth, or earth and rock, rising considerably above the common surface of the surrounding land; a mountain; a high hill; -- used always instead of mountain, when put before a proper name; as, Mount Washington…	Middle English mounten, from Anglo-Norman mounter, from Old French monter, from Latin montare.
mountable		Such as can be mounted.	
mountain		A large mass of earth and rock, rising above the common level of the earth or adjacent land; earth and rock forming an isolated peak or a ridge; an eminence higher than a hill; a mount.	
mountaineer		An inhabitant of a mountain; one who lives among mountains.	
mountainer	Obsolete	A mountaineer.	
mountainet		A small mountain.	
mountainous		Full of, or containing, mountains; as, the mountainous country of the Swiss.	
mountainousness		The state or quality of being mountainous.	
mountance	Obsolete	Amount; sum; quantity; extent.	Old French montance.
mountant	Obsolete	Raised; high.	
mountebank		One who mounts a bench or stage in the market or other public place, boasts of his skill in curing diseases, and vends medicines which he pretends are infalliable remedies; a quack doctor.	
mountebankery		The practices of a mountebank; quackery; boastful and vain pretenses.	
mountebankish		Like a mountebank or his quackery.	
mountebankism		The practices of a mountebank; mountebankery.	
mounted		Seated or serving on horseback or similarly; as, mounted police; mounted infantry.	
mountenaunce	Obsolete	Mountance.	
mounter		One who mounts.	
mounting		The act of one that mounts.	
mountingly		In an ascending manner.	
mountlet		A small or low mountain.	
mounty		The rise of a hawk after prey.	
mourn		To express or to feel grief or sorrow; to grieve; to be sorrowful; to lament; to be in a state of grief or sadness.	Old English murnan.
mourne		The armed or feruled end of a staff; in a sheephook, the end of the staff to which the hook is attached.	
mourner		One who mourns or is grieved at any misfortune, as the death of a friend.	
mournful		Full of sorrow; expressing, or intended to express, sorrow; mourning; grieving; sad; also, causing sorrow; saddening; grievous; as, a mournful person; mournful looks, tones, loss. -- Mourn ful*ness, n.	
mourning		The act of sorrowing or expressing grief; lamentation; sorrow.	
mourningly		In a mourning manner.	
mournival		See Murnival — in the game of gleek, four cards of the same value, as four aces or four kings; hence, four of anything.	
mouse		(Zoöl.) Any one of numerous species of small rodents belonging to the genus Mus and various related genera of the family Muridæ.	Middle English mous, from Old English mus.
mouse-ear		(a) The forget-me-not (Myosotis palustris) and other species of the same genus.	
mousefish		See Frogfish — (b) An oceanic fish of the genus Antennarius or Pterophrynoides; -- called also mousefish and toadfish.	
mousehole		A hole made by a mouse, for passage or abode, as in a wall; hence, a very small hole like that gnawed by a mouse.	
mousekin		A little mouse.	
mouser		A cat that catches mice.	
mousetail		A genus of ranunculaceous plants (Myosurus), in which the prolonged receptacle is covered with imbricating achenes, and so resembles the tail of a mouse.	
mousie		Diminutive for Mouse.	
mousing		Impertinently inquisitive; prying; meddlesome.	
mousle	Obsolete	To sport with roughly; to rumple.	
mousquetaire		A musketeer, esp. one of the French royal musketeers of the 17th and 18th centuries, conspicuous both for their daring and their fine dress.	
mousse		A frozen dessert of a frothy texture, made of sweetened and flavored whipped cream, sometimes with the addition of egg yolks and gelatin.	French mousse, from Old French mosse.
moustache		Mustache.	
mousy		Infested with mice; smelling of mice.	
moutan		The Chinese tree peony (Pæonia Mountan), a shrub with large flowers of various colors.	
mouth		The opening through which an animal receives food; the aperture between the jaws or between the lips; also, the cavity, containing the tongue and teeth, between the lips and the pharynx; the buccal cavity.	Middle English mouth, from Old English muþ.
mouth-footed		Having the basal joints of the legs converted into jaws.	
mouth-made		Spoken without sincerity; not heartfelt.	
mouthed		Furnished with a mouth.	
mouther		One who mouths; an affected speaker.	
mouthful		As much as is usually put into the mouth at one time.	
mouthless		Destitute of a mouth.	
mouthpiece		The part of a musical or other instrument to which the mouth is applied in using it; as, the mouthpiece of a bugle, or of a tobacco pipe.	
movability		Movableness.	
movable		Capable of being moved, lifted, carried, drawn, turned, or conveyed, or in any way made to change place or posture; susceptible of motion; not fixed or stationary; as, a movable steam engine.	
movableness		The quality or state of being movable; mobility; susceptibility of motion.	
movably		In a movable manner or condition.	
move		To cause to change place or posture in any manner; to set in motion; to carry, convey, draw, or push from one place to another; to impel; to stir; as, the wind moves a vessel; the horse moves a carriage.	Middle English moven.
moveless		Motionless; fixed.	
movement		The act of moving; change of place or posture; transference, by any means, from one situation to another; natural or appropriate motion; progress; advancement; as, the movement of an army in marching or maneuvering…	Old French movement, from Latin movimentum.
mover		A person or thing that moves, stirs, or changes place.	
movie	Slang or colloq	A moving picture or a moving picture show; -- commonly used in pl.	
moving		Changing place or posture; causing motion or action; as, a moving car, or power.	
movingly		In a moving manner.	
movingness		The power of moving.	
mow		To cut down, as grass, with a scythe or machine.	Middle English mowen, from Old English mawan.
mowburn		To heat and ferment in the mow, as hay when housed too green.	
mowe	Obsolete	See 4th Mow.	
mower		One who, or that which, mows; a mowing machine; as, a lawn mower.	
mowing		The act of one who, or the operation of that which, mows.	
mown		Cut down by mowing, as grass; deprived of grass by mowing; as, a mown field.	
mowyer	Obsolete	A mower.	
moxa		(Med.) A soft woolly mass prepared from the young leaves of Artemisia Chinensis, and used as a cautery by burning it on the skin; hence, any substance used in a like manner, as cotton impregnated with niter, amadou.	
moxie		courage, determination.	
moya		Mud poured out from volcanoes during eruptions; -- so called in South America.	
moyle		See Moil, and Moile.	
mozarab		Same as Muzarab, Muzarabic.	
mozarabic		Same as Muzarab, Muzarabic.	
mozetta		A cape, with a small hood; -- worn by the pope and other dignitaries of the Roman Catholic Church.	
mozzetta		A cape, with a small hood; -- worn by the pope and other dignitaries of the Roman Catholic Church.	
