mucamide		The acid amide of mucic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance.	
mucate		A salt of mucic acid.	
muce		See Muse, and Muset.	
mucedin		A yellowish white, amorphous, nitrogenous substance found in wheat, rye, etc., and resembling gluten; -- formerly called also mucin.	
much		Great in quantity; long in duration; as, much rain has fallen; much time.	Middle English muche.
muchness	Obsolete	Greatness; extent.	Middle English muchelnesse.
muchwhat	Obsolete	Nearly; almost; much.	
mucic		Pertaining to, or derived from, gums and micilaginous substances; specif., denoting an acid obtained by the oxidation of gums, dulcite, etc., as a white crystalline substance isomeric with saccharic acid.	
mucid		Musty; moldy; slimy; mucous. -- Mu"cid*ness, n.	Latin mucidus.
mucific		(Med.) Inducing or stimulating the secretion of mucus; blennogenous.	
muciform		Resembling mucus; having the character or appearance of mucus.	
mucigen		A substance which is formed in mucous epithelial cells, and gives rise to mucin.	
mucigenous		Connected with the formation of mucin; resembling mucin.	
mucilage		(Bot. Chem.) A gummy or gelatinous substance produced in certain plants by the action of water on the cell wall, as in the seeds of quinces, of flax, etc.	
mucilaginous		Partaking of the nature of, or resembling, mucilage; moist, soft, and viscid; slimy; ropy; as, a mucilaginous liquid.	
mucin		(Physiol. Chem.) An albuminoid substance which is contained in mucus, and gives to the latter secretion its peculiar ropy character.	
mucinogen		Same as Mucigen.	
muciparous		Secreting, or producing, mucus or mucin.	
mucivore		An unsect which feeds on mucus, or the sap of plants, as certain Diptera, of the tribe Mucivora.	
muck		Dung in a moist state; manure.	Middle English mok.
muck-rake		To seek for, expose, or charge, esp. habitually, corruption, real or alleged, on the part of public men and corporations.	
muckender	Obsolete	A handkerchief.	Spanish mocador.
mucker	Slang	A term of reproach for a low or vulgar labor person.	
muckerer	Obsolete	A miser; a niggard.	
muckiness		The quality of being mucky.	
muckmidden	Scots	A dunghill.	
muckrake		To seek for, expose, or charge, esp. habitually, corruption, real or alleged, on the part of public men and corporations.	
muckraker		To seek for, expose, or charge, esp. habitually, corruption, real or alleged, on the part of public men and corporations.	
mucksy	English dialect	Somewhat mucky; soft, sticky, and dirty; muxy.	
muckworm		(Zoöl.) A larva or grub that lives in muck or manure; -- applied to the larvæ of the tumbledung and allied beetles.	
mucky		Filthy with muck; miry; as, a mucky road.	
mucocele		An enlargement or protrusion of the mucous membrane of the lachrymal passages, or dropsy of the lachrymal sac, dependent upon catarrhal inflammation of the latter.	
mucoid		Resembling mucus.	
muconate		A salt of muconic acid.	
muconic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid, obtained indirectly from mucic acid, and somewhat resembling itaconic acid.	
mucopurulent		Having the character or appearance of both mucus and pus.	
mucor		A genus of minute fungi.	
mucosity		The quality or state of being mucous or slimy; mucousness.	
mucous		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, mucus; slimy, ropy, or stringy, and lubricous; as, a mucous substance.	Latin mūcōsus.
mucousness		The quality or state of being mucous; sliminess.	
mucro		A minute abrupt point, as of a leaf; any small, sharp point or process, terminating a larger part or organ.	
mucronate		Ending abruptly in a sharp point; abruptly tipped with a short and sharp point; as, a mucronate leaf. -- Mu"cro*nate*ly, adv.	
mucronated		Ending abruptly in a sharp point; abruptly tipped with a short and sharp point; as, a mucronate leaf. -- Mu"cro*nate*ly, adv.	
mucronulate		Having, or tipped with, a small point or points.	
muculent		Slimy; moist, and moderately viscous.	Latin muculentus.
mucus		(Physiol.) A viscid fluid secreted by mucous membranes, which it serves to moisten and protect.	
mud	Slang	Earth and water mixed so as to be soft and adhesive.	
mudar		Either one of two asclepiadaceous shrubs (Calotropis gigantea, and C. procera), which furnish a strong and valuable fiber.	
mudarin		A brown, amorphous, bitter substance having a strong emetic action, extracted from the root of the mudar.	
muddily		, In a muddy manner; turbidly; without mixture; cloudily; obscurely; confusedly.	
muddiness		The condition or quality of being muddy; turbidness; foulness casued by mud, dirt, or sediment; as, the muddiness of a stream.	
muddle		To cloud or stupefy; to render stupid with liquor; to intoxicate partially.	
muddlehead	Colloquial	A stupid person.	
muddler		One who, or that which, muddles.	
muddy		Abounding in mud; besmeared or dashed with mud; as, a muddy road or path; muddy boots.	
muddy-headed		Dull; stupid.	
muddy-mettled		Dull-spirited.	
mudfish		(a) The European loach. (b) The bowfin. (c) The South American lipedosiren, and the allied African species (Protopterus annectens).	
mudhole		A hole, or hollow place, containing mud, as in a road.	
mudir		Same as Moodir.	
mudsill		The lowest sill of a structure, usually embedded in the soil; the lowest timber of a house; also, that sill or timber of a bridge which is laid at the bottom of the water.	
mudsucker		A woodcock.	
mudwall		The European bee-eater. See Bee-eater.	
mudwort		A small herbaceous plant growing on muddy shores (Limosella aquatica).	
mue	Obsolete	To mew; to molt.	
muellerian		Of, pertaining to, or discovered by, Johannes Müller.	
muezzin		A Mohammedan crier of the hour of prayer.	
muff		A soft cover of cylindrical form, usually of fur, worn by women to shield the hands from cold.	
muffetee	English dialect	A small muff worn over the wrist.	
muffin		A light, spongy, cylindrical cake, used for breakfast and tea.	
muffineer		A dish for keeping muffins hot.	
muffish	Colloquial	Stupid; awkward.	
muffle		The bare end of the nose between the nostrils; -- used esp. of ruminants.	
muffler		Anything used in muffling; esp., a scarf for protecting the head and neck in cold weather; a tippet.	
muflon		See Mouflon — a wild sheep (Ovis musimon), inhabiting the mountains of Sardinia, Corsica, etc. Its horns are very large, with a triangular base and rounded angles.	
mufti	Colloquial	An official expounder of Mohammedan law.	
mug		A kind of earthen or metal drinking cup, with a handle, -- usually cylindrical and without a lip.	
muggar		The common crocodile (Crocodilus palustris) of India, the East Indies, etc. It becomes twelve feet or more long.	
muggard	Obsolete	Sullen; displeased.	
mugger		The common crocodile (Crocodilus palustris) of India, the East Indies, etc. It becomes twelve feet or more long.	
mugget		The small entrails of a calf or a hog.	
mugginess		The condition or quality of being muggy.	
muggins		A game of dominoes in which the object is to make the sum of the two ends of the line some multiple of five.	
muggish		See Muggy — moist; damp; moldy; as, muggy straw.	
muggletonian		One of an extinct sect, named after Ludovic Muggleton, an English journeyman tailor, who (about 1657) claimed to be inspired.	
muggur		The common crocodile (Crocodilus palustris) of India, the East Indies, etc. It becomes twelve feet or more long.	
muggy		Moist; damp; moldy; as, muggy straw.	Old Norse mugga.
mughouse		An alehouse; a pothouse.	
mugiency	Obsolete	A bellowing.	
mugient	Obsolete	Lowing; bellowing.	
mugil		A genus of fishes including the gray mullets. See Mullet.	
mugiloid		Like or pertaining to the genus Mugil, or family Mugilidæ.	
mugweed		A slender European weed (Galium Cruciata); -- called also crossweed.	
mugwort		A somewhat aromatic composite weed (Artemisia vulgaris), at one time used medicinally; -- called also motherwort.	Old English mucgwyrt.
mugwump		A bolter from the Republican party in the national election of 1884; an Independent.	
mugwumpery		The acts and views of the mugwumps.	
mugwumpism		The acts and views of the mugwumps.	
muhammadan		Mohammedan.	
muhammadanism		Mohammedanism.	
muhammedan		Mohammedan.	
muharram		The first month of the Mohammedan year.	
mulatto		The offspring of a negress by a white man, or of a white woman by a negro, -- usually of a brownish yellow complexion.	
mulattress		A female mulatto.	French mulâtresse.
mulberry		(Bot.) The berry or fruit of any tree of the genus Morus; also, the tree itself.	Old English morberige.
mulberry-faced		Having a face of a mulberry color, or blotched as if with mulberry stains.	
mulch		Half-rotten straw, or any like substance strewn on the ground, as over the roots of plants, to protect from heat, drought, etc., and to preserve moisture.	
mulct		A fine or penalty, esp. a pecuniary punishment or penalty.	Latin mulcta.
mulctary		Imposing a pecuniary penalty; consisting of, or paid as, a fine.	
mulctuary		Imposing a pecuniary penalty; consisting of, or paid as, a fine.	
mule		(Zoöl.) A hybrid animal; specifically, one generated between an ass and a mare, sometimes a horse and a she-ass.	
mule-jenny		See Mule, 4.	
muleteer		One who drives mules.	
mulewort		A fern of the genus Hemionitis.	
muley		A stiff, long saw, guided at the ends but not stretched in a gate.	
muliebrity		The state of being a woman or of possessing full womanly powers; womanhood; -- correlate of virility.	Latin muliebritas.
mulier		(Law) (a) Lawful issue born in wedlock, in distinction from an elder brother born of the same parents before their marriage; a lawful son.	Latin mulier.
mulierly	Obsolete	In the manner or condition of a mulier; in wedlock; legitimately.	
mulierose		Fond of woman.	Latin mulier.
mulierosity		A fondness for women.	Latin mulierositas.
mulierty		Condition of being a mulier; position of one born in lawful wedlock.	
mulish		Like a mule; sullen; stubborn. -- Mul ish*ness, n.	
mull		A thin, soft kind of muslin.	
mulla		Same as Mollah.	
mullagatawny		An East Indian curry soup.	
mullah		See Mollah — one of the higher order of Turkish judges; also, a Turkish title of respect for a religious and learned man.	
mullar		A die, cut in intaglio, for stamping an ornament in relief, as upon metal.	
mullein		Any plant of the genus Verbascum.	
mullen		See Mullein — any plant of the genus Verbascum.	
muller		One who, or that which, mulls.	
mullerian		Of, pertaining to, or discovered by, Johannes Müller.	
mullet		(Zoöl.) Any one of numerous fishes of the genus Mugil; -- called also gray mullets.	Old French molette.
mulley		A mulley or polled animal.	
mulligatawny		See Mullagatawny — an east Indian curry soup.	
mulligrubs	Slang	A griping of the intestines; colic.	
mullingong		See Duck mole, under Duck.	
mullion		(a) A slender bar or pier which forms the division between the lights of windows, screens, etc. (b) An upright member of a framing.	
mullock	Obsolete	Rubbish; refuse; dirt.	
mulloid		Like or pertaining to the genus Mullus, which includes the surmullet, or red mullet.	
mulmul		A fine, soft muslin; mull.	
mulse		Wine boiled and mingled with honey.	Latin mulsum.
mult-		See Multi- — a prefix signifying much or many; several; more than one; as, multiaxial, multocular.	
multangular		Having many angles. -- Mul*tan gu*lar*ness, n.	
multanimous		Many-minded; many-sided.	
multarticulate		Having many articulations or joints.	
multeity		Multiplicity.	
multi-		A prefix signifying much or many; several; more than one; as, multiaxial, multocular.	Latin multi.
multiaxial		Having more than one axis; developing in more than a single line or plain; -- opposed to Ant: monoaxial.	
multicapsular		Having many, or several, capsules.	
multicarinate		Many-keeled.	
multicavous		Having many cavities.	
multicellular		Consisting of, or having, many cells or more than one cell.	
multicentral		Having many, or several, centers; as, a multicentral cell.	
multicipital		Having many heads or many stems from one crown or root.	
multicolor		Having many, or several, colors.	
multicostate		Having numerous ribs, or costæ, as the leaf of a plant, or as certain shells and corals.	
multicuspid		Multicuspidate; -- said of teeth.	
multicuspidate		Having many cusps or points.	
multidentate		Having many teeth, or toothlike processes.	
multidigitate		Having many fingers, or fingerlike processes.	
multifaced		Having many faces.	
multifarious		Having multiplicity; having great diversity or variety; of various kinds; diversified; made up of many differing parts; manifold.	
multifariously		With great multiplicity and diversity; with variety of modes and relations.	
multifariousness		Multiplied diversity.	
multiferous		Bearing or producing much or many.	
multifid		Having many segments; cleft into several parts by linear sinuses; as, a multifid leaf or corolla.	
multiflorous		Having many flowers.	
multiflue		Having many flues; as, a multiflue boiler. See Boiler.	
multifoil		An ornamental foliation consisting of more than five divisions or foils.	
multifold		Many times doubled; manifold; numerous.	
multiform		Having many forms, shapes, or appearances.	
multiformity		The quality of being multiform; diversity of forms; variety of appearances in the same thing.	
multiformous	Obsolete	Multiform.	
multigenerous		Having many kinds.	
multigranulate		Having, or consisting of, many grains.	
multigraph		A combined rotary type-setting and printing machine for office use.	
multijugate		Having many pairs of leaflets.	
multijugous		Consisting of many parts.	
multilateral		Having many sides; many-sided.	
multilineal		Having many lines.	
multilobar		Consisting of, or having, many lobes.	
multilocular		Having many or several cells or compartments; as, a multilocular shell or capsule.	
multiloquence		Quality of being multiloquent; use of many words; talkativeness.	
multiloquent		Speaking much; very talkative; loquacious.	
multiloquous		Speaking much; very talkative; loquacious.	
multiloquy		Excess of words or talk.	Latin multiloquium.
multinodate		Having many knots or nodes.	
multinodous		Same as Multinodate.	Latin multinodus.
multinomial		Same as Polynomial.	
multinominal		Having many names or terms.	
multinominous		Having many names or terms.	
multinuclear		Containing many nuclei; as, multinuclear cells.	
multinucleate		Multinuclear.	
multinucleated		Multinuclear.	
multiparous		Producing many, or more than one, at a birth.	
multipartite		Divided into many parts; having several parts.	
multiped		An insect having many feet, as a myriapod.	
multiphase		Having many phases; specif. (Elec.), pertaining to, or designating, a generator producing, or any system conveying or utilizing, two or more waves of pressure, or electromotive force, not in phase with each other; polyphase.	
multiplane		Having several or many planes or plane surfaces; as, a multiplane kite.	
multiple		Containing more than once, or more than one; consisting of more than one; manifold; repeated many times; having several, or many, parts.	French multiple, from Latin multiplus.
multiplex		Manifold; multiple.	
multipliable		Capable of being multiplied. -- Mul"ti*pli`a*ble*ness, n.	
multiplicable		Capable of being multiplied; multipliable.	
multiplicand		The number which is to be multiplied by another number called the multiplier.	
multiplicate		Consisting of many, or of more than one; multiple; multifold.	
multiplication		The act or process of multiplying, or of increasing in number; the state of being multiplied; as, the multiplication of the human species by natural generation.	
multiplicative		Tending to multiply; having the power to multiply, or incease numbers.	
multiplicatively		So as to multiply.	
multiplicator		The number by which another number is multiplied; a multiplier.	
multiplicious	Obsolete	Manifold.	
multiplicity		The quality of being multiple, manifold, or various; a state of being many; a multitude; as, a multiplicity of thoughts or objects.	
multiplier		One who, or that which, multiplies or increases number.	
multiply		To increase in number; to make more numerous; to add quantity to.	Old French multiplier, from Latin multiplico.
multipolar		Having many poles; -- applied especially to those ganglionic nerve cells which have several radiating processes.	
multipotent		Having manifold power, or power to do many things.	
multipresence		The state or power of being multipresent.	
multipresent		Being, or having the power to be, present in two or more places at once.	
multiradiate		Having many rays.	
multiramified		Divided into many branches.	
multiramose		Having many branches.	
multiscious	Obsolete	Having much or varied knowledge.	
multisect		Divided into many similar segments; -- said of an insect or myriapod.	
multiseptate		Divided into many chambers by partitions, as the pith of the pokeweed.	
multiserial		Arranged in many rows, or series, as the scales of a pine cone, or the leaves of the houseleek.	
multisiliquous		Having many pods or seed vessels.	
multisonous		Having many sounds, or sounding much.	
multispiral		Having numerous spiral coils round a center or nucleus; -- said of the opercula of certain shells.	
multistriate		Having many streaks.	
multisulcate		Having many furrows.	
multisyllable		A word of many syllables; a polysyllable. -- Mul`ti*syl*lab"ic, a.	
multititular		Having many titles.	
multitubular		Having many tubes; as, a multitubular boiler.	
multitude		A great number of persons collected together; a numerous collection of persons; a crowd; an assembly.	Anglo-Norman multitude.
multitudinary		Multitudinous.	
multitudinous		Consisting of a multitude; manifold in number or condition; as, multitudinous waves.	
multivagant	Obsolete	Wandering much.	
multivagous	Obsolete	Wandering much.	
multivalence		Quality, state, or degree, of a multivalent element, atom, or radical.	
multivalent		(a) Having a valence greater than one, as silicon. (b) Having more than one degree of valence, as sulphur.	
multivalve		Any mollusk which has a shell composed of more than two pieces.	
multivalvular		Having many valves.	
multiversant		Turning into many shapes; assuming many forms; protean.	
multivious	Obsolete	Having many ways or roads; by many ways.	
multivocal		Signifying many different things; of manifold meaning; equivocal. -- n.	Latin multivocus.
multocular		Having many eyes, or more than two.	
multum		An extract of quassia licorice, fraudulently used by brewers in order to economize malt and hops.	
multungulate		Having many hoofs.	
multure		(Scots Law) The toll for grinding grain.	Old French molture, from Latin molitura.
mum		Silent; not speaking.	German Mummere.
mum-chance	English dialect	A silent, stupid person.	
mumble		To speak with the lips partly closed, so as to render the sounds inarticulate and imperfect; to utter words in a grumbling indistinct manner, indicating discontent or displeasure; to mutter.	
mumblenews	Obsolete	A talebearer.	
mumbler		One who mumbles.	
mumbling		Low; indistinct; inarticulate. -- Mum"bling*ly, adv.	
mumm		To sport or make diversion in a mask or disguise; to mask.	
mummer		One who mumms, or makes diversion in disguise; a masker; a buffon.	Old French momeur.
mummery		Masking; frolic in disguise; buffoonery.	Old French momerie.
mummichog		Any one of several species of small American cyprinodont fishes of the genus Fundulus, and of allied genera; the killifishes; -- called also minnow.	Narragansett moamitteaug.
mummification		The act of making a mummy.	
mummified		Converted into a mummy or a mummylike substance; having the appearance of a mummy; withered.	
mummiform		Having some resemblance to a mummy; -- in zoölogy, said of the pupæ of certain insects.	
mummify		To embalm and dry as a mummy; to make into, or like, a mummy.	
mummy		A dead body embalmed and dried after the manner of the ancient Egyptians; also, a body preserved, by any means, in a dry state, from the process of putrefaction.	Anglo-Norman mumie, from Middle French momie, from Latin mumia, from Arabic مومياء, from Persian مومیا.
mummychog		See Mummichog — any one of several species of small American cyprinodont fishes of the genus Fundulus, and of allied genera; the killifishes; -- called also minnow.	
mump		To move the lips with the mouth closed; to mumble, as in sulkiness.	
mumper		A beggar; a begging impostor.	
mumpish		Sullen, sulky. -- Mump ish*ness, n.	
mumps		pl. Sullenness; silent displeasure; the sulks.	
mun	Obsolete	The mouth.	
munch		To chew with a grinding, crunching sound, as a beast chews provender; to chew deliberately or in large mouthfuls.	
munchausenism		An extravagant fiction embodying an account of some marvelous exploit or adventure.	
muncher		One who munches.	
mund		See Mun — the mouth.	Old English mund.
mundane		Of or pertaining to the world; worldly; earthly; terrestrial; as, the mundane sphere. -- Mun"dane*ly, adv.	Latin mundanus.
mundanity	Obsolete	Worldliness.	
mundation	Obsolete	The act of cleansing.	
mundatory	Obsolete	Cleansing; having power to cleanse.	Latin mundatorius.
mundic		Iron pyrites, or arsenical pyrites; -- so called by the Cornish miners.	
mundificant		Serving to cleanse and heal. -- n.	Latin mundificans.
mundification		The act or operation of cleansing.	
mundificative		Cleansing. -- n.	
mundify	Obsolete	To cleanse.	
mundil		A turban ornamented with an imitation of gold or silver embroidery.	
mundivagant		Wandering over the world.	
mundungus		A stinking tobacco.	
munerary	Obsolete	Having the nature of a gift.	Latin munerarius.
munerate		To remunerate.	
muneration	Obsolete	Remuneration.	Latin muneratio.
mung		Green gram, a kind of pulse (Phaseolus Mungo), grown for food in British India.	
munga		See Bonnet monkey, under Bonnet.	
mungcorn		Same as Mangcorn.	
mungo		A fibrous material obtained by deviling rags or the remnants of woolen goods.	
mungoos		See Mongoose — a species of ichneumon (Herpestes griseus), native of India.	
mungoose		See Mongoose — a species of ichneumon (Herpestes griseus), native of India.	
mungrel		See Mongrel — the progeny resulting from a cross between two breeds, as of domestic animals; anything of mixed breed.	
municipal		Of or pertaining to a city or a corporation having the right of administering local government; as, municipal rights; municipal officers.	French municipal, from Latin municipalis.
municipalism		Municipal condition.	
municipality		A municipal district; a borough, city, or incorporated town or village.	French municipalité.
municipalize		To bring under municipal oversight or control; as, a municipalized industry.	
municipally		In a municipal relation or condition.	
munific	Obsolete	Munificent; liberal.	
munificate	Obsolete	To enrich.	
munificence	Obsolete	Means of defense; fortification.	
munificent		Very liberal in giving or bestowing; lavish; as, a munificent benefactor. -- Mu*nif"i*cent*ly, adv.	Latin munificus.
munify	Obsolete	To prepare for defense; to fortify.	
muniment		That which supports or defends; stronghold; place or means of defense; munition; assistance.	
munite	Obsolete	To fortify; to strengthen.	
munition		Whatever materials are used in war for drfense or for annoying an enemy; ammunition; also, stores and provisions; military stores of all kinds.	
munity	Obsolete	Freedom; security; immunity.	
munjeet		See Indian madder, under Madder.	
munjistin		An orangered coloring substance resembling alizarin, found in the root of an East Indian species of madder (Rubia munjista).	
munnion		See Mullion — (a) A slender bar or pier which forms the division between the lights of windows, screens, etc. (b) An upright member of a framing.	
muntin		Same as Mullion; -- especially used in joiner's work.	
munting		Same as Mullion; -- especially used in joiner's work.	
muntjac		Any one of several species of small Asiatic deer of the genus Cervulus, esp. C. muntjac, which occurs both in India and on the East Indian Islands.	Dutch muntjak, from Sundanese mencek.
muraena		A genus of large eels of the family Mirænidæ.	
muraenoid		Like or pertaining to the genus Muræna, or family Murænidæ.	
murage		A tax or toll paid for building or repairing the walls of a fortified town.	
mural		Of or pertaining to a wall; being on, or in, a wall; growing on, or against, a wall; as, a mural quadrant.	Latin muralis.
murder		The offense of killing a human being with malice prepense or aforethought, express or implied; intentional and unlawful homicide.	Middle English murder.
murderer		One guilty of murder; a person who, in possession of his reason, unlawfully kills a human being with premeditated malice.	
murderess		A woman who commits murder.	
murderous		Of or pertaining to murder; characterized by, or causing, murder or bloodshed; having the purpose or quality of murder; bloody; sanguinary; as, the murderous king; murderous rapine; murderous intent…	
murdress		A battlement in ancient fortifications with interstices for firing through.	
murenger		One who had charge of the wall of a town, or its repairs.	Middle English murager, from Old French muragier.
murenoid		Like or pertaining to the genus Muræna, or family Murænidæ.	
murex		A genus of marine gastropods, having rough, and frequently spinose, shells, which are often highly colored inside; the rock shells.	
murexan		A complex nitrogenous substance obtained from murexide, alloxantin, and other ureids, as a white, or yellowish, crystalline which turns red on exposure to the air; -- called also uramil, dialuramide, and formerly purpuric acid.	
murexide		A crystalline nitrogenous substance having a splendid dichroism, being green by reflected light and garnet-red by transmitted light.	
murexoin		A complex nitrogenous compound obtained as a scarlet crystalline substance, and regarded as related to murexide.	
muriate		A salt of muriatic hydrochloric acid; a chloride; as, muriate of ammonia.	
muriated		(Chem.) Combined or impregnated with muriatic or hydrochloric acid.	
muriatic		Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, sea salt, or from chlorine, one of the constituents of sea salt; hydrochloric.	Latin muriaticus.
muriatiferous	Obsolete	Producing muriatic substances or salt.	
muricate		Formed with sharp points; full of sharp points or of pickles; covered, or roughened, as a surface, with sharp points or excrescences.	
muricated		Formed with sharp points; full of sharp points or of pickles; covered, or roughened, as a surface, with sharp points or excrescences.	
muricoid		Like, or pertaining to, the genus Murex, or family Muricidæ.	
muriculate		Minutely muricate.	
muride		Bromine; -- formerly so called from its being obtained from sea water.	
muriform		Resembling courses of bricks or stones in squareness and regular arrangement; as, a muriform variety of cellular tissue.	
murine		Pertaining to a family of rodents (Muridæ), of which the mouse is the type.	
muringer		See Murenger — one who had charge of the wall of a town, or its repairs.	
murk	Archaic	Dark; murky.	
murkily		Darkly; gloomily.	
murkiness		The state of being murky.	
murky		Dark; obscure; gloomy.	
murlins		A seaweed. See Baddrelocks.	
murmur		A low, confused, and indistinct sound, like that of running water.	Middle English murmur.
murmuration	Obsolete	The act of murmuring; a murmur.	
murmurer		One who murmurs.	
murmuring		Uttering murmurs; making low sounds; complaining. -- Mur"mur*ing*ly, adv.	
murmurous	Archaic or poetic	Attended with murmurs; exciting murmurs or complaint; murmuring.	
murnival	Obsolete	In the game of gleek, four cards of the same value, as four aces or four kings; hence, four of anything.	
murphy		A potato.	
murr	Obsolete	A catarrh.	
murrain		An infectious and fatal disease among cattle.	Anglo-Norman mourine.
murrayin		A glucoside found in the flowers of a plant (Murraya exotica) of South Asia, and extracted as a white amorphous slightly bitter substance.	
murre		Any one of several species of sea birds of the genus Uria, or Catarractes; a guillemot.	
murrelet		One of several species of sea birds of the genera Synthliboramphus and Brachyramphus, inhabiting the North Pacific.	
murrey		A dark red color. -- a.	Middle English murreye, from Middle French moré.
murrhine		Made of the stone or material called by the Romans murrha; -- applied to certain costly vases of great beauty and delicacy used by the luxurious in Rome as wine cups; as, murrhine vases, cups, vessels.	
murrion	Obsolete	Infected with or killed by murrain.	
murry		See Muræna.	
murth	Obsolete	Plenty; abundance.	
murther	Obsolete	Murder, n. & v.	
murtherer	Obsolete	A murderer.	
murza		One of the hereditary nobility among the Tatars, esp. one of the second class.	
mus		A genus of small rodents, including the common mouse and rat.	
musa		A genus of perennial, herbaceous, endogenous plants of great size, including the banana (Musa sapientum), the plantain (M. paradisiaca of Linnæus, but probably not a distinct species), the Abyssinian (M.	
musaceous		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, plants of the genus Musa.	
musal		Of or pertaining to the Muses, or to Poetry.	
musang		A small animal of Java (Paradoxirus fasciatus), allied to the civets.	
musar		An itinerant player on the musette, an instrument formerly common in Europe.	
musard	Obsolete	A dreamer; an absent-minded person.	
musca		(Zoöl.) A genus of dipterous insects, including the common house fly, and numerous allied species.	
muscadel		See Muscatel, n.	
muscadine		(Bot.) A name given to several very different kinds of grapes, but in America used chiefly for the scuppernong, or southern fox grape, which is said to be the parent stock of the Catawba.	
muscales		An old name for mosses in the widest sense, including the true mosses and also hepaticæ and sphagna.	
muscallonge		See Muskellunge — a large American pike (Esox nobilitor) found in the Great Lakes, and other Northern lakes, and in the St. Lawrence River.	
muscardin		The common European dormouse; -- so named from its odor.	
muscardine		A disease which is very destructive to silkworms, and which sometimes extends to other insects.	
muscariform		Having the form of a brush.	
muscarin		A solid crystalline substance, C5H13NO2, found in the toadstool (Agaricus muscarius), and in putrid fish.	
muscat		A name given to several varieties of Old World grapes, differing in color, size, etc., but all having a somewhat musky flavor.	French muscat.
muscatel		Of, pertaining to, or designating, or derived from, a muscat grapes or similar grapes; a muscatel grapes; muscatel wine, etc.	
muschelkalk		A kind of shell limestone, whose strata form the middle one of the three divisions of the Triassic formation in Germany.	
musci		An order or subclass of cryptogamous plants; the mosses. See Moss, and Cryptogamia.	
muscicapine		Of or pertaining to the Muscicapidæ, a family of birds that includes the true flycatchers.	
muscid		Any fly of the genus Musca, or family Muscidæ.	
musciform		Having the form or structure of flies of the genus Musca, or family Muscidæ.	
muscle		(Anat.) (a) An organ which, by its contraction, produces motion. See Illust. of Muscles of the Human Body, in Appendix.	French muscle, from Latin musculus.
muscled		Furnished with muscles; having muscles; as, things well muscled.	
muscling		Exhibition or representation of the muscles.	
muscogees		See Muskogees — a powerful tribe of North American Indians that formerly occupied the region of Georgia, Florida, and Alabama.	
muscoid		Mosslike; resembling moss.	
muscology		Bryology.	
muscosity		Mossiness.	
muscovado		Pertaining to, or of the nature of, unrefined or raw sugar, obtained from the juice of the sugar cane by evaporating and draining off the molasses.	
muscovite		A native or inhabitant of Muscovy or ancient Russia; hence, a Russian.	
muscular		Of or pertaining to a muscle, or to a system of muscles; consisting of, or constituting, a muscle or muscles; as, muscular fiber.	
muscularity		The state or quality of being muscular.	
muscularize		To make muscular.	
muscularly		In a muscular manner.	
musculation		The muscular system of an animal, or of any of its parts.	
musculature		Musculation.	
muscule		A long movable shed used by besiegers in ancient times in attacking the walls of a fortified town.	
musculin		See Syntonin — a proteid substance (acid albumin) formed from the albuminous matter of muscle by the action of dilute acids; -- formerly called musculin.	
musculocutaneous		Pertaining both to muscles and skin; as, the musculocutaneous nerve.	
musculophrenic		Pertaining to the muscles and the diaphragm; as, the musculophrenic artery.	
musculosity	Obsolete	The quality or state of being musculous; muscularity.	French musculosité.
musculospiral		Of or pertaining to the muscles, and taking a spiral course; -- applied esp. to a large nerve of the arm.	
musculous	Obsolete	Muscular.	
muse		A gap or hole in a hedge, hence, wall, or the like, through which a wild animal is accustomed to pass; a muset.	Middle French muse, from Latin Musa, from Greek Μοῦσα.
museful		Meditative; thoughtfully silent. -- Muse"ful*ly, adv.	
museless		Unregardful of the Muses; disregarding the power of poetry; unpoetical.	
muser		One who muses.	
muset		A small hole or gap through which a wild animal passes; a muse.	Old French mussette.
musette		A small bagpipe formerly in use, having a soft and sweet tone.	
museum		A repository or a collection of natural, scientific, or literary curiosities, or of works of art.	Latin museum, from Greek Μουσεῖον.
mush		Meal (esp. Indian meal) boiled in water; hasty pudding; supawn.	Angloromani mush, from Romany murš.
mushroom		(Bot.) (a) An edible fungus (Agaricus campestris), having a white stalk which bears a convex or oven flattish expanded portion called the pileus.	Middle English musheron.
mushroom-headed		Having a cylindrical body with a convex head of larger diameter; having a head like that of a mushroom.	
mushy		Soft like mush; figuratively, good-naturedly weak and effusive; weakly sentimental.	
music		The science and the art of tones, or musical sounds, i.e., sounds of higher or lower pitch, begotten of uniform and synchronous vibrations, as of a string at various degrees of tension…	Anglo-Norman musik.
musical	Colloquial	A social entertainment of which music is the leading feature; a musical party.	
musicale	Colloquial	A social musical party.	
musically		In a musical manner.	
musicalness		The quality of being musical.	
musician		One skilled in the art or science of music; esp., a skilled singer, or performer on a musical instrument.	
musicomania		A kind of monomania in which the passion for music becomes so strong as to derange the intellectual faculties.	
musimon		See Mouflon — a wild sheep (Ovis musimon), inhabiting the mountains of Sardinia, Corsica, etc. Its horns are very large, with a triangular base and rounded angles.	Latin musimo, from Greek μούσμων.
musingly		In a musing manner.	
musit		See Muset — a small hole or gap through which a wild animal passes; a muse.	
musk		A substance of a reddish brown color, and when fresh of the consistence of honey, obtained from a bag being behind the navel of the male musk deer.	Latin muscus, from Greek μόσχος.
muskadel		See Muscadel — see Muscatel, n.	
muskat		See Muscat — a name given to several varieties of Old World grapes, differing in color, size, etc., but all having a somewhat musky flavor.	
muskellunge		A large American pike (Esox nobilitor) found in the Great Lakes, and other Northern lakes, and in the St. Lawrence River.	French masque allongé.
musket		(Zoöl.) The male of the sparrow hawk.	French mousquet, from Italian moschetto.
musketeer		A soldier armed with a musket.	
musketo		See Mosquito — any one of various species of gnats of the genus Culex and allied genera.	
musketoon		A short musket.	
musketry		Muskets, collectively.	
muskiness		The quality or state of being musky; the scent of musk.	
muskmelon		The fruit of a cucubritaceous plant (Cicumis Melo), having a peculiar aromatic flavor, and cultivated in many varieties, the principal sorts being the cantaloupe, of oval form and yellowish flesh…	
muskogees		A powerful tribe of North American Indians that formerly occupied the region of Georgia, Florida, and Alabama.	
muskrat		(Zoöl.) A North American aquatic fur-bearing rodent (Fiber zibethicus).	
muskwood		(a) The wood of a West Indian tree of the Mahogany family (Moschoxylum Swartzii).	
musky		Having an odor of musk, or somewhat the like.	
muslim		See Moslem — a mussulman; an orthodox Mohammedan.	
muslin		A thin cotton, white, dyed, or printed.	French mousseline, from Italian musselina.
muslinet		A sort of coarse or light cotton cloth.	French mousselinette.
musmon		See Mouflon — a wild sheep (Ovis musimon), inhabiting the mountains of Sardinia, Corsica, etc. Its horns are very large, with a triangular base and rounded angles.	
musomania		See Musicomania — a kind of monomania in which the passion for music becomes so strong as to derange the intellectual faculties.	
musquash		See Muskrat — (Zoöl.) A North American aquatic fur-bearing rodent (Fiber zibethicus).	
musquaw		The American black bear. See Bear.	
musquet		See Musket — (Zoöl.) The male of the sparrow hawk.	
musquito		See Mosquito — any one of various species of gnats of the genus Culex and allied genera.	
musrol		The nose band of a horse's bridle.	
musrole		The nose band of a horse's bridle.	French muserolle.
muss	Colloquial	A scramble, as when small objects are thrown down, to be taken by those who can seize them; a confused struggle.	
mussel		(Zoöl.) Any one of many species of marine bivalve shells of the genus Mytilus, and related genera, of the family Mytidæ.	Latin musculus.
mussitation	Obsolete	A speaking in a low tone; mumbling.	
mussite		A variety of pyroxene, from the Mussa Alp in Piedmont; diopside.	
mussulman		A Mohammedan; a Moslem.	
mussulmanic		Of, pertaining to, or like, the Mussulmans, or their customs: Mohammedan.	
mussulmanish		Mohammedan.	
mussulmanism		Mohammedanism.	
mussulmanly		In the manner of Moslems.	
mussy	Colloquial	Disarranged; rumpled.	
must		To be obliged; to be necessitated; -- expressing either physical or moral necessity; as, a man must eat for nourishment; we must submit to the laws.	Middle English moste, from Old English moste.
mustac		A small tufted monkey.	
mustache		That part of the beard which grows on the upper lip; hair left growing above the mouth.	
mustacho		A mustache.	
mustachoed		Having mustachios.	
mustahfiz		See Army organization, above.	
mustaiba		A close-grained, neavy wood of a brownish color, brought from Brazil, and used in turning, for making the handles of tools, and the like.	
mustang		The half-wild horse of the plains in Mexico, California, etc. It is small, hardy, and easily sustained.	
mustard		(Bot.) The name of several cruciferous plants of the genus Brassica (formerly Sinapis), as white mustard (B. alba), black mustard (B.	Old French moustarde.
mustee		See Mestee — the offspring of a white person and a quadroon; -- so called in the West Indies.	
musteline		Like or pertaining to the family Mustelidæ, or the weasels and martens.	Latin mustelinus.
muster		An assembling or review of troops, as for parade, verification of numbers, inspection, exercise, or introduction into service.	
mustily		In a musty state.	
mustiness		The quality or state of being musty.	
musty		Having the rank, pungent, offencive odor and taste which substances of organic origin acquire during warm, moist weather; foul or sour and fetid; moldy; as, musty corn; musty books.	
mutability		The quality of being mutable, or subject to change or alteration, either in form, state, or essential character; susceptibility of change; changeableness; inconstancy; variation.	
mutable		Capable of alteration; subject to change; changeable in form, qualities, or nature.	
mutableness		The quality of being mutable.	
mutably		Changeably.	
mutacism		See Mytacism — too frequent use of the letter m, or of the sound represented by it.	
mutage		A process for checking the fermentation of the must of grapes.	
mutandum		A thing which is to be changed; something which must be altered; -- used chiefly in the plural.	
mutation		Change; alteration, either in form or qualities.	
mutch	English dialect	The close linen or muslin cap of an old woman.	Middle Dutch mutse.
mutchkin	Scots	A liquid measure equal to four gills, or an imperial pint.	
mute		To cast off; to molt.	Middle French muetir.
mute-hill	Scots	See Moot-hill — a hill of meeting or council; an elevated place in the open air where public assemblies or courts were held by the Saxons; -- called, in Scotland, mute-hill.	
mutely		Without uttering words or sounds; in a mute manner; silently.	
muteness		The quality or state of being mute; speechlessness.	
mutessarif		In Turkey, an administrative authority of any of certain sanjaks.	
mutessarifat		In Turkey, a sanjak whose head is a mutessarif.	
mutic		Without a point or pointed process; blunt.	
muticous		Without a point or pointed process; blunt.	
mutilate		Deprived of, or having lost, an important part; mutilated.	Latin mutilatus.
mutilation		The act of mutilating, or the state of being mutilated; deprivation of a limb or of an essential part.	Latin mutilatio.
mutilator		One who mutilates.	
mutilous	Obsolete	Mutilated; defective; imperfect.	Latin mutilus.
mutine	Obsolete	A mutineer.	French mutiner.
mutineer		One guilty of mutiny.	
muting		Dung of birds.	
mutinous		Disposed to mutiny; in a state of mutiny; characterized by mutiny; seditious; insubordinate.	
mutiny		Insurrection against constituted authority, particularly military or naval authority; concerted revolt against the rules of discipline or the lawful commands of a superior officer; hence, generally…	
mutism		The condition, state, or habit of being mute, or without speech.	French mutisme.
mutoscope		A simple form of moving-picture machine in which the series of views, exhibiting the successive phases of a scene, are printed on paper and mounted around the periphery of a wheel.	
mutter		To utter words indistinctly or with a low voice and lips partly closed; esp., to utter indistinct complains or angry expressions; to grumble; to growl.	
mutterer		One who mutters.	
mutteringly		With a low voice and indistinct articulation; in a muttering manner.	
mutton	Obsolete	A loose woman; a prostitute.	Old French mouton.
muttony		Like mutton; having a flavor of mutton.	
mutual		Reciprocally acting or related; reciprocally receiving and giving; reciprocally given and received; reciprocal; interchanged; as, a mutual love, advantage, assistance, aversion, etc. Conspiracy and mutual promise.	Middle French mutuel, from Latin mutuus.
mutualism		The doctrine of mutual dependence as the condition of individual and social welfare.	
mutuality		The quality of correlation; reciprocation; interchange; interaction; interdependence.	
mutually		In a mutual manner.	
mutuary		One who borrows personal chattels which are to be consumed by him, and which he is to return or repay in kind.	
mutuation	Obsolete	The act of borrowing or exchanging.	Latin mutuatio.
mutule		A projecting block worked under the corona of the Doric corice, in the same situation as the modillion of the Corinthian and Composite orders.	
mux	English dialect	Dirt; filth; muck. ose.	
muxy	English dialect	Soft; sticky, and dirty. See Mucky.	
muzarab		One of a denomination of Christians formerly living under the government of the Moors in Spain, and having a liturgy and ritual of their own.	
muzarabic		Of or pertaining to Muzarabs; as, the Muzarabic liturgy.	
muzziness		The state or quality of being muzzy.	
muzzle		The projecting mouth and nose of a quadruped, as of a horse; a snout.	
muzzle-loader		A firearm which receives its charge through the muzzle, as distinguished from one which is loaded at the breech.	
muzzle-loading		Receiving its charge through the muzzle; as, a muzzle-loading rifle.	
muzzy		Absent-minded; dazed; muddled; stupid.	
