my		Of or belonging to me; -- used always attributively; as, my body; my book; -- mine is used in the predicate; as, the book is mine.
mya		A genus of bivalve mollusks, including the common long, or soft-shelled, clam.
myalgia		Pain in the muscles; muscular rheumatism or neuralgia.
myaria		A division of bivalve mollusks of which the common clam (Mya) is the type.
mycelium		The white threads or filamentous growth from which a mushroom or fungus is developed; the so-called mushroom spawn. -- My*ce"li*al, a.
myceloid		Resembling mycelium.
mycetes		A genus of South American monkeys, including the howlers. See Howler, 2, and Illust.
mycetoid		Resembling a fungus.
mycetozoa		The Myxomycetes; -- so called by those who regard them as a class of animals. -- My*ce`to*zo"an (#), a.
mycoderma		(Biol.) One of the forms in which bacteria group themselves; a more or less thick layer of motionless but living bacteria, formed by the bacteria uniting on the surface of the fluid in which they are developed.
mycologic		Of or relating to mycology, or the fungi.
mycological		Of or relating to mycology, or the fungi.
mycologist		One who is versed in, or who studies, mycology.
mycology		That branch of botanical science which relates to the musgrooms and other fungi.
mycomelic		Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acid of the alloxan group, obtained as a honey-yellow powder.
mycoprotein		The protoplasmic matter of which bacteria are composed.
mycose		A variety of sugar, isomeric with sucrose and obtained from certain lichens and fungi.
mycothrix		The chain of micrococci formed by the division of the micrococci in multiplication.
mydaleine		A toxic alkaloid (ptomaine) obtained from putrid flesh and from herring brines.
mydatoxin		A poisonous amido acid, C6H13NO2, separated by Brieger from decaying horseflesh.
mydaus		The teledu.
mydriasis		A long-continued or excessive dilatation of the pupil of the eye.
mydriatic		Causing dilatation of the pupil. -- n.
myelencephala		Same as Vertebrata.
myelencephalic		Of or pertaining to the myelencephalon; cerebro-spinal.
myelencephalon		(a) The brain and spinal cord; the cerebro-spinal axis; the neuron.
myelencephalous		Of or pertaining to the Myelencephala.
myelin		(a) A soft white substance constituting the medullary sheats of nerve fibers, and composed mainly of cholesterin, lecithin, cerebrin, albumin, and some fat.
myelitis		Inflammation of the spinal marrow or its membranes.
myelocoele		The central canal of the spinal cord.
myelogenic		Derived from, or pertaining to, the bone marrow.
myeloid		Resembling marrow in appearance or consistency; as, a myeloid tumor.
myeloidin		A substance, present in the protoplasm of the retinal epithelium cells, and resembling, if not identical with, the substance (myelin) forming the medullary sheaths of nerve fibers.
myelon		The spinal cord. (Sometimes abbrev. to myel.)
myelonal		Of or pertaining to the myelon; as, the myelonal, or spinal, nerves.
myeloneura		The Vertebrata.
myeloplax		One of the huge multinucleated cells found in the marrow of bone and occasionally in other parts; a giant cell.
mygale		A genus of very large hairy spiders having four lungs and only four spinnerets.
mykiss		A salmon (Salmo mykiss, syn.
mylodon		An extinct genus of large slothlike American edentates, allied to Megatherium.
mylohyoid		Pertaining to, or in the region of, the lower jaw and the hyoid apparatus; as, the mylohyoid nerve.
myna		Any one of numerous species of Asiatic starlings of the genera Acridotheres, Sturnopastor, Sturnia, Gracula, and allied genera.
mynchery		A nunnery; -- a term still applied to the ruins of certain nunneries in England.
mynheer		The Dutch equivalent of Mr. or Sir; hence, a Dutchman.
myo-		A combining form of Gr. muscle; as, myograph, myochrome.
myocarditis		Inflammation of the myocardium.
myocardium		The main substance of the muscular wall of the heart inclosed between the epicardium and endocardium.
myochrome		A colored albuminous substance in the serum from red-colored muscles.
myocomma		A myotome.
myodynamics		The department of physiology which deals with the principles of muscular contraction; the exercise of muscular force or contraction.
myodynamiometer		A myodynamometer.
myodynamometer		An instrument for measuring the muscular strength of man or of other animals; a dynamometer.
myoepithelial		(Biol.) Derived from epithelial cells and destined to become a part of the muscular system; -- applied to structural elements in certain embryonic forms.
myogalid		One of the Myogalodæ, a family of Insectivora, including the desman, and allied species.
myogram		See Muscle curve, under Muscle.
myograph		An instrument for determining and recording the different phases, as the intensity, velocity, etc., of a muscular contraction.
myographic		Of or pertaining to myography.
myographical		Of or pertaining to myography.
myography		The description of muscles, including the study of muscular contraction by the aid of registering apparatus, as by some form of myograph; myology.
myohaematin		A red-colored respiratory pigment found associated with hemoglobin in the muscle tissue of a large number of animals, both vertebrate and invertebrate.
myoid		Composed of, or resembling, muscular fiber.
myolemma		Sarcolemma.
myolin		The essential material of muscle fibers.
myologic		Of or pertaining to myology.
myological		Of or pertaining to myology.
myologist		One skilled in myology.
myology		That part of anatomy which treats of muscles.
myoma		A tumor consisting of muscular tissue.
myomancy		Divination by the movements of mice.
myomorph		One of the Myomorpha.
myomorpha		An extensive group of rodents which includes the rats, mice, jerboas, and many allied forms.
myopathia		Any affection of the muscles or muscular system.
myopathic		Of or pertaining to myopathia.
myopathy		Same as Myopathia.
myope		A person having myopy; a myops.
myophan		A contractile striated layer found in the bodies and stems of certain Infusoria.
myopia		Nearsightedness; shortsightedness; a condition of the eye in which the rays from distant object are brought to a focus before they reach the retina, and hence form an indistinct image…
myopic		Pertaining to, or affected with, or characterized by, myopia; nearsighted.
myops		See Myope — a person having myopy; a myops.
myopsis		The appearance of muscæ volitantes. See Muscæ volitantes, under Musca.
myosin		An albuminous body present in dead muscle, being formed in the process of coagulation which takes place in rigor mortis; the clot formed in the coagulation of muscle plasma.
myosis		Long-continued contraction of the pupil of the eye.
myositis		Inflammation of the muscles.
myosotis		A genus of plants. See Mouse-ear.
myotic		Producing myosis, or contraction of the pupil of the eye, as opium, calabar bean, etc. -- n.
myotome		(a) A muscular segment; one of the zones into which the muscles of the trunk, especially in fishes, are divided; a myocomma.
myotomic		Of or pertaining to a myotome or myotomes.
myotomy		The dissection, or that part of anatomy which treats of the dissection, of muscles.
myrcia		A large genus of tropical American trees and shrubs, nearly related to the true myrtles (Myrtus), from which they differ in having very few seeds in each berry.
myria-		A prefix, esp. in the metric system, indicating ten thousand, ten thousand times; as, myriameter.
myriacanthous		Having numerous spines, as certain fishes.
myriad		The number of ten thousand; ten thousand persons or things.
myriagram		A metric weight, consisting of ten thousand grams or ten kilograms.
myriagramme		A metric weight, consisting of ten thousand grams or ten kilograms.
myrialiter		A metric measure of capacity, containing ten thousand liters.
myrialitre		A metric measure of capacity, containing ten thousand liters.
myriameter		A metric measure of length, containing ten thousand meters.
myriametre		A metric measure of length, containing ten thousand meters.
myriapod		One of the Myriapoda.
myriapoda		A class, or subclass, of arthropods, related to the hexapod insects, from which they differ in having the body made up of numerous similar segments, nearly all of which bear true jointed legs.
myriarch		A captain or commander of ten thousand men.
myriare		A measure of surface in the metric system containing ten thousand ares, or one million square meters.
myrica		A widely dispersed genus of shrubs and trees, usually with aromatic foliage.
myricin		A silky, crystalline, waxy substance, forming the less soluble part of beeswax, and regarded as a palmitate of a higher alcohol of the paraffin series; -- called also myricyl alcohol.
myricyl		A hypothetical radical regarded as the essential residue of myricin; -- called also melissyl.
myriological		Of or relating to a myriologue.
myriologist		One who composes or sings a myriologue.
myriologue		An extemporaneous funeral song, composed and sung by a woman on the death of a friend.
myriophyllous		Having an indefinitely great or countless number of leaves.
myriopoda		See Myriapoda — a class, or subclass, of arthropods, related to the hexapod insects, from which they differ in having the body made up of numerous similar segments…
myriorama		A picture made up of several smaller pictures, drawn upon separate pieces in such a manner as to admit of combination in many different ways, thus producing a great variety of scenes or landscapes.
myrioscope		A form of kaleidoscope.
myristate		A salt of myristic acid.
myristic		Pertaining to, or derived from, the nutmeg (Myristica). Specifically, designating an acid found in nutmeg oil and otoba fat, and extracted as a white crystalline waxy substance.
myristin		The myristate of glycerin, -- found as a vegetable fat in nutmeg butter, etc.
myristone		The ketone of myristic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance.
myrmecophyte		A plant that affords shelter and food to certain species of ants which live in symbiotic relations with it.
myrmicine		Of or pertaining to Myrmica, a genus of ants including the small house ant (M. molesta), and many others.
myrmidon		One of a fierce tribe or troop who accompained Achilles, their king, to the Trojan war.
myrmidonian		Consisting of, or like, myrmidons.
myrmotherine		Feeding upon ants; -- said of certain birds.
myrobalan		A dried astringent fruit much resembling a prune.
myrobolan		A dried astringent fruit much resembling a prune.
myronic		Pertaining to, or obtained from, mustard; -- used specifically to designate a glucoside called myronic acid, found in mustard seed.
myropolist	Obsolete	One who sells unguents or perfumery.
myrosin		A ferment, resembling diastase, found in mustard seeds.
myroxylon		A genus of leguminous trees of tropical America, the different species of which yield balsamic products, among which are balsam of Peru, and balsam of Tolu.
myrrh		A gum resin, usually of a yellowish brown or amber color, of an aromatic odor, and a bitter, slightly pungent taste.
myrrhic		Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, myrrh.
myrrhine		Murrhine.
myrtaceous		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a large and important natural order of trees and shrubs (Myrtaceæ), of which the myrtle is the type.
myrtiform		Resembling myrtle or myrtle berries; having the form of a myrtle leaf.
myrtle		A species of the genus Myrtus, especially Myrtus communis.
myself		I or me in person; -- used for emphasis, my own self or person; as I myself will do it; I have done it myself; -- used also instead of me, as the object of the first person of a reflexive verb, without emphasis; as…
mysis		A genus of small schizopod shrimps found both in fresh and salt water; the opossum shrimps.
mystacal		Of or pertaining to the upper lip, or mustache.
mystagogic		Of or pertaining to interpretation of mysteries or to mystagogue; of the nature of mystagogy.
mystagogical		Of or pertaining to interpretation of mysteries or to mystagogue; of the nature of mystagogy.
mystagogue		interprets mysteries, especially of a religious kind.
mystagogy		The doctrines, principles, or practice of a mystagogue; interpretation of mysteries.
mysterial	Obsolete	Mysterious.
mysteriarch	Obsolete	One presiding over mysteries.
mysterious		Of or pertaining to mystery; containing a mystery; difficult or impossible to understand; obscure not revealed or explained; enigmatical; incomprehensible.
mysteriously		In a mysterious manner.
mysteriousness		The state or quality of being mysterious.
mysterize		To make mysterious; to make a mystery of.
mystery		A profound secret; something wholly unknown, or something kept cautiously concealed, and therefore exciting curiosity or wonder; something which has not been or can not be explained; hence, specifically…
mystic		Remote from or beyond human comprehension; baffling human understanding; unknowable; obscure; mysterious.
mystical		Remote from or beyond human comprehension; baffling human understanding; unknowable; obscure; mysterious.
mysticete		Any right whale, or whalebone whale. See Cetacea.
mysticism		(Eccl. Hist.) The doctrine of the Mystics, who professed a pure, sublime, and wholly disinterested devotion, and maintained that they had direct intercourse with the divine Spirit…
mystification		The act of mystifying, or the state of being mystied; also, something designed to, or that does, mystify.
mystificator		One who mystifies.
mystify		To involve in mystery; to make obscure or difficult to understand; as, to mystify a passage of Scripture.
mytacism		Too frequent use of the letter m, or of the sound represented by it.
myth		A story of great but unknown age which originally embodied a belief regarding some fact or phenomenon of experience, and in which often the forces of nature and of the soul are personified; an ancient legend of a god, a hero…
mythe		See Myth — a story of great but unknown age which originally embodied a belief regarding some fact or phenomenon of experience, and in which often the forces of nature and of the soul are personified…
mythic		Of or relating to myths; described in a myth; of the nature of a myth; fabulous; imaginary; fanciful. -- Myth"ic*al*ly, adv.
mythical		Of or relating to myths; described in a myth; of the nature of a myth; fabulous; imaginary; fanciful. -- Myth"ic*al*ly, adv.
mythographer		A composer of fables.
mythologer		A mythologist.
mythologian		A mythologist.
mythologic		Of or pertaining to mythology or to myths; mythical; fabulous. -- Myth`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
mythological		Of or pertaining to mythology or to myths; mythical; fabulous. -- Myth`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
mythologist		One versed in, or who writes on, mythology or myths.
mythologize		To relate, classify, and explain, or attempt to explain, myths; to write upon myths.
mythologizer		One who, or that which, mythologizes.
mythologue		A fabulous narrative; a myth.
mythology		The science which treats of myths; a treatise on myths.
mythoplasm		A narration of mere fable.
mythopoeic		Making or producing myths; giving rise to mythical narratives.
mythopoetic		Making or producing myths or mythical tales.
mytiloid		Like, or pertaining to, the genus Mytilus, or family Mytilidæ.
mytilotoxine		A poisonous base (leucomaine) found in the common mussel.
mytilus		A genus of marine bivalve shells, including the common mussel. See Illust. under Byssus.
myxa		The distal end of the mandibles of a bird.
myxine		A genus of marsipobranchs, including the hagfish. See Hag, 4.
myxinoid		Like, or pertaining to, the genus Myxine. -- n.
myxocystodea		A division of Infusoria including the Noctiluca. See Noctiluca.
myxoedema		A disease producing a peculiar cretinoid appearance of the face, slow speech, and dullness of intellect, and due to failure of the functions of the thyroid gland. -- Myx`o*dem ic (#), a.
myxoma		A tumor made up of a gelatinous tissue resembling that found in the umbilical cord.
myxomycetes		A class of peculiar organisms, the slime molds, formerly regarded as animals (Mycetozoa), but now generally thought to be plants and often separated as a distinct phylum (Myxophyta).
myxophyta		A phylum of the vegetable kingdom consisting of the class Myxomycetes.
myxopod		A rhizopod or moneran.
myzontes		The Marsipobranchiata.
myzostomata		An order of curious parasitic worms found on crinoids.
