na	Obsolete	No, not. See No.
nab	Colloquial	(Locksmithing) The keeper, or box into which the lock is shot.
nabit		Pulverized sugar candy.
nabk		The edible berries of the Zizyphys Lotus, a tree of Northern Africa, and Southwestern Europe.
nabob		A deputy or viceroy in India; a governor of a province of the ancient Mogul empire.
nacarat		A pale red color, with a cast of orange.
nacelle		The basket suspended from a balloon; hence, the framework forming the body of a dirigible balloon, and containing the machinery, passengers, etc.
nacker		See Nacre — a pearly substance which lines the interior of many shells, and is most perfect in the mother-of-pearl.
nacre		A pearly substance which lines the interior of many shells, and is most perfect in the mother-of-pearl.
nacreous		Consisting of, or resembling, nacre; pearly.
nad	Obsolete	Had not.
nadde	Obsolete	Had not.
nadder	Obsolete	An adder.
nadir		That point of the heavens, or lower hemisphere, directly opposite the zenith; the inferior pole of the horizon; the point of the celestial sphere directly under the place where we stand.
naenia		See Nenia — a funeral song; an elegy.
naeve	Obsolete	A nævus.
naevoid		Resembling a nævus or nævi; as, nævoid elephantiasis.
naevose		Spotted; frecled.
naevus		A spot or mark on the skin of children when born; a birthmark; -- usually applied to vascular tumors, i. e., those consisting mainly of blood vessels, as dilated arteries, veins, or capillaries.
nag		A small horse; a pony; hence, any horse.
nagana		The disease caused by the tsetse fly.
nagging	Colloquial	Fault-finding; teasing; persistently annoying; as, a nagging toothache.
naggy	Colloquial	Irritable; touchy.
nagor		A West African gazelle (Gazella redunca).
nagyagite		A mineral of blackish lead-gray color and metallic luster, generally of a foliated massive structure; foliated tellurium.
naiad		(Myth.) A water nymph; one of the lower female divinities, fabled to preside over some body of fresh water, as a lake, river, brook, or fountain.
naiant		(Her.) See Natant.
naid		Any one of numerous species of small, fresh-water, chætopod annelids of the tribe Naidina.
naif		Having a true natural luster without being cut; -- applied by jewelers to a precious stone.
naik		A chief; a leader; a Sepoy corporal.
nail		(Anat.) the horny scale of plate of epidermis at the end of the fingers and toes of man and many apes.
nail-headed		Having a head like that of a nail; formed so as to resemble the head of a nail.
nailbrush		A brush for cleaning the nails.
nailer		One whose occupation is to make nails; a nail maker.
naileress		A women who makes nailes.
nailery		A manufactory where nails are made.
nailless		Without nails; having no nails.
nainsook		A thick sort of jaconet muslin, plain or striped, formerly made in India.
nais		See Naiad — (Myth.) A water nymph; one of the lower female divinities, fabled to preside over some body of fresh water, as a lake, river, brook, or fountain.
naissant		Same as Jessant.
naive		Having native or unaffected simplicity; ingenuous; artless; frank; as, naïve manners; a naïve person; naïve and unsophisticated remarks.
naively		In a naïve manner.
naivete		Native simplicity; unaffected plainness or ingenuousness; artlessness.
naked		Having no clothes on; uncovered; nude; bare; as, a naked body; a naked limb; a naked sword.
nakedly		In a naked manner; without covering or disguise; manifestly; simply; barely.
nakedness		The condition of being naked.
naker	Obsolete	Same as Nacre.
nakoo		The gavial.
nale	Obsolete	Ale; also, an alehouse.
nam	Obsolete	Am not. of Nim.
namable		Capable of being named.
namation		A distraining or levying of a distress; an impounding.
namaycush		A large North American lake trout (Salvelinus namaycush).
namby-pamby		Talk or writing which is weakly sentimental or affectedly pretty.
name		The title by which any person or thing is known or designated; a distinctive specific appellation, whether of an individual or a class.
nameless		Without a name; not having been given a name; as, a nameless star.
namelessly		In a nameless manner.
namely		That is to say; to wit; videlicet; -- introducing a particular or specific designation.
namer		One who names, or calls by name.
namesake		One that has the same name as another; especially, one called after, or named out of regard to, another.
namo	Obsolete	No more.
nandine		An African carnivore (Nandinia binotata), allied to the civets.
nandou		Any one of three species of South American ostriches of the genera Rhea and Pterocnemia.
nandu		Any one of three species of South American ostriches of the genera Rhea and Pterocnemia.
nanism		The condition of being abnormally small in stature; dwarfishness; -- opposed to gigantism.
nankeen		A species of cloth, of a firm texture, originally brought from China, made of a species of cotton (Gossypium religiosum) that is naturally of a brownish yellow color quite indestructible and permanent.
nanny	Colloquial	A diminutive of Ann or Anne, the proper name.
nannyberry		See Sheepberry — the edible fruit of a small North American tree of the genus Viburnum (V.
nanpie		The magpie.
naos		A term used by modern archæologists instead of cella. See Cella.
nap		To have a short sleep; to be drowsy; to doze.
nap-taking		A taking by surprise; an unexpected onset or attack.
nape		The back part of the neck.
nape-crest		An African bird of the genus Schizorhis, related to the plantain eaters.
naperian		Of, pertaining to, or discovered by, Napier, or Naper.
napery	Obsolete	Table linen; also, linen clothing, or linen in general.
naphew		See Navew — a kind of small turnip, a variety of Brassica campestris. See Brassica.
naphtha		(Chem.) The complex mixture of volatile, liquid, inflammable hydrocarbons, occurring naturally, and usually called crude petroleum, mineral oil, or rock oil.
naphthalate	Obsolete	A salt of naphthalic acid; a phthalate.
naphthalene		A white crystalline aromatic hydrocarbon, C10H8, analogous to benzene, and obtained by the distillation of certain bituminous materials, such as the heavy oil of coal tar.
naphthalenic		Pertaining to, or derived from, naphthalene; -- used specifically to designate a yellow crystalline substance, called naphthalenic acid and also hydroxy quinone, and obtained from certain derivatives of naphthol.
naphthalic		(a) Pertaining to, derived from, or related to, naphthalene; -- used specifically to denote any one of a series of acids derived from naphthalene, and called naphthalene acids.
naphthalidine		Same as Naphthylamine.
naphthalin		See Naphthalene — a white crystalline aromatic hydrocarbon, C10H8, analogous to benzene, and obtained by the distillation of certain bituminous materials, such as the heavy oil of coal tar.
naphthaline		See Naphthalene — a white crystalline aromatic hydrocarbon, C10H8, analogous to benzene, and obtained by the distillation of certain bituminous materials, such as the heavy oil of coal tar.
naphthalize		To mingle, saturate, or impregnate, with naphtha.
naphthazarin		A dyestuff, resembling alizarin, obtained from naphthoquinone as a red crystalline substance with a bright green, metallic luster; -- called also naphthalizarin.
naphthene		A peculiar hydrocarbon occuring as an ingredient of Caucasian petroleum.
naphthide		A compound of naphthalene or its radical with a metallic element; as, mercuric naphthide.
naphthoic		Pertaining to, derived from, or related to, naphthalene; -- used specifically to designate any one of a series of carboxyl derivatives, called naphthoic acids.
naphthol		Any one of a series of hydroxyl derivatives of naphthalene, analogous to phenol.
naphthoquinone		A yellow crystalline substance, C10H6O2, analogous to quinone, obtained by oxidizing naphthalene with chromic acid.
naphthyl		A hydrocarbon radical regarded as the essential residue of naphthalene.
naphthylamine		One of two basic amido derivatives of naphthalene, C10H7.NH2, forming crystalline solids.
napierian		Of, pertaining to, or discovered by, Napier, or Naper.
napiform		Turnip-shaped; large and round in the upper part, and very slender below.
napkin		A little towel, or small cloth, esp. one for wiping the fingers and mouth at table.
napless		Without nap; threadbare.
napoleon		A French gold coin of twenty francs, or about $3.86.
napoleonic		Of or pertaining to Napoleon I., or his family; resembling, or having the qualities of, Napoleon I.
napoleonist		A supporter of the dynasty of the Napoleons.
nappe		Sheet; surface; all that portion of a surface that is continuous in such a way that it is possible to pass from any one point of the portion to any other point of the portion without leaving the surface.
nappiness		The quality of having a nap; abundance of nap, as on cloth.
napping		(Hat Making) A sheet of partially felted fur before it is united to the hat body.
nappy		Inclined to sleep; sleepy; as, to feel nappy.
napu		A very small chevrotain (Tragulus Javanicus), native of Java.
napus		A kind of turnip. See Navew.
narceine		An alkaloid found in small quantities in opium, and extracted as a white crystalline substance of a bitter astringent taste.
narcissine		Of or pertaining to Narcissus.
narcissus		(Bot.) A genus of endogenous bulbous plants with handsome flowers, having a cup-shaped crown within the six-lobed perianth, and comprising the daffodils and jonquils of several kinds.
narcosis		Privation of sense or consciousness, due to a narcotic.
narcotic		Having the properties of a narcotic; operating as a narcotic. -- Nar*cot"ic*ness, n.
narcotical		Narcotic. -- Nar*cot"ic*al*ly, adv.
narcotine		An alkaloid found in opium, and extracted as a white crystalline substance, tasteless and less poisonous than morphine; -- called also narcotia.
narcotinic		Pertaining to narcotine.
narcotism		Narcosis; the state of being narcotized.
narcotize		To imbue with, or subject to the influence of, a narcotic; to put into a state of narcosis.
nard		(Bot.) An East Indian plant (Nardostachys Jatamansi) of the Valerian family, used from remote ages in Oriental perfumery.
nardine		Of or pertaining to nard; having the qualities of nard.
nardoo		An Australian name for Marsilea Drummondii, a four-leaved cryptogamous plant, sometimes used for food.
nare		A nostril.
nares		The nostrils or nasal openings, -- the anterior nares being the external or proper nostrils, and the posterior nares, the openings of the nasal cavities into the mouth or pharynx.
nargile		An apparatus for smoking tobacco.
nargileh		An apparatus for smoking tobacco.
narica		The brown coati. See Coati.
nariform		Formed like the nose.
narine		Of or belonging to the nostrils.
narrable	Obsolete	Capable of being narrated or told.
narragansetts		A tribe of Indians who formerly inhabited the shores of Narragansett Bay.
narrate		To tell, rehearse, or recite, as a story; to relate the particulars of; to go through with in detail, as an incident or transaction; to give an account of.
narration		The act of telling or relating the particulars of an event; rehearsal; recital.
narrative		Of or pertaining to narration; relating to the particulars of an event or transaction.
narratively		In the style of narration.
narrator		One who narrates; one who relates a series of events or transactions.
narratory		Giving an account of events; narrative; as, narratory letters.
narrow		Of little breadth; not wide or broad; having little distance from side to side; as, a narrow board; a narrow street; a narrow hem.
narrow-minded		Of narrow mental scope; illiberal; mean. -- Nar"row-mind`ed*ness, n.
narrower		One who, or that which, narrows or contracts.
narrowing		The act of contracting, or of making or becoming less in breadth or extent.
narrowly		With little breadth; in a narrow manner.
narrowness		The condition or quality of being narrow.
nart	Obsolete	Art not.
narthex		(Bot.) A tall umbelliferous plant (Ferula communis). See Giant fennel, under Fennel.
narwal		See Narwhal — an arctic cetacean (Monodon monocerous), about twenty feet long.
narwhal		An arctic cetacean (Monodon monocerous), about twenty feet long.
nas	Obsolete	Was not.
nasal		(Anat.) Of or pertaining to the nose.
nasality		The quality or state of being nasal.
nasalization		The act of nasalizing, or the state of being nasalized.
nasalize		To render nasal, as sound; to insert a nasal or sound in.
nasally		In a nasal manner; by the nose.
nascal		A kind of pessary of medicated wool or cotton, formerly used.
nascency		State of being nascent; birth; beginning; origin.
nascent		Commencing, or in process of development; beginning to exist or to grow; coming into being; as, a nascent germ.
naseberry		A tropical fruit. See Sapodilla.
nash	English dialect	Firm; stiff; hard; also, chilly.
nasicornous		Bearing a horn, or horns, on the nose, as the rhinoceros.
nasiform		Having the shape of a nose.
nasion		The middle point of the nasofrontal suture.
naso-		A combining form denoting pertaining to, or connected with, the nose; as, nasofrontal.
nasobuccal		Connected with both the nose and the mouth; as, the nasobuccal groove in the skate.
nasofrontal		of or pertaining to the nose and the front of the head; as, the embryonic nasofrontal process which forms the anterior boundary of the mouth.
nasolachrymal		Connected with the lachrymal apparatus and the nose; as, the nasolachrymal, or lachrymal duct.
nasopalatal		Connected with both the nose and the palate; as, the nasopalatine or incisor, canal connecting the mouth and the nasal chamber in some animals; the nasopalatine nerve.
nasopalatine		Connected with both the nose and the palate; as, the nasopalatine or incisor, canal connecting the mouth and the nasal chamber in some animals; the nasopalatine nerve.
nasopharyngeal		Of or pertaining to both throat and nose; as, a nasopharyngeal polypus.
nasoseptal		Of or pertaining to the internasal septum.
nasoturbinal		Connected with, or near, both the turbinal and the nasal bones; as, the nasalturbinal bone, made up of the uppermost lammelæ of the ethmoturbinal, and sometimes united with the nasal. -- n.
nassa		Any species of marine gastropods, of the genera Nassa, Tritia, and other allied genera of the family Nassidæ; a dog whelk.
nastily		In a nasty manner.
nastiness		The quality or state of being nasty; extreme filthness; dirtiness; also, indecency; obscenity.
nasturtion		Same as Nasturtium.
nasturtium		(Bot.) A genus of cruciferous plants, having white or yellowish flowers, including several species of cress.
nasty		Offensively filthy; very dirty, foul, or defiled; disgusting; nauseous.
nasute	Obsolete	Having a nice sense of smell.
nasutness	Obsolete	Quickness of scent; hence, nice discernment; acuteness.
natal		Of or pertaining to one's birth; accompying or dating from one's birth; native.
natalitial	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to one's birth or birthday, or one's nativity.
natalitious	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to one's birth or birthday, or one's nativity.
nataloin		A bitter crystalline substance constituting the essential principle of Natal aloes.
natals	Obsolete	One's birth, or the circumstances attending it.
natant		(Bot.) Floating in water, as the leaves of water lilies, or submersed, as those of many aquatic plants.
natantly		In a floating manner; swimmingly.
natation		The act of floating on the water; swimming.
natatores		The swimming birds.
natatorial		Inclined or adapted to swim; swimming; as, natatorial birds.
natatorious		Adapted for swimming; -- said of the legs of certain insects.
natatorium		A swimming bath.
natatory		Adapted for swimming or floating; as, natatory organs.
natch		The rump of beef; esp., the lower and back part of the rump.
natchez		A tribe of Indians who formerly lived near the site of the city of Natchez, Mississippi.
natchnee		An annual grass (Eleusine coracona), cultivated in India as a food plant.
nates		(Anat.) (a) The buttocks. (b) The two anterior of the four lobes on the dorsal side of the midbrain of most mammals; the anterior optic lobes.
nath	Obsolete	hath not.
nathless	Archaic	Nevertheless.
nathmore	Obsolete	Not the more; never the more. penser.
natica		Any one of numerous species of marine gastropods belonging to Natica, Lunatia, Neverita, and other allied genera (family Naticidæ.) They burrow beneath the sand, or mud, and drill other shells.
naticoid		Like or belonging to Natica, or the family Naticæ.
nation		(Ethnol.) A part, or division, of the people of the earth, distinguished from the rest by common descent, language, or institutions; a race; a stock.
national		Of or pertaining to a nation; common to a whole people or race; public; general; as, a national government, language, dress, custom, calamity, etc.
nationalism		The state of being national; national attachment; nationality.
nationalist		One who advocates national unity and independence; one of a party favoring Irish independence.
nationality		The quality of being national, or strongly attached to one's own nation; patriotism.
nationalization		The act of nationalizing, or the state of being nationalized.
nationalize		To make national; to make a nation of; to endow with the character and habits of a nation, or the peculiar sentiments and attachment of citizens of a nation.
nationally		In a national manner or way; as a nation.
nationalness		The quality or state of being national; nationality.
nationalrath		See Legislature — the body of persons in a state or kingdom invested with power to make and repeal laws; a legislative body.
native		Of or pertaining to one's birth; natal; belonging to the place or the circumstances in which one is born; -- opposed to foreign; as, native land, language, color, etc.
natively		By natural or original condition; naturally; originally.
nativeness		The quality or state of being native.
nativism		The disposition to favor the native inhabitants of a country, in preference to immigrants from foreign countries.
nativist		An advocate of nativism.
nativistic		Relating to nativism.
nativity		The coming into life or into the world; birth; also, the circumstances attending birth, as time, place, manner, etc. Chaucer.
natka		A species of shrike.
natrium		The technical name for sodium.
natrolite		A zeolite occuring in groups of glassy acicular crystals, and in masses which often have a radiated structure.
natron		Native sodium carbonate.
natter	English dialect	To find fault; to be peevish.
natterjack		A European toad (Bufo calamita), having a yellow line along its back.
natty	Colloquial	Neat; tidy; spruce. -- Nat ti*ness, n.
natural		Fixed or determined by nature; pertaining to the constitution of a thing; belonging to native character; according to nature; essential; characteristic; not artifical, foreign, assumed, put on, or acquired; as…
naturalism		A state of nature; conformity to nature.
naturalist		One versed in natural science; a student of natural history, esp. of the natural history of animals.
naturalistic		Belonging to the doctrines of naturalism.
naturality		Nature; naturalness.
naturalization		The act or process of naturalizing, esp. of investing an alien with the rights and privileges of a native or citizen; also, the state of being naturalized.
naturalize		To make natural; as, custom naturalizes labor or study.
naturally		In a natural manner or way; according to the usual course of things; spontaneously.
naturalness		The state or quality of being natural; conformity to nature.
nature		The existing system of things; the world of matter, or of matter and mind; the creation; the universe.
natured		Having (such) a nature, temper, or disposition; disposed; -- used in composition; as, good-natured, ill-natured, etc.
natureless	Obsolete	Not in accordance with nature; unnatural.
naturism		The belief or doctrine that attributes everything to nature as a sanative agent.
naturist		One who believes in, or conforms to, the theory of naturism.
naturity	Obsolete	The quality or state of being produced by nature.
naturize	Obsolete	To endow with a nature or qualities; to refer to nature.
naufrage	Obsolete	Shipwreck; ruin. acon.
naufragous	Obsolete	causing shipwreck. r.
naught		The arithmetical character 0; a cipher. See Cipher.
naughtily		In a naughty manner; wickedly; perversely.
naughtiness		The quality or state of being naughty; perverseness; badness; wickedness.
naughtly	Obsolete	Naughtily; wrongly. because my parents naughtly brought me up.
naughty		Mischievous; perverse; froward; guilty of disobedient or improper conduct; as, a naughty child.
naumachy		A naval battle; esp., a mock sea fight.
nauplius		A crustacean larva having three pairs of locomotive organs (corresponding to the antennules, antennæ, and mandibles), a median eye, and little or no segmentation of the body.
nauropometer		An instrument for measuring the amount which a ship heels at sea.
nauscopy		The power or act of discovering ships or land at considerable distances.
nausea		Seasickness; hence, any similar sickness of the stomach accompanied with a propensity to vomit; qualm; squeamishness of the stomach; loathing.
nauseant		A substance which produces nausea.
nauseate		To become squeamish; to feel nausea; to turn away with disgust.
nauseation		The act of nauseating, or the state of being nauseated.
nauseative		Causing nausea; nauseous.
nauseous		Causing, or fitted to cause, nausea; sickening; loathsome; disgusting; exciting abhorrence; as, a nauseous drug or medicine. -- Nau seous*ness, n.
nautch		An entertainment consisting chiefly of dancing by professional dancing (or Nautch) girls.
nautic		Nautical.
nautical		Of or pertaining to seamen, to the art of navigation, or to ships; as, nautical skill.
nautically		In a nautical manner; with reference to nautical affais.
nautiform		Shaped like the hull of a ship.
nautilite		A fossil nautilus.
nautiloid		Like or pertaining to the nautilus; shaped like a nautilus shell. -- n.
nautilus		(Zoöl.) The only existing genus of tetrabranchiate cephalopods.
navajoes		A tribe of Indians inhabiting New Mexico and Arizona, allied to the Apaches.
naval		Having to do with shipping; of or pertaining to ships or a navy; consisting of ships; as, naval forces, successes, stores, etc. Naval brigade, a body of seamen or marines organized for military service on land. -- Naval officer.
navals	Obsolete	Naval affairs.
navarch		The commander of a fleet.
navarchy	Obsolete	Nautical skill or experience. ir W.
navarrese		Of or pertaining to Navarre. -- n. sing. & pl. A native or inhabitant of Navarre; the people of Navarre.
nave		The block in the center of a wheel, from which the spokes radiate, and through which the axle passes; -- called also hub or hob.
navel		(Anat.) A mark or depression in the middle of the abdomen; the umbilicus.
navel-string		The umbilical cord.
navelwort		A European perennial succulent herb (Cotyledon umbilicus), having round, peltate leaves with a central depression; -- also called pennywort, and kidneywort.
navew		A kind of small turnip, a variety of Brassica campestris. See Brassica.
navicular		Shaped like a boat; cymbiform; scaphoid; as, the navicular glumes of most grasses; the navicular bone.
navigability		The quality or condition of being navigable; navigableness.
navigable		Capable of being navigated; deep enough and wide enough to afford passage to vessels; as, a navigable river.
navigate		To joirney by water; to go in a vessel or ship; to perform the duties of a navigator; to use the waters as a highway or channel for commerce or communication; to sail.
navigation		The act of navigating; the act of passing on water in ships or other vessels; the state of being navigable.
navigator		One who navigates or sails; esp., one who direct the course of a ship, or one who is skillful in the art of navigation; also, a book which teaches the art of navigation; as, Bowditch's Navigator.
navigerous		Bearing ships; capable of floating vessels.
navvy		Originally, a laborer on canals for internal navigation; hence, a laborer on other public works, as in building railroads, embankments, etc.
navy		The whole of the war vessels belonging to a nation or ruler, considered collectively; as, the navy of Italy.
nawab		A deputy ruler or viceroy in India; also, a title given by courtesy to other persons of high rank in the East.
nawl	Obsolete	An awl. usser.
nay		No; -- a negative answer to a question asked, or a request made, now superseded by no.
nayaur		A specied of wild sheep (Ovis Hodgsonii), native of Nepaul and Thibet.
nayt	Obsolete	To refuse; to deny.
nayward		The negative side.
nayword	Obsolete	A byword; a proverb; also, a watchword. hak.
nazarene		A native or inhabitant of Nazareth; -- a term of contempt applied to Christ and the early Christians.
nazarite		A Jew bound by a vow to lave the hair uncut, to abstain from wine and strong drink, and to practice extraordinary purity of life and devotion, the obligation being for life, or for a certain time.
nazariteship		The state of a Nazarite.
nazaritic		Of or pertaining to a Nazarite, or to Nazarites.
nazaritism		The vow and practice of a Nazarite.
naze		A promotory or headland.
nazirite		A Nazarite.
