ne	Obsolete	Not; never.
neaf	Obsolete	See 2d Neif.
neal		To anneal.
neanderthal		Of, pertaining to, or named from, the Neanderthal, a valley in the Rhine Province, in which were found parts of a skeleton of an early type of man.
neanderthaloid		Like, or pertaining to, the Neanderthal skull, or the type of man it represents.
neap		The tongue or pole of a cart or other vehicle drawn by two animals.
neaped		Left aground on the height of a spring tide, so that it will not float till the next spring tide; -- called also beneaped.
neapolitan		Of of pertaining to Maples in Italy. -- n.
near		At a little distance, in place, time, manner, or degree; not remote; nigh.
near-legged		Having the feet so near together that they interfere in traveling.
nearctic		Of or pertaining to a region of the earth's surface including all of temperate and arctic North America and Greenland.
nearhand	Obsolete	Near; near at hand; closely.
nearly		In a near manner; not remotely; closely; intimately; almost.
nearness		The state or quality of being near; -- used in the various senses of the adjective.
nearsighted		Seeing distinctly at short distances only; shortsighted. -- Near"sight`ed*ness, n.
nearsightedness		Seeing distinctly at short distances only; shortsighted. -- Near"sight`ed*ness, n.
neat		Cattle of the genus Bos, as distinguished from horses, sheep, and goats; an animal of the genus Bos; as, a neat's tongue; a neat's foot.
neatherd		A person who has the care of neat cattle; a cowherd.
neathouse	Obsolete	A building for the shelter of neat cattle.
neatify	Obsolete	To make neat. olland.
neatly		In a neat manner; tidily; tastefully.
neatness		The state or quality of being neat.
neatress		A woman who takes care of cattle.
neb		The nose; the snout; the mouth; the beak of a bird; a nib, as of a pen.
neb-neb		Same as Bablh.
nebalia		A genus of small marine Crustacea, considered the type of a distinct order (Nebaloidea, or Phyllocarida.)
nebula		(Astron.) A faint, cloudlike, self-luminous mass of matter situated beyond the solar system among the stars.
nebular		Of or pertaining to nebulæ; of the nature of, or resembling, a nebula.
nebulated		Clouded with indistinct color markings, as an animal.
nebulation		The condition of being nebulated; also, a clouded, or ill- defined, color mark.
nebule	Obsolete	A little cloud; a cloud.
nebulization		The act or process of nebulizing; atomization.
nebulize		To reduce (as a liquid) to a fine spray or vapor; to atomize.
nebulizer		An atomizer.
nebulose		Nebulous; cloudy.
nebulosity		The state or quality of being nebulous; cloudiness; hazeness; mistiness; nebulousness.
nebulous		Cloudy; hazy; misty.
nebuly		Composed of successive short curves supposed to resemble a cloud; -- said of a heraldic line by which an ordinary or subordinary may be bounded.
necessarian		An advocate of the doctrine of philosophical necessity; a nacessitarian.
necessarianism		The doctrine of philosophical necessity; necessitarianism.
necessarily		In a necessary manner; by necessity; unavoidably; indispensably.
necessariness		The quality of being necessary.
necessary		Such as must be; impossible to be otherwise; not to be avoided; inevitable.
necessitarian		Of or pertaining to the doctrine of philosophical necessity in regard to the origin and existence of things, especially as applied to the actings or choices of the will; -- opposed to libertarian.
necessitarianism		The doctrine of philosophical necessity; the doctrine that results follow by invariable sequence from causes, and esp. that the will is not free, but that human actions and choices result inevitably from motives; deteminism.
necessitate		To make necessary or indispensable; to render unaviolable.
necessitattion		The act of making necessary, or the state of being made necessary; compulsion. bp.
necessitied	Obsolete	In a state of want; necessitous.
necessitous		Very needy or indigent; pressed with poverty.
necessitude		Necessitousness; want.
necessity		The quality or state of being necessary, unavoidable, or absolutely requisite; inevitableness; indispensableness.
neck		The part of an animal which connects the head and the trunk, and which, in man and many other animals, is more slender than the trunk.
neckband		A band which goes around the neck; often, the part at the top of a garment.
neckcloth		A piece of any fabric worn around the neck.
necked		Having (such) a neck; -- chiefly used in composition; as, stiff- necked.
neckerchief		A kerchief for the neck; -- called also neck handkerchief.
necking		Same as Neckmold.
necklace		A string of beads, etc., or any continuous band or chain, worn around the neck as an ornament.
necklaced		Wearing a necklace; marked as with a necklace.
neckland	Obsolete	A neck of land.
necklet		A necklace.
neckmold		A small convex molding surrounding a column at the jinction of the shaft and capital.
neckmould		A small convex molding surrounding a column at the jinction of the shaft and capital.
neckplate		See Gorget, 1 and 2.
necktie		A scarf, band, or kerchief of silk, etc., passing around the neck or collar and tied in front; a bow of silk, etc., fastened in front of the neck.
neckwear	Colloquial	A collective term for cravats, collars, etc.
neckweed		(a) An American annual weed (veronica peregrina), with small white flowers and a roundish pod.
necrobiosis		The death of a part by molecular disintegration and without loss of continuity, as in the processes of degeneration and atrophy.
necrobiotic		Of or pertaining to necrobiosis; as, a necrobiotic metamorphosis.
necrolatry		The worship of the dead; manes worship.
necrolite		Same as Necronite.
necrologic		Of or pertaining to necrology; of the nature of necrology; relating to, or giving, an account of the dead, or of deaths.
necrological		Of or pertaining to necrology; of the nature of necrology; relating to, or giving, an account of the dead, or of deaths.
necrologist		One who gives an account of deaths.
necrology		An account of deaths, or of the dead; a register of deaths; a collection of obituary notices.
necromancer		One who practices necromancy; a sorcerer; a wizard.
necromancy		The art of revealing future events by means of a pretended communication with the dead; the black art; hence, magic in general; conjuration; enchantment.
necromantic		Conjuration.
necromantical		Of or pertaining to necromancy; performed by necromancy. -- Nec`ro*man"tic*al*ly, adv.
necronite		Fetid feldspar, a mineral which, when struck, exhales a fetid odor.
necrophagan		Eating carrion. -- n. (Zoöl.) Any species of a tribe (Necrophaga) of beetles which, in the larval state, feed on carrion; a burying beetle.
necrophagous		Of or pertaining to the Necrophaga; eating carrion. See Necrophagan.
necrophobia		An exaggerated fear of death or horror of dead bodies.
necrophore		Any one of numerous species of beetles of the genus Necrophorus and allied genera; -- called also burying beetle, carrion beetle, sexton beetle.
necropolis		A city of the dead; a name given by the ancients to their cemeteries, and sometimes applied to modern burial places; a graveyard.
necropsy		A post-mortem examination or inspection; an autopsy. See Autopsy.
necroscopic		Or or relating to post-mortem examinations.
necroscopical		Or or relating to post-mortem examinations.
necrose		To affect with necrosis; to unergo necrosis.
necrosed		Affected by necrosis; dead; as, a necrosed bone.
necrosis		(med.) Mortification or gangrene of bone, or the death of a bone or portion of a bone in mass, as opposed to its death by molecular disintegration.
necrotic		Affected with necrosis; as, necrotic tissue; characterized by, or producing, necrosis; as, a necrotic process.
necrotomy		The dissection of dead bodies; also, excision of necrosed bone. --Nec`ro*tom o*mist (#), n.
nectar		(Myth. & Poetic) The drink of the gods (as ambrosia was their food); hence, any delicious or inspiring beverage.
nectareal		Nectareous.
nectarean		Resembling nectar; very sweet and pleasant.
nectared		Imbued with nectar; mingled with nectar; abounding with nectar.
nectareous		Of, pertaining to, containing, or resembling nectar; delicious; nectarean.
nectarial		Of or pertaining to the nectary of a plant.
nectaried		Having a nectary.
nectariferous		Secreting nectar; -- said of blossoms or their parts.
nectarine		Nectareous.
nectarize	Obsolete	To mingle or infuse with nectar; to sweeten.
nectarous		Nectareous.
nectary		That part of a blossom which secretes nectar, usually the base of the corolla or petals; also, the spur of such flowers as the larkspur and columbine, whether nectariferous or not.
nectocalyx		(a) The swimming bell or umbrella of a jellyfish of medusa. (b) One of the zooids of certain Siphonophora, having somewhat the form, and the essential structure, of the bell of a jellyfish, and acting as a swimming organ.
nectosac		The cavity of a nectocalyx.
nectosack		The cavity of a nectocalyx.
nectostem		That portion of the axis which bears the nectocalyces in the Siphonophora.
nedder	Obsolete	An adder.
neddy		A pet name for a donkey.
nee		Born; -- a term sometimes used in introducing the name of the family to which a married woman belongs by birth; as, Madame de Staël, née Necker.
need		A state that requires supply or relief; pressing occasion for something; necessity; urgent want.
needer		One who needs anything.
needful		Necessary for supply or relief; requisite.
needily		In a needy condition or manner; necessarily.
neediness		The state or quality of being needy; want; poverty; indigence.
needle		A small instrument of steel, sharply pointed at one end, with an eye to receive a thread, -- used in sewing.
needle-pointed		Pointed as needles.
needlebook		A book-shaped needlecase, having leaves of cloth into which the needles are stuck.
needlecase		A case to keep needles.
needlefish		(a) The European great pipefich (Siphostoma, or Syngnathus, acus); -- called also earl, and tanglefish.
needleful		As much thread as is used in a needle at one time.
needler		One who makes or uses needles; also, a dealer in needles.
needless		Not wanted; unnecessary; not requiste; as, needless labor; needless expenses.
needlestone		Natrolite; -- called also needle zeolite.
needlewoman		A woman who does needlework; a seamstress.
needlework		Work executed with a needle; sewed work; sewing; embroidery; also, the business of a seamstress.
needly	Obsolete	Like a needle or needles; as, a needly horn; a needly beard.
needment	Archaic	Something needed or wanted. pl. Outfit; necessary luggage.
needs		Of necessity; necessarily; indispensably; -- often with must, and equivalent to of need.
needscost	Obsolete	Of necessity — the quality or state of being necessary, unavoidable, or absolutely requisite; inevitableness; indispensableness.
needsly	Obsolete	Of necessity — the quality or state of being necessary, unavoidable, or absolutely requisite; inevitableness; indispensableness.
needy		Distressed by want of the means of living; very por; indigent; necessitous.
neeld	Obsolete	A needle.
neele	Obsolete	A needle.
neelghau		See Nylghau — a large Asiatic antelope (Boselaphus, or Portax, tragocamelus), found in Northern India.
neese	Obsolete	To sneeze.
neesing	Obsolete	Sneezing.
nef		The nave of a church.
nefand	Obsolete	Unfit to speak of; unmentionable; impious; execrable.
nefandous	Obsolete	Unfit to speak of; unmentionable; impious; execrable.
nefarious		Wicked in the extreme; abominable; iniquitous; atrociously villainous; execrable; detestably vile.
nefasch		Any fish of the genus Distichodus.
negation		The act of denying; assertion of the nonreality or untruthfulness of anything; declaration that something is not, or has not been, or will not be; denial; -- the opposite of Ant: affirmation.
negative		Denying; implying, containing, or asserting denial, negation or refusal; returning the answer no to an inquiry or request; refusing assent; as, a negative answer; a negative opinion; -- opposed to Ant: affirmative.
negatively		In a negative manner; with or by denial.
negativeness		The quality or state of being negative.
negativity		The quality or state of being negative.
negatory		Expressing denial; belonging to negation; negative.
neginoth		Stringed instruments.
neglect		Not to attend to with due care or attention; to forbear one's duty in regard to; to suffer to pass unimproved, unheeded, undone, etc.; to omit; to disregard; to slight; as, to neglect duty or business; to neglect to pay debts.
neglectedness		The state of being neglected.
neglecter		One who neglects.
neglectful		Full of neglect; heedless; careless; negligent; inattentive; indifferent.
neglectingly		Carelessly; heedlessly.
neglection	Obsolete	The state of being negligent; negligence.
neglective		Neglectful.
negligee		An easy, unceremonious attire; undress; also, a kind of easy robe or dressing gown worn by women.
negligence		The quality or state of being negligent; lack of due diligence or care; omission of duty; habitual neglect; heedlessness.
negligent		Apt to neglect; customarily neglectful; characterized by negligence; careless; heedless; culpably careless; showing lack of attention; as, disposed in negligent order.
negligently		In a negligent manner.
negligible		That may neglicted, disregarded, or left out of consideration.
negoce	Obsolete	Business; occupation.
negotiability		The quality of being negotiable or transferable by indorsement.
negotiable		Capable of being negotiated; transferable by assigment or indorsement to another person; as, a negotiable note or bill of exchange.
negotiant		A negotiator.
negotiate		To treat with another respecting purchase and sale or some business affair; to bargain or trade; as, to negotiate with a man for the purchase of goods or a farm.
negotiation		The act or process of negotiating; a treating with another respecting sale or purchase. etc.
negotiator		One who negotiates; a person who treats with others, either as principal or agent, in respect to purchase and sale, or public compacts.
negotiatory		Of or pertaining to negotiation.
negotiatrix		A woman who negotiates.
negotiosity	Obsolete	The state of being busy; multitude of business.
negotious		Very busy; attentive to business; active.
negotiousness		The state of being busily occupied; activity.
negress		A black woman; a female negro.
negrita		A blackish fish (Hypoplectrus nigricans), of the Sea-bass family.
negritic		Of or pertaining to negroes; composed of negroes.
negritos		A degraded Papuan race, inhabiting Luzon and some of the other east Indian Islands.
negro		A black man; especially, one of a race of black or very dark persons who inhabit the greater part of tropical Africa, and are distinguished by crisped or curly hair, flat noses, and thick protruding lips; also…
negrohead		An inferior commercial variety of India rubber made up into round masses.
negroid		Characteristic of the negro.
negroloid		See Negroid — characteristic of the negro.
negus		A beverage made of wine, water, sugar, nutmeg, and lemon juice; -- so called, it is said, from its first maker, Colonel Negus.
nehiloth		A term supposed to mean, perforated wind instruments of music, as pipes or flutes.
nehushtan		A thing of brass; -- the name under which the Israelites worshiped the brazen serpent made by Moses. 2 Kings xviii. 4.
neif	Obsolete	A woman born in the state of villeinage; a female serf.
neife		A woman born in the state of villeinage; a female serf.
neigh		To utter the cry of the horse; to whinny.
neighbor		A person who lives near another; one whose abode is not far off.
neighborhood		The quality or condition of being a neighbor; the state of being or dwelling near; proximity.
neighboring		Living or being near; adjacent; as, the neighboring nations or countries.
neighborliness		The quality or state of being neighborly.
neighborly		Apropriate to the relation of neighbors; having frequent or familiar intercourse; kind; civil; social; friendly. -- adv.
neighborship		The state of being neighbors.
neishout		The mahogany-like wood of the South African tree Pteroxylon utile, the sawdust of which causes violent sneezing (whence the name).
neither	Obsolete	Not either; not the one or the other.
nelumbo		A genus of great water lilies.
nemaline		Having the form of threads; fibrous.
nemalite		A fibrous variety of brucite.
nematelmia		Same as Nemathelminthes.
nematelminthes		An order of helminths, including the Nematoidea and Gordiacea; the roundworms.
nemathecium		A peculiar kind of fructification on certain red algæ, consisting of an external mass of filaments at length separating into tetraspores.
nemathelminthes		An order of helminths, including the Nematoidea and Gordiacea; the roundworms.
nematoblast		A spermatocyte or spermoblast.
nematocalyx		One of a peculiar kind of cups, or calicles, found upon hydroids of the family Plumularidæ.
nematocera		A suborder of dipterous insects, having long antennæ, as the mosquito, gnat, and crane fly; -- called also Nemocera.
nematocyst		A lasso cell, or thread cell. See Lasso cell, under Lasso.
nematode		Same as Nematoid.
nematogene		One of the dimorphic forms of the species of Dicyemata, which produced vermiform embryos; -- opposed to Ant: rhombogene.
nematognath		one of the Nematognathi.
nematognathi		An order of fishes having barbels on the jaws.
nematoid		of or pertaining to the Nematoidea. -- n.
nematoidea		An order of worms, having a long, round, and generally smooth body; the roundworms. they are mostly parasites.
nematoidean		Nematoid.
nematophora		Same as Cælenterata.
nemean		Of or pertaining to Nemea, in Argolis, where the ancient Greeks celebrated games, and Hercules killed a lion.
nemertean		Of or pertaining to the Nemertina. -- n.
nemertes		A genus of nemertina.
nemertian		Nemertean.
nemertid		Nemertean.
nemertida		Nemertina.
nemertina		An order of helminths usually having a long, slender, smooth, often bright-colored body, covered with minute vibrating cilia; -- called also Nemertea, Nemertida, and Rhynchocæla.
nemesis		The goddess of retribution or vengeance; hence, retributive justice personified; divine vengeance.
nemophilist		One who is fond of forest or forest scenery; a haunter of the woods.
nemophily		Fondness for forest scenery; love of the woods.
nemoral		Of or pertaining to a wood or grove.
nempne	Obsolete	To name or call.
nempt	Obsolete	of Nempne — to name or call.
nems		The ichneumon.
nenia		A funeral song; an elegy.
nenuphar		The great white water lily of Europe; the Nymphæa alba.
neo-		A prefix meaning new, recent, late; and in chemistry designating specifically that variety of metameric hydrocarbons which, when the name was applied, had been recently classified…
neo-christianity		Rationalism.
neo-darwinism		The theory which holds natural selection, as explained by Darwin, to be the chief factor in the evolution of plants and animals, and denies the inheritance of acquired characters; -- esp. opposed to Neo-Lamarckism.
neo-greek		A member of a body of French painters (F. les néo-Grecs) of the middle 19th century.
neo-hebraic		The modern Hebrew language.
neo-hegelian		An adherent of Neo-Hegelianism.
neo-hegelianism		The philosophy of a school of British and American idealists who follow Hegel in dialectical or logical method and in the general outcome of their doctrine.
neo-hellenic		Same as Romaic.
neo-hellenism		Hellenism as surviving or revival in modern times; the practice or pursuit of ancient Greek ideals in modern life, art, or literature, as in the Renaissance.
neo-kantian		An adherent of Neo-Kantianism.
neo-kantianism		The philosophy of modern thinkers who follow Kant in his general theory of knowledge, esp. of a group of German philosophers including F.
neo-lamarckism		Lamarckism as revived, modified, and expounded by recent biologists, esp. as maintaining that the offspring inherits characters acquired by the parent from change of environment, use or disuse of parts, etc.…
neo-latin		Applied to the Romance languages, as being mostly of Latin origin.
neo-malthusian		Designating, or pertaining to, a group of modern economists who hold to the Malthusianism doctrine that permanent betterment of the general standard of living is impossible without decrease of competition by limitation of the…
neo-scholastic		Of or pert. to Neo-Scholasticism.
neo-scholasticism		The modern revival of the Scholastic philosophy, esp. of that of Thomas Aquinas, with critical revision to suit the exigencies of the general advance in learning.
neocarida		The modern, or true, Crustacea, as distinguished from the Merostomata.
neocene		More recent than the Eocene, that is, including both the Miocene and Pliocene divisions of the Tertiary.
neoclassic		Belonging to, or designating, the modern revival of classical, esp. Greco-Roman, taste and manner of work in architecture, etc.
neocomian		A term applied to the lowest deposits of the Cretaceous or chalk formation of Europe, being the lower greensand.
neocosmic		of or pertaining to the universe in its present state; specifically, pertaining to the races of men known to history.
neocracy		Government by new or inexperienced hands; upstart rule; raw or untried officials.
neocriticism		The form of Neo-Kantianism developed by French idealists, following C.
neodamode		In ancient Sparta, one of those Helots who were freed by the state in reward for military service.
neodymium		An elementary substance which forms one of the constituents of didymium.
neogaean		Of or pertaining to the New World, or Western Hemisphere.
neogamist		A person recently married.
neogen		An alloy resembling silver, and consisting chiefly of copper, zinc, and nickel, with small proportions of tin, aluminium, and bismuth.
neogrammarian		One of a group of philologists who apply phonetic laws more widely and strictly than was formerly done, and who maintain that these laws admit of no real exceptions. --Ne`o*gram*mat"ic*al (#), a.
neography		A new method or system of writing.
neoimpressionism		A theory or practice which is a further development, on more rigorously scientific lines, of the theory and practice of Impressionism, originated by George Seurat (1859-91), and carried on by Paul Signac (1863- -) and others.
neolithic		Of or pertaining to, or designating, an era characterized by late remains in stone.
neologian		Neologic; neological.
neologianism		Neologism.
neologic		Of or pertaining to neology; employing new words; of the nature of, or containing, new words or new doctrines.
neological		Of or pertaining to neology; employing new words; of the nature of, or containing, new words or new doctrines.
neologism		The introduction of new words, or the use of old words in a new sense.
neologist		One who introduces new word or new senses of old words into a language.
neologistic		of or pertaining to neology; neological.
neologistical		of or pertaining to neology; neological.
neologization		The act or process of neologizing.
neologize		To introduce or use new words or terms or new uses of old words.
neology		The introduction of a new word, or of words or significations, into a language; as, the present nomenclature of chemistry is a remarkable instance of neology.
neomenia		The time of the new moon; the beginning of the month in the lunar calendar.
neomenoidea		A division of vermiform gastropod mollusks, without a shell, belonging to the Isopleura.
neomorph		A structure, part, or organ developed independently, that is, not derived from a similar structure, part, or organ, in a pre existing form.
neonism		Neologism.
neonomian		One who advocates adheres to new laws; esp. one who holds or believes that the gospel is a new law.
neonomianism		The doctrines or belief of the neonomians.
neopaganism		Revived or new paganism.
neophyte		A new convert or proselyte; -- a name given by the early Christians, and still given by the Roman Catholics, to such as have recently embraced the Christian faith, and been admitted to baptism…
neoplasia		Growth or development of new material; neoplasty.
neoplasm		A new formation or tissue, the product of morbid action.
neoplastic		of or pertaining to neoplasty, or neoplasia.
neoplasty		Restoration of a part by granulation, adhesive inflammation, or autoplasty.
neoplatonic		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, Neoplatonism or the Neoplatonists.
neoplatonician		A neoplatonist.
neoplatonism		A pantheistic eclectic school of philosophy, of which Plotinus was the chief (A.
neoplatonist		One who held to Neoplatonism; a member of the Neoplatonic school.
neorama		A panorama of the interior of a building, seen from within.
neossine		The substance constituting the edible bird's nest.
neossology		The study of young birds.
neoteric		Recent in origin; modern; new.
neoterical		Recent in origin; modern; new.
neoterically		Recently; newly.
neoterism		An innovation or novelty; a neoteric word or phrase.
neoterist		One ho introduces new word Fitzed Hall.
neoterize		To innovate; to coin or introduce new words.
neotropical		Belonging to, or designating, a region of the earth's surface which comprises most of South America, the Antilles, and tropical North America.
neozoic		More recent than the Paleozoic, -- that is, including the Mesozoic and Cenozoic.
nepa		A genus of aquatic hemipterus insects.
nepaulese		Of or pertaining to Nepaul, a kingdom in Northern Hindostan. -- n. sing. & pl. A native or natives of Nepaul.
nepenthe		A drug used by the ancients to give relief from pain and sorrow; -- by some supposed to have been opium or hasheesh.
nepenthes		(Bot.) A genus of climbing plants found in India, Malaya, etc., which have the leaves prolonged into a kind of stout tendril terminating in a pitcherlike appendage…
nepeta		A genus of labiate plants, including the catnip and ground ivy.
nephalism		Total abstinence from spirituous liquor.
nephalist		One who advocates or practices nephalism.
nepheline		A mineral occuring at Vesuvius, in glassy agonal crystals; also elsewhere, in grayish or greenish masses having a greasy luster, as the variety elæolite.
nephelite		A mineral occuring at Vesuvius, in glassy agonal crystals; also elsewhere, in grayish or greenish masses having a greasy luster, as the variety elæolite.
nephelodometer		An instrument for reckoning the distances or velocities of clouds.
nephelometer		An instrument for measuring or registering the amount of cloudiness.
nephew	Obsolete	A grandson or grandchild, or remoter lineal descendant.
nephoscope		An instrument for observing the clouds and their velocity.
nephralgia		Neuralgia of the kidneys; a disease characterized by pain in the region of the kidneys without any structural lesion of the latter.
nephralgy		Neuralgia of the kidneys; a disease characterized by pain in the region of the kidneys without any structural lesion of the latter.
nephridial		of or pertaining to a nephridium.
nephridium		A segmental tubule; one of the tubules of the primitive urinogenital organs; a segmental organ.
nephrite		A hard compact mineral, of a dark green color, formerly worn as a remedy for diseases of the kidneys, whence its name; kidney stone; a kind of jade.
nephritic		Of or pertaining to the kidneys or urinary organs; renal; as, a nephritic disease.
nephritical		Of or pertaining to the kidneys or urinary organs; renal; as, a nephritic disease.
nephritis		An inflammation of the kidneys.
nephrolithic		of or pertaining to gravel, or renal calculi.
nephrology		A treatise on, or the science which treats of, the kidneys, and their structure and functions.
nephrostome		The funnelshaped opening of a nephridium into the body cavity.
nephrotomy		Extraction of stone from the kidney by cutting.
nepotal		Of or relating to a nephew.
nepotic		Of or pertaining to npotism.
nepotism		Undue attachment to relations; favoritism shown to members of one's family; bestowal of patronage in consideration of relationship, rather than of merit or of legal claim.
nepotist		One who practices nepotism.
neptune		(Astron.) The remotest known planet of our system, discovered -- as a result of the computations of Leverrier, of Paris -- by Galle, of Berlin, September 23, 1846.
neptunian		Of or pertaining to the ocean or sea.
neptunicentric		As seen from Neptune, or having Neptune as a center; as, Neptunicentric longitude or force.
neptunist		One who adopts the neptunian theory.
neptunium		A new metallic element, of doubtful genuineness and uncertain indentification, said to exist in certain minerals, as columbite.
ner	Obsolete	nearer. See Nerre.
nere	Obsolete	Were not.
nereidian		Any annelid resembling Nereis, or of the family Lycoridæ or allied families.
nereis		(Zoöl.) A genus, including numerous species, of marine chætopod annelids, having a well-formed head, with two pairs of eyes, antennæ, four pairs of tentacles, and a protrusile pharynx, armed with a pair of hooked jaws.
nereites		Fossil tracks of annelids.
nereocystis		A genus of gigantic seaweeds.
nerita		A genus of marine gastropods, mostly natives of warm climates.
nerite		Any mollusk of the genus Nerita.
neritina		A genus including numerous species of shells resembling Nerita in form.
nerka		The most important salmon of Alaska (Oncorhinchus nerka), ascending in spring most rivers and lakes from Alaska to Oregon, Washington, and Idaho; --called also red salmon, redfish, blueback, and sawqui.
nero		A Roman emperor notorius for debauchery and barbarous cruelty; hence, any profligate and cruel ruler or merciless tyrant. -- Ne*ro"ni*an, a.
nero-antico		A beautiful black marble found in fragments among Roman ruins, and usually thought to have come from ancient Laconia.
neroli		An essential oil obtained by distillation from the flowers of the orange.
nervation		The arrangement of nerves and veins, especially those of leaves; neuration.
nerve		(Anat.) One of the whitish and elastic bundles of fibers, with the accompanying tissues, which transmit nervous impulses between nerve centers and various parts of the animal body.
nerve-shaken		Affected by a tremor, or by a nervous disease; weakened; overcome by some violent influence or sensation; shoked.
nerved		Having nerves of a special character; as, weak-nerved.
nerveless		Destitute of strength or of courage; wanting vigor; weak; powerless.
nervelessness		The state of being nerveless.
nervimotion		The movement caused in the sensory organs by external agents and transmitted to the muscles by the nerves.
nervimotor		Any agent capable of causing nervimotion.
nervine		Having the quality of acting upon or affecting the nerves; quieting nervous excitement. -- n.
nervomuscular		Of or pertaining to both nerves and muscles; of the nature of nerves and muscles; as, nervomuscular energy.
nervose		Same as Nerved.
nervosity		Nervousness.
nervous		possessing nerve; sinewy; strong; vigorous.
nervously		In a nervous manner.
nervousness		State or quality of being nervous.
nervure		(Bot.) One of the nerves of leaves.
nervy		Strong; sinewy.
nescience		Want of knowledge; ignorance; agnosticism.
nesh	Obsolete	Soft; tender; delicate.
ness		A promontory; a cape; a headland.
nesslerize		To treat or test, as a liquid, with a solution of mercuric iodide in potassium iodide and potassium hydroxide, which is called Nessler's solution or Nessler's test, and is used to detect the presence of ammonia.
nest		The bed or receptacle prepared by a fowl for holding her eggs and for hatching and rearing her young.
nestful		As much or many as will fill a nest.
nestle		To lie close and snug, as a bird in her nest; to cuddle up; to settle, as in a nest; to harbor; to take shelter.
nestling		A young bird which has not abandoned the nest.
nestor		A genus of parrots with gray heads. of New Zeland and papua, allied to the cockatoos.
nestorian		An adherent of Nestorius, patriarch of Constantinople to the fifth century, who has condemned as a heretic for maintaining that the divine and the human natures were not merged into one nature in Christ (who was God in man), and…
nestorianism		The doctrines of the nestorian Christians, or of Nestorius.
net		A fabric of twine, thread, or the like, wrought or woven into meshes, and used for catching fish, birds, butterflies, etc.
net-veined		Having veins, or nerves, reticulated or netted; as, a net- veined wing or leaf.
netfish		An astrophyton.
nether		Situated down or below; lying beneath, or in the lower part; having a lower position; belonging to the region below; lower; under; -- opposed to upper.
nethermore	Obsolete	Lower, nether.
nethermost		Lowest; as, the nethermost abyss.
nethinim		Servants of the priests and Levites in the menial services about the tabernacle and temple.
netify		To render neat; to clean; to put in order.
netsuke		In Japanese costume and decorative art, a small object carved in wood, ivory, bone, or horn, or wrought in metal, and pierced with holes for cords by which it is connected, for convenience, with the inro…
netting		The act or process of making nets or network, or of forming meshes, as for fancywork, fishing nets, etc.
nettle		A plant of the genus Urtica, covered with minute sharp hairs containing a poison that produces a stinging sensation.
nettlebird	English dialect	the European whitethroat.
nettler		One who nettles.
nettles		(a) The halves of yarns in the unlaid end of a rope twisted for pointing or grafting.
nettling		(a) A process (resembling splicing) by which two ropes are jointed end so as to form one rope.
netty		Like a net, or network; netted.
network		A fabric of threads, cords, or wires crossing each other at certain intervals, and knotted or secured at the crossings, thus leaving spaces or meshes between them.
neufchatel		A kind of soft sweet-milk cheese; -- so called from Neufchâtel- en-Bray in France.
neurad		Toward the neural side; -- opposed to hæmad.
neural		relating to the nerves or nervous system; taining to, situated in the region of, or on the side with, the neural, or cerebro-spinal, axis; -- opposed to hemal.
neuralgia		A disease, the chief symptom of which is a very acute pain, exacerbating or intermitting, which follows the course of a nervous branch, extends to its ramifications, and seems therefore to be seated in the nerve.
neuralgic		of or pertaining to, or having the character of, neuralgia; as, a neuralgic headache.
neuralgy		Neuralgia.
neurapophysial		of or pertaining to a neurapophysis.
neurapophysis		(a) One of the two lateral processes or elements which form the neural arch.
neurasthenia		A condition of nervous debility supposed to be dependent upon impairment in the functions of the spinal cord.
neuration		The arrangement or distribution of nerves, as in the leaves of a plant or the wings of an insect; nervation.
neuraxis		See Axis cylinder, under Axis.
neurenteric		Of or pertaining to both the neuron and the enteron; as, the neurenteric canal, which, in embroys of many vertebrates, connects the medullary tube and the primitive intestine.
neuridin		a nontoxic base, C5H14N2, found in the putrescent matters of flesh, fish, decaying cheese, etc.
neurilemma		(a) The delicate outer sheath of a nerve fiber; the primitive sheath. (b) The perineurium.
neurility		The special properties and functions of the nerves; that capacity for transmitting a stimulus which belongs to nerves.
neurine		A poisonous organic base (a ptomaine) formed in the decomposition of protagon with boiling baryta water, and in the putrefraction of proteid matter.
neurism		Nerve force. See Vital force, under Vital.
neuritis		Inflammation of a nerve.
neuro-		A combining denoting a nerve, of or pertaining to a nerve or the nervous system.
neuro-central		Between the neural arch and the centrum of a vertebra; as, the neurocentral suture.
neuro-epidermal		Pertaining to, or giving rise to, the central nervous system and epiderms; as, the neuroepidermal, or epiblastic, layer of the blastoderm.
neurocele		The central canal and ventricles of the spinal cord and brain; the myelencephalic cavity.
neurochord		See Neurocord — a cordlike organ composed of elastic fibers situated above the ventral nervous cord of annelids, like the earthworm. -- Neu`ro*cor"dal, a.
neurochordal		See Neurocord — a cordlike organ composed of elastic fibers situated above the ventral nervous cord of annelids, like the earthworm. -- Neu`ro*cor"dal, a.
neurocity		Nerve force.
neurocoele		The central canal and ventricles of the spinal cord and brain; the myelencephalic cavity.
neurocord		A cordlike organ composed of elastic fibers situated above the ventral nervous cord of annelids, like the earthworm. -- Neu`ro*cor"dal, a.
neuroglia		The delicate connective tissue framework which supports the nervous matter and blood vessels of the brain and spinal cord.
neurography		A description of the nerves.
neurokeratin		A substance, resembling keratin, present in nerve tissue, as in the sheath of the axis cylinder of medullated nerve fibers.
neurological		Of or pertaining to neurolgy.
neurologist		One who is versed in neurology; also, one skilled in the treatment of nervous diseases.
neurology		The branch of science which treats of the nervous system.
neuroma		A tumor developed on, or connected with, a nerve, esp. one consisting of new-formed nerve fibers.
neuromere		A metameric segment of the cerebro-spinal nervous system.
neuromuscular		Nervomuscular.
neuron		The brain and spinal cord; the cerebro-spinal axis; myelencephalon.
neuropathic		Of or pertaining to neuropathy; of the nature of, or suffering from, nervous disease.
neuropathy		An affection of the nervous system or of a nerve.
neuropod		A neuropodous animal.
neuropodium		The ventral lobe or branch of a parapodium.
neuropodous		Having the limbs on, or directed toward, the neural side, as in most invertebrates; -- opposed to Ant: hæmapodous.
neuropore		An opening at either end of the embryonic neural canal.
neuropter		One of the Neuroptera.
neuroptera		An order of hexapod insects having two pairs of large, membranous, net-veined wings.
neuropteral		Of or pertaining to the Neuroptera.
neuropteran		A neuropter.
neuropteris		An extensive genus of fossil ferns, of which species have been found from the Devonian to the Triassic formation.
neuropterous		Neuropteral.
neurosensiferous		Pertaining to, or forming, both nerves and sense organs.
neurosis		A functional nervous affection or disease, that is, a disease of the nerves without any appreciable change of nerve structure.
neuroskeletal		Of or pertaining to the neuroskeleton.
neuroskeleton		The deep-seated parts of the vertebrate skeleton which are relation with the nervous axis and locomation.
neurospast		A puppet.
neurotic		Of or pertaining to the nerves; seated in the nerves; nervous; as, a neurotic disease.
neurotome		An instrument for cutting or dissecting nerves.
neurotomical		Of or pertaining to neurotomy.
neurotomist		One who skilled in or practices neurotomy.
neurotomy		The dissection, or anatomy, of the nervous system.
neurula		An embryo or certain invertebrates in the stage when the primitive band is first developed.
neuter		(Gram.) (a) Having a form belonging more especially to words which are not appellations of males or females; expressing or designating that which is of neither sex; as, a neuter noun; a neuter termination; the neuter gender.
neutral		Not engaged on either side; not taking part with or assisting either of two or more contending parties; neuter; indifferent.
neutralist		A neutral; one who professes or practices neutrality.
neutrality		The state or quality of being neutral; the condition of being unengaged in contests between others; state of taking no part on either side; indifference.
neutralization		The act or process of neutralizing, or the state of being neutralized.
neutralize		To render neutral; to reduce to a state of neutrality.
neutralizer		One who, or that which, neutralizes; that which destroys, disguises, or renders inert the peculiar properties of a body.
neutrally		In a neutral manner; without taking part with either side; indifferently.
neutrophil		One of a group of leucocytes whose granules stain only with neutral dyes. -- Neu ic (#), a., Neu*troph"i*lous (#), a.
neutrophile		One of a group of leucocytes whose granules stain only with neutral dyes. -- Neu ic (#), a., Neu*troph"i*lous (#), a.
neuvaines		Prayers offered up for nine successive days.
nevadite		A grantitoid variety of rhyolite, common in Nevada.
neve		The upper part of a glacier, above the limit or perpetual snow. See Galcier.
neven	Obsolete	To name; to mention; to utter.
never		Not ever; not at any time; at no time, whether past, present, or future.
nevermore		Never again; at no time hereafter.
neverthelater	Obsolete	Nevertheless.
nevertheless		Not the less; notwithstanding; in spite of that; yet.
nevew	Obsolete	Nephew. haucer.
new		Having existed, or having been made, but a short time; having originated or occured lately; having recently come into existence, or into one's possession; not early or long in being; of late origin; recent; fresh; modern…
new-model		To remodel.
new-year		Of or pertaining to, or suitable for, the commencement of the year; as, New-year gifts or odes.
newborn		Recently born.
newcome		Recently come.
newcomer		One who has lately come.
newel	Obsolete	A novelty; a new thing.
newfangle	Obsolete	Eager for novelties; desirous of changing.
newfangled		Newmade; formed with the affectation of novelty.
newfangledness		Affectation of, or fondness for, novelty; vain or affected fashion or form.
newfangleness	Obsolete	Newfangledness.
newfanglist	Obsolete	One who is eager for novelties or desirous of change.
newfangly	Obsolete	In a newfangled manner; with eagerness for novelty.
newfashioned		Made in a new form, or lately come into fashion.
newfoundland		An island on the coast of British North America, famed for the fishing grounds in its vicinity.
newing	English dialect	Yeast; barm.
newish		Somewhat new; nearly new.
newly		Lately; recently.
newmarket		A long, closely fitting cloak.
newness		The quality or state of being new; as, the newness of a system; the newness of a scene; newness of life.
news		A report of recent occurences; information of something that has lately taken place, or of something before unknown; fresh tindings; recent intelligence.
news-book	Obsolete	A newspaper.
news-letter		A circular letter, written or printed for the purpose of disseminating news.
news-vnder		A seller of newspapers.
news-writer		One who gathered news for, and wrote, news-letters.
newsboy		A boy who distributes or sells newspaper.
newsman		A man who distributes or sells newspapers.
newsmonger		One who deals in news; one who is active in hearing and telling news.
newspaper		A sheet of paper printed and distributed, at stated intervals, for conveying intelligence of passing events, advocating opinions, etc.; a public print that circulates news, advertisements, proceedings of legislative bodies…
newsroom		A room where news is collected and disseminated, or periodicals sold; a reading room supplied with newspapers, magazines, etc.
newsy	Colloquial	Full of news; abounding in information as to current events.
newt		Any one of several species of small aquatic salamanders.
newtonian		Of or pertaining to Sir Isaac Newton, or his discoveries.
nexible		That may be knit together.
next		Nearest in place; having no similar object intervening.
nexus		Connection; tie.
