nias	Obsolete	A young hawk; an eyas; hence, an unsophisticated person.
nib		A small and pointed thing or part; a point; a prong.
nibbed		Having a nib or point.
nibble		To bite by little at a time; to seize gently with the mouth; to eat slowly or in small bits.
nibbler		One who, or that which, nibbles.
nibblingly		In a nibbling manner; cautiously.
nibelungenlied		A great medieval German epic of unknown authorship containing traditions which refer to the Burgundians at the time of Attila (called Etzel in the poem) and mythological elements pointing to heathen times.
nibelungs		In German mythology, the children of the mist, a race of dwarfs or demonic beings, the original possessors of the famous hoard and ring won by Siegfrid; also, the Burgundian kings in the Nibelungenlied.
niblick		A kind of golf stick used to lift the ball out of holes, ruts, etc.
nicagua		The laughing falcon. See under laughing.
niccolite		A mineral of a copper-red color and metallic luster; an arsenide of nickel; -- called also coppernickel, kupfernickel.
nice		Overscrupulous or exacting; hard to please or satisfy; fastidious in small matters.
nicely		In a nice manner.
nicene		Of or pertaining to Nice, a town of Asia Minor, or to the ecumenial council held there A.
niceness		Quality or state of being nice.
nicety		The quality or state of being nice (in any of the senses of that word.).
niche		A cavity, hollow, or recess, generally within the thickness of a wall, for a statue, bust, or other erect ornament. hence, any similar position, literal or figurative.
niched		Placed in a niche.
nick	Colloquial	An evil spirit of the waters.
nickel		(Chem.) A bright silver-white metallic element.
nickelic		Pertaining to, or containing, nickel; specifically, designating compounds in which, as contrasted with the nickelous compounds, the metal has a higher valence; as nickelic oxide.
nickeliferous		Containing nickel; as, nickelferous iron.
nickeline		(Chem.) An alloy of nickel, a variety of German silver.
nickelodeon		A place of entertainment, as for moving picture exhibition, charging a fee or admission price of five cents.
nickelous		Of, pertaining to, or designating, those compounds of nickel in which, as contrasted with the nickelic compounds, the metal has a lower valence; as, nickelous oxide.
nicker		One of the night brawlers of London formerly noted for breaking windows with half-pence.
nicking		(a) The cutting made by the hewer at the side of the face. (b) pl. Small coal produced in making the nicking.
nickle		The European woodpecker, or yaffle; -- called also nicker pecker.
nicknack		See Knickknack — a trifle or toy; a bawble; a gewgaw.
nicknackery		See Knickknackery — knickknacks.
nickname		A name given in contempt, derision, or sportive familiarity; a familiar or an opprobrious appellation.
nicolaitan		One of certain corrupt persons in the early church at Ephesus, who are censured in rev. ii. 6, 15.
nicotian		Tobacco.
nicotiana		A genus of American and Asiatic solanaceous herbs, with viscid foliage and funnel-shaped blossoms.
nicotianine		A white waxy substance having a hot, bitter taste, extracted from tobacco leaves and called also tobacco camphor.
nicotic		Nicotinic.
nicotidine		A complex, oily, nitrogenous base, isomeric with nicotine, and obtained by the reduction of certain derivatives of the pyridine group.
nicotine		An alkaloid which is the active principle of tobacco.
nicotinic		Pertaining to, or derived from, nicotine; nicotic; -- used specifically to designate an acid related to pyridine, obtained by the oxidation of nicotine, and called nicotinic acid.
nicotinism		The morbid condition produced by the excessive use of tobacco.
nictate		To wink; to nictitate.
nictation		the act of winking; nictitation.
nictitate		To wink; to nictate.
nictitation		The act of winking.
nidamental		of, pertaining to, or baring, eggs or egg capsules; as, the nidament capsules of certain gastropods; nidamental glands.
nidary		A collection of nests. velyn.
nide	Obsolete	A nestful; a brood; as, a nide of pheasants.
nidering	Obsolete	Infamous; dastardly.
nidgery	Obsolete	A trifle; a piece of foolery.
nidget	Obsolete	A fool; an idiot, a coward.
nidificate		To make a nest.
nidification		The act or process of building a nest.
niding	Obsolete	A coward; a dastard; -- a term of utmost opprobrium.
nidor	Obsolete	Scent or savor of meat or food, cooked or cooking.
nidorose		Nidorous.
nidorous		Resembling the smell or taste of roast meat, or of corrupt animal matter.
nidulant		Nestling, as a bird in itss nest.
nidulate		To make a nest, as a bird.
nidulation		The time of remaining in the nest.
nidulite		A Silurian fossil, formerly supposed to consist of eggs.
nidus		A nest: a repository for the eggs of birds, insects, etc.; a breeding place; esp., the place or substance where parasites or the germs of a disease effect lodgment or are developed.
niece	Obsolete	A relative, in general; especially, a descendant, whether male or female; a granddaughter or a grandson.
nief		See Neif, the fist.
niellist		One who practices the style of ornamentation called niello.
niello		A metallic alloy of a deep black color.
nifle	Obsolete	A trifle.
niggard		A person meanly close and covetous; one who spends grudgingly; a stingy, parsimonous fellow; a miser.
niggardise	Obsolete	Niggardliness.
niggardish		Somewhat niggard.
niggardliness		The quality or state of being niggard; meanness in giving or spending; parsimony; stinginess.
niggardly		Meanly covetous or avarcious in dealing with others; stingy; niggard.
niggardness		Niggardliness.
niggardous	Obsolete	Niggardly.
niggardship	Obsolete	Niggardliness.
niggardy	Obsolete	Niggardliness.
nigged		Hammer-dressed; -- said of building stone.
nigger		A negro; -- in vulgar derision or depreciation.
niggerhead		A strong black chewing tobacco, usually in twisted plug form; negro head.
niggish	Obsolete	Niggardly.
niggle	English dialect	To act or walk mincingly.
niggler		One who niggles.
niggling		Finicky or pottering work; specif. (Fine Arts), minute and very careful workmanship in drawing, painting, or the like, esp. when bestowed on unimportant detail.
nigh		Not distant or remote in place or time; near.
nighly	Obsolete	In a near relation in place, time, degree, etc.; within a little; almost.
nighness		The quality or state of being nigh.
night		That part of the natural day when the sun is beneath the horizon, or the time from sunset to sunrise; esp., the time between dusk and dawn, when there is no light of the sun, but only moonlight, starlight, or artificial light.
night-blooming		Blooming in the night.
night-eyed		Capable of seeing at night; sharp-eyed.
night-faring		Going or traveling in the night.
nightcap		A cap worn in bed to protect the head, or in undress.
nightdress		A nightgown.
nighted		Darkness; clouded.
nightertale	Obsolete	period of night; nighttime.
nightfall		The close of the day.
nightgown		A loose gown used for undress; also, a gown used for a sleeping garnment.
nightingale		(Zoöl.) A small, plain, brown and gray European song bird (Luscinia luscinia).
nightish		Of or pertaining to night.
nightjar		A goatsucker, esp. the European species. See Illust. of Goatsucker.
nightless		Having no night.
nightlong		Lasting all night.
nightly		Of or pertaining to the night, or to every night; happening or done by night, or every night; as, nightly shades; he kept nightly vigils.
nightman		One whose business is emptying privies by night.
nightmare		A fiend or incubus formerly supposed to cause trouble in sleep.
nightshade		A common name of many species of the genus Solanum, given esp. to the Solanum nigrum, or black nightshade, a low, branching weed with small white flowers and black berries reputed to be poisonous.
nightshirt		A kind of nightgown for men.
nighttime		The time from dusk to dawn; -- opposed to Ant: daytime.
nightward		Approaching toward night.
nigraniline		The complex, nitrogenous, organic base and dyestuff called also aniline black.
nigrescent		Growing black; changing to a black color; approaching to blackness.
nigrification		The act or process of making black.
nigrine		A ferruginous variety of rutile.
nigritic		Pertaining to, or having the characteristics of, negroes, or of the Negritos, Papuans, and the Melanesian races; negritic.
nigritude		Blackness; the state of being black.
nigromancie	Obsolete	Necromancy.
nigromancien	Obsolete	A necromancer.
nigrosine		A dark blue dyestuff, of the induline group; -- called also azodiphenyl blue.
nigua		The chigoe.
nihil		Nothing.
nihilism		Nothingness; nihility.
nihilist		One who advocates the doctrine of nihilism; one who believes or teaches that nothing can be known, or asserted to exist.
nihilistic		Of, pertaining to, or characterized by, nihilism.
nihility		Nothingness; a state of being nothing.
nil	Obsolete	Will not.
nile	English dialect	The great river of Egypt.
nilgau		see Nylghau — a large Asiatic antelope (Boselaphus, or Portax, tragocamelus), found in Northern India.
nill		Shining sparks thrown off from melted brass.
nilometer		An instrument for measuring the rise of water in the Nile during its periodical flood.
niloscope		A Nilometer.
nilotic		Of or pertaining to the river Nile; as, the Nilotic crocodile.
nilt	Obsolete	Wilt not.
nim	Obsolete	To take; to steal; to filch.
nimbiferous		Serving to bring clouds or stormy weather.
nimble		Light and quick in motion; moving with ease and celerity; lively; swift.
nimbleness		The quality of being nimble; lightness and quickness in motion; agility; swiftness.
nimbless	Obsolete	Nimbleness.
nimbly		In a nimble manner; with agility; with light, quick motion.
nimbose		Cloudy; stormy; tempestuous.
nimbus		(Fine Arts) A circle, or disk, or any indication of radiant light around the heads of divinities, saints, and sovereigns, upon medals, pictures, etc.; a halo.
nimiety		State of being in excess.
nimious	Obsolete	Excessive; extravagant; inordinate.
nimmer	Obsolete	A thief.
nincompoop		A fool; a silly or stupid person.
nine		Eight and one more; one less than ten; as, nine miles.
nine-bark		A white-flowered rosaceous shrub (Neillia, or Spiræa, opulifolia), common in the Northern United States.
nine-eyes		The lamprey.
nine-killer		The northern butcher bird.
ninefold		Nine times repeated.
nineholes		A game in which nine holes are made in the ground, into which a ball is bowled.
ninepence		An old English silver coin, worth nine pence.
ninepins		A game played with nine pins, or pieces of wood, set on end, at which a wooden ball is bowled to knock them down; bowling.
ninescore		Nine times twenty, or one hundred and eighty. -- n.
nineteen		Nine and ten; eighteen and one more; one less than twenty; as, nineteen months.
nineteenth		Following the eighteenth and preceding the twentieth; coming after eighteen others.
ninetieth		Next in order after the eighty-ninth.
ninety		Nine times ten; eighty-nine and one more; as, ninety men.
ninny		A fool; a simpleton.
ninnyhammer	Colloquial	A simpleton; a silly person.
ninth		Following the eight and preceding the tenth; coming after eight others.
ninthly		In the ninth place.
ninut	English dialect	The magpie.
niobate		Same as Columbate.
niobe		The daughter of Tantalus, and wife of Amphion, king of Thebes.
niobic		Same as Columbic.
niobite		Same as Columbite.
niobium		A later name of columbium. See Columbium.
niopo		A kind of snuff prepared by the natives of Venezuela from the roasted seeds of a leguminous tree (Piptadenia peregrina), thence called niopo tree.
nip		A sip or small draught; esp., a draught of intoxicating liquor; a dram.
nipper		One who, or that which, nips.
nipperkin	Obsolete	A small cup.
nippers		Small pinchers for holding, breaking, or cutting.
nipping		Biting; pinching; painful; destructive; as, a nipping frost; a nipping wind.
nippingly		In a nipping manner.
nippitate		Peculiary strong and good; -- said of ale or liquor.
nippitato		Strong liquor.
nipple		(Anat.) The protuberance through which milk is drawn from the breast or mamma; the mammilla; a teat; a pap.
nipplewort		A yellow-flowered composite herb (Lampsana communis), formerly used as an external application to the nipples of women; -- called also dock-cress.
nirvana		In the Buddhist system of religion, the final emancipation of the soul from transmigration, and consequently a beatific enfrachisement from the evils of wordly existence, as by annihilation or absorption into the divine.
nisan		The first month of the jewish ecclesiastical year, formerly answering nearly to the month of April, now to March, of the Christian calendar.
nisey	Obsolete	A simpleton.
nisi		Unless; if not.
niste	Obsolete	Wist not; knew not.
nisus		A striving; an effort; a conatus.
nit		The egg of a louse or other small insect.
nitency		Brightness; luster.
niter		(Chem.) A white crystalline semitransparent salt; potassium nitrate; saltpeter.
nithing		See Niding — a coward; a dastard; -- a term of utmost opprobrium.
nitid		Bright; lustrous; shining.
nitranilic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, a complex organic acid produced as a white crystalline substance by the action of nitrous acid on hydroquinone.
nitraniline		Any one of a series of nitro derivatives of aniline.
nitrate		A salt of nitric acid.
nitrated		(Chem.) Combined, or impregnated, with nitric acid, or some of its compounds.
nitratine		A mineral occurring in transparent crystals, usually of a white, sometimes of a reddish gray, or lemon-yellow, color; native sodium nitrate.
nitre		(Chem.) A white crystalline semitransparent salt; potassium nitrate; saltpeter.
nitriary		An artificial bed of animal matter for the manufacture of niter by nitrification.
nitric		Of, pertaining to, or containing, nitrogen; specifically, designating any one of those compounds in which, as contrasted with nitrous compounds, the element has a higher valence; as, nitric oxide; nitric acid.
nitride		A binary compound of nitrogen with a more metallic element or radical; as, boric nitride.
nitriferous		Bearing niter; yielding, or containing, niter.
nitrification		(Chem.) (a) The act, process, or result of combining with nitrogen or some of its compounds.
nitrifier		An agent employed in nitrification.
nitrify		To combine or impregnate with nitrogen; to convert, by oxidation, into nitrous or nitric acid; to subject to, or produce by, nitrification.
nitrile		Any one of a series of cyanogen compounds; particularly, one of those cyanides of alcohol radicals which, by boiling with acids or alkalies, produce a carboxyl acid, with the elimination of the nitrogen as ammonia.
nitrite		A salt of nitrous acid.
nitro-		A combining form or an adjective denoting the presence of niter.
nitro-chloroform		Same as Chlorpicrin.
nitrobenzene		A yellow aromatic liquid (C6H5.NO2), produced by the action of nitric acid on benzene, and called from its odor imitation oil of bitter almonds, or essence of mirbane.
nitrobenzol		See Nitrobenzene — a yellow aromatic liquid (C6H5.NO2), produced by the action of nitric acid on benzene, and called from its odor imitation oil of bitter almonds, or essence of mirbane.
nitrobenzole		See Nitrobenzene — a yellow aromatic liquid (C6H5.NO2), produced by the action of nitric acid on benzene, and called from its odor imitation oil of bitter almonds, or essence of mirbane.
nitrocalcite		Nitrate of calcium, a substance having a grayish white color, occuring in efforescences on old walls, and in limestone caves, especially where there exists decaying animal matter.
nitrocarbol		See Nitromethane — a nitro derivative of methane obtained as a mobile liquid; -- called also nitrocarbol.
nitrocellulose		See Gun cotton, under Gun.
nitroform		A nitro derivative of methane, analogous to chloroform, obtained as a colorless oily or crystalline substance, CH.(NO2)3, quite explosive, and having well-defined acid properties.
nitrogelatin		An explosive consisting of gun cotton and camphor dissolved in nitroglycerin.
nitrogen		A colorless nonmetallic element, tasteless and odorless, comprising four fifths of the atmosphere by volume.
nitrogenize		To combine, or impregnate, with nitrogen or its compounds.
nitrogenous		of, pertaining to, or resembling, nitrogen; as, a nitrogenous principle; nitrogenous compounds.
nitroglycerin		A liquid appearing like a heavy oil, colorless or yellowish, and consisting of a mixture of several glycerin salts of nitric acid, and hence more properly called glycerin nitrate.
nitrohydrochloric		Of, pertaining to, or containing, nitric and hydrochloric acids.
nitrol		Any one of a series of hydrocarbons containing the nitro and the nitroso or isonitroso group united to the same carbon atom.
nitroleum		Nitroglycerin.
nitrolic		of, derived from, or designating, a nitrol; as, a nitrolic acid.
nitromagnesite		Nitrate of magnesium, a saline efflorescence closely resembling nitrate of calcium.
nitrometer		An apparatus for determining the amount of nitrogen or some of its compounds in any substance subjected to analysis; an azotometer.
nitromethane		A nitro derivative of methane obtained as a mobile liquid; -- called also nitrocarbol.
nitromuriatic		Of, pertaining to, or composed of, nitric acid and muriatic acid; nitrohydrochloric.
nitrophnol		Any one of a series of nitro derivatives of phenol.
nitroprussic		Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, a complex acid called nitroprussic acid, obtained indirectly by the action of nitric acid on potassium ferrocyanide (yellow prussiate), as a red crystalline unstable substance.
nitroprusside		See Nitroprussic — pertaining to, derived from, or designating, a complex acid called nitroprussic acid, obtained indirectly by the action of nitric acid on potassium ferrocyanide (yellow prussiate)…
nitroquinol		A hypothetical nitro derivative of quinol or hydroquinone, not known in the free state, but forming a well defined series of derivatives.
nitrosaccharin		An explosive nitro derivative of certain sugars, analogous to nitroglycerin, gun cotton, etc.
nitrosalicylic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, a nitro derivative of salicylic acid, called also anilic acid.
nitrose		See Nitrous — of, pertaining to, or containing, niter; of the quality of niter, or resembling it.
nitroso-		(. (Chem.) A prefix (also used adjectively) designating the group or radical NO, called the nitroso group, or its compounds.
nitrosyl		the radical NO, called also the nitroso group.
nitrosylic		Of, pertaining to, or containing, nitrosyl; as, nitrosylic acid.
nitrous		Of, pertaining to, or containing, niter; of the quality of niter, or resembling it.
nitroxyl		The group NO2, usually called the nitro group.
nitry	Obsolete	Nitrous.
nitryl		A name sometimes given to the nitro group or radical.
nitter		The horselouse; an insect that deposits nits on horses.
nittily	Obsolete	Lousily.
nittings		The refuse of good ore.
nitty	Obsolete	Full of nits.
nival	Obsolete	Abounding with snow; snowy.
niveous		Snowy; resembling snow; partaking of the qualities of snow.
nivose		The fourth month of the French republican calendar.
nix		One of a class of water spirits, commonly described as of a mischievous disposition.
nixie		See Nix — one of a class of water spirits, commonly described as of a mischievous disposition.
nizam		The title of the native sovereigns of Hyderabad, in India, since 1719.
