no		Not any; not one; none.
noachian		Of or pertaining to the patriarch Noah, or to his time.
noah		A patriarch of Biblical history, in the time of the Deluge.
nob	Low	The head.
nobbily	Slang	In a nobby manner.
nobbler		A dram of spirits.
nobby	Slang	Stylish; modish; elegant; showy; aristocratic; fashionable.
nobiliary		Of or pertaining to the nobility.
nobilify	Obsolete	To make noble; to nobiliate.
nobilitate	Obsolete	To make noble; to ennoble; to exalt.
nobilitation	Obsolete	The act of making noble.
nobility		The quality or state of being noble; superiority of mind or of character; commanding excellence; eminence.
noble		Possessing eminence, elevation, dignity, etc.; above whatever is low, mean, degrading, or dishonorable; magnanimous; as, a noble nature or action; a noble heart.
noble-minded		Having a noble mind; honorable; magnanimous. -- No"ble-mind`ed*ness, n.
nobleman		One of the nobility; a noble; a peer; one who enjoys rank above a commoner, either by virtue of birth, by office, or by patent.
nobleness		The quality or state of being noble; greatness; dignity; magnanimity; elevation of mind, character, or station; nobility; grandeur; stateliness.
nobless		The nobility; persons of noble rank collectively, including males and females.
noblesse		The nobility; persons of noble rank collectively, including males and females.
noblewoman		A female of noble rank; a peeress.
nobley	Obsolete	The body of nobles; the nobility.
nobly		Of noble extraction; as, nobly born or descended.
nobody		No person; no one; not anybody.
nocake		Indian corn parched, and beaten to powder, -- used for food by the Northern American Indians.
nocent		Doing hurt, or having a tendency to hurt; hurtful; mischievous; noxious; as, nocent qualities.
nocently		Hurtfully; injuriosly.
nocive		Hurtful; injurious.
nock		(Naut.) The upper fore corner of a boom sail or of a trysail.
noctambulation		Somnambulism; walking in sleep.
noctambulism		Somnambulism.
noctambulist		A somnambulist.
noctambulo	Obsolete	A noctambulist.
noctidial		Comprising a night and a day; a noctidial day.
noctiferous	Obsolete	Bringing night.
noctilionid		A South American bat of the genus Noctilio, having cheek pouches and large incisor teeth.
noctiluca		(Old Chem.) That which shines at night; -- a fanciful name for phosphorus.
noctilucin		A fatlike substance in certain marine animals, to which they owe their phosphorescent properties.
noctilucine		Of or pertaining to Noctiluca.
noctilucous		Shining in the night.
noctivagant		Going about in the night; night-wandering.
noctivagation		A roving or going about in the night.
noctivagous		Noctivagant.
noctograph		A kind of writing frame for the blind.
noctuary		A record of what passes in the night; a nightly journal; -- distinguished from diary.
noctuid		Any one of numerous moths of the family Noctuidæ, or Noctuælitæ, as the cutworm moths, and armyworm moths; -- so called because they fly at night. -- a.
noctule		A large European bat (Vespertilio, or Noctulina, altivolans).
nocturn		An office of devotion, or act of religious service, by night.
nocturnal		Of, pertaining to, done or occuring in, the night; as, nocturnal darkness, cries, expedition, etc.; -- opposed to Ant: diurnal.
nocturnally		By night; nightly.
nocturne		A night piece, or serenade.
nocument	Obsolete	Harm; injury; detriment.
nocuous		Hurtful; noxious. -- Noc"u*ous*ly, adv.
nod		To bend or incline the upper part, with a quick motion; as, nodding plumes.
nodal		Of the nature of, or relating to, a node; as, a nodal point.
nodated		Knotted.
nodation		Act of making a knot, or state of being knotted.
nodder		One who nods; a drowsy person.
nodding		Curved so that the apex hangs down; having the top bent downward.
noddle		The head; -- used jocosely or contemptuously.
noddy		(Zoöl.) (a) Any tern of the genus Anous, as A. stolidus. (b) The arctic fulmar (Fulmarus glacialis).
node		Specifically: (a) (Astron.) One of the two points where the orbit of a planet, or comet, intersects the ecliptic, or the orbit of a satellite intersects the plane of the orbit of its primary.
nodical		Of or pertaining to the nodes; from a node to the same node again; as, the nodical revolutions of the moon.
nodosarine		Resembling in form or structure a foraminiferous shell of the genus Nodosaria. -- n.
nodose		Knotty; having numerous or conspicuous nodes.
nodosity		The quality of being knotty or nodose; resemblance to a node or swelling; knottiness.
nodosous	Obsolete	Nodose; knotty; knotted.
nodous	Obsolete	Nodose; knotty; knotted.
nodular		Of, pertaining to, or in the form of, a nodule or knot.
nodule		A rounded mass or irregular shape; a little knot or lump.
noduled		Having little knots or lumps.
nodulose		Having small nodes or knots; diminutively nodose.
nodulous		Having small nodes or knots; diminutively nodose.
noel		Same as Nowel.
noematachograph		An instrument for determining and registering the duration of more or less complex operations of the mind.
noematic	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to the understanding.
noematical	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to the understanding.
noemics		The science of the understanding; intellectual science.
noetian		One of the followers of Noetus, who lived in the third century.
noetic		Of or pertaining to the intellect; intellectual.
noetical		Of or pertaining to the intellect; intellectual.
nof	Obsolete	Not of; nor of.
nog		A kind of strong ale.
noggen	Obsolete	Made of hemp; hence, hard; rough; harsh.
noggin		A small mug or cup.
nogging		Rough brick masonry used to fill in the interstices of a wooden frame, in building.
noiance	Obsolete	Annoyance.
noie	Obsolete	To annoy. See Noy.
noier	Obsolete	An annoyer.
noil		A short or waste piece or knot of wool separated from the longer staple by combing; also, a similar piece or shred of waste silk.
noils		Waste and knots of wool removed by the comb; combings.
noint	Obsolete	To anoint.
noious	Obsolete	Annoying; troublesome.
noise		Sound of any kind.
noiseful	Obsolete	Loud; clamorous.
noiseless		Making, or causing, no noise or bustle; without noise; silent; as, the noiseless foot of time.
noisette		A hybrid rose produced in 1817, by a French gardener, Noisette, of Charleston, South Carolina, from the China rose and the musk rose.
noisily		In a noisy manner.
noisiness		The state or quality of being noisy.
noisome		Noxious to health; hurtful; mischievous; unwholesome; insalubrious; destructive; as, noisome effluvia. xci. 3.
noisy		Making a noise, esp. a loud sound; clamorous; vociferous; turbulent; boisterous; as, the noisy crowd.
nol-pros		To discontinue by entering a nolle prosequi; to decline to prosecute.
nolde	Obsolete	Would not.
nole	Obsolete	The head.
noli-me-tangere		(Bot.) (a) Any plant of a genus of herbs (Impatiens) having capsules which, if touched when ripe, discharge their seeds. -- See Impatiens.
nolition		Adverse action of will; unwillingness; -- opposed to Ant: volition.
noll	Obsolete	The head; the noddle.
nolleity		The state of being unwilling; nolition.
nolt	English dialect	Neat cattle.
noma		See Canker, n., 1.
nomad		One of a race or tribe that has no fixed location, but wanders from place to place in search of pasture or game.
nomade		See Nomad, n.
nomadian		A nomad.
nomadic		Of or pertaining to nomads, or their way of life; wandering; moving from place to place for subsistence; as, a nomadic tribe. -- No*mad"ic*al*ly, adv.
nomadism		The state of being a nomad.
nomadize		To lead the life of a nomad; to wander with flocks and herds for the sake of finding pasturage.
nomancy		The art or practice of divining the destiny of persons by the letters which form their names.
nomarch		The chief magistrate of a nome or nomarchy.
nomarchy		A province or territorial division of a kingdom, under the rule of a nomarch, as in modern Greece; a nome.
nombles		The entrails of a deer; the umbles.
nombril		A point halfway between the fess point and the middle base point of an escutcheon; -- called also navel point.
nome		A province or political division, as of modern Greece or ancient Egypt; a nomarchy.
nomen		of Nim — to take; to steal; to filch.
nomenclator		One who calls persons or things by their names.
nomenclatress		A female nomenclator.
nomenclatural		Pertaining or according to a nomenclature.
nomenclature		A vocabulary, dictionary, or glossary.
nomial		A name or term.
nomic		Customary; ordinary; -- applied to the usual English spelling, in distinction from strictly phonetic methods.
nominal		Of or pertaining to a name or names; having to do with the literal meaning of a word; verbal; as, a nominal definition.
nominalism		The principles or philosophy of the Nominalists.
nominalist		One of a sect of philosophers in the Middle Ages, who adopted the opinion of Roscelin, that general conceptions, or universals, exist in name only.
nominalistic		Of or pertaining to the Nominalists.
nominalize	Obsolete	To convert into a noun.
nominally		In a nominal manner; by name; in name only; not in reality.
nominate		To name, or designate by name, for an office or place; to appoint; esp., to name as a candidate for an election, choice, or appointment; to propose by name, or offer the name of, as a candidate for an office or place.
nominately	Obsolete	By name; particularly; namely.
nomination		The act of naming or nominating; designation of a person as a candidate for office; the power of nominating; the state of being nominated.
nominatival		Of or pertaining to the nominative case.
nominative		Giving a name; naming; designating; -- said of that case or form of a noun which stands as the subject of a finite verb. -- n.
nominatively		In the manner of a nominative; as a nominative.
nominator		One who nominates.
nominee		A person named, or designated, by another, to any office, duty, or position; one nominated, or proposed, by others for office or for election to office.
nominor	Obsolete	A nominator.
nomocracy		Government in accordance with a system of law.
nomography		A treatise on laws; an exposition of the form proper for laws.
nomology		The science of law; legislation.
nomopelmous		Having a separate and simple tendon to flex the first toe, or hallux, as do passerine birds.
nomothete		A lawgiver.
nomothetic		Legislative; enacting laws; as, a nomothetical power.
nomothetical		Legislative; enacting laws; as, a nomothetical power.
non		No; not. See No, a.
non-		A prefix used in the sense of not; un-; in-; as in nonattention, or non-attention, nonconformity, nonmetallic, nonsuit.
non-ego		The union of being and relation as distinguished from, and contrasted with, the ego.
non-episcopal		Not Episcopal; not pertaining to the Episcopal church or system.
non-feasance		An omission or neglect to do something, esp. that which ought to have been done.
non-pros		To decline or fail to prosecute; to allow to be dropped (said of a suit); to enter judgment against (a plaintiff who fails to prosecute); as, the plaintiff was non-prossed.
nonability		(Law) An exception taken against a plaintiff in a cause, when he is unable legally to commence a suit.
nonacceptance		A neglect or refusal to accept.
nonacid		Destitute of acid properties; hence, basic; metallic; positive; -- said of certain atoms and radicals.
nonacquaintance		Want of acquaintance; the state of being unacquainted.
nonacquiescence		Refusal of acquiescence; failure to yield or comply.
nonadmission		Failure to be admitted.
nonadult		Not adult; immature.
nonaerobiotic		Capable of living without atmospheric oxygen; anaërobiotic.
nonage		The ninth part of movable goods, formerly payable to the clergy on the death of persons in their parishes.
nonaged		Having the quality of nonage; being a minor; immature.
nonagenarian		A person ninety years old.
nonagesimal		Of or pertaining to the ninetieth degree or to a nonagesimal.
nonagon		A figure or polygon having nine sides and nine angles.
nonagrian		Any moth of the genus Nonagria and allied genera, as the spindleworm and stalk borer.
nonalienation		Failure to alienate; also, the state of not being alienated.
nonane		One of a group of metameric hydrocarbons C9H20 of the paraffin series; -- so called because of the nine carbon atoms in the molecule.
nonappearance		Default of apperance, as in court, to prosecute or defend; failure to appear.
nonappointment		Neglect of making appointment; failure to receive an appointment.
nonarrival		Failure to arrive.
nonattendance		A failure to attend; omission of attendance; nonappearance.
nonattention		Inattention.
nonbituminous		Containing no bitumen; not bituminous.
nonce		The one or single occasion; the present call or purpose; -- chiefly used in the phrase for the nonce.
nonchalance		Indifference; carelessness; coolness.
nonchalant		Indifferent; careless; cool.
nonchalantly		In a nonchalant, indifferent, or careless manner; coolly.
nonclaim		A failure to make claim within the time limited by law; omission of claim.
noncohesion		Want of cohesion.
noncoincidence		Lack of coincidence.
noncoincident		Not coincident.
noncombatant		Any person connected with an army, or within the lines of an army, who does not make it his business to fight, as any one of the medical officers and their assistants, chaplains, and others; also…
noncommissioned		Not having a commission.
noncommittal		A state of not being committed or pledged; forbearance or refusal to commit one's self.
noncommunion		Neglect or failure of communion.
noncompletion		Lack of completion; failure to complete.
noncompliance		Neglect of compliance; failure to comply.
noncomplying		Neglecting or refusing to comply.
nonconcluding		Not concluding.
nonconcur		To dissent or refuse to concur.
nonconcurrence		Refusal to concur.
noncondensible		Not condensible; incapable of being liquefied; -- said of gases.
noncondensing		Not condensing; discharging the steam from the cylinder at a pressure nearly equal to or above that of the atmosphere and not into a condenser.
nonconducting		Not conducting; not transmitting a fluid or force; thus, in electricity, wax is a nonconducting substance.
nonconduction		The quality of not being able to conduct or transmit; failure to conduct.
nonconductor		A substance which does not conduct, that is, convey or transmit, heat, electricity, sound, vibration, or the like, or which transmits them with difficulty; an insulator; as, wool is a nonconductor of heat…
nonconforming		Not conforming; declining conformity; especially, not conforming to the established church of a country.
nonconformist		One who does not conform to an established church; especially, one who does not conform to the established church of England; a dissenter.
nonconformity		Neglect or failure of conformity; especially, in England, the neglect or refusal to unite with the established church in its rites and modes of worship.
nonconstat		It does not appear; it is not plain or clear; it does not follow.
noncontagious		Not contagious; not catching; not communicable by contact. -- Non`con*ta"gious*ness, n.
noncontent		One who gives a negative vote; -- sometimes abridged into noncon. or non con.
noncontributing		Not contributing.
noncontributory		Not contributing.
nonda		The edible plumlike fruit of the Australian tree, Parinarium Nonda.
nondecane		A hydrocarbon of the paraffin series, a white waxy substance, C19H40; -- so called from the number of carbon atoms in the molecule.
nondeciduate		Characterized by the absence of a decidua; indeciduate.
nondelivery		A neglect or failure of delivery; omission of delivery.
nondeposition		A failure to deposit or throw down.
nondescript		Not hitherto described; novel; hence, odd; abnormal; unclassifiable.
nondevelopment		Failure or lack of development.
nondiscovery		Want or failure of discovery.
nondo		A coarse umbelliferous plant (Ligusticum actæifolium) with a large aromatic root.
none		No one; not one; not anything; -- frequently used also partitively, or as a plural, not any.
noneffective		(Mil.) Not fit or available for duty.
nonelastic		Not having elasticity.
nonelect		A person or persons not elected, or chosen, to salvation.
nonelection		Failure of election.
nonelectric		Not electric; conducting electricity.
nonelectrical		Not electric; conducting electricity.
nonemphatic		Having no emphasis; unemphatic.
nonemphatical		Having no emphasis; unemphatic.
nonentity		Nonexistence; the negation of being.
nones		(Roman Cal.) The fifth day of the months January, February, April, June, August, September, November, and December, and the seventh day of March, May, July, and October.
nonessential		Not essential.
nonesuch		A person or thing of a sort that there is no other such; something extraordinary; a thing that has not its equal.
nonet		A composition for nine instruments, rarely for nine voices.
nonett	Obsolete	The titmouse.
nonetto		A composition for nine instruments, rarely for nine voices.
nonexecution		Neglect or failure of execution; nonperformance.
nonexistence		Absence of existence; the negation of being; nonentity.
nonexistent		Not having existence.
nonexportation		A failure of exportation; a not exporting of commodities.
nonextensile		Not extensile; incapable of being stretched.
nonfulfillment		Neglect or failure to fulfill.
nonillion		According to the French and American notation, a thousand octillions, or a unit with thirty ciphers annexed; according to the English notation, a million octillions, or a unit with fifty-four ciphers annexed.
nonimportation		Want or failure of importation; a not importing of commodities.
nonimporting		Not importing; not bringing from foreign countries.
noninflectional		Not admitting of, or characterized by, inflection.
noninhabitant		One who is not an inhabitant; a stranger; a foreigner; a nonresident.
nonintervention		The state or habit of not intervening or interfering; as, the nonintervention of one state in the affairs of another.
nonius		A vernier.
nonjoinder		The omission of some person who ought to have been made a plaintiff or defendant in a suit, or of some cause of action which ought to be joined.
nonjurant		Nonjuring.
nonjuring		Not swearing allegiance; -- applied to the party in Great Britain that would not swear allegiance to William and Mary, or their successors.
nonjuror		One of those adherents of James II. who refused to take the oath of allegiance to William and Mary, or to their successors, after the revolution of 1688; a Jacobite.
nonjurorism		The doctrines, or action, of the Nonjurors.
nonlimitation		Want of limitation; failure to limit.
nonmalignant		Not malignant, as a disease.
nonmanufacturing		Not carrying on manufactures.
nonmedullated		Not medullated; (Anat.) without a medulla or marrow, or without a medullary sheath; as, a nonmedullated nerve fiber.
nonmember		One who is not a member.
nonmembership		State of not being a member.
nonmetal		Any one of the set of elements which, as contrasted with the metals, possess, produce, or receive, acid rather than basic properties; a metalloid; as, oxygen, sulphur, and chlorine are nonmetals.
nonmetallic		(Chem.) Resembling, or possessing the properties of, a nonmetal or metalloid; as, sulphur is a nonmetallic element.
nonmoral		Not moral nor immoral; having no connection with morals; not in the sphere of morals or ethics; not ethical.
nonnatural		Not natural; unnatural.
nonnecessity		Absence of necessity; the quality or state of being unnecessary.
nonnitrognous		Devoid of nitrogen; as, a nonnitrogenous principle; a nonnitrogenous food.
nonnucleated		Without a nucleus.
nonny		A silly fellow; a ninny.
nonobedience		Neglect of obedience; failure to obey.
nonobservance		Neglect or failure to observe or fulfill.
nonoic		Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, nonane; as, nonoic acid, which is also called pelargonic acid.
nonone		Any one of several metameric unsaturated hydrocarbons (C9H14) of the valylene series.
nonoxygenous		Without oxygen; characterized by the absence of oxygen; as, a nonoxygenous alkaloid.
nonpareil		Something of unequaled excellence; a peerless thing or person; a nonesuch; -- often used as a name.
nonpayment		Neglect or failure to pay.
nonperformance		Neglect or failure to perform.
nonphotobiotic		Capable of living without light; as, nonphotobiotic plant cells, or cells which habitually live in darkness.
nonplane		Not lying in one plane; -- said of certain curves.
nonplus		A state or condition which daffles reason or confounds judgment; insuperable difficalty; inability to proceed or decide; puzzle; quandary.
nonpreparation		Neglect or failure to prepare; want of preparation.
nonpresentation		Neglect or failure to present; state of not being presented.
nonproduction		A failure to produce or exhibit.
nonprofessional		Not belonging to a profession; not done by, or proceeding from, professional men; contrary to professional usage.
nonproficiency		Want of proficiency; failure to make progress.
nonproficient		One who has failed to become proficient.
nonrecurrent		Not recurring.
nonrecurring		Nonrecurrent.
nonregardance	Obsolete	Want of due regard; disregard; slight.
nonregent		A master of arts whose regency has ceased. See Regent.
nonrendition		Neglect of rendition; the not rendering what is due.
nonresemblance		Want of resemblance; unlikeness; dissimilarity.
nonresidence		The state or condition of being nonresident, Swift.
nonresident		Not residing in a particular place, on one's own estate, or in one's proper place; as, a nonresident clergyman or proprietor of lands.
nonresistance		The principles or practice of a nonresistant; passive obedience; submission to authority, power, oppression, or violence without opposition.
nonresistant		Making no resistance.
nonresisting		Not making resistance.
nonruminant		Not ruminating; as, a nonruminant animal.
nonsane		Unsound; not perfect; as, a person of nonsane memory.
nonsense		That which is not sense, or has no sense; words, or language, which have no meaning, or which convey no intelligible ideas; absurdity.
nonsensical		Without sense; unmeaning; absurb; foolish; irrational; preposterous. -- Non*sen si*cal*ness, n.
nonsensitive		Not sensitive; wanting sense or perception; not easily affected.
nonsexual		Having no distinction of sex; sexless; neuter.
nonslaveholding		Not possessing or holding slaves; as, a nonslaveholding State.
nonsolution		Failure of solution or explanation.
nonsolvency		Inability to pay debts; insolvency.
nonsolvent		Not solvent; insolvent.
nonsonant		Not sonant. -- n.
nonsparing		Sparing none.
nonstriated		Without striations; unstriped; as, nonstriated muscle fibers.
nonsubmission		Want of submission; failure or refusal to submit.
nonsubmissive		Not submissive.
nonsuch		See Nonesuch — a person or thing of a sort that there is no other such; something extraordinary; a thing that has not its equal.
nonsuit		A neglect or failure by the plaintiff to follow up his suit; a stopping of the suit; a renunciation or withdrawal of the cause by the plaintiff, either because he is satisfied that he can not support it…
nonsurety	Obsolete	Insecurity.
nontenure		A plea of a defendant that he did not hold the land, as affirmed.
nonterm		A vacation between two terms of a court.
nontoxic		Not toxic.
nontronite		A greenish yellow or green mineral, consisting chiefly of the hydrous silicate of iron.
nonuniformist		One who believes that past changes in the structure of the earth have proceeded from cataclysms or causes more violent than are now operating; -- called also nonuniformitarian.
nonunion		Not belonging to, or affiliated with, a trades union; as, a nonunoin carpenter.
nonunionist		One who does not belong, or refuses to belong, to a trades union.
nonusance		Neglect of using; failure to use.
nonuser		A not using; failure to use.
nonvascular		Destitute of vessels; extravascular.
nonvernacular		Not vernacular.
nonvocal		Not vocal; destitute of tone. -- n.
nonyl		The hydrocarbon radical, C9H19, derived from nonane and forming many compounds.
nonylene		Any one of a series of metameric, unsaturated hydrocarbons C9H18 of the ethylene series.
nonylenic		Of, pertaining to, related to, or designating, nonylene or its compounds; as, nonylenic acid.
nonylic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, nonyl or its compounds; as, nonylic acid.
noodle	Low	A simpleton; a blockhead; a stupid person; a ninny.
nooelogical		Of or pertaining to noölogy.
nooelogist		One versed in noölogy.
nooelogy		The science of intellectual phenomena.
nook		A narrow place formed by an angle in bodies or between bodies; a corner; a recess; a secluded retreat.
nook-shotten	Obsolete	Full of nooks, angles, or corners.
noological		Of or pertaining to noölogy.
noologist		One versed in noölogy.
noology		The science of intellectual phenomena.
noon		The middle of the day; midday; the time when the sun is in the meridian; twelve o'clock in the daytime.
noon-flower		The goat's beard, whose flowers close at midday.
noonday		Midday; twelve o'clock in the day; noon.
nooning		A rest at noon; a repast at noon.
noonshun		See Nunchion — a portion of food taken at or after noon, usually between full meals; a luncheon.
noonstead	Obsolete	The position of the sun at noon.
noontide		The time of noon; midday.
noose		A running knot, or loop, which binds the closer the more it is drawn.
noot	Obsolete	See lst Not.
nopal		A cactaceous plant (Nopalea cochinellifera), originally Mexican, on which the cochineal insect feeds, and from which it is collected.
nopalry		A plantation of the nopal for raising the cochineal insect.
nope	English dialect	A bullfinch.
nor		A negative connective or particle, introducing the second member or clause of a negative proposition, following neither, or not, in the first member or clause (as or in affirmative propositions follows either).
norbertine		See Premonstrant — a premonstratensian.
norfolk		Short for Norfolk Jacket.
noria		A large water wheel, turned by the action of a stream against its floats, and carrying at its circumference buckets, by which water is raised and discharged into a trough; used in Arabia, China, and elsewhere for irrigating land…
norian		Pertaining to the upper portion of the Laurentian rocks.
norie	English dialect	The cormorant.
norimon		A Japanese covered litter, carried by men.
norite		A granular crystalline rock consisting essentially of a triclinic feldspar (as labradorite) and hypersthene.
norium		A supposed metal alleged to have been discovered in zircon.
norland		The land in the north; north country.
norlander		A northener; a person from the north country.
norm		A rule or authoritative standard; a model; a type.
norma		A norm; a principle or rule; a model; a standard.
normal		According to an established norm, rule, or principle; conformed to a type, standard, or regular form; performing the proper functions; not abnormal; regular; natural; analogical.
normalcy		The quality, state, or fact of being normal; as, the point of normalcy.
normalization		Reduction to a standard or normal state.
normally		In a normal manner.
norman		A wooden bar, or iron pin.
normanism		A Norman idiom; a custom or expression peculiar to the Normans.
norn		(Scandinavian Myth.) One of the three Fates, Past, Present, and Future.
norna		(Scandinavian Myth.) One of the three Fates, Past, Present, and Future.
noropianic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the aromatic series obtained from opianic acid.
norroy		The most northern of the English Kings-at-arms. See King-at- arms, under King.
norse		Of or pertaining to ancient Scandinavia, or to the language spoken by its inhabitants.
norseman		One of the ancient Scandinavians; a Northman.
nortelry	Obsolete	Nurture; education; culture; bringing up.
north		That one of the four cardinal points of the compass, at any place, which lies in the direction of the true meridian, and to the left hand of a person facing the east; the direction opposite to the south.
northeast		The point between the north and east, at an equal distance from each; the northeast part or region.
northeaster		A storm, strong wind, or gale, coming from the northeast.
northeasterly		Pertaining to the northeast; toward the northeast, or coming from the northeast.
northeastern		Of or pertaining to the northeast; northeasterly.
northeastward		Toward the northeast.
northeastwardly		Toward the northeast.
norther		A wind from the north; esp., a strong and cold north wind in Texas and the vicinity of the Gulf of Mexico.
northerliness		The quality or state of being northerly; direction toward the north.
northerly		Of or pertaining to the north; toward the north, or from the north; northern.
northern		Of or pertaining to the north; being in the north, or nearer to that point than to the east or west.
northerner		One born or living in the north.
northernly	Obsolete	Northerly.
northernmost		Farthest north.
northing		(Surv. & Navigation) Distance northward from any point of departure or of reckoning, measured on a meridian; -- opposed to Ant: southing.
northman		One of the inhabitants of the north of Europe; esp., one of the ancient Scandinavians; a Norseman.
northmost		Lying farthest north; northernmost.
northness		A tendency in the end of a magnetic needle to point to the north.
northumbrian		Of or pertaining to Northumberland in England. -- n.
northward		Toward the north; nearer to the north than to the east or west point.
northwardly		Having a northern direction.
northwards		Toward the north, or toward a point nearer to the north than to the east or west point.
northwest		The point in the horizon between the north and west, and equally distant from each; the northwest part or region.
northwester		A storm or gale from the northwest; a strong northwest wind.
northwesterly		Toward the northwest, or from the northwest.
northwestern		Of, pertaining to, or being in, the northwest; in a direction toward the northwest; coming from the northwest; northwesterly; as, a northwestern course.
northwestward		Toward the northwest.
northwestwardly		Toward the northwest.
norwegian		Of or pertaining to Norway, its inhabitants, or its language.
norwegium		A rare metallic element, of doubtful identification, said to occur in the copper-nickel of Norway.
norweyan	Obsolete	Norwegian.
nose		(Anat.) The prominent part of the face or anterior extremity of the head containing the nostrils and olfactory cavities; the olfactory organ.
nosebag		A bag in which feed for a horse, ox, or the like, may be fastened under the nose by a string passing over the head.
noseband		That part of the headstall of a bridle which passes over a horse's nose.
nosebleed		A bleeding at the nose.
nosed		Having a nose, or such a nose; -- chieflay used in composition; as, pug-nosed.
nosegay		A bunch of odorous and showy flowers; a bouquet; a posy.
nosel	Obsolete	To nurse; to lead or teach; to foster; to nuzzle.
noseless		Destitute of a nose.
nosesmart		A kind of cress, a pungent cruciferous plant, including several species of the genus Nasturtium.
nosethirl	Obsolete	Nostril.
nosethril	Obsolete	Nostril.
nosing		That part of the treadboard of a stair which projects over the riser; hence, any like projection, as the projecting edge of a molding.
nosocomial		Of or pertaining to a hospital; as, nosocomial atmosphere.
nosography		A description or classification of diseases.
nosological		Of or pertaining to nosology.
nosologist		One versed in nosology.
nosology		A systematic arrangement, or classification, of diseases.
nosophen		An iodine compound obtained as a yellowish gray, odorless, tasteless powder by the action of iodine on phenolphthalein.
nosophobia		Morbid dread of disease.
nosopoetic		Producing diseases.
nost	Obsolete	Wottest not; knowest not.
nostalgia		Homesickness; esp., a severe and sometimes fatal form of melancholia, due to homesickness.
nostalgic		Of or pertaining to nostalgia; affected with nostalgia.
nostalgy		Same as Nostalgia.
nostoc		A genus of algæ.
nostril		(Anat.) One of the external openings of the nose, which give passage to the air breathed and to secretions from the nose and eyes; one of the anterior nares.
nostrum		A medicine, the ingredients of which are kept secret for the purpose of restricting the profits of sale to the inventor or proprietor; a quack medicine.
not	Obsolete	Wot not; know not; knows not.
not-pated	Obsolete	Same as Nott-headed.
notabilia		Things worthy of notice.
notability		Quality of being notable.
notable		Capable of being noted; noticeable; plan; evident.
notableness		The quality of being notable.
notably		In a notable manner.
notaeum		The back or upper surface, as of a bird.
notal		Of or pertaining to the back; dorsal.
notandum		A thing to be noted or observed; a notable fact; -- chiefly used in the plural.
notarial		Of or pertaining to a notary; done or taken by a notary; as, a notarial seal; notarial evidence or attestation.
notarially		In a notarial manner.
notary		One who records in shorthand what is said or done; as, the notary of an ecclesiastical body.
notate		Marked with spots or lines, which are often colored.
notation		The act or practice of recording anything by marks, figures, or characters.
notch		A hollow cut in anything; a nick; an indentation.
notchboard		The board which receives the ends of the steps in a staircase.
notching		The act of making notches; the act of cutting into small hollows.
notchweed		A foul-smelling weed, the stinking goosefoot (Chenopodium Vulvaria).
note		A mark or token by which a thing may be known; a visible sign; a character; a distinctive mark or feature; a characteristic quality.
notebook		A book in which notes or memorandums are written.
noted		Well known by reputation or report; eminent; celebrated; as, a noted author, or traveler. -- Not ed*ness, n.
noteless		Not attracting notice; not conspicuous.
notelessness		A state of being noteless.
notelet		A little or short note; a billet.
noter		One who takes notice.
noteworthy		Worthy of observation or notice; remarkable.
nother	Obsolete	Neither; nor.
nothing		Not anything; no thing (in the widest sense of the word thing); -- opposed to Ant: anything and Ant: something.
nothingarian		One of no certain belief; one belonging to no particular sect.
nothingism		Nihility; nothingness.
nothingness		Nihility; nonexistence.
notice		The act of noting, remarking, or observing; observation by the senses or intellect; cognizance; note.
noticeable		Capable of being observed; worthy of notice; likely to attract observation; conspicous.
noticeably		In a noticeable manner.
noticer		One who notices.
notidanian		Any one of several species of sharks of the family Notidanidæ, or Hexanchidæ.
notification		The act of notifying, or giving notice; the act of making known; especially, the act of giving official notice or information to the public or to individuals, corporations, companies, or societies, by words, by writing…
notify		To make known; to declare; to publish; as, to notify a fact to a person.
notion		Mental apprehension of whatever may be known or imagined; an idea; a conception; more properly, a general or universal conception, as distinguishable or definable by marks or notæ.
notional		Consisting of, or conveying, notions or ideas; expressing abstract conceptions.
notionality		A notional or groundless opinion.
notionally		In mental apprehension; in conception; not in reality.
notionate		Notional.
notionist		One whose opinions are ungrounded notions.
notist	Obsolete	An annotator.
notobranchiata		(a) A division of nudibranchiate mollusks having gills upon the back. (b) The Dorsibranchiata.
notobranchiate		Of or pertaining to the Notobranchiata.
notochord		An elastic cartilagelike rod which is developed beneath the medullary groove in the vertebrate embryo…
notochordal		Of or pertaining to the notochord; having a notochord.
notodontian		Any one of several species of bombycid moths belonging to Notodonta, Nerice, and allied genera.
notopodium		The dorsal lobe or branch of a parapodium. See Parapodium.
notorhizal		Having the radicle of the embryo lying against the back of one of the cotyledons; incumbent.
notoriety		The quality or condition of being notorious; the state of being generally or publicly known; -- commonly used in an unfavorable sense; as, the notoriety of a crime.
notorious		Generally known and talked of by the public; universally believed to be true; manifest to the world; evident; -- usually in an unfavorable sense; as, a notorious thief; a notorious crime or vice.
notornis		A genus of birds allied to the gallinules, but having rudimentary wings and incapable of flight.
nototherium		An extinct genus of gigantic herbivorous marsupials, found in the Pliocene formation of Australia.
nototrema		The pouched, or marsupial, frog of South America.
notself		The negative of self.
nott-headed	Obsolete	Having the hair cut close.
nott-pated	Obsolete	Same as Nott-headed.
notturno		Same as Nocturne.
notum		The back.
notus		The south wind.
notwheat		Wheat not bearded.
notwithstanding		Without prevention, or obstruction from or by; in spite of.
nouch	Obsolete	An ouch; a jewel.
nougat		A cake, sweetmeat, or confectión made with almonds or other nuts.
nought		See Naught — the arithmetical character 0; a cipher. See Cipher.
nould	Obsolete	Would not.
noule	Obsolete	The top of the head; the head or noll.
noumenal		Of or pertaining to the noumenon; real; -- opposed to phenomenal.
noumenon		The of itself unknown and unknowable rational object, or thing in itself, which is distinguished from the Ant: phenomenon through which it is apprehended by the senses, and by which it is interpreted and understood…
noun		A word used as the designation or appellation of a creature or thing, existing in fact or in thought; a substantive.
nounal		Of or pertaining to a noun.
nounize		To change (an adjective, verb, etc.) into a noun.
nourice	Obsolete	A nurse.
nourish		To feed and cause to grow; to supply with matter which increases bulk or supplies waste, and promotes health; to furnish with nutriment.
nourishable		Capable of being nourished; as, the nourishable parts of the body.
nourisher		One who, or that which, nourishes.
nourishing		Promoting growth; nutritious,
nourishingly		Nutritively; cherishingly.
nourishment		The act of nourishing, or the state of being nourished; nutrition.
nouriture	Obsolete	Nurture.
noursle	Obsolete	To nurse; to rear; to bring up.
nous		Intellect; understanding; talent; -- used humorously.
nousel	Obsolete	To insnare; to entrap.
nousle	Obsolete	To insnare; to entrap.
nouthe	Obsolete	Just now; at present.
nova		A new star, usually appearing suddenly, shining for a brief period, and then sinking into obscurity.
novaculite		A variety of siliceous slate, of which hones are made; razor stone; Turkey stone; hone stone; whet slate.
novatian		One of the sect of Novatius, or Novatianus, who held that the lapsed might not be received again into communion with the church, and that second marriages are unlawful.
novatianism		The doctrines or principles of the Novatians.
novation		(Law) A substitution of a new debt for an old one; also, the remodeling of an old obligation.
novator	Obsolete	An innovator.
novel		Of recent origin or introduction; not ancient; new; hence, out of the ordinary course; unusual; strange; surprising.
novelette		A short novel.
novelism	Obsolete	Innovation.
novelist	Obsolete	An innovator; an asserter of novelty.
novelize		To put into the form of novels; to represent by fiction.
novelry	Obsolete	Novelty; new things.
novelty		The quality or state of being novel; newness; freshness; recentness of origin or introduction.
november		The eleventh month of the year, containing thirty days.
novenary		Of or pertaining to the number nine.
novene		Relating to, or dependent on, the number nine; novenary.
novennial		Done or recurring every ninth year.
novercal		Done or recurring every ninth year.
novice		One who is new in any business, profession, or calling; one unacquainted or unskilled; one yet in the rudiments; a beginner; a tyro.
noviceship		The state of being a novice; novitiate.
novilunar		Of or pertaining to the new moon.
novitiate		The state of being a novice; time of initiation or instruction in rudiments.
novitious	Obsolete	Newly invented; recent; new.
novity	Obsolete	Newness; novelty.
novum	Obsolete	A game at dice, properly called novem quinque (L., nine five), the two principal throws being nine and five.
now		At the present time; at this moment; at the time of speaking; instantly; as, I will write now.
nowadays		In these days; at the present time.
noway		In no manner or degree; not at all; nowise.
noways		In no manner or degree; not at all; nowise.
nowch	Obsolete	See Nouch — an ouch; a jewel.
nowd		The European gray gurnard (Trigla gurnardus).
nowed		Knotted; tied in a knot, as a serpent.
nowel		(Mus.) A kind of hymn, or canticle, of mediæval origin, sung in honor of the Nativity of our Lord; a Christmas carol.
nowes	Obsolete	The marriage knot.
nowhere		Not anywhere; not in any place or state; as, the book is nowhere to be found.
nowhither	Archaic	Not anywhither; in no direction; nowhere. 2 Kings v. 25.
nowise		Not in any manner or degree; in no way; noways.
nowt		Neat cattle.
nowthe	Obsolete	Just now; at present.
noxious		Hurtful; harmful; baneful; pernicious; injurious; destructive; unwholesome; insalubrious; as, noxious air, food, or climate; pernicious; corrupting to morals; as, noxious practices or examples.
noy	Obsolete	To annoy; to vex.
noyade		A drowning of many persons at once, -- a method of execution practiced at Nantes in France during the Reign of Terror, by Jean Baptiste Carrier.
noyance	Obsolete	, Annoyance.
noyau		A cordial of brandy, etc., flavored with the kernel of the bitter almond, or of the peach stone, etc.
noyer	Obsolete	An annoyer.
noyful	Obsolete	Full of annoyance.
noyls		See Noils — waste and knots of wool removed by the comb; combings.
noyous	Obsolete	Annoying; disagreeable.
nozzle		The nose; the snout; hence, the projecting vent of anything; as, the nozzle of a bellows.
