nuance		A shade of difference; a delicate gradation.	
nub	English dialect	To push; to nudge; also, to beckon.	
nubbin	Colloquial	A small or imperfect ear of maize.	
nubble	Obsolete	To beat or bruise with the fist.	
nubecula		(Astron.) (a) A nebula. (b) pl. Specifically, the Magellanic clouds.	
nubia		A light fabric of wool, worn on the head by women; a cloud.	
nubian		Of or pertaining to Nubia in Eastern Africa. -- n.	
nubiferous		Bringing, or producing, clouds.	
nubigenous		Born of, or produced from, clouds.	
nubilate	Obsolete	To cloud.	Latin nubilatus.
nubile		Of an age suitable for marriage; marriageable.	French nubile, from Latin nubilis.
nubility		The state of being marriageable.	
nucament		A catkin or ament; the flower cluster of the hazel, pine, willow, and the like.	
nucamentaceous		Like a nut either in structure or in being indehiscent; bearing one-seeded nutlike fruits.	
nucellus		See Nucleus, 3 (a).	French nucelle, from Latin nux.
nucha		The back or upper part of the neck; the nape.	
nuchal		Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the back, or nape, of the neck; -- applied especially to the anterior median plate in the carapace of turtles.	
nuciferous		Bearing, or producing, nuts.	Latin nux.
nuciform		Shaped like a nut; nut-shaped.	Latin nux.
nucin		See Juglone — a yellow crystalline substance resembling quinone, extracted from green shucks of the walnut (Juglans regia); -- called also nucin.	Latin nux.
nucleal		Of or pertaining to a nucleus; as, the nuclear spindle (see Illust. of Karyokinesis) or the nuclear fibrils of a cell; the nuclear part of a comet, etc.	
nuclear		Of or pertaining to a nucleus; as, the nuclear spindle (see Illust. of Karyokinesis) or the nuclear fibrils of a cell; the nuclear part of a comet, etc.	
nucleate		Having a nucleus; nucleated.	
nucleated		Having a nucleus; nucleate; as, nucleated cells.	
nucleiform		Formed like a nucleus or kernel.	
nuclein		A constituent of the nuclei of all cells.	German Nuclein.
nucleobranch		Belonging to the Nucleobranchiata. -- n.	
nucleobranchiata		See Heteropoda — an order of pelagic Gastropoda, having the foot developed into a median fin.	
nucleoidioplasma		Hyaline plasma contained in the nucleus of vegetable cells.	
nucleolar		Of or pertaining to the nucleolus of a cell.	
nucleolated		Having a nucleole, or second inner nucleus.	
nucleole		The nucleus within a nucleus; nucleolus.	
nucleolus		A little nucleus.	
nucleoplasm		The matter composing the nucleus of a cell; the protoplasm of the nucleus; karyoplasma.	
nucleoplasmic		Of or pertaining to nucleoplasm; -- esp. applied to a body formed in the developing ovum from the plasma of the nucleus of the germinal vesicle.	
nucleus		A kernel; hence, a central mass or point about which matter is gathered, or to which accretion is made; the central or material portion; -- used both literally and figuratively.	Latin nucleus.
nucula		A genus of small marine bivalve shells, having a pearly interior.	
nucule		Same as Nutlet.	Latin nucula.
nucumentaceous		See Nucamentaceous — like a nut either in structure or in being indehiscent; bearing one-seeded nutlike fruits.	
nudation		The act of stripping, or making bare or naked.	Latin nudatio.
nuddle	English dialect	To walk quickly with the head bent forward; -- often with along.	
nude		Bare; naked; unclothed; undraped; as, a nude statue.	
nudge		To touch gently, as with the elbow, in order to call attention or convey intimation.	
nudibrachiate		Having tentacles without vibratile cilia.	
nudibranch		Of or pertaining to the Nudibranchiata. -- n.	
nudibranchiata		A division of opisthobranchiate mollusks, having no shell except while very young.	
nudibranchiate		Same as Nudibranch.	
nudicaul		Having the stems leafless.	
nudification		The act of making nude.	
nudity		The quality or state of being nude; nakedness.	
nugacity		Futility; trifling talk or behavior; drollery.	Latin nugacitas.
nugae		Trifles; jests.	
nugation		The act or practice of trifling.	Latin nugatio.
nugatory		Trifling; vain; futile; insignificant.	Latin nugatorius.
nugget		A lump; a mass, esp. a native lump of a precious metal; as, a nugget of gold.	
nugify		To render trifling or futile; to make silly.	
nuisance		That which annoys or gives trouble and vexation; that which is offensive or noxious.	Anglo-Norman nusaunce.
nuisancer		One who makes or causes a nuisance.	
nul		No; not any; as, nul disseizin; nul tort.	
null		Of no legal or binding force or validity; of no efficacy; invalid; void; nugatory; useless.	Middle French nul, from Latin nullus.
nullah		A water course, esp. a dry one; a gully; a gorge; -- orig. an East Indian term.	
nulled		Turned so as to resemble nulls.	
nullibiety	Obsolete	The state or condition of being nowhere.	
nullification		The act of nullifying; a rendering void and of no effect, or of no legal effect.	
nullifidian		Of no faith; also, not trusting to faith for salvation; -- opposed to Ant: solifidian.	
nullifier		One who nullifies or makes void; one who maintains the right to nullify a contract by one of the parties.	
nullify		To make void; to render invalid; to deprive of legal force or efficacy.	
nullipore		A name for certain crustaceous marine algæ which secrete carbonate of lime on their surface, and were formerly thought to be of animal nature.	
nullity		The quality or state of being null; nothingness; want of efficacy or force.	
numb		Enfeebled in, or destitute of, the power of sensation and motion; rendered torpid; benumbed; insensible; as, the fingers or limbs are numb with cold.	
numbedness	Obsolete	Numbness.	
number		That which admits of being counted or reckoned; a unit, or an aggregate of units; a numerable aggregate or collection of individuals; an assemblage made up of distinct things expressible by figures.	Anglo-Norman noumbre, from Old French nombre, from Latin numerus.
numberer		One who numbers.	
numberful	Obsolete	Numerous.	
numberless		Innumerable; countless.	
numberous	Obsolete	Numerous.	
numbers		of Number — that which admits of being counted or reckoned; a unit, or an aggregate of units; a numerable aggregate or collection of individuals…	
numbfish		The torpedo, which numbs by the electric shocks which it gives.	
numbless		See Nombles — the entrails of a deer; the umbles.	
numbness		The condition of being numb; that state of a living body in which it loses, wholly or in part, the power of feeling or motion.	
numerable		Capable of being numbered or counted.	Latin numerabilis.
numeral		Of or pertaining to number; consisting of number or numerals.	Middle French numeral, from Latin numeralis.
numerally		According to number; in number; numerically.	
numerary		Belonging to a certain number; counting as one of a collection or body.	
numerate		To divide off and read according to the rules of numeration; as, to numerate a row of figures.	Latin numeratus.
numeration		The act or art of reading numbers when expressed by means of numerals.	
numerative		Of or pertaining to numeration; as, a numerative system.	
numerator		One who numbers.	
numeric	Obsolete	Belonging to number; denoting number; consisting in numbers; expressed by numbers, and not letters; as, numerical characters; a numerical equation; a numerical statement.	French numérique, from Latin numerus.
numerical	Obsolete	Belonging to number; denoting number; consisting in numbers; expressed by numbers, and not letters; as, numerical characters; a numerical equation; a numerical statement.	
numerically		In a numerical manner; in numbers; with respect to number, or sameness in number; as, a thing is numerically the same, or numerically different.	
numerist	Obsolete	One who deals in numbers.	
numero		Number; -- often abbrev.	
numerosity	Obsolete	The state of being numerous; numerousness.	
numerous		Consisting of a great number of units or individual objects; being many; as, a numerous army.	
numidian		Of or pertaining to ancient Numidia in Northern Africa.	
numismatic		Of or pertaining to coins; relating to the science of coins or medals.	
numismatical		Of or pertaining to coins; relating to the science of coins or medals.	
numismatics		The science of coins and medals.	French numismatique, from Latin numisma.
numismatist		One skilled in numismatics; a numismatologist.	
numismatography		A treatise on, or description of, coins and medals.	
numismatologist		One versed in numismatology.	
numismatology		The science which treats of coins and medals, in their relation to history; numismatics.	
nummary		Of or relating to coins or money.	Latin nummarius.
nummular		Of or pertaining to coin or money; pecuniary; as, the nummulary talent.	
nummulary		Of or pertaining to coin or money; pecuniary; as, the nummulary talent.	
nummulation		The arrangement of the red blood corpuscles in rouleaux, like piles of coins, as when a drop of human blood is examined under the microscope.	
nummulite		A fossil of the genus Nummulites and allied genera.	
nummulites		A genus of extinct Tertiary Foraminifera, having a thin, flat, round shell, containing a large number of small chambers arranged spirally.	
nummulitic		Of, like, composed of, containing, nummulites; as, nummulitic beds.	
numps	Obsolete	A dolt; a blockhead.	
numskull	Colloquial	A dunce; a dolt; a stupid fellow.	
numskulled	Colloquial	Stupid; doltish.	
nun		A woman devoted to a religious life, who lives in a convent, under the three vows of poverty, chastity, and obedience.	Latin nonna.
nunatak		In Greenland, an insular hill or mountain surrounded by an ice sheet.	Kalaallisut nunataq.
nunchion		A portion of food taken at or after noon, usually between full meals; a luncheon.	
nunciate	Obsolete	One who announces; a messenger; a nuncio.	
nunciature		The office of a nuncio.	Latin nunciare.
nuncio		The permanent official representative of the pope at a foreign court or seat of government.	Latin nuntius.
nuncius		(a) A messenger. (b) The information communicated.	
nuncupate	Obsolete	To declare publicly or solemnly; to proclaim formally.	Latin nuncupatus.
nuncupation	Obsolete	The act of nuncupating.	
nuncupative		Oral; not written.	Latin nuncupativus.
nuncupatory		Nuncupative; oral.	
nundinal		A nundinal letter.	
nundinary		Of or pertaining to a fair, or to a market day.	
nundinate	Obsolete	To buy and sell at fairs or markets.	
nundination	Obsolete	Traffic at fairs; marketing; buying and selling.	Latin nundinatio.
nunnation		The pronunciation of n at the end of words.	
nunnery		A house in which nuns reside; a cloister or convent in which women reside for life, under religious vows.	
nunnish		Of, pertaining to, or resembling a nun; characteristic of a nun. -- Nun"nish*ness, n.	
nup	Obsolete	Same as Nupson.	
nuphar		A genus of plants found in the fresh-water ponds or lakes of Europe, Asia, and North America; the yellow water lily.	
nupson	Obsolete	A simpleton; a fool.	
nuptial		Of or pertaining to marriage; done or used at a wedding; as, nuptial rites and ceremonies.	Latin nuptialis.
nur		A hard knot in wood; also, a hard knob of wood used by boys in playing hockey.	
nuragh		One of the prehistoric towerlike structures found in Sardinia.	
nuraghe		One of the prehistoric towerlike structures found in Sardinia.	
nurl		To cut with reeding or fluting on the edge of, as coins, the heads of screws, etc.; to knurl.	
nurse		One who nourishes; a person who supplies food, tends, or brings up; as: (a) A woman who has the care of young children; especially, one who suckles an infant not her own.	
nursehound		See Houndfish — any small shark of the genus Galeus or Mustelus, of which there are several species, as the smooth houndfish (G. canis), of Europe and America; -- called also houndshark, and dogfish.	
nursemaid		A girl employed to attend children.	
nursepond		A pond where fish are fed.	
nurser		One who nurses; a nurse; one who cherishes or encourages growth.	
nursery		The place where nursing is carried on; as: (a) The place, or apartment, in a house, appropriated to the care of children.	
nurseryman		One who cultivates or keeps a nursery, or place for rearing trees, etc.	
nursing		Supplying or taking nourishment from, or as from, the breast; as, a nursing mother; a nursing infant.	
nursling		One who, or that which, is nursed; an infant; a fondling.	
nurstle	Obsolete	To nurse. See Noursle.	
nurture		The act of nourishing or nursing; thender care; education; training.	Middle English norture.
nustle	Obsolete	To fondle; to cherish.	
nut		(Bot.) The fruit of certain trees and shrubs (as of the almond, walnut, hickory, beech, filbert, etc.), consisting of a hard and indehiscent shell inclosing a kernel.	Middle English nute.
nut-brown		Brown as a nut long kept and dried.	
nutant		Nodding; having the top bent downward.	Latin nutans.
nutation		(Astron.) A very small libratory motion of the earth's axis, by which its inclination to the plane of the ecliptic is constantly varying by a small amount.	
nutbreaker		(a) The European nuthatch. (b) The nutcracker.	
nutcracker		An instrument for cracking nuts.	
nutgall		A more or less round gall resembling a nut, esp. one of those produced on the oak and used in the arts.	
nuthatch		Any one of several species of birds of the genus Sitta, as the European species (Sitta Europæa).	
nuthook		A hook at the end of a pole to pull down boughs for gathering the nuts.	
nutjobber	English dialect	The nuthatch.	
nutlet		A small nut; also, the stone of a drupe.	
nutmeg		The kernel of the fruit of the nutmeg tree (Myristica fragrans), a native of the Molucca Islands, but cultivated elsewhere in the tropics.	
nutmegged		Seasoned with nutmeg.	
nutpecker		The nuthatch.	
nutria		The fur of the coypu. See Coypu.	
nutrication	Obsolete	The act or manner of feeding.	Latin nutricatio.
nutrient		Nutritious; nourishing; promoting growth. -- n.	Latin nutriens.
nutriment		That which nourishes; anything which promotes growth and repairs the natural waste of animal or vegetable life; food; aliment.	
nutrimental		Nutritious.	
nutritial	Obsolete	Pertaining to, or connected with, nutrition; nutritious.	
nutrition		(Physiol.) In the broadest sense, a process or series of processes by which the living organism as a whole (or its component parts or organs) is maintained in its normal condition of life and growth.	
nutritional		Of or pertaining to nutrition; as, nutritional changes.	
nutritious		Nourishing; promoting growth, or preventing decay; alimental. -- Nu*tri tious*ness, n.	
nutritive		Of or pertaining to nutrition; as, the nutritive functions; having the quality of nourishing; nutritious; nutrimental; alimental; as, nutritive food or berries.	Middle French nutritif, from Latin nutritivus.
nutriture	Obsolete	Nutrition; nourishment.	Latin nutritura.
nutshell		The shell or hard external covering in which the kernel of a nut is inclosed.	
nutter		A gatherer of nuts.	
nutting		The act of gathering nuts.	
nutty		Having a flavor like that of nuts; as, nutty wine.	
nuzzle		To work with the nose, like a swine in the mud.	
