ny	Obsolete	Not I; nor I.	
nyas		See Nias — a young hawk; an eyas; hence, an unsophisticated person.	
nyctalopia		(a) A disease of the eye, in consequence of which the patient can see well in a faint light or at twilight, but is unable to see during the day or in a strong light; day blindness.	
nyctalops		One afflicted with nyctalopia.	
nyctalopy		Same as Nyctalopia.	
nycthemeron		The natural day and night, or space of twenty-four hours.	
nyctibune		A South American bird of the genus Nyctibius, allied to the goatsuckers.	
nyctitropic		Turning or bending at night into special positions.	
nyctitropism		The tendency of certain plant organs, as leaves, to assume special positions or make curvatures under the influence of darkness.	
nyctophile		Any Australian bat of the genus Nyctophilus, having a very simple nasal appendage.	
nyentek		A carnivorous mannual (Helictis moscatus, or H. orientalis), native of Eastern Asia and the Indies.	
nylgau		A large Asiatic antelope (Boselaphus, or Portax, tragocamelus), found in Northern India.	
nylghau		A large Asiatic antelope (Boselaphus, or Portax, tragocamelus), found in Northern India.	
nymph		Hence: A lovely young girl; a maiden; a damsel.	French nimphe, from Latin nympha, from Greek νύμφη.
nympha		pl. (Anat.) Two folds of mucous membrane, within the labia, at the opening of the vulva.	Latin nympha, from Greek νύμφη.
nymphaea		A genus of aquatic plants having showy flowers (white, blue, pink, or yellow, often fragrant), including the white water lily and the Egyptia lotus.	Latin nymphaea, from Greek νυμφαία.
nymphal		Of or pertaining to a nymph or nymphs; nymphean.	
nymphales		An extensive family of butterflies including the nymphs, the satyrs, the monarchs, the heliconias, and others; -- called also brush-footed butterflies.	
nymphean		Of, pertaining to, or appropriate to, nymphs; inhabited by nymphs; as, a nymphean cave.	
nymphet	Poetic	A little or young nymph.	
nymphic		Of or pertaining to nymphs.	
nymphical		Of or pertaining to nymphs.	
nymphiparous		Producing pupas or nymphs.	
nymphish		Relating to nymphs; ladylike.	
nymphlike		Resembling, or characteristic of, a nymph.	
nymphly		Resembling, or characteristic of, a nymph.	
nympholepsy		A species of demoniac enthusiasm or possession coming upon one who had accidentally looked upon a nymph; ecstasy.	
nympholeptic	Poetic	Under the influence of nympholepsy; ecstatic; frenzied.	
nymphomania		Morbid and uncontrollable sexual desire in women, constituting a true disease.	
nymphomany		Same as Nymphomania.	
nymphotomy		Excision of the nymphæ.	
nys		Is not. See Nis.	
nystagmus		A rapid involuntary oscillation of the eyeballs.	
nyula		A species of ichneumon (Herpestes nyula).	
