oad	Obsolete	See Woad — (Bot.) An herbaceous cruciferous plant (Isatis tinctoria).	
oaf		Originally, an elf's child; a changeling left by fairies or goblins; hence, a deformed or foolish child; a simpleton; an idiot.	
oafish		Like an oaf; simple. -- Oaf"ish*ness, n.	
oak		(Bot.) Any tree or shrub of the genus Quercus.	Middle English ook, from Old English ac.
oaken		Made or consisting of oaks or of the wood of oaks.	Middle English oken, from Old English acen.
oaker	Obsolete	See Ocher — (a) A impure earthy ore of iron or a ferruginous clay, usually red (hematite) or yellow (limonite), -- used as a pigment in making paints…	
oakling		A young oak.	
oakum		The material obtained by untwisting and picking into loose fiber old hemp ropes; -- used for calking the seams of ships, stopping leaks, etc.	Middle English okome, from Old English acumba.
oaky		Resembling oak; strong.	
oar		An implement for impelling a boat, being a slender piece of timber, usually ash or spruce, with a grip or handle at one end and a broad blade at the other.	Old English ar, from Old Norse ár.
oar-footed		Having feet adapted for swimming.	
oared		Furnished with oars; -- chiefly used in composition; as, a four- oared boat.	
oarfish		The ribbon fish.	
oarfoot		Any crustacean of the genus Remipes.	
oarless		Without oars.	
oarlock		The notch, fork, or other device on the gunwale of a boat, in which the oar rests in rowing.	
oarsman		One who uses, or is skilled in the use of, an oar; a rower.	
oarsweed		Any large seaweed of the genus Laminaria; tangle; kelp. See Kelp.	
oary		Having the form or the use of an oar; as, the swan's oary feet.	
oasis		A fertile or green spot in a waste or desert, esp. in a sandy desert.	Greek ὄασις.
oast		A kiln to dry hops or malt; a cockle.	Middle English ost.
oatcake		A cake made of oatmeal.	
oaten		Consisting of an oat straw or stem; as, an oaten pipe.	
oath		A solemn affirmation or declaration, made with a reverent appeal to God for the truth of what is affirmed.	Middle English ooth.
oathable	Obsolete	Capable of having an oath administered to.	
oathbreaking		The violation of an oath; perjury.	
oatmeal		Meal made of oats.	Middle English otemele.
