ob-		A prefix signifying to, toward, before, against, reversely, etc.; also, as a simple intensive; as in oblige, to bind to; obstacle, something standing before; object, lit., to throw against; obovate, reversely, ovate.
obbe		See Obi — a species of sorcery, probably of African origin, practiced among the negroes of the West Indies.
obcompressed		Compressed or flattened antero-posteriorly, or in a way opposite to the usual one.
obconic		Conical, but having the apex downward; inversely conical.
obconical		Conical, but having the apex downward; inversely conical.
obcordate		Heart-shaped, with the attachment at the pointed end; inversely cordate: as, an obcordate petal or leaf.
obdiplostemonous		Having twice as many stamens as petals, those of the outer set being opposite the petals; -- said of flowers.
obdiplostemony		The condition of being obdiplostemonous.
obduce	Obsolete	To draw over, as a covering.
obduct	Obsolete	To draw over; to cover.
obduction	Obsolete	.The act of drawing or laying over, as a covering.
obduracy		The duality or state of being obdurate; invincible hardness of heart; obstinacy.
obdurate		Hardened in feelings, esp. against moral or mollifying influences; unyielding; hard-hearted; stubbornly wicked.
obduration	Obsolete	A hardening of the heart; hardness of heart.
obdure	Obsolete	To harden.
obdured	Obsolete	Obdurate; hard.
obduredness	Obsolete	Hardness.
obdureness	Obsolete	Hardness.
obe		See Obi — a species of sorcery, probably of African origin, practiced among the negroes of the West Indies.
obeah		Same as Obi. -- a.
obedible	Obsolete	Obedient.
obedience		The act of obeying, or the state of being obedient; compliance with that which is required by authority; subjection to rightful restraint or control.
obedienciary	Obsolete	One yielding obedience.
obedient		Subject in will or act to authority; willing to obey; submissive to restraint, control, or command.
obediential		According to the rule of obedience.
obediently		In an obedient manner; with obedience.
obeisance		A manifestation of obedience; an expression of difference or respect; homage; a bow; a courtesy.
obeisancy	Obsolete	See Obeisance — a manifestation of obedience; an expression of difference or respect; homage; a bow; a courtesy.
obeisant		Ready to obey; reverent; differential; also, servilely submissive.
obelion		The region of the skull between the two parietal foramina where the closure of the sagittal suture usually begins.
obeliscal		Formed like an obelisk.
obelisk		An upright, four-sided pillar, gradually tapering as it rises, and terminating in a pyramid called pyramidion.
obelize		To designate with an obelus; to mark as doubtful or spirituous.
obelus		A mark; -- so called as resembling a needle.
obequitate	Obsolete	To ride about. -- Ob*eq`ui*ta"tion, n.
oberon		The king of the fairies, and husband of Titania or Queen Mab.
oberration	Obsolete	A wandering about.
obese		Excessively corpulent; fat; fleshy.
obeseness		Quality of being obese; obesity.
obesity		The state or quality of being obese; incumbrance of flesh.
obey		To give ear to; to execute the commands of; to yield submission to; to comply with the orders of.
obeyer		One who yields obedience.
obeyingly		Obediently; submissively.
obfirm	Obsolete	To make firm; to harden in resolution.
obfirmate	Obsolete	To make firm; to harden in resolution.
obfirmation	Obsolete	Hardness of heart; obduracy.
obfuscate	Obsolete	Obfuscated; darkened; obscured.
obfuscation		The act of darkening or bewildering; the state of being darkened.
obi		A species of sorcery, probably of African origin, practiced among the negroes of the West Indies.
obiism		Belief in, or the practice of, the obi superstitions and rites.
obimbricate		Imbricated, with the overlapping ends directed downward.
obit		Death; decease; the date of one's death.
obiter		In passing; incidentally; by the way.
obitual		Of or pertaining to obits, or days when obits are celebrated; as, obitual days.
obituarily		In the manner of an obituary.
obituary		Of or pertaining to the death of a person or persons; as, an obituary notice; obituary poetry.
object		To offer in opposition as a criminal charge or by way of accusation or reproach; to adduce as an objection or adverse reason.
objectable		Such as can be presented in opposition; that may be put forward as an objection.
objectify		To cause to become an object; to cause to assume the character of an object; to render objective.
objection		The act of objecting; as, to prevent agreement, or action, by objection.
objectionable		Liable to objection; likely to be objected to or disapproved of; offensive; as, objectionable words. -- Ob*jec"tion*a*bly, adv.
objectist		One who adheres to, or is skilled in, the objective philosophy.
objectivate		To objectify.
objectivation		Converting into an object.
objective		(Metaph.) Of or pertaining to an object; contained in, or having the nature or position of, an object; outward; external; extrinsic; -- an epithet applied to whatever ir exterior to the mind…
objectively		In the manner or state of an object; as, a determinate idea objectively in the mind.
objectiveness		Objectivity.
objectivity		The state, quality, or relation of being objective; character of the object or of the objective.
objectize		To make an object of; to regard as an object; to place in the position of an object.
objectless		Having no object; purposeless.
objector		One who objects; one who offers objections to a proposition or measure.
objibways		See Chippeways — a tribe of Indians formerly inhabiting the northern and weastern shores of Lake Superior; -- called also Objibways.
objicient		One who makes objection; an objector.
objuration		A binding by oath.
objurgate		To chide; to reprove.
objurgation		The act of objurgating; reproof.
objurgatory		Designed to objurgate or chide; containing or expressing reproof; culpatory.
oblanceolate		Lanceolate in the reversed order, that is, narrowing toward the point of attachment more than toward the apex.
oblate		(Geom.) Flattened or depressed at the poles; as, the earth is an oblate spheroid.
oblateness		The quality or state of being oblate.
oblati		(a) Children dedicated in their early years to the monastic state. (b) A class of persons, especially in the Middle Ages, who offered themselves and their property to a monastery.
oblation		Anything offered or presented in worship or sacred service; an offering; a sacrifice.
oblationer		One who makes an offering as an act worship or reverence.
oblatrate	Obsolete	To bark or snarl, as a dog.
oblatration		The act of oblatrating; a barking or snarling.
oblatum		An oblate spheroid; a figure described by the revolution of an ellipse about its minor axis.
oblectate	Obsolete	To delight; to please greatly.
oblectation		The act of pleasing highly; the state of being greatly pleased; delight.
obligable		Acknowledging, or complying with, obligation; trustworthy.
obligate		To bring or place under obligation, moral or legal; to hold by a constraining motive.
obligation		That which obligates or constrains; the binding power of a promise, contract, oath, or vow, or of law; that which constitutes legal or moral duty.
obligato		See Obbligato.
obligatorily		In an obligatory manner; by reason of obligation.
obligatoriness		The quality or state of being obligatory.
obligatory		Binding in law or conscience; imposing duty or obligation; requiring performance or forbearance of some act; -- often followed by on or upon; as, obedience is obligatory on a soldier.
oblige		To constrain by physical, moral, or legal force; to put under obligation to do or forbear something.
obligee		The person to whom another is bound, or the person to whom a bond is given.
obligement		Obligation.
obliger		One who, or that which, obliges.
obliging		Putting under obligation; disposed to oblige or do favors; hence, helpful; civil; kind.
obligor		The person who binds himself, or gives his bond to another.
obliquation		The act of becoming oblique; a turning to one side; obliquity; as, the obliquation of the eyes.
oblique		Not erect or perpendicular; neither parallel to, nor at right angles from, the base; slanting; inclined.
oblique-angled		Having oblique angles; as, an oblique-angled triangle.
obliquely		In an oblique manner; not directly; indirectly.
obliqueness		Quality or state of being oblique.
obliquity		The condition of being oblique; deviation from a right line; deviation from parallelism or perpendicularity; the amount of such deviation; divergence; as, the obliquity of the ecliptic to the equator.
oblite	Obsolete	Indistinct; slurred over.
obliterate		To erase or blot out; to efface; to render undecipherable, as a writing.
obliteration		The act of obliterating, or the state of being obliterated; extinction.
obliterative		Tending or serving to obliterate.
oblivion		The act of forgetting, or the state of being forgotten; cessation of remembrance; forgetfulness.
oblivious		Promoting oblivion; causing forgetfulness.
oblocutor	Obsolete	A disputer; a gainsayer.
oblong		Having greater length than breadth, esp. when rectangular.
oblong-ovate		Between oblong and ovate, but inclined to the latter.
oblongata		The medulla oblongata.
oblongatal		Of or pertaining to the medulla oblongata; medullar.
oblongish		Somewhat oblong.
oblongly		In an oblong form.
oblongness		State or quality of being oblong.
oblongum		A prolate spheroid; a figure described by the revolution of an ellipse about its greater axis.
obloquious		Containing obloquy; reproachful Naunton.
obloquy		Censorious speech; defamatory language; language that casts contempt on men or their actions; blame; reprehension.
obluctation	Obsolete	A struggle against; resistance; opposition.
obmutescence		A becoming dumb; loss of speech.
obnoxious		Subject; liable; exposed; answerable; amenable; -- with to.
obnubilate	Obsolete	To cloud; to obscure.
oboe		One of the higher wind instruments in the modern orchestra, yet of great antiquity, having a penetrating pastoral quality of tone, somewhat like the clarinet in form, but more slender, and sounded by means of a double reed…
oboist		A performer on the oboe.
obolary		Possessing only small coins; impoverished.
obole		A weight of twelve grains; or, according to some, of ten grains, or half a scruple.
obolize		See Obelize — to designate with an obelus; to mark as doubtful or spirituous.
obolo		A copper coin, used in the Ionian Islands, about one cent in value.
obolus		(a) A small silver coin of Athens, the sixth part of a drachma, about three cents in value.
obomegoid		Obversely omegoid.
oboval		Obovate.
obovate		Inversely ovate; ovate with the narrow end downward; as, an obovate leaf.
obreption		(Scots Law) The obtaining gifts of escheat by fraud or surprise.
obreptitious		Done or obtained by surprise; with secrecy, or by concealment of the truth.
obrogate	Obsolete	To annul indirectly by enacting a new and contrary law, instead of by expressly abrogating or repealing the old one.
obrok		(a) A rent. (b) A poll tax paid by peasants absent from their lord's estate.
obscene		Offensive to chastity or modesty; expressing of presenting to the mind or view something which delicacy, purity, and decency forbid to be exposed; impure; as, obscene language; obscene pictures.
obscenity		That quality in words or things which presents what is offensive to chasity or purity of mind; obscene or impure lanquage or acts; moral impurity; lewdness; obsceneness; as, the obscenity of a speech, or a picture.
obscurant		One who obscures; one who prevents enlightenment or hinders the progress of knowledge and wisdom.
obscurantism		The system or the principles of the obscurants.
obscurantist		Same as Obscurant.
obscuration		The act or operation of obscuring; the state of being obscured; as, the obscuration of the moon in an eclipse.
obscure		Covered over, shaded, or darkened; destitute of light; imperfectly illuminated; dusky; dim.
obscurely		In an obscure manner.
obscurement		The act of obscuring, or the state of being obscured; obscuration.
obscureness		Obscurity.
obscurer		One who, or that which, obscures.
obscurity		The quality or state of being obscure; darkness; privacy; inconspicuousness; unintelligibleness; uncertainty.
obsecrate		To beseech; to supplicate; to implore..
obsecration		The act of obsecrating or imploring; as, the obsecrations of the Litany, being those clauses beginning with "By." Bp.
obsecratory		Expressing, or used in, entreaty; supplicatory.
obsequent	Obsolete	Obedient; submissive; obsequious.
obsequience		Obsequiousness.
obsequies		See Obsequy — the last duty or service to a person, rendered after his death; hence, a rite or ceremony pertaining to burial; -- now used only in the plural.
obsequious		Servilely or meanly attentive; compliant to excess; cringing; fawning; as, obsequious flatterer, parasite.
obsequiously		In an obsequious manner; compliantly; fawningly.
obsequiousness		The quality or state of being obsequious.
obsequy		The last duty or service to a person, rendered after his death; hence, a rite or ceremony pertaining to burial; -- now used only in the plural.
observable		Worthy or capable of being observed; discernible; noticeable; remarkable.
observance		The act or practice of observing or noticing with attention; a heeding or keeping with care; performance; -- usually with a sense of strictness and fidelity; as, the observance of the Sabbath is general…
observancy	Obsolete	Observance.
observandum		A thing to be observed.
observant		Taking notice; viewing or noticing attentively; watchful; attentive; as, an observant spectator; observant habits.
observantine		One of a branch of the Order of Franciscans, who profess to adhere more strictly than the Conventuals to the intention of the founder, especially as to poverty; -- called also Observants.
observantly		In an observant manner.
observation		The act or the faculty of observing or taking notice; the act of seeing, or of fixing the mind upon, anything.
observational		Of a pertaining to observation; consisting of, or containing, observations.
observative		Observing; watchful.
observator	Obsolete	One who observes or takes notice.
observatory		A place or building for making observations on the heavenly bodies.
observe		To take notice of by appropriate conduct; to conform one's action or practice to; to keep; to heed; to obey; to comply with; as, to observe rules or commands; to observe civility.
observer		One who observes, or pays attention to, anything; especially, one engaged in, or trained to habits of, close and exact observation; as, an astronomical observer.
observership		The office or work of an observer.
observing		Giving particular attention; habitually attentive to what passes; as, an observing person; an observing mind. -- Ob*serv"ing*ly, adv.
obsess		To besiege; to beset.
obsession		The state of being besieged; -- used specifically of a person beset by a spirit from without.
obsidian		A kind of glass produced by volcanoes.
obsidional		Of or pertaining to a siege.
obsigillation	Obsolete	A sealing up.
obsign	Obsolete	To seal; to confirm, as by a seal or stamp.
obsignate	Obsolete	To seal; to ratify.
obsignation		The act of sealing or ratifying; the state of being sealed or confirmed; confirmation, as by the Holy Spirit.
obsignatory	Obsolete	Ratifying; confirming by sealing.
obsolesce		To become obsolescent.
obsolescence		The state of becoming obsolete.
obsolescent		Going out of use; becoming obsolete; passing into desuetude.
obsolete		No longer in use; gone into disuse; disused; neglected; as, an obsolete word; an obsolete statute; -- applied chiefly to words, writings, or observances.
obsoletely		In an obsolete manner.
obsoleteness		The state of being obsolete, or no longer used; a state of desuetude.
obsoletism		A disused word or phrase; an archaism.
obstacle		That which stands in the way, or opposes; anything that hinders progress; a hindrance; an obstruction, physical or moral.
obstancy	Obsolete	Opposition; impediment; obstruction.
obstetric		Of or pertaining to midwifery, or the delivery of women in childbed; as, the obstetric art.
obstetrical		Of or pertaining to midwifery, or the delivery of women in childbed; as, the obstetric art.
obstetricate	Obsolete	To perform the office of midwife.
obstetrication	Obsolete	The act of assisting as a midwife; delivery.
obstetrician		One skilled in obstetrics; an accoucheur.
obstetricious	Obsolete	Serving to assist childbirth; obstetric; hence, facilitating any bringing forth or deliverance.
obstetrics		The science of midwifery; the art of assisting women in parturition, or in the trouble incident to childbirth.
obstetricy		Obstetrics.
obstinacy		A fixedness in will, opinion, or resolution that can not be shaken at all, or only with great difficulty; firm and usually unreasonable adherence to an opinion, purpose, or system; unyielding disposition; stubborness…
obstinate		Pertinaciously adhering to an opinion, purpose, or course; persistent; not yielding to reason, arguments, or other means; stubborn; pertinacious; -- usually implying unreasonableness.
obstination	Obsolete	Obstinacy; stubbornness.
obstipation	Obsolete	(Med.) Extreme constipation.
obstreperous		Attended by, or making, a loud and tumultuous noise; clamorous; noisy; vociferous.
obstriction		The state of being constrained, bound, or obliged; that which constrains or obliges; obligation; bond.
obstringe		To constrain; to put under obligation.
obstruct		To block up; to stop up or close, as a way or passage; to place an obstacle in, or fill with obstacles or impediments that prevent or hinder passing; as, to obstruct a street; to obstruct the channels of the body.
obstructer		One who obstructs or hinders.
obstruction		The act of obstructing, or state of being obstructed.
obstructionism		The act or the policy of obstructing progress.
obstructionist		One who hinders progress; one who obstructs business, as in a legislative body. -- a.
obstructive		Tending to obstruct; presenting obstacles; hindering; causing impediment. -- Ob*struct"ive*ly, adv.
obstruent		Causing obstruction; blocking up; hindering; as, an obstruent medicine.
obstupefaction	Obsolete	See Stupefaction — the act of stupefying, or the state of being stupefied.
obstupefactive	Obsolete	Stupefactive.
obstupefy	Obsolete	See Stupefy — to make stupid; to make dull; to blunt the faculty of perception or understanding in; to deprive of sensibility; to make torpid.
obtain		To get hold of by effort; to gain possession of; to procure; to acquire, in any way.
obtainable		Capable of being obtained.
obtainer		One who obtains.
obtainment		The act or process of obtaining; attainment.
obtected		(Zoöl.) Covered with a hard chitinous case, as the pupa of certain files.
obtemper		To obey (a judgment or decree).
obtemperate	Obsolete	To obey.
obtend	Obsolete	To oppose; to hold out in opposition.
obtenebration	Obsolete	The act of darkening; the state of being darkened; darkness.
obtension	Obsolete	The act of obtending.
obtest		To beseech; to supplicate; to beg for.
obtestation		The act of obtesting; supplication; protestation.
obtrectation	Obsolete	Slander; detraction; calumny.
obtrude		To thrust impertinently; to present without warrant or solicitation; as, to obtrude one's self upon a company.
obtruder		One who obtrudes.
obtruncate		To deprive of a limb; to lop.
obtruncation		The act of lopping or cutting off.
obtrusion		The act of obtruding; a thrusting upon others by force or unsolicited; as, the obtrusion of crude opinions on the world.
obtrusionist		One who practices or excuses obtrusion.
obtrusive		Disposed to obtrude; inclined to intrude or thrust one's self or one's opinions upon others, or to enter uninvited; forward; pushing; intrusive. -- Ob*tru sive*ness, n.
obtund	Archaic	To reduce the edge, pungency, or violent action of; to dull; to blunt; to deaden; to quell; as, to obtund the acrimony of the gall.
obtundent		A substance which sheathes a part, or blunts irritation, usually some bland, oily, or mucilaginous matter; -- nearly the same as demulcent.
obtunder		That which obtunds or blunts; especially, that which blunts sensibility.
obturate		To stop or close, as an opening; specif., (Ordnance), to stop (a gun breech) so as to prevent the escape of gas in firing.
obturation		The act of stopping up, or closing, an opening.
obturator		That which closes or stops an opening.
obtusangular		See Obstuseangular.
obtuse		Not pointed or acute; blunt; -- applied esp. to angles greater than a right angle, or containing more than ninety degrees.
obtuse-angled		Having an obtuse angle; as, an obtuse-angled triangle.
obtuse-angular		Having an obtuse angle; as, an obtuse-angled triangle.
obtusely		In an obtuse manner.
obtuseness		State or quality of being obtuse.
obtusion		The act or process of making obtuse or blunt.
obtusity		Obtuseness.
obumbrant		Overhanging; as, obumbrant feathers.
obumbrate		To shade; to darken; to cloud.
obumbration		Act of darkening or obscuring.
obuncous		Hooked or crooked in an extreme degree.
obvention	Obsolete	The act of happening incidentally; that which happens casually; an incidental advantage; an occasional offering.
obversant	Obsolete	Conversant; familiar.
obverse		Having the base, or end next the attachment, narrower than the top, as a leaf.
obversely		In an obverse manner.
obversion		The act of turning toward or downward.
obvert		To turn toward.
obviate		To anticipate; to prevent by interception; to remove from the way or path; to make unnecessary; as, to obviate the necessity of going.
obviation		The act of obviating, or the state of being obviated.
obvious		Easily discovered, seen, or understood; readily perceived by the eye or the intellect; plain; evident; apparent; as, an obvious meaning; an obvious remark.
obvolute		Overlapping; contorted; convolute; -- applied primarily, in botany, to two opposite leaves, each of which has one edge overlapping the nearest edge of the other…
obvoluted		Overlapping; contorted; convolute; -- applied primarily, in botany, to two opposite leaves, each of which has one edge overlapping the nearest edge of the other…
oby		See Obi — a species of sorcery, probably of African origin, practiced among the negroes of the West Indies.
