oca		A Peruvian name for certain species of Oxalis (O. crenata, and O. tuberosa) which bear edible tubers.
ocarina		A kind of small simple wind instrument.
occamy		An alloy imitating gold or silver.
occasion		A falling out, happening, or coming to pass; hence, that which falls out or happens; occurrence; incident.
occasionable		Capable of being occasioned or caused.
occasional		Of or pertaining to an occasion or to occasions; occuring at times, but not constant, regular, or systematic; made or happening as opportunity requires or admits; casual; incidental; as, occasional remarks, or efforts.
occasionalism		The system of occasional causes; -- a name given to certain theories of the Cartesian school of philosophers, as to the intervention of the First Cause…
occasionality		Quality or state of being occasional; occasional occurrence.
occasionally		In an occasional manner; on occasion; at times, as convenience requires or opportunity offers; not regularly.
occasionate	Obsolete	To occasion.
occasioner		One who, or that which, occasions, causes, or produces.
occasive		Of or pertaining to the setting sun; falling; descending; western.
occecation		The act of making blind, or the state of being blind.
occident		The part of the horizon where the sun last appears in the evening; that part of the earth towards the sunset; the west; -- opposed to orient.
occidental		Of, pertaining to, or situated in, the occident, or west; western; -- opposed to oriental; as, occidental climates, or customs; an occidental planet.
occidentals		Western Christians of the Latin rite. See Orientals.
occiduous		Western; occidental.
occipital		Of or pertaining to the occiput, or back part of the head, or to the occipital bone.
occipito-		A combining form denoting relation to, or situation near, the occiput; as, occipito-axial; occipito-mastoid.
occipitoaxial		Of or pertaining to the occipital bone and second vertebra, or axis.
occiput		(Anat.) The back, or posterior, part of the head or skull; the region of the occipital bone.
occision	Obsolete	A killing; the act of killing.
occlude		(Chem.) To take in and retain; to absorb; -- said especially with respect to gases; as iron, platinum, and palladium occlude large volumes of hydrogen.
occludent		Serving to close; shutting up. -- n.
occluse	Obsolete	Shut; closed.
occlusion		The act of occluding, or the state of being occluded.
occrustate	Obsolete	To incrust; to harden.
occult		Hidden from the eye or the understanding; inviable; secret; concealed; unknown.
occultation		(Astron.) The hiding of a heavenly body from sight by the intervention of some other of the heavenly bodies; -- applied especially to eclipses of stars and planets by the moon…
occulted		(Astron.) Concealed by the intervention of some other heavenly body, as a star by the moon.
occulting		Same as Occultation.
occultism		A certain Oriental system of theosophy.
occultist		An adherent of occultism.
occultly		In an occult manner.
occultness		State or quality of being occult.
occupancy		The act of taking or holding possession; possession; occupation.
occupant		One who occupies, or takes possession; one who has the actual use or possession, or is in possession, of a thing.
occupate	Obsolete	To occupy.
occupation		The act or process of occupying or taking possession; actual possession and control; the state of being occupied; a holding or keeping; tenure; use; as, the occupation of lands by a tenant.
occupier		One who occupies, or has possession.
occupy		To take or hold possession of; to hold or keep for use; to possess.
occur		To meet one's eye; to be found or met with; to present itself; to offer; to appear; to happen; to take place; as, I will write if opportunity occurs.
occurrence		A coming or happening; as, the occurence of a railway collision.
occurrent		Occurring or happening; hence, incidental; accidental.
occurse	Obsolete	Same as Occursion.
occursion	Obsolete	A meeting; a clash; a collision.
ocean		The whole body of salt water which covers more than three fifths of the surface of the globe; -- called also the sea, or great sea.
oceanic		Of or pertaining to the ocean; found or formed in or about, or produced by, the ocean; frequenting the ocean, especially mid-ocean.
oceanography		A description of the ocean.
oceanology		That branch of science which relates to the ocean.
oceanus		The god of the great outer sea, or the river which was believed to flow around the whole earth.
ocellary		Of or pertaining to ocelli.
ocellate		Same as Ocellated.
ocellated		Marked with eyelike spots of color; as, the ocellated blenny.
ocellus		(a) A little eye; a minute simple eye found in many invertebrates. (b) An eyelike spot of color, as those on the tail of the peacock.
oceloid		Resembling the ocelot.
ocelot		An American feline carnivore (Felis pardalis).
ocher		(a) A impure earthy ore of iron or a ferruginous clay, usually red (hematite) or yellow (limonite), -- used as a pigment in making paints, etc. The name is also applied to clays of other colors.
ocherous		Of or pertaining to ocher; containing or resembling ocher; as, ocherous matter; ocherous soil.
ochery		Ocherous.
ochimy		See Occamy — an alloy imitating gold or silver.
ochlesis		A general morbid condition induced by the crowding together of many persons, esp. sick persons, under one roof.
ochlocracy		A form of government by the multitude; a mobocracy.
ochlocratic		Of or pertaining to ochlocracy; having the form or character of an ochlocracy; mobocratic. -- Och`lo*crat"ic*al*ly, adv.
ochlocratical		Of or pertaining to ochlocracy; having the form or character of an ochlocracy; mobocratic. -- Och`lo*crat"ic*al*ly, adv.
ochraceous		Ocherous.
ochre		(a) A impure earthy ore of iron or a ferruginous clay, usually red (hematite) or yellow (limonite), -- used as a pigment in making paints, etc. The name is also applied to clays of other colors.
ochrea		(Bot.) A kind of sheath formed by two stipules united round a stem.
ochreate		Wearing or furnished with an ochrea or legging; wearing boots; booted.
ochreated		Wearing or furnished with an ochrea or legging; wearing boots; booted.
ochreous		Of or pertaining to ocher; containing or resembling ocher; as, ocherous matter; ocherous soil.
ochrey		See Ochery — ocherous.
ochroleucous		Yellowish white; having a faint tint of dingy yellow.
ochry		See Ochery — ocherous.
ochymy		See Occamy — an alloy imitating gold or silver.
ocra		See Okra — an annual plant (Abelmoschus, or Hibiscus, esculentus), whose green pods, abounding in nutritious mucilage, are much used for soups, stews, or pickles; gumbo.
ocrea		See Ochrea — (Bot.) A kind of sheath formed by two stipules united round a stem.
ocreate		Same as Ochreate, Ochreated.
ocreated		Same as Ochreate, Ochreated.
octa-		A prefix meaning eight. See Octo-.
octachord		An instrument of eight strings; a system of eight tones.
octad		An atom or radical which has a valence of eight, or is octavalent.
octaedral		See Octahedral — having eight faces or sides; of, pertaining to, or formed in, octahedrons; as, octahedral cleavage.
octaemeron		A fast of eight days before a great festival.
octagon		(Geom.) A plane figure of eight sides and eight angles.
octagonal		Having eight sides and eight angles.
octagynous		Having eight pistils or styles; octogynous.
octahedral		Having eight faces or sides; of, pertaining to, or formed in, octahedrons; as, octahedral cleavage.
octahedrite		Titanium dioxide occurring in acute octahedral crystals.
octahedron		A solid bounded by eight faces.
octamerous		Having the parts in eights; as, an octamerous flower; octamerous mesenteries in polyps.
octameter		A verse containing eight feet; as, -- Deep'' in|to'' the | dark''ness | peer''ing, | long'' I | stood'' there | wond'''ring, | fear''ing.
octander		One of the Octandria.
octandria		A Linnæan class of plants, in which the flowers have eight stamens not united to one another or to the pistil.
octandrian		Of or pertaining to the Octandria; having eight distinct stamens.
octandrous		Of or pertaining to the Octandria; having eight distinct stamens.
octane		Any one of a group of metametric hydrocarcons (C8H18) of the methane series.
octangular		Having eight angles; eight-angled. -- Oc*tan"gu*lar*ness, n.
octant		(Geom.) The eighth part of a circle; an arc of 45 degrees.
octapla		A portion of the Old Testament prepared by Origen in the 3d century, containing the Hebrew text and seven Greek versions of it, arranged in eight parallel columns.
octaroon		See Octoroon — the offspring of a quadroon and a white person; a mestee.
octastyle		See Octostyle — having eight columns in the front; -- said of a temple or portico.
octateuch		A collection of eight books; especially, the first eight books of the Old Testament.
octavalent		Having a valence of eight; capable of being combined with, exchanged for, or compared with, eight atoms of hydrogen; -- said of certain atoms or radicals.
octave		The eighth day after a church festival, the festival day being included; also, the week following a church festival.
octavo		A book composed of sheets each of which is folded into eight leaves; hence, indicating more or less definitely a size of book so made; -- usually written 8vo or 8º.
octene		Same as Octylene.
octennial		Happening every eighth year; also, lasting a period of eight years.
octet		A composition for eight parts, usually for eight solo instruments or voices.
octic		Of the eighth degree or order. -- n. (Alg.) A quantic of the eighth degree.
octile		Same as Octant,
octillion		According to the French method of numeration (which method is followed also in the United States) the number expressed by a unit with twenty-seven ciphers annexed.
octo-		A combining form meaning eight; as in octodecimal, octodecimal, octolocular.
octoate		A salt of an octoic acid; a caprylate.
october		The tenth month of the year, containing thirty-one days.
octocera		Octocerata.
octocerata		A suborder of Cephalopoda including Octopus, Argonauta, and allied genera, having eight arms around the head; -- called also Octopoda.
octochord		See Octachord — an instrument of eight strings; a system of eight tones.
octodecimo		Having eighteen leaves to a sheet; as, an octodecimo form, book, leaf, size, etc. A book composed of sheets each of which is folded into eighteen leaves; hence; indicating more or less definitely a size of book…
octodentate		Having eight teeth.
octodont		Of or pertaining to the Octodontidæ, a family of rodents which includes the coypu, and many other South American species.
octoedrical	Obsolete	See Octahedral — having eight faces or sides; of, pertaining to, or formed in, octahedrons; as, octahedral cleavage.
octofid		Cleft or separated into eight segments, as a calyx.
octogamy		A marrying eight times.
octogenarian		A person eighty years, or more, of age.
octogenary		Of eighty years of age.
octogild		A pecuniary compensation for an injury, of eight times the value of the thing.
octogonal	Obsolete	See Octagonal — having eight sides and eight angles.
octogynia		A Linnaean order of plants having eight pistils.
octogynian		Having eight pistils; octagynous.
octogynous		Having eight pistils; octagynous.
octoic		Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, octane; -- used specifically, to designate any one of a group of acids, the most important of which is called caprylic acid.
octolocular		Having eight cells for seeds.
octonaphthene		A colorless liquid hydrocarbon of the octylene series, occurring in Caucasian petroleum.
octonary		Of or pertaining to the number eight.
octonocular		Having eight eyes.
octopede		An animal having eight feet, as a spider.
octopetalous		Having eight petals or flower leaves.
octopod		One of the Octocerata.
octopoda		(a) Same as Octocerata. (b) Same as Arachnida.
octopodia		Same as Octocerata.
octopus		A genus of eight-armed cephalopods, including numerous species, some of them of large size.
octoradiated		Having eight rays.
octoroon		The offspring of a quadroon and a white person; a mestee.
octospermous		Containing eight seeds.
octostichous		In eight vertical ranks, as leaves on a stem.
octostyle		Having eight columns in the front; -- said of a temple or portico.
octosyllabic		Consisting of or containing eight syllables.
octosyllabical		Consisting of or containing eight syllables.
octosyllable		Octosyllabic.
octoyl		A hypothetical radical (C8H15O), regarded as the essential residue of octoic acid.
octroi		A privilege granted by the sovereign authority, as the exclusive right of trade granted to a guild or society; a concession.
octuor		See Octet — a composition for eight parts, usually for eight solo instruments or voices.
octuple		Eightfold.
octyl		A hypothetical hydrocarbon radical regarded as an essential residue of octane, and as entering into its derivatives; as, octyl alcohol.
octylene		Any one of a series of metameric hydrocarbons (C8H16) of the ethylene series.
octylic		Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, octyl; as, octylic ether.
ocular		Depending on, or perceived by, the eye; received by actual sight; personally seeing or having seen; as, ocular proof.
ocularly		By the eye, or by actual sight.
oculary		Of or pertaining to the eye; ocular; optic; as, oculary medicines.
oculate		Furnished with eyes.
oculated		Furnished with eyes.
oculiform		In the form of an eye; resembling an eye; as, an oculiform pebble.
oculina		A genus of tropical corals, usually branched, and having a very volid texture.
oculinacea		A suborder of corals including many reef-building species, having round, starlike calicles.
oculist		One skilled in treating diseases of the eye.
oculo-		A combining form from L. oculus the eye.
oculomotor		Of or pertaining to the movement of the eye; -- applied especially to the common motor nerves (or third pair of cranial nerves) which supply many of the muscles of the orbit. -- n.
oculonasal		Of or pertaining to the region of the eye and the nose; as, the oculonasal, or nasal, nerve, one of the branches of the ophthalmic.
oculus		An eye; (Bot.) a leaf bud.
ocypodian		One of a tribe of crabs which live in holes in the sand along the seashore, and run very rapidly, -- whence the name.
