od	Archaic	An alleged force or natural power, supposed, by Reichenbach and others, to produce the phenomena of mesmerism, and to be developed by various agencies, as by magnets, heat, light, chemical or vital action, etc.…	
odal		Among the early and medieval Teutonic peoples, esp. Scandinavians, the heritable land held by the various odalmen constituting a family or kindred of freeborn tribesmen; also, the ownership of such land.	
odalisque		A female slave or concubine in the harem of the Turkish sultan.	
odalman		A man or woman having odal, or able to share in it by inheritance.	
odalwoman		A man or woman having odal, or able to share in it by inheritance.	
odd		Not paired with another, or remaining over after a pairing; without a mate; unmatched; single; as, an odd shoe; an odd glove.	Middle English od.
oddity		The quality or state of being odd; singularity; queerness; peculiarity; as, oddity of dress, manners, and the like.	
oddly		In an odd manner; unevently.	
oddment		An odd thing, or one that is left over, disconnected, fragmentary, or the like; something that is separated or disconnected from its fellows; esp. (in pl.), the odds and ends.	
oddness		The state of being odd, or not even.	
odds		Difference in favor of one and against another; excess of one of two things or numbers over the other; inequality; advantage; superiority; hence, excess of chances; probability.	
ode		A short poetical composition proper to be set to music or sung; a lyric poem; esp., now, a poem characterized by sustained noble sentiment and appropriate dignity of style.	Greek ᾠδή.
odelet		A little or short ode.	
odelsthing		The lower house of the Norwegian Storthing. See Legislature.	
odeon		A kind of theater in ancient Greece, smaller than the dramatic theater and roofed over, in which poets and musicians submitted their works to the approval of the public, and contended for prizes; -- hence, in modern usage…	Greek ᾠδεῖον.
odeum		See Odeon — a kind of theater in ancient Greece, smaller than the dramatic theater and roofed over, in which poets and musicians submitted their works to the approval of the public…	
odible	Obsolete	Fitted to excite hatred; hateful.	Latin odibilis.
odic	Archaic	Of or pertaining to od. See Od. -- Od"ic*al*ly, adv.	
odin		The supreme deity of the Scandinavians; -- the same as Woden, of the German tribes.	
odinic		Of or pertaining to Odin.	
odinism		Worship of Odin; broadly, the Teutonic heathenism. -- O"din*ist, n.	
odious		Hateful; deserving or receiving hatred; as, an odious name, system, vice.	
odist		A writer of an ode or odes.	
odium		Hatred; dislike; as, his conduct brought him into odium, or, brought odium upon him.	
odize	Archaic	To charge with od. See Od.	
odmyl		A volatile liquid obtained by boiling sulphur with linseed oil.	
odograph		A machine for registering the distance traversed by a vehicle or pedestrain.	
odometer		An instrument attached to the wheel of a vehicle, to measure the distance traversed; also, a wheel used by surveyors, which registers the miles and rods traversed.	
odometrical		Of or pertaining to the odometer, or to measurements made with it.	
odometrous		Serving to measure distance on a road.	
odometry		Measurement of distances by the odometer.	
odonata		The division of insects that includes the dragon flies.	
odontalgia		Toothache.	
odontalgic		Of or pertaining to odontalgia. -- n.	
odontalgy		Same as Odontalgia.	
odontiasis		Cutting of the teeth; dentition.	
odonto-		A combining form from Gr.	Greek ὀδούς.
odontoblast		(Anat.) One of the more or less columnar cells on the outer surface of the pulp of a tooth; an odontoplast.	
odontocete		A subdivision of Cetacea, including the sperm whale, dolphins, etc.; the toothed whales.	
odontogeny		Generetion, or mode of development, of the teeth.	
odontograph		An instrument for marking or laying off the outlines of teeth of gear wheels.	
odontographic		Of or pertaining to odontography.	
odontography		A description of the teeth.	
odontoid		(a) Having the form of a tooth; toothlike. (b) Of or pertaining to the odontoid bone or to the odontoid process.	
odontolcae		An extinct order of ostrichlike aquatic birds having teeth, which are set in a groove in the jaw.	
odontolite		A fossil tooth colored a bright blue by phosphate of iron.	
odontology		The science which treats of the teeth, their structure and development.	
odontophora		Same as Cephalophora.	
odontophore		A special structure found in the mouth of most mollusks, except bivalves.	
odontophorous		Having an odontophore.	
odontoplast		An odontoblast.	
odontopteryx		An extinct Eocene bird having the jaws strongly serrated, or dentated, but destitute of true teeth.	
odontornithes		A group of Mesozoic birds having the jaws armed with teeth, as in most other vertebrates.	
odontostomatous		Having toothlike mandibles; -- applied to certain insects.	
odontotormae		An order of extinct toothed birds having the teeth in sockets, as in the genus Ichthyornis.	
odor		Any smell, whether fragrant or offensive; scent; perfume.	Middle English odour, from Anglo-Norman odour, from Old French odor, from Latin odor.
odorament	Obsolete	A perfume; a strong scent.	Latin odoramentum.
odorant		Yielding odors; fragrant.	
odorate		Odorous.	
odorating		Diffusing odor or scent; fragrant.	
odoriferous		Bearing or yielding an odor; perfumed; usually, sweet of scent; fragrant; as, odoriferous spices, particles, fumes, breezes.	
odorine	Obsolete	A pungent oily substance obtained by redistilling bone oil.	
odorless		Free from odor.	
odorous		Having or emitting an odor or scent, esp. a sweet odor; fragrant; sweet-smelling.	
ods		A corruption of God's; -- formerly used in oaths and ejaculatory phrases.	
odyl	Archaic	See Od..	
odyle	Archaic	See Od..	
odylic	Archaic	Of or pertaining to odyle; odic; as, odylic force.	
odyssey		An epic poem attributed to Homer, which describes the return of Ulysses to Ithaca after the siege of Troy.	
