oe		a diphthong, employed in the Latin language, and thence in the English language, as the representative of the Greek diphthong oe.
oecoid		The colorless porous framework, or stroma, of red blood corpuscles from which the zooid, or hemoglobin and other substances of the corpuscles, may be dissolved out.
oecology		The various relations of animals and plants to one another and to the outer world.
oeconomical		See Economical — pertaining to the household; domestic.
oeconomics		See Economics — the science of household affairs, or of domestic management.
oeconomy		See Economy — the management of domestic affairs; the regulation and government of household matters; especially as they concern expense or disbursement; as, a careful economy.
oecumenical		See Ecumenical — general; universal; in ecclesiastical usage, that which concerns the whole church; as, an ecumenical council.
oedema		A swelling from effusion of watery fluid in the cellular tissue beneath the skin or mucous membrance; dropsy of the subcutaneous cellular tissue.
oedematous		Pertaining to, or of the nature of, edema; affected with edema.
oeil-de-boeuf		A circular or oval window; -- generally used of architecture of the 17th and 18th centuries.
oeil-de-perdrix		(Ornamental Art) Characterized by, or decorated with, small round points, spots, or rings; as, oil-de-perdrix pattern.
oeiliad	Obsolete	A glance of the eye; an amorous look.
oeillade	Obsolete	A glance of the eye; an amorous look.
oelet	Obsolete	An eye, bud, or shoot, as of a plant; an oilet.
oenanthate		A salt of the supposed oenanthic acid.
oenanthic		Having, or imparting, the odor characteristic of the bouquet of wine; specifically used, formerly, to designate an acid whose ethereal salts were supposed to occasion the peculiar bouquet, or aroma, of old wine.
oenanthol		An oily substance obtained by the distillation of castor oil, recognized as the aldehyde of oenanthylic acid, and hence called also oenanthaldehyde.
oenanthone		The ketone of oenanthic acid.
oenanthyl		A hydrocarbon radical formerly supposed to exist in oenanthic acid, now known to be identical with heptyl.
oenanthylate		A salt of oenanthylic acid; as, potassium oenanthylate.
oenanthylic		Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, oenanthyl; specifically, designating an acid formerly supposed to be identical with the acid in oenanthic ether, but now known to be identical with heptoic acid.
oenanthylidene		A colorless liquid hydrocarbon, having a garlic odor; heptine.
oenanthylous	Obsolete	Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid formerly supposed to be the acid of oenanthylic ether, but now known to be a mixture of higher acids, especially capric acid.
oenocyan		The coloring matter of red wines.
oenology		Knowledge of wine, scientific or practical.
oenomania		(a) Delirium tremens.
oenomel		Wine mixed with honey; mead,
oenometer		See Alcoholometer — an instrument for determining the strength of spirits, with a scale graduated so as to indicate the percentage of pure alcohol, either by weight or volume.
oenophilist		A lover of wine.
oenothionic	Poetic	Pertaining to an acid now called sulphovinic, or ethyl sulphuric, acid.
oersted		The C.G.S. unit of magnetic reluctance or resistance, equal to the reluctance of a centimeter cube of air (or vacuum) between parallel faces.
oesophageal		Same as Esophagus, Esophageal, etc.
oesophagus		Same as Esophagus, Esophageal, etc.
oestrian		Of or pertaining to the gadflies. -- n.
oestrual		Of or pertaining to sexual desire; -- mostly applied to brute animals; as, the oestrual period; oestrual influence.
oestruation		The state of being under oestrual influence, or of having sexual desire.
oestrus		A vehement desire; esp. (Physiol.), the periodical sexual impulse of animals; heat; rut.
