of		In a general sense, from, or out from; proceeding from; belonging to; relating to; concerning; -- used in a variety of applications; as:
off		In a general sense, denoting from or away from; as:
offal		The rejected or waste parts of a butchered animal.
offcut		That which is cut off.
offence		See Offense — the act of offending in any sense; esp., a crime or a sin, an affront or an injury.
offend		To displease; to make angry; to affront.
offendant		An offender.
offender		One who offends; one who violates any law, divine or human; a wrongdoer.
offendress		A woman who offends.
offense		The act of offending in any sense; esp., a crime or a sin, an affront or an injury.
offenseful		Causing offense; displeasing; wrong; as, an offenseful act.
offenseless		Unoffending; inoffensive.
offensible	Obsolete	That may give offense.
offension	Obsolete	Assault; attack.
offensive		Giving offense; causing displeasure or resentment; displeasing; annoying; as, offensive words.
offer		To present, as an act of worship; to immolate; to sacrifice; to present in prayer or devotion; -- often with up.
offerable		Capable of being offered; suitable or worthy to be offered.
offerer		One who offers; esp., one who offers something to God in worship.
offering		That which is offered, esp. in divine service; that which is presented as an expiation or atonement for sin, or as a free gift; a sacrifice; an oblation; as, sin offering.
offertory		(R.C.Ch.) (a) An anthem chanted, or a voluntary played on the organ, during the offering and first part of the Mass.
offerture	Obsolete	Offer; proposal; overture.
offhand		Instant; ready; extemporaneous; as, an offhand speech; offhand excuses. -- adv.
office		That which a person does, either voluntarily or by appointment, for, or with reference to, others; customary duty, or a duty that arises from the relations of man to man; as, kind offices, pious offices.
officeholder		An officer, particularly one in the civil service; a placeman.
officer		One who holds an office; a person lawfully invested with an office, whether civil, military, or ecclesiastical; as, a church officer; a police officer; a staff officer.
official		Of or pertaining to an office or public trust; as, official duties, or routine.
officialism		The state of being official; a system of official government; also, adherence to office routine; red-tapism.
officiality		See Officialty — the charge, office, court, or jurisdiction of an official.
officially		By the proper officer; by virtue of the proper authority; in pursuance of the special powers vested in an officer or office; as, accounts or reports officially vertified or rendered; letters officially communicated…
officialty		The charge, office, court, or jurisdiction of an official.
officiant		The officer who officiates or performs an office, as the burial office.
officiary		Of or pertaining to an office or an officer; official.
officiate	Obsolete	To act as an officer in performing a duty; to transact the business of an office or public trust; to conduct a public service.
officiator		One who officiates.
officinal		(Pharm.) Kept in stock by apothecaries; -- said of such drugs and medicines as may be obtained without special preparation or compounding; not magistral.
officious		Pertaining to, or being in accordance with, duty.
offing		That part of the sea at a good distance from the shore, or where there is deep water and no need of a pilot; also, distance from the shore; as, the ship had ten miles offing; we saw a ship in the offing.
offish	Colloquial	Shy or distant in manner.
offlet		A pipe to let off water.
offprint		A reprint or excerpt.
offscouring		That which is scoured off; hence, refuse; rejected matter; that which is vile or despised.
offscum		Removed scum; refuse; dross.
offset		In general, that which is set off, from, before, or against, something; as: --
offshoot		That which shoots off or separates from a main stem, channel, family, race, etc.; as, the offshoots of a tree.
offshore		From the shore; as, an offshore wind; an offshore signal.
offskip		That part of a landscape which recedes from the spectator into distance.
offspring		That which is produced; a child or children; a descendant or descendants, however remote from the stock.
offtake		Act of taking off; specif., the taking off or purchase of goods.
offuscate	Obsolete	See Obfuscate, Obfuscation.
offuscation	Obsolete	See Obfuscate, Obfuscation.
oft	Poetic	Often; frequently; not rarely; many times.
often		Frequently; many times; not seldom.
oftenness		Frequency.
oftensith	Obsolete	Frequently; often.
oftentide	Obsolete	Frequently; often.
oftentimes		Frequently; often; many times.
ofter	Obsolete	Compar. of Oft.
ofttimes		Frequently; often.
