olay		Palm leaves, prepared for being written upon with a style pointed with steel.	
old		Not young; advanced far in years or life; having lived till toward the end of the ordinary term of living; as, an old man; an old age; an old horse; an old tree.	Middle English old.
old-fashioned		Formed according to old or obsolete fashion or pattern; adhering to old customs or ideas; as, an old-fashioned dress, girl.	
old-gentlemanly		Pertaining to an old gentleman, or like one.	
old-maidish		Like an old maid; prim; precise; particular.	
old-maidism		The condition or characteristics of an old maid.	
old-womanish		Like an old woman; anile. -- Old`-wom"an*ish*ness, n.	
olden		Old; ancient; as, the olden time.	
oldish		Somewhat old.	
oldness		The state or quality of being old; old age.	Old English ealdnes.
oldster		An old person.	
olea		A genus of trees including the olive.	
oleaceous		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of plants (Oleaceæ), mostly trees and shrubs, of which the olive is the type.	
oleaginous		Having the nature or qualities of oil; oily; unctuous.	French oléagineux, from Latin oleaginus.
oleaginousness		Oiliness.	
oleamen		A soft ointment prepared from oil.	Latin oleum, from Greek ἔλαιον.
oleander		A beautiful evergreen shrub of the Dogbane family, having clusters of fragrant red or white flowers.	
oleandrine		One of several alkaloids found in the leaves of the oleander.	
oleaster		(a) The wild olive tree (Olea Europea, var. sylvestris). (b) Any species of the genus Elæagus.	
oleate		A salt of oleic acid.	
olecranal		Of or pertaining to the olecranon.	
olecranon		The large process at the proximal end of the ulna which projects behind the articulation with the humerus and forms the bony prominence of the elbow.	
olefiant	Archaic	Forming or producing an oil; specifically, designating a colorless gaseous hydrocarbon called ethylene.	
olefine		Olefiant gas, or ethylene; hence, by extension, any one of the series of unsaturated hydrocarbons of which ethylene is a type.	
oleic		Pertaining to, derived from, or contained in, oil; as, oleic acid, an acid of the acrylic acid series found combined with glyceryl in the form of olein in certain animal and vegetable fats and oils, such as sperm oil, olive oil…	
oleiferous		Producing oil; as, oleiferous seeds.	
olein		A fat, liquid at ordinary temperatures, but solidifying at temperatures below 0° C., found abundantly in both the animal and vegetable kingdoms (see Palmitin).	
olent		Scented.	
oleograph		(Chem.) The form or figure assumed by a drop of oil when placed upon water or some other liquid with which it does not mix.	
oleography		Art or process of producing the pictures known as oleographs.	
oleomargarine		A liquid oil made from animal fats (esp. beef fat) by separating the greater portion of the solid fat or stearin, by crystallization.	
oleometer		An instrument for ascertaining the weight and purity of oil; an elaiometer.	
oleone		An oily liquid, obtained by distillation of calcium oleate, and probably consisting of the ketone of oleic acid.	
oleoptene		See Eleoptene.	
oleoresin		(Chem.) A natural mixture of a terebinthinate oil and a resin.	
oleosity		The state or quality of being oily or fat; fatness.	
oleraceous		Pertaining to pot herbs; of the nature or having the qualities of herbs for cookery; esculent.	Latin oleraceus.
olf		The European bullfinch.	
olfaction		The sense by which the impressions made on the olfactory organs by the odorous particles in the atmosphere are perceived.	
olfactive		See Olfactory, a.	
olfactor		A smelling organ; a nose.	
olfactory		Of, pertaining to, or connected with, the sense of smell; as, the olfactory nerves; the olfactory cells.	Latin olfactorius.
oliban		See Olibanum — the fragrant gum resin of various species of Boswellia; Oriental frankincense.	
olibanum		The fragrant gum resin of various species of Boswellia; Oriental frankincense.	
olibene		A colorless mobile liquid of a pleasant aromatic odor obtained by the distillation of olibanum, or frankincense, and regarded as a terpene; -- called also conimene.	
olid	Obsolete	Having a strong, disagreeable smell; fetid.	
olidous	Obsolete	Having a strong, disagreeable smell; fetid.	
olifant		An ancient horn, made of ivory.	
oligandrous		Having few stamens.	
oliganthous		Having few flowers.	
oligarch		A member of an oligarchy; one of the rulers in an oligarchical government.	
oligarchal		Oligarchic.	
oligarchic		Of or pertaining to oligarchy, or government by a few.	
oligarchical		Of or pertaining to oligarchy, or government by a few.	
oligarchist		An advocate or supporter of oligarchy.	
oligarchy		A form of government in which the supreme power is placed in the hands of a few persons; also, those who form the ruling few.	French oligarchie, from Latin oligarchia, from Greek ὀλιγαρχία.
oligist		Hematite or specular iron ore; -- prob. so called in allusion to its feeble magnetism, as compared with magnetite.	
oligistic		Of or pertaining to hematite.	
oligo-		A combining form from Gr. few, little, small.	
oligocene		Of, pertaining to, or designating, certain strata which occupy an intermediate position between the Eocene and Miocene periods. -- n.	
oligochaeta		An order of Annelida which includes the earthworms and related species.	
oligochete		Of or pertaining to the Oligochæta.	
oligoclase		A triclinic soda-lime feldspar. See Feldspar.	
oligomerous		Having few members in each set of organs; as, an oligomerous flower.	
oligomyold		Having few or imperfect syringeal muscles; -- said of some passerine birds (Oligomyodi).	
oligopetalous		Having few petals.	
oligosepalous		Having few sepals.	
oligosiderite		A meteorite characterized by the presence of but a small amount of metallic iron.	
oligospermous		Having few seeds.	
oligotokous		Producing few young.	
olio		(Mus.) A collection of miscellaneous pieces.	
olitory		Of or pertaining to, or produced in, a kitchen garden; used for kitchen purposes; as, olitory seeds.	
oliva		A genus of polished marine gastropod shells, chiefly tropical, and often beautifully colored.	
olivaceous		Resembling the olive; of the color of the olive; olive-green.	
olivary		Like an olive.	
olivaster		Of the color of the olive; tawny.	
olive		(Bot.) (a) A tree (Olea Europæa) with small oblong or elliptical leaves, axillary clusters of flowers, and oval, one-seeded drupes.	Old French olive, from Latin oliva, from Greek ἐλαία.
olived		Decorated or furnished with olive trees.	
olivenite		An olive-green mineral, a hydrous arseniate of copper; olive ore.	German Olivenerz.
oliver	Obsolete	Etym: An olive grove.	
oliverian		An adherent of Oliver Cromwell.	
olivewood		(a) The wood of the olive. (b) An Australian name given to the hard white wood of certain trees of the genus Elæodendron, and also to the trees themselves.	
olivil		A white crystalline substance, obtained from an exudation from the olive, and having a bitter-sweet taste and acid proporties.	
olivin		A complex bitter gum, found on the leaves of the olive tree; -- called also olivite.	
olivine		A common name of the yellowish green mineral chrysolite, esp. the variety found in eruptive rocks.	
olivite		See Olivin — a complex bitter gum, found on the leaves of the olive tree; -- called also olivite.	
olla		A pot or jar having a wide mouth; a cinerary urn, especially one of baked clay.	Spanish olla, from Latin olla.
olla-podrida		A favorite Spanish dish, consisting of a mixture of several kinds of meat chopped fine, and stewed with vegetables.	
ology		A colloquial or humorous name for any science or branch of knowledge.	
olpe		Originally, a leather flask or vessel for oils or liquids; afterward, an earthenware vase or pitcher without a spout.	Greek ὄλπη.
olusatrum		An umbelliferous plant, the common Alexanders of Western Europe (Smyrnium Olusatrum).	Latin holusatrum.
olympiad		A period of four years, by which the ancient Greeks reckoned time, being the interval from one celebration of the Olympic games to another, beginning with the victory of Coroebus in the foot race…	
olympian		Of or pertaining to Olympus, a mountain of Thessaly, fabled as the seat of the gods, or to Olympia, a small plain in Elis.	
olympianism		Worship of the Olympian gods, esp. as a dominant cult or religion.	
olympic		Of or pertaining to Olympus, a mountain of Thessaly, fabled as the seat of the gods, or to Olympia, a small plain in Elis.	
olympionic		An ode in honor of a victor in the Olympic games.	
