om		A mystic syllable or ejaculation used by Hindus and Buddhists in religious rites, -- orig. among the Hindus an exclamation of assent, like Amen, then an invocation, and later a symbol of the trinity formed by Vishnu, Siva…	
omagra		Gout in the shoulder.	
omahas		A tribe of Indians who inhabited the south side of the Missouri River.	
omasum		The third division of the stomach of ruminants. See Manyplies, and Illust. under Ruminant.	Latin omasum.
omber		A game at cards, borrowed from the Spaniards, and usually played by three persons.	
ombre		A game at cards, borrowed from the Spaniards, and usually played by three persons.	French hombre, from Spanish hombre, from Old Spanish omne, from Latin hominem.
ombrometer		An instrument for measuring the rain that falls; a rain gauge.	
omega		The last letter of the Greek alphabet. See Alpha.	
omegoid		Having the form of the Greek capital letter Omega (	
omelet		Eggs beaten up with a little flour, etc., and cooked in a frying pan; as, a plain omelet.	
omen		An occurrence supposed to portend, or show the character of, some future event; any indication or action regarded as a foreshowing; a foreboding; a presage; an augury.	Latin omen.
omened		Attended by, or containing, an omen or omens; as, happy-omened day.	
omental		Of or pertaining to an omentum or the omenta.	
omentum		A free fold of the peritoneum, or one serving to connect viscera, support blood vessels, etc.; an epiploön.	
omer		A Hebrew measure, the tenth of an ephah. See Ephah.	Hebrew עמר.
omicron		Lit., the little, or short, O, o; the fifteenth letter of the Greek alphabet.	
omiletical	Obsolete	Homiletical.	
ominate	Obsolete	To presage; to foreshow; to foretoken.	Latin ominatus.
omination	Obsolete	The act of ominating; presaging.	Latin ominatio.
ominous		Of or pertaining to an omen or to omens; being or exhibiting an omen; significant; portentous; -- formerly used both in a favorable and unfavorable sense; now chiefly in the latter; foreboding or foreshowing evil; inauspicious…	Latin ominosus.
omissible		Capable of being omitted; that may be omitted.	Latin omissum.
omission		The act of omitting; neglect or failure to do something required by propriety or duty.	
omissive		Leaving out; omitting.	
omit		To let go; to leave unmentioned; not to insert or name; to drop.	
omittance		The act of omitting, or the state of being omitted; forbearance; neglect.	
omitter		One who omits.	
ommateal		Of or pertaining to an ommateum.	
ommateum		A compound eye, as of insects and crustaceans.	
ommatidium		One of the single eyes forming the compound eyes of crustaceans, insects, and other invertebrates.	
omni-		A combining form denoting all, every, everywhere; as in omnipotent, all-powerful; omnipresent.	
omnibus		A long four-wheeled carriage, having seats for many people; especially, one with seats running lengthwise, used in conveying passengers short distances.	Latin omnibus.
omnicorporeal		Comprehending or including all bodies; embracing all substance.	
omniety		That which is all-pervading or all-comprehensive; hence, the Deity.	
omnifarious		Of all varieties, forms, or kinds.	
omniferous		All-bearing; producing all kinds.	
omnific		All-creating.	
omniform		Having every form or shape.	
omniformity		The condition or quality of having every form.	
omnify		To render universal; to enlarge.	
omnigenous		Consisting of all kinds.	
omnigraph		A pantograph.	
omniparient		Producing or bringing forth all things; all-producing.	
omniparity		Equality in every part; general equality.	
omniparous		Producing all things; omniparient.	
omnipatient		Capable of enduring all things.	
omnipercipience		Perception of everything.	
omnipercipiency		Perception of everything.	
omnipercipient		Perceiving everything.	
omnipotence		The state of being omnipotent; almighty power; hence, one who is omnipotent; the Deity.	
omnipotency		The state of being omnipotent; almighty power; hence, one who is omnipotent; the Deity.	
omnipotent		Able in every respect and for every work; unlimited in ability; all-powerful; almighty; as, the Being that can create worlds must be omnipotent.	Old French omnipotent, from Latin omnipotens.
omnipotently		In an omnipotent manner.	
omnipresence		Presence in every place at the same time; unbounded or universal presence; ubiquity.	
omnipresency	Obsolete	Omnipresence.	
omnipresent		Present in all places at the same time; ubiquitous; as, the omnipresent Jehovah.	
omnipresential		Implying universal presence.	
omniprevalent		Prevalent everywhere or in all things.	
omniscience		The quality or state of being omniscient; -- an attribute peculiar to God.	Latin omniscientia.
omnisciency		Omniscience.	Latin omniscientia.
omniscient		Having universal knowledge; knowing all things; infinitely knowing or wise; as, the omniscient God. -- Om*nis"cient*ly, adv.	Latin omnisciens.
omniscious	Obsolete	All-knowing.	Latin omniscius.
omnispective		Beholding everything; capable of seeing all things; all-seeing.	
omnium		The aggregate value of the different stocks in which a loan to government is now usually funded.	
omnium-gatherum	Colloquial	A miscellaneous collection of things or persons; a confused mixture; a medley.	
omnivagant		Wandering anywhere and everywhere.	
omnivora		A group of ungulate mammals including the hog and the hippopotamus.	
omnivorous		All-devouring; eating everything indiscriminately; as, omnivorous vanity; esp. (Zoöl.), eating both animal and vegetable food. -- Om*niv"o*rous*ness, n.	
omo-		A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the shoulder or the scapula.	
omohyoid		Of or pertaining to the shoulder and the hyoid bone; as, the omohyoid muscle.	
omophagic		Eating raw flesh; using uncooked meat as food; as, omophagic feasts, rites.	
omoplate		The shoulder blade, or scapula.	
omostegite		The part of the carapace of a crustacean situated behind the cervical groove.	
omosternal		Of or pertaining to the omosternum.	
omosternum		(a) The anterior element of the sternum which projects forward from between the clavicles in many batrachians and is usually tipped with cartilage.	
omphacine		Of, pertaining to, or expressed from, unripe fruit; as, omphacine oil.	
omphalic		Of or pertaining to the umbilicus, or navel.	
omphalo-		A combining form indicating connection with, or relation to, the umbilicus, or navel.	Greek όμφαλος.
omphalocele		A hernia at the navel.	
omphalode		The central part of the hilum of a seed, through which the nutrient vessels pass into the rhaphe or the chalaza; -- called also omphalodium.	
omphalomancy		Divination by means of a child's navel, to learn how many children the mother may have.	
omphalomesaraic		Omphalomesenteric.	
omphalomesenteric		Of or pertaining to the umbilicus and mesentery; omphalomesaraic; as, the omphalomesenteric arteries and veins of a fetus.	
omphalopsychite		A name of the Hesychasts, from their habit of gazing upon the navel.	
omphalopter	Obsolete	An optical glass that is convex on both sides.	
omphaloptic	Obsolete	An optical glass that is convex on both sides.	
omphalos		The navel.	Greek ὀμφαλός.
omphalotomy		The operation of dividing the navel-string.	
omy		Mellow, as land.	
