on		The general signification of on is situation, motion, or condition with respect to contact or support beneath; as: --
on-hanger		A hanger-on.
on-looker		A looker-on.
on-looking		Looking on or forward.
onager		(Rom.Antiq.) A military engine acting like a sling, which threw stones from a bag or wooden bucket, and was operated by machinery.
onagga		The dauw.
onagraceous		Pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of plants (Onagraceæ or Onagrarieæ), which includes the fuchsia, the willow- herb (Epilobium), and the evening primrose ().
onagrarieous		Pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of plants (Onagraceæ or Onagrarieæ), which includes the fuchsia, the willow- herb (Epilobium), and the evening primrose ().
onanism		Self-pollution; masturbation.
onappo		A nocturnal South American monkey (Callithrix discolor), noted for its agility; -- called also ventriloquist monkey.
once		By limitation to the number one; for one time; not twice nor any number of times more than one.
oncidium		A genus of tropical orchidaceous plants, the flower of one species of which (O.
oncograph		An instrument for registering the changes observable with an oncometer.
oncometer		An instrument for measuring the variations in size of the internal organs of the body, as the kidney, spleen, etc.
oncost		In cost accounting, expenditure which is involved in the process of manufacture or the performance of work and which cannot be charged directly to any particular article manufactured or work done (as where different kinds of…
oncotomy		The opening of an abscess, or the removal of a tumor, with a cutting instrument.
onde	Obsolete	Hatred; fury; envy.
ondogram		The record of an ondograph.
ondograph		An instrument for autographically recording the wave forms of varying currents, esp. rapidly varying alternating currents.
ondometer		An electric wave meter.
ondoyant		Wavy; having the surface marked by waves or slightly depressed furrows; as, ondoyant glass.
one		Being a single unit, or entire being or thing, and no more; not multifold; single; individual.
one-hand		Employing one hand; as, the one-hand alphabet. See Dactylology.
one-horse		Drawn by one horse; having but a single horse; as, a one-horse carriage.
one-sided		Having one side only, or one side prominent; hence, limited to one side; partial; unjust; unfair; as, a one-sided view or statement.
oneberry		The herb Paris. See Herb Paris, under Herb.
oneidas		A tribe of Indians formerly inhabiting the region near Oneida Lake in the State of New York, and forming part of the Five Nations.
oneirocritic		An interpreter of dreams.
oneirocritical		Of or pertaining to the interpretation of dreams.
oneirocriticism		The art of interpreting dreams.
oneirocritics		The art of interpreting dreams.
oneiromancy		Divination by means of dreams.
oneiroscopist		One who interprets dreams.
oneiroscopy		The interpretation of dreams.
oneliness	Obsolete	The state of being one or single.
onely	Obsolete	See Only — one alone; single; as, the only man present; his only occupation.
onement	Obsolete	The state of being at one or reconciled.
oneness		The state of being one; singleness in number; individuality; unity.
onerary		Fitted for, or carrying, a burden.
onerate	Obsolete	To load; to burden.
oneration	Obsolete	The act of loading.
onerous		Burdensome; oppressive.
onerously		In an onerous manner.
oneself		A reflexive form of the indefinite pronoun one.
onethe	Obsolete	Scarcely. See Unnethe.
ongoing		The act of going forward; progress; (pl.) affairs; business; current events.
onguent		An unguent.
onion		A liliaceous plant of the genus Allium (A.cepa), having a strong-flavored bulb and long hollow leaves; also, its bulbous root, much used as an article of food.
onionskin		A kind of thin translucent paper with a glossy finish.
onirocritic		See Oneirocritic — an interpreter of dreams.
onliness	Obsolete	The state of being alone.
onloft	Obsolete	Aloft; above ground.
only		One alone; single; as, the only man present; his only occupation.
onocerin		A white crystalline waxy substance extracted from the root of the leguminous plant Ononis spinosa.
onology		Foolish discourse.
onomancy		Divination by the letters of a name; nomancy.
onomantic		Of or pertaining to onomancy.
onomantical		Of or pertaining to onomancy.
onomastic		Applied to a signature when the body of the instrument is in another's handwriting.
onomasticon		A collection of names and terms; a dictionary; specif., a collection of Greek names, with explanatory notes, made by Julius Pollux about A.D.180.
onomatechny		Prognostication by the letters of a name.
onomatologist		One versed in the history of names.
onomatology		The science of names or of their classification.
onomatope		An imitative word; an onomatopoetic word.
onomatopoeia		The formation of words in imitation of sounds; a figure of speech in which the sound of a word is imitative of the sound of the thing which the word represents; as, the buzz of bees; the hiss of a goose; the crackle of fire.
onomatopoeic		Onomatopoetic.
onomatopoetic		Of or pertaining to onomatopoeia; characterized by onomatopoeia; imitative; as, an onomatopoetic writer or word.
onomatopy		Onomatopoeia.
onomomancy		See Onomancy — divination by the letters of a name; nomancy.
onondagas		A tribe of Indians formerly inhabiting what is now a part of the State of New York.
onrush		A rushing onward.
onset		A rushing or setting upon; an attack; an assault; a storming; especially, the assault of an army.
onslaught		An attack; an onset; esp., a furious or murderous attack or assault.
onstead		A single farmhouse; a steading.
onto		On the top of; upon; on. See On to, under On, prep.
ontogenesis		The history of the individual development of an organism; the history of the evolution of the germ; the development of an individual organism, -- in distinction from phylogeny, or evolution of the tribe.
ontogenetic		Of or pertaining to ontogenesis; as, ontogenetic phenomena. -- On`to*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv.
ontogenic		Ontogenetic.
ontogeny		The history of the individual development of an organism; the history of the evolution of the germ; the development of an individual organism, -- in distinction from phylogeny, or evolution of the tribe.
ontologic		Ontological.
ontological		Of or pertaining to ontology.
ontologically		In an ontological manner.
ontologist		One who is versed in or treats of ontology.
ontology		That department of the science of metaphysics which investigates and explains the nature and essential properties and relations of all beings, as such, or the principles and causes of being.
onus		A burden; an obligation.
onward		Moving in a forward direction; tending toward a contemplated or desirable end; forward; as, an onward course, progress, etc.
onwardness		Progress; advancement.
onycha		An ingredient of the Mosaic incense, probably the operculum of some kind of strombus.
onychia		(a) A whitlow. (b) An affection of a finger or toe, attended with ulceration at the base of the nail, and terminating in the destruction of the nail.
onychomancy		Divination by the nails.
onychophora		Malacopoda.
onyx		Chalcedony in parallel layers of different shades of color.
