ooecium		One of the special zooids, or cells, of Bryozoa, destined to receive and develop ova; an ovicell.
ooegenesis		The development, or mode of origin, of the ova.
ooegonium		A special cell in certain cryptogamous plants containing oöspheres, as in the rockweeds (Fucus), and the orders Vaucherieæ and Peronosporeæ.
ooelite		A variety of limestone, consisting of small round grains, resembling the roe of a fish.
ooelitic		Of or pertaining to oölite; composed of, or resembling, oölite.
ooelogical		Of or pertaining to oölogy.
ooelogist		One versed in oölogy.
ooelogy		The science of eggs in relation to their coloring, size, shape, and number.
ooephore		An alternately produced form of certain cryptogamous plants, as ferns, mosses, and the like, which bears antheridia and archegonia, and so has sexual fructification, as contrasted with the sporophore, which is nonsexual…
ooephorectomy		Ovariotomy.
ooephoric		Having the nature of, or belonging to, an oöphore.
ooephoridium		The macrosporangium or case for the larger kind of spores in heterosporous flowerless plants.
ooephoritis		Ovaritis.
ooephyte		Any plant of a proposed class or grand division (collectively termed oöphytes or Oöphyta), which have their sexual reproduction accomplished by motile antherozoids acting on oöspheres…
ooephytic		Of or pertaining to an oöphyte.
ooerial		A wild, bearded sheep inhabiting the Ladakh mountains.
ooesperm		The ovum, after fusion with the spermatozoön in impregnation.
ooesphere		(Bot.) An unfertilized, rounded mass of protoplasm, produced in an oögonium.
ooesporangium		An oögonium; also, a case containing oval or rounded spores of some other kind than oöspores.
ooespore		(a) A special kind of spore resulting from the fertilization of an oösphere by antherozoids.
ooesporic		Of or pertaining to an oöspore.
ooestegite		One of the plates which in some Crustacea inclose a cavity wherein the eggs are hatched.
ooetheca		An egg case, especially those of many kinds of mollusks, and of some insects, as the cockroach.
ooetocoid		A half oviparous, or an oviparous, mammal; a marsupial or monotreme.
ooetooid		A half oviparous, or an oviparous, mammal; a marsupial or monotreme.
ooetype		The part of the oviduct of certain trematode worms in which the ova are completed and furnished with a shell.
ooezoa		Same as Acrita.
oogenesis		The development, or mode of origin, of the ova.
oogonium		A special cell in certain cryptogamous plants containing oöspheres, as in the rockweeds (Fucus), and the orders Vaucherieæ and Peronosporeæ.
ooidal		Shaped like an egg.
oolite		A variety of limestone, consisting of small round grains, resembling the roe of a fish.
oolitic		Of or pertaining to oölite; composed of, or resembling, oölite.
oological		Of or pertaining to oölogy.
oologist		One versed in oölogy.
oology		The science of eggs in relation to their coloring, size, shape, and number.
oolong		A fragrant variety of black tea having somewhat the flavor of green tea.
oomiac		A long, broad boat used by the Eskimos.
oomiak		A long, broad boat used by the Eskimos.
oop	Scots	To bind with a thread or cord; to join; to unite.
oopack		A kind of black tea.
oopak		A kind of black tea.
oophore		An alternately produced form of certain cryptogamous plants, as ferns, mosses, and the like, which bears antheridia and archegonia, and so has sexual fructification, as contrasted with the sporophore, which is nonsexual…
oophorectomy		Ovariotomy.
oophoric		Having the nature of, or belonging to, an oöphore.
oophoridium		The macrosporangium or case for the larger kind of spores in heterosporous flowerless plants.
oophoritis		Ovaritis.
oophyte		Any plant of a proposed class or grand division (collectively termed oöphytes or Oöphyta), which have their sexual reproduction accomplished by motile antherozoids acting on oöspheres…
oophytic		Of or pertaining to an oöphyte.
oordoba		The monetary unit of Nicaragua, equivalent to the United States gold dollar.
oorial		A wild, bearded sheep inhabiting the Ladakh mountains.
oosperm		The ovum, after fusion with the spermatozoön in impregnation.
oosphere		(Bot.) An unfertilized, rounded mass of protoplasm, produced in an oögonium.
oosporangium		An oögonium; also, a case containing oval or rounded spores of some other kind than oöspores.
oospore		(a) A special kind of spore resulting from the fertilization of an oösphere by antherozoids.
oosporic		Of or pertaining to an oöspore.
oostegite		One of the plates which in some Crustacea inclose a cavity wherein the eggs are hatched.
ootheca		An egg case, especially those of many kinds of mollusks, and of some insects, as the cockroach.
ootocoid		A half oviparous, or an oviparous, mammal; a marsupial or monotreme.
ootooid		A half oviparous, or an oviparous, mammal; a marsupial or monotreme.
ootype		The part of the oviduct of certain trematode worms in which the ova are completed and furnished with a shell.
ooze		Soft mud or slime; earth so wet as to flow gently, or easily yield to pressure.
oozoa		Same as Acrita.
oozy		Miry; containing soft mud; resembling ooze; as, the oozy bed of a river.
