opacate	Obsolete	To darken; to cloud.	Latin opacatus.
opacity		The state of being opaque; the quality of a body which renders it impervious to the rays of light; want of transparency; opaqueness.	French opacité, from Latin opacitatem.
opah		A large oceanic fish (Lampris quttatus), inhabiting the Atlantic Ocean.	
opake		See Opaque — impervious to the rays of light; not transparent; as, an opaque substance.	Middle English opake, from Latin opacus.
opal		A mineral consisting, like quartz, of silica, but inferior to quartz in hardness and specific gravity.	
opalesce		To give forth a play of colors, like the opal.	
opalescence		A reflection of a milky or pearly light from the interior of a mineral, as in the moonstone; the state or quality of being opalescent.	
opalescent		Reflecting a milky or pearly light from the interior; having an opaline play of colors.	
opaline		Of, pertaining to, or like, opal in appearance; having changeable colors like those of the opal.	
opalize		To convert into opal, or a substance like opal.	
opalotype		A picture taken on "milky" glass.	
opaque		Impervious to the rays of light; not transparent; as, an opaque substance.	Middle English opake, from Latin opacus.
opaqueness		The state or quality of being impervious to light; opacity.	
opeidoscope		An instrument, consisting of a tube having one end open and the other end covered with a thin flexible membrance to the center of which is attached a small mirror.	
opelet		A bright-colored European actinian (Anemonia, or Anthea, sulcata); -- so called because it does not retract its tentacles.	
open		Free of access; not shut up; not closed; affording unobstructed ingress or egress; not impeding or preventing passage; not locked up or covered over; -- applied to passageways; as, an open door, window, road, etc.; also…	Old English open.
open-air		Taking place in the open air; outdoor; as, an open-air game or meeting.	
open-eyed		With eyes widely open; watchful; vigilant.	
open-handed		Generous; liberal; munificent. -- O"pen-hand`ed*ness, n.	
open-headed	Obsolete	Bareheaded.	
open-hearted		Candid; frank; generous.	
open-mouthed		Having the mouth open; gaping; hence, greedy; clamorous.	
openbill		A bird of the genus Anastomus, allied to the stork; -- so called because the two parts of the bill touch only at the base and tip.	
opener		One who, or that which, opens.	
opening		The act or process of opening; a beginning; commencement; first appearance; as, the opening of a speech.	
openly		In an open manner; publicly; not in private; without secrecy.	
openness		The quality or state of being open.	
openwork		Anything so constructed or manufactured (in needlework, carpentry, metal work, etc.) as to show openings through its substance; work that is perforated or pierced.	
opera		A drama, either tragic or comic, of which music forms an essential part; a drama wholly or mostly sung, consisting of recitative, arials, choruses, duets, trios, etc., with orchestral accompaniment, preludes, and interludes…	Italian opera, from Latin opera.
operable	Obsolete	Practicable.	
operameter		An instrument or machine for measuring work done, especially for ascertaining the number of rotations made by a machine or wheel in manufacturing cloth; a counter.	Latin opus.
operance		The act of operating or working; operation.	
operancy		The act of operating or working; operation.	
operand		The symbol, quantity, or thing upon which a mathematical operation is performed; -- called also faciend.	Latin operandum.
operant		Operative.	
operate		To perform a work or labor; to exert power or strengh, physical or mechanical; to act.	Latin operatus.
operatic		Of or pertaining to the opera or to operas; characteristic of, or resembling, the opera.	
operatical		Of or pertaining to the opera or to operas; characteristic of, or resembling, the opera.	
operation		The act or process of operating; agency; the exertion of power, physical, mechanical, or moral.	Latin operatio.
operative		Having the power of acting; hence, exerting force, physical or moral; active in the production of effects; as, an operative motive.	
operatively		In an operative manner.	
operator		One who, or that which, operates or produces an effect.	
operatory	Obsolete	A laboratory.	
opercle		(Anat.) Any one of the bony plates which support the gill covers of fishes; an opercular bone.	
opercula		See Operculum — (Bot.) (a) The lid of a pitcherform leaf. (b) The lid of the urnlike capsule of mosses.	
opercular		Of, pertaining to, or like, an operculum.	
operculate		(Bot.) Closed by a lid or cover, as the capsules of the mosses.	
operculated		(Bot.) Closed by a lid or cover, as the capsules of the mosses.	
operculiferous		Bearing an operculum.	
operculiform		Having the form of a lid or cover.	
operculigenous		Producing an operculum; -- said of the foot, or part of the foot, of certain mollusks.	
operculum		(Bot.) (a) The lid of a pitcherform leaf. (b) The lid of the urnlike capsule of mosses.	Latin operire.
operetta		A short, light, musical drama.	
operose		Wrought with labor; requiring labor; hence, tedious; wearisome. -- Op er*ose`ness, n.	Latin operosus.
operosity		Laboriousness.	Latin operositas.
operous	Obsolete	Operose.	
opertaneous		Concealed; private.	
opetide	Archaic	Open time; -- applied to different things: (a) The early spring, or the time when flowers begin opening.	
ophelic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, a substance (called ophelic acid) extracted from a plant (Ophelia) of the Gentian family as a bitter yellowish sirup, used in India as a febrifuge and tonic.	
ophicleide		A large brass wind instrument, formerly used in the orchestra and in military bands, having a loud tone, deep pitch, and a compass of three octaves; -- now generally supplanted by bass and contrabass tubas.	
ophidia		The order of reptiles which includes the serpents.	
ophidian		One of the Ophidia; a snake or serpent.	Latin Ophidia.
ophidioid		Of or pertaining to the Ophidiidæ, a family of fishes which includes many slender species. -- n.	
ophidion		The typical genus of ophidioid fishes. See Illust. under Ophidioid.	
ophidious		Ophidian.	
ophiolatry		The worship of serpents.	
ophiologic		Of or pertaining to ophiology.	
ophiological		Of or pertaining to ophiology.	
ophiologist		One versed in the natural history of serpents.	
ophiology		That part of natural history which treats of the ophidians, or serpents.	
ophiomancy		Divination by serpents, as by their manner of eating, or by their coils.	
ophiomorpha		An order of tailless amphibians having a slender, wormlike body with regular annulations, and usually with minute scales imbedded in the skin.	
ophiomorphite		An ammonite.	
ophiomorphous		Having the form of a serpent.	
ophiophagous		Feeding on serpents; -- said of certain birds and reptiles.	
ophiophagus		A genus of venomous East Indian snakes, which feed on other snakes.	
ophism		Doctrines and rites of the Ophites.	
ophite	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to a serpent.	Latin ophites.
ophiuchus		A constellation in the Northern Hemisphere, delineated as a man holding a serpent in his hands; -- called also Serpentarius.	
ophiura		A genus of ophiurioid starfishes.	
ophiuran		Of or pertaining to the Ophiurioidea. -- n.	
ophiurid		Same as Ophiurioid.	
ophiurida		Same as Ophiurioidea.	
ophiurioid		Of or pertaining to the Ophiurioidea. -- n.	
ophiurioidea		A class of star-shaped echinoderms having a disklike body, with slender, articulated arms, which are not grooved beneath and are often very fragile; -- called also Ophiuroida and Ophiuridea.	
ophiuroidea		A class of star-shaped echinoderms having a disklike body, with slender, articulated arms, which are not grooved beneath and are often very fragile; -- called also Ophiuroida and Ophiuridea.	
ophryon		The supraorbital point.	
ophthalmia		An inflammation of the membranes or coats of the eye or of the eyeball.	
ophthalmic		Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the eye; ocular; as the ophthalmic, or orbitonasal, nerve, a division of the trigeminal, which gives branches to the lachrymal gland, eyelids, nose, and forehead.	
ophthalmite		An eyestalk; the organ which bears the compound eyes of decapod Crustacea.	
ophthalmological		Of or pertaining to ophthalmology.	
ophthalmologist		One skilled in ophthalmology; an oculist.	
ophthalmology		The science which treats of the structure, functions, and diseases of the eye.	
ophthalmometer		An instrument devised by Helmholtz for measuring the size of a reflected image on the convex surface of the cornea and lens of the eye, by which their curvature can be ascertained.	
ophthalmoscope		An instrument for viewing the interior of the eye, particularly the retina.	
ophthalmoscopy		A branch of physiognomy which deduces the knowledge of a person's temper and character from the appearance of the eyes.	
ophthalmy		Same as Ophthalmia.	
opianic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid obtained by the oxidation of narcotine.	
opianine		An alkaloid found in small quantity in opium.	
opianyl		Same as Meconin.	
opiate		Originally, a medicine of a thicker consistence than sirup, prepared with opium.	
opiated		Mixed with opiates.	
opiferous		Bringing help.	
opifice	Obsolete	Workmanship.	
opificer	Obsolete	An artificer; a workman.	Latin opifex.
opinable		Capable of being opined or thought.	Latin opinabilis.
opination	Obsolete	The act of thinking; a supposition.	
opinative	Obsolete	Obstinate in holding opinions; opinionated. -- O*pin"a*tive*ly, adv.	Middle French opinatif.
opinator	Obsolete	One fond of his own opinious; one who holds an opinion.	
opine		To have an opinion; to judge; to think; to suppose.	
opiner		One who opines.	
opiniaster	Obsolete	Opinionated.	Old French opiniastre.
opiniastrous	Obsolete	See Opiniaster..	
opiniate	Obsolete	To hold or maintain persistently.	
opiniated	Obsolete	Opinionated.	
opiniative		Opinionative.	
opiniator	Obsolete	One who is opinionated.	
opiniatre	Obsolete	Opinionated.	
opiniatrety	Obsolete	Obstinacy in opinious.	
opinicus		An imaginary animal borne as a charge, having wings, an eagle's head, and a short tail; -- sometimes represented without wings.	
opining	Obsolete	Opinion.	
opinion		That which is opined; a notion or conviction founded on probable evidence; belief stronger than impression, less strong than positive knowledge; settled judgment in regard to any point of knowledge or action.	Middle English opinion.
opinionable		Being, or capable of being, a matter of opinion; that can be thought; not positively settled; as, an opinionable doctrine.	
opinionate		Opinionated.	
opinionated		Stiff in opinion; firmly or unduly adhering to one's own opinion or to preconceived notions; obstinate in opinion.	
opinionately		Conceitedly.	
opinionatist	Obsolete	An opinionist.	
opinionative		Unduly attached to one's own opinions; opinionated.	
opinionator	Obsolete	An opinionated person; one given to conjecture.	
opinioned		Opinionated; conceited.	
opinionist		One fond of his own notions, or unduly attached to his own opinions.	
opiparous	Obsolete	Sumptuous. -- O*pip"a*rous*ly, adv.	Latin opiparus.
opisometer		An instrument with a revolving wheel for measuring a curved line, as on a map.	
opisthion		The middle of the posterior, or dorsal, margin of the great foramen of the skull.	
opisthobranchia		A division of gastropod Mollusca, in which the breathing organs are usually situated behind the heart.	
opisthobranchiata		A division of gastropod Mollusca, in which the breathing organs are usually situated behind the heart.	
opisthobranchiate		Of or pertaining to the Opisthobranchiata. -- n.	
opisthocoelian		Concave behind; -- applied especially to vertebræ in which the anterior end of the centrum is convex and the posterior concave.	
opisthocoelous		Concave behind; -- applied especially to vertebræ in which the anterior end of the centrum is convex and the posterior concave.	
opisthodome		A back chamber; especially, that part of the naos, or cella, farthest from the main entrance, sometimes having an entrance of its own, and often used as a treasury.	Latin opisthodomus.
opisthoglypha		A division of serpents which have some of the posterior maxillary teeth grooved for fangs.	
opisthography		A writing upon the back of anything, as upon the back of a leaf or sheet already written upon on one side.	
opisthomi		An order of eellike fishes having the scapular arch attached to the vertebræ, but not connected with the skull.	
opisthopulmonate		Having the pulmonary sac situated posteriorly; -- said of certain air-breathing Mollusca.	
opisthotic		The inferior and posterior of the three elements forming the periotic bone.	
opisthotonos		A tetanic spasm in which the body is bent backwards and stiffened.	
opitulation	Obsolete	The act of helping or aiding; help.	Latin opitulatio.
opium	Slang	The inspissated juice of the Papaver somniferum, or white poppy.	
opobalsam		The old name of the aromatic resinous juice of the Balsamodendron opobalsamum, now commonly called balm of Gilead.	
opobalsamum		The old name of the aromatic resinous juice of the Balsamodendron opobalsamum, now commonly called balm of Gilead.	
opodeldoc		A saponaceous, camphorated liniment; a solution of soap in alcohol, with the addition of camphor and essential oils; soap liniment.	
opolchenie		See Army organization, above.	
opopanax		The inspissated juice of an umbelliferous plant (the Opoponax Chironum), brought from Turkey and the East Indies in loose granules, or sometimes in larger masses, of a reddish yellow color, with specks of white.	Latin opopanax.
opossum		Any American marsupial of the genera Didelphys and Chironectes.	
oppidan		A student of Eton College, England, who is not a King's scholar, and who boards in a private family.	Latin oppidum.
oppignerate	Obsolete	To pledge; to pawn.	
oppilate	Obsolete	To crowd together; to fill with obstructions; to block up.	Latin oppilare.
oppilation		The act of filling or crowding together; a stopping by redundant matter; obstruction, particularly in the lower intestines.	
oppilative	Obsolete	Obstructive.	
opplete	Obsolete	Filled; crowded.	
oppleted	Obsolete	Filled; crowded.	
oppletion	Obsolete	The act of filling up, or the state of being filled up; fullness.	
oppone	Obsolete	To oppose.	
opponency		The act of opening an academical disputation; the proposition of objections to a tenet, as an exercise for a degree.	
opponent		Situated in front; opposite; hence, opposing; adverse; antagonistic.	
opportune	Obsolete	Convenient; ready; hence, seasonable; timely.	Latin opportunus.
opportunism		The art or practice of taking advantage of opportunities or circumstances, or of seeking immediate advantage with little regard for ultimate consequences.	
opportunist		One who advocates or practices opportunism.	
opportunity		Fit or convenient time; a time or place favorable for executing a purpose; a suitable combination of conditions; suitable occasion; chance.	
opposability		The condition or quality of being opposable.	
opposable		Capable of being opposed or resisted.	
opposal		Opposition.	
oppose		To place in front of, or over against; to set opposite; to exhibit.	Middle English opposen, from Old French opposer.
opposeless	Obsolete	Not to be effectually opposed; irresistible.	
opposer		One who opposes; an opponent; an antagonist; an adversary.	
opposite		Placed over against; standing or situated over against or in front; facing; -- often with to; as, a house opposite to the Exchange.	Latin oppositus.
oppositely		In a situation to face each other; in an opposite manner or direction; adversely.	
oppositeness		The quality or state of being opposite.	
oppositifolious		Placed at the same node with a leaf, but separated from it by the whole diameter of the stem; as, an oppositifolious peduncle.	
opposition		The act of opposing; an attempt to check, restrain, or defeat; resistance.	Old French oposicion, from Latin oppositio.
oppositionist		One who belongs to the opposition party.	
oppositipetalous		Placed in front of a petal.	
oppositisepalous		Placed in front of a sepal.	
oppositive		Capable of being put in opposition.	
oppress		To impose excessive burdens upon; to overload; hence, to treat with unjust rigor or with cruelty.	Middle English oppressen, from Old French oppresser, from Latin oppressare.
oppression		The act of oppressing, or state of being oppressed.	Middle English oppression, from French oppression, from Latin oppressio.
oppressive		Unreasonably burdensome; unjustly severe, rigorous, or harsh; as, oppressive taxes; oppressive exactions of service; an oppressive game law.	
oppressor		One who oppresses; one who imposes unjust burdens on others; one who harasses others with unjust laws or unreasonable severity.	
oppressure	Obsolete	Oppression.	
opprobrious		Expressive of opprobrium; attaching disgrace; reproachful; scurrilous; as, opprobrious language.	
opprobrium		Disgrace; infamy; reproach mingled with contempt; abusive language.	
opprobry	Obsolete	Opprobrium.	
oppugn		To fight against; to attack; to be in conflict with; to oppose; to resist.	
oppugnancy		The act of oppugning; opposition; resistance.	
oppugnant		Tending to awaken hostility; hostile; opposing; warring. -- n.	
oppugnation		Opposition.	
oppugner		One who opposes or attacks; that which opposes.	
opsimathy		Education late in life.	
opsiometer		An instrument for measuring the limits of distincts vision in different individuals, and thus determiming the proper focal length of a lens for correcting imperfect sight.	
opsonation	Obsolete	A catering; a buying of provisions.	
optable	Obsolete	That may be chosen; desirable.	Latin optabilis.
optate	Obsolete	To choose; to wish for; to desire.	
optation	Obsolete	The act of optating; a wish.	Latin optatio.
optative		Expressing desire or wish.	Middle English optatif.
optatively		In an optative manner; with the expression of desire.	
optic		Of or pertaining to the eye; ocular; as, the optic nerves (the first pair of cranial nerves) which are distributed to the retina.	Latin opticus, from Greek ὀπτικός.
optical		Of or pertaining to the eye; ocular; as, the optic nerves (the first pair of cranial nerves) which are distributed to the retina.	
optically		By optics or sight; with reference to optics.	
optician		One who deals in optical glasses and instruments.	
optics		That branch of physical science which treats of the nature and properties of light, the laws of its modification by opaque and transparent bodies, and the phenomena of vision.	
optigraph		A telescope with a diagonal eyepiece, suspended vertically in gimbals by the object end beneath a fixed diagonal plane mirror.	
optimacy		Government by the nobility.	
optimate		Of or pertaining to the nobility or aristocracy. -- n.	Latin optimates.
optimates		The nobility or aristocracy of ancient Rome, as opposed to the populares.	
optime		One of those who stand in the second rank of honors, immediately after the wranglers, in the University of Cambridge, England.	
optimism		(Metaph.) The opinion or doctrine that everything in nature, being the work of God, is ordered for the best, or that the ordering of things in the universe is such as to produce the highest good.	
optimist		(Metaph.) One who holds the opinion that all events are ordered for the best.	
optimistic		(Metaph.) Of or pertaining to optimism; tending, or conforming, to the opinion that all events are ordered for the best.	
optimity		The state of being best.	Latin optimitas.
option		The power of choosing; the right of choice or election; an alternative.	French option, from Latin optio.
optional		Involving an option; depending on the exercise of an option; left to one's discretion or choice; not compulsory; as, optional studies; it is optional with you to go or stay. -- n.	
optionally		In an optional manner.	
optocoele		The cavity of one of the optic lobes of the brain in many animals.	
optocoelia		The cavity of one of the optic lobes of the brain in many animals.	
optogram		An image of external objects fixed on the retina by the photochemical action of light on the visual purple.	
optography		The production of an optogram on the retina by the photochemical action of light on the visual purple; the fixation of an image in the eye.	
optometer		An instrument for measuring the distance of distinct vision, mainly for the selection of eveglasses.	
optometrist		One who is skilled in or practices optometry.	
optometry		(Med.) Measurement of the range of vision, esp. by means of the optometer.	
opulence		Wealth; riches; affluence.	
opulency		See Opulence — wealth; riches; affluence.	
opulent		Having a large estate or property; wealthy; rich; affluent; as, an opulent city; an opulent citizen. -- Op"u*lent*ly, adv.	
opuntia		A genus of cactaceous plants; the prickly pear, or Indian fig.	
opus		A work; specif. (Mus.), a musical composition.	
opuscle		A small or petty work.	
opuscule		A small or petty work.	French opuscule.
opusculum		An opuscule.	
