or	Obsolete	A particle that marks an alternative; as, you may read or may write, -- that is, you may do one of the things at your pleasure, but not both.
ora		A money of account among the Anglo-Saxons, valued, in the Domesday Book, at twenty pence sterling.
orabassu		A South American monkey of the genus Callithrix, esp. C.
orach		A genus (Atriplex) of herbs or low shrubs of the Goosefoot family, most of them with a mealy surface.
orache		A genus (Atriplex) of herbs or low shrubs of the Goosefoot family, most of them with a mealy surface.
oracle		The answer of a god, or some person reputed to be a god, to an inquiry respecting some affair or future event, as the success of an enterprise or battle.
oracular		Of or pertaining to an oracle; uttering oracles; forecasting the future; as, an oracular tongue.
oraculous		Oracular; of the nature of an oracle. -- O*rac u*lous*ness, n.
oraison	Obsolete	See Orison — a prayer; a supplication.
oral		Uttered by the mouth, or in words; spoken, not written; verbal; as, oral traditions; oral testimony; oral law.
orally		In an oral manner.
orang		See Orang-outang — an arboreal anthropoid ape (Simia satyrus), which inhabits Borneo and Sumatra.
orang-outang		An arboreal anthropoid ape (Simia satyrus), which inhabits Borneo and Sumatra.
orange		The fruit of a tree of the genus Citrus (C.
orangeade		A drink made of orange juice and water, corresponding to lemonade; orange sherbet.
orangeat		Candied orange peel; also, orangeade.
orangeism		Attachment to the principles of the society of Orangemen; the tenets or practices of the Orangemen.
orangeman		One of a secret society, organized in the north of Ireland in 1795, the professed objects of which are the defense of the regning sovereign of Great Britain, the support of the Protestant religion…
orangeroot		An American ranunculaceous plant (Hidrastis Canadensis), having a yellow tuberous root; -- also called yellowroot, golden seal, etc.
orangery		A place for raising oranges; a plantation of orange trees.
orangetawny		Deep orange-yellow; dark yellow.
orangite		An orange-yellow variety of the mineral thorite, found in Norway.
orarian		Of or pertaining to a coast.
oration		An elaborate discourse, delivered in public, treating an important subject in a formal and dignified manner; especially, a discourse having reference to some special occasion, as a funeral, an anniversary, a celebration…
orator		A public speaker; one who delivers an oration; especially, one distinguished for his skill and power as a public speaker; one who is eloquent.
oratorial		Oratorical.
oratorian	Obsolete	Oratorical.
oratorical		Of or pertaining to an orator or to oratory; characterized by oratory; rhetorical; becoming to an orator; as, an oratorical triumph; an oratorical essay. -- Or`a*tor"ic*al*ly, adv.
oratorio		(Mus.) A more or less dramatic text or poem, founded on some Scripture nerrative, or great divine event, elaborately set to music, in recitative, arias, grand choruses, etc., to be sung with an orchestral accompaniment…
oratorious	Obsolete	Oratorical.
oratorize		To play the orator.
oratory		A place of orisons, or prayer; especially, a chapel or small room set apart for private devotions.
oratress		A woman who makes public addresses.
oratrix		A woman plaintiff, or complainant, in equity pleading.
orb		A spherical body; a globe; especially, one of the celestial spheres; a sun, planet, or star.
orbate	Obsolete	Bereaved; fatherless; childless.
orbation	Obsolete	The state of being orbate, or deprived of parents or children; privation, in general; bereavement.
orbed		Having the form of an orb; round.
orbic		Spherical; orbicular; orblike; circular.
orbical		Spherical; orbicular; orblike; circular.
orbicle	Obsolete	A small orb, or sphere.
orbicula		Same as Discina.
orbicular		Resembling or having the form of an orb; spherical; circular; orbiculate. -- Or*bic u*lar*ness, n.
orbiculate		That which is orbiculate; especially, a solid the vertical section of which is oval, and the horizontal section circular.
orbiculated		Made, or being, in the form of an orb; having a circular, or nearly circular, or a spheroidal, outline.
orbiculation		The state or quality of being orbiculate; orbicularness.
orbit		(Astron.) The path described by a heavenly body in its periodical revolution around another body; as, the orbit of Jupiter, of the earth, of the moon.
orbital		Of or pertaining to an orbit.
orbitar		Orbital.
orbitary		Situated around the orbit; as, the orbitary feathers of a bird.
orbitelae		A division of spiders, including those that make geometrical webs, as the garden spider, or Epeira.
orbitolites		A genus of living Foraminifera, forming broad, thin, circular disks, containing numerous small chambers.
orbitonasal		Of or pertaining to the orbit and the nose; as, the orbitonasal, or ophthalmic, nerve.
orbitosphenoid		Of or pertaining to the sphenoid bone and the orbit, or to the orbitosphenoid bone. -- n.
orbitosphenoidal		Of or pertaining to the orbitosphenoid bone; orbitosphenoid.
orbituary		Orbital.
orbitude	Obsolete	Orbation.
orbity	Obsolete	Orbation.
orbulina		A genus of minute living Foraminifera having a globular shell.
orby	Obsolete	Orblike; having the course of an orb; revolving.
orc		The grampus.
orcadian		Of or pertaining to the Orkney Islands.
orcein		A reddish brown amorphous dyestuff,
orchal		See Archil — a violet dye obtained from several species of lichen (Roccella tinctoria, etc.), which grow on maritime rocks in the Canary and Cape Verd Islands, etc. Tomlinson.
orchanet		Same as Alkanet,
orchard		An inclosure containing fruit trees; also, the fruit trees, collectively; -- used especially of apples, peaches, pears, cherries, plums, or the like, less frequently of nutbearing trees and of sugar maple trees.
orcharding		The cultivation of orchards.
orchardist		One who cultivates an orchard.
orchesography		A treatise upon dancing.
orchester		See Orchestra — the space in a theater between the stage and the audience; -- originally appropriated by the Greeks to the chorus and its evolutions, afterward by the Romans to persons of distinction…
orchestian		Any species of amphipod crustacean of the genus Orchestia, or family Orchestidæ.
orchestra		The space in a theater between the stage and the audience; -- originally appropriated by the Greeks to the chorus and its evolutions, afterward by the Romans to persons of distinction…
orchestral		Of or pertaining to an orchestra; suitable for, or performed in or by, an orchestra.
orchestration		The arrangement of music for an orchestra; orchestral treatment of a composition; -- called also instrumentation.
orchestre		See Orchestra — the space in a theater between the stage and the audience; -- originally appropriated by the Greeks to the chorus and its evolutions, afterward by the Romans to persons of distinction…
orchestric		Orchestral.
orchestrion		A large music box imitating a variety of orchestral instruments.
orchid		Any plant of the order Orchidaceæ. See Orchidaceous.
orchidaceous		Pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order (Orchidaceæ) of endogenous plants of which the genus Orchis is the type.
orchidean		Orchidaceous.
orchideous		Same as Orchidaceous.
orchidologist		One versed in orchidology.
orchidology		The branch of botany which treats of orchids.
orchil		See Archil — a violet dye obtained from several species of lichen (Roccella tinctoria, etc.), which grow on maritime rocks in the Canary and Cape Verd Islands, etc. Tomlinson.
orchis		(Bot.) A genus of endogenous plants growing in the North Temperate zone, and consisting of about eighty species.
orchitis		Inflammation of the testicles.
orchotomy		The operation of cutting out or removing a testicle by the knife; castration.
orcin		A colorless crystalline substance, C6H3.CH3.(OH)2, which is obtained from certain lichens (Roccella, Lecanora, etc.), also from extract of aloes, and artificially from certain derivatives of toluene.
ord	Obsolete	An edge or point; also, a beginning.
ordain		To set in order; to arrange according to rule; to regulate; to set; to establish.
ordainable		Capable of being ordained; worthy to be ordained or appointed.
ordainer		One who ordains.
ordainment		Ordination.
ordalian	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to trial by ordeal.
ordeal		An ancient form of test to determine guilt or innocence, by appealing to a supernatural decision, -- once common in Europe, and still practiced in the East and by savage tribes.
order		Regular arrangement; any methodical or established succession or harmonious relation; method; system; as: (a) Of material things, like the books in a library.
orderable		Capable of being ordered; tractable.
orderer		One who puts in order, arranges, methodizes, or regulates.
ordering		Disposition; distribution; management.
orderless		Being without order or regularity; disorderly; out of rule.
orderliness		The state or quality of being orderly.
orderly		Conformed to order; in order; regular; as, an orderly course or plan.
ordinability	Obsolete	Capability of being ordained or appointed.
ordinable	Obsolete	Capable of being ordained or appointed.
ordinal		Indicating order or succession; as, the ordinal numbers, first, second, third, etc.
ordinalism		The state or quality of being ordinal.
ordinance		A rule established by authority; a permanent rule of action; a statute, law, regulation, rescript, or accepted usage; an edict or decree; esp., a local law enacted by a municipal government; as, a municipal ordinance.
ordinand		One about to be ordained.
ordinant	Obsolete	Ordaining; decreeing.
ordinarily		According to established rules or settled method; as a rule; commonly; usually; in most cases; as, a winter more than ordinarily severe.
ordinary		According to established order; methodical; settled; regular.
ordinaryship		The state of being an ordinary.
ordinate		Well-ordered; orderly; regular; methodical.
ordinately		In an ordinate manner; orderly.
ordination		The act of ordaining, appointing, or setting apart; the state of being ordained, appointed, etc. The holy and wise ordination of God.
ordinative		Tending to ordain; directing; giving order.
ordinator		One who ordains or establishes; a director.
ordnance		Heavy weapons of warfare; cannon, or great guns, mortars, and howitzers; artillery; sometimes, a general term for all weapons and appliances used in war.
ordonnance		The disposition of the parts of any composition with regard to one another and the whole.
ordonnant		Of or pertaining to ordonnance.
ordovian		Ordovician.
ordovician		Of or pertaining to a division of the Silurian formation, corresponding in general to the Lower Silurian of most authors, exclusive of the Cambrian. -- n.
ordure		Dung; excrement; fæces.
ordurous		Of or pertaining to ordure; filthy.
ore		The native form of a metal, whether free and uncombined, as gold, copper, etc., or combined, as iron, lead, etc. Usually the ores contain the metals combined with oxygen, sulphur, arsenic, etc. (called mineralizers).
oread		One of the nymphs of mountains and grottoes.
oreades		A group of butterflies which includes the satyrs. See Satyr, 2.
orectic		Of or pertaining to the desires; hence, impelling to gratification; appetitive.
oreide		See Oroide — an alloy, chiefly of copper and zinc or tin, resembling gold in color and brilliancy.
oreodon		A genus of extinct herbivorous mammals, abundant in the Tertiary formation of the Rocky Mountains.
oreodont		Resembling, or allied to, the genus Oreodon.
oreographic		Of or pertaining to oreography.
oreography		The science of mountains; orography.
oreoselin		A white crystalline substance which is obtained indirectly from the root of an umbelliferous plant (Imperatoria Oreoselinum), and yields resorcin on decomposition.
oreosoma		A genus of small oceanic fishes, remarkable for the large conical tubercles which cover the under surface.
oreweed		Same as Oarweed.
orewood		Same as Oarweed.
orf		A bright-colored domesticated variety of the id. See Id.
orfe		A bright-colored domesticated variety of the id. See Id.
orfgild		Restitution for cattle; a penalty for taking away cattle.
orfray	Obsolete	The osprey.
orfrays	Obsolete	See Orphrey — a band of rich embroidery, wholly or in part of gold, affixed to vestments, especially those of ecclesiastics.
orgal	Obsolete	See Argol — crude tartar; an acidulous salt from which cream of tartar is prepared.
organ		An instrument or medium by which some important action is performed, or an important end accomplished; as, legislatures, courts, armies, taxgatherers, etc., are organs of government.
organdie		A kind of transparent light muslin.
organdy		A kind of transparent light muslin.
organic		(Biol.) Of or pertaining to an organ or its functions, or to objects composed of organs; consisting of organs, or containing them; as, the organic structure of animals and plants…
organical		Organic.
organically		In an organic manner; by means of organs or with reference to organic functions; hence, fundamentally.
organicalness		The quality or state of being organic.
organicism		The doctrine of the localization of disease, or which refers it always to a material lesion of an organ.
organific		Making an organic or organized structure; producing an organism; acting through, or resulting from, organs.
organism		Organic structure; organization.
organist		(Mus.) One who plays on the organ.
organista		Any one of several South American wrens, noted for the sweetness of their song.
organity		Organism.
organizability		Quality of being organizable; capability of being organized.
organizable		Capable of being organized; esp. (Biol.), capable of being formed into living tissue; as, organizable matter.
organization		The act of organizing; the act of arranging in a systematic way for use or action; as, the organization of an army, or of a deliberative body.
organize		(Biol.) To furnish with organs; to give an organic structure to; to endow with capacity for the functions of life; as, an organized being; organized matter; -- in this sense used chiefly in the past participle.
organizer		One who organizes.
organling		A large kind of sea fish; the orgeis.
organo-		A combining form denoting relation to, or connection with, an organ or organs.
organogen		A name given to any one of the four elements, carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen, which are especially characteristic ingredients of organic compounds; also, by extension…
organogenesis		(Biol.) The origin and development of organs in animals and plants.
organogenic		Of or pertaining to organogenesis.
organogeny		Organogenesis.
organographic		Of or pertaining to organography.
organographical		Of or pertaining to organography.
organographist		One versed in organography.
organography		A description of the organs of animals or plants.
organoleptic		Making an impression upon an organ; plastic; -- said of the effect or impression produced by any substance on the organs of touch, taste, or smell, and also on the organism as a whole.
organological		Of or relating to organology.
organology		The science of organs or of anything considered as an organic structure.
organometallic		Metalorganic.
organon		An organ or instrument; hence, a method by which philosophical or scientific investigation may be conducted; -- a term adopted from the Aristotelian writers by Lord Bacon…
organonymy		The designation or nomenclature of organs.
organophyly		The tribal history of organs, -- a branch of morphophyly.
organoplastic		Having the property of producing the tissues or organs of animals and plants; as, the organoplastic cells.
organoscopy		Phrenology.
organotrophic		Relating to the creation, organization, and nutrition of living organs or parts.
organule		One of the essential cells or elements of an organ. See Sense organule, under Sense.
organum		An organ or instrument; hence, a method by which philosophical or scientific investigation may be conducted; -- a term adopted from the Aristotelian writers by Lord Bacon…
organy		See Origan — a genus of aromatic labiate plants, including the sweet marjoram (O.
organzine		A kind of double thrown silk of very fine texture, that is, silk twisted like a rope with different strands, so as to increase its strength.
orgasm		Eager or immoderate excitement or action; the state of turgescence of any organ; erethism; esp., the height of venereal excitement in sexual intercourse.
orgeat		A sirup in which, formerly, a decoction of barley entered, but which is now prepared with an emulsion of almonds, -- used to flavor beverages or edibles.
orgeis		See Organling — a large kind of sea fish; the orgeis.
orgiastic		Pertaining to, or of the nature of, orgies.
orgies		A sacrifice accompanied by certain ceremonies in honor of some pagan deity; especially, the ceremonies observed by the Greeks and Romans in the worship of Dionysus, or Bacchus…
orgillous	Obsolete	Proud; haughty.
orgue		(a) Any one of a number of long, thick pieces of timber, pointed and shod with iron, and suspended, each by a separate rope, over a gateway, to be let down in case of attack.
orgulous	Obsolete	See Orgillous — proud; haughty.
orgy		A frantic revel; drunken revelry. See Orgies
orgyia		A genus of bombycid moths whose caterpillars (esp. those of Orgyia leucostigma) are often very injurious to fruit trees and shade trees.
oricalche		See Orichalch — a metallic substance, resembling gold in color, but inferior in value; a mixed metal of the ancients, resembling brass; -- called also aurichalcum, orichalcum, etc.
orichalceous		Pertaining to, or resembling, orichalch; having a color or luster like that of brass.
orichalch		A metallic substance, resembling gold in color, but inferior in value; a mixed metal of the ancients, resembling brass; -- called also aurichalcum, orichalcum, etc.
oriel		(Arch.) A bay window. See Bay window.
oriency		Brightness or strength of color.
orient		Rising, as the sun.
oriental		Of or pertaining to the orient or east; eastern; concerned with the East or Orientalism; -- opposed to occidental; as, Oriental countries.
orientalism		Any system, doctrine, custom, expression, etc., peculiar to Oriental people.
orientalist		An inhabitant of the Eastern parts of the world; an Oriental.
orientality		The quality or state of being oriental or eastern.
orientalize		to render Oriental; to cause to conform to Oriental manners or conditions.
orientate		To place or turn toward the east; to cause to assume an easterly direction, or to veer eastward.
orientation		The act or process of orientating; determination of the points of the compass, or the east point, in taking bearings.
orientness	Obsolete	The quality or state of being orient or bright; splendor.
orifice		A mouth or aperture, as of a tube, pipe, etc.; an opening; as, the orifice of an artery or vein; the orifice of a wound.
oriflamb		The ancient royal standard of France.
oriflamme		The ancient royal standard of France.
origan		A genus of aromatic labiate plants, including the sweet marjoram (O.
origanum		A genus of aromatic labiate plants, including the sweet marjoram (O.
origenism		The opinions of Origen of Alexandria, who lived in the 3d century, one of the most learned of the Greek Fathers.
origenist		A follower of Origen of Alexandria.
origin		The first existence or beginning of anything; the birth.
originable		Capable of being originated.
original		Pertaining to the origin or beginning; preceding all others; first in order; primitive; primary; pristine; as, the original state of man; the original laws of a country; the original inventor of a process.
originalist		One who is original.
originality		The quality or state of being original.
originally		In the original time, or in an original manner; primarily; from the beginning or origin; not by derivation, or imitation.
originalness		The quality of being original; originality.
originant		Originating; original.
originary		Causing existence; productive.
originate		To give an origin or beginning to; to cause to be; to bring into existence; to produce as new.
origination		The act or process of bringing or coming into existence; first production.
originative		Having power, or tending, to originate, or bring into existence; originating.
originator		One who originates.
orillon		A semicircular projection made at the shoulder of a bastion for the purpose of covering the retired flank, -- found in old fortresses.
oriol		See Oriel — (Arch.) A bay window. See Bay window.
oriole		(a) Any one of various species of Old World singing birds of the family Oriolidæ.
orion		A large and bright constellation on the equator, between the stars Aldebaran and Sirius.
oriskany		Designating, or pertaining to, certain beds, chiefly limestone, characteristic of the latest period of the Silurian age.
orismological		Of or pertaining to orismology.
orismology		That departament of natural history which treats of technical terms.
orison	Poetic	A prayer; a supplication.
orisont	Obsolete	Horizon.
ork		See Orc — the grampus.
orkneyan		Of or pertaining to the Orkney islands.
orle		(Her.) A bearing, in the form of a fillet, round the shield, within, but at some distance from, the border.
orleans		A cloth made of worsted and cotton, -- used for wearing apparel.
orlo		A wind instrument of music in use among the Spaniards.
orlop		The lowest deck of a vessel, esp. of a ship of war, consisting of a platform laid over the beams in the hold, on which the cables are coiled.
ormazd		The supreme deity, the principle of good, creator of the world, and guardian of mankind.
ormer		An abalone.
ormolu		A variety of brass made to resemble gold by the use of less zinc and more copper in its composition than ordinary brass contains.
ormuzd		The good principle, or being, of the ancient Persian religion. See Ahriman.
orn	Obsolete	To ornament; to adorn.
ornament		That which embellishes or adorns; that which adds grace or beauty; embellishment; decoration; adornment.
ornamental		Serving to ornament; characterized by ornament; beautifying; embellishing.
ornamentally		By way of ornament.
ornamentation		The act or art of ornamenting, or the state of being ornamented.
ornamenter		One who ornaments; a decorator.
ornate		Adorned; decorated; beautiful.
ornately		In an ornate manner.
ornateness		The quality of being ornate.
ornature		Decoration; ornamentation.
ornithic		Of or pertaining to birds; as, ornithic fossils.
ornithichnite		The footmark of a bird occurring in strata of stone.
ornithichnology		The branch of science which treats of ornithichnites.
ornitho-		A combining form fr.
ornithodelphia		Same as Monotremata. -- Or`ni*tho*del"phid, a.
ornithoidichnite		A fossil track resembling that of a bird.
ornitholite		(a) The fossil remains of a bird. (b) A stone of various colors bearing the figures of birds.
ornithologic		Of or pertaining to ornithology.
ornithological		Of or pertaining to ornithology.
ornithologist		One skilled in ornithology; a student of ornithology; one who describes birds.
ornithology		That branch of zoölogy which treats of the natural history of birds and their classification.
ornithomancy		Divination by means of birds, their flight, etc. Ornithomancy grew into an elaborate science.
ornithon		An aviary; a poultry house.
ornithopappi		An extinct order of birds.
ornithopoda		An order of herbivorous dinosaurs with birdlike characteristics in the skeleton, esp. in the pelvis and hind legs, which in some genera had only three functional toes, and supported the body in walking as in Iguanodon.
ornithorhynchus		See Duck mole, under Duck.
ornithosauria		An order of extinct flying reptiles; -- called also Pterosauria.
ornithoscelida		A group of extinct Reptilia, intermediate in structure (especially with regard to the pelvis) between reptiles and birds. -- Or`ni*tho*scel"i*dan, a.
ornithoscopy		Observation of birds and their habits.
ornithotomical		Of or pertaining to ornithotomy.
ornithotomist		One who is skilled in ornithotomy.
ornithotomy		The anatomy or dissection of birds.
orograph		A machine for use in making topographical maps.
orographic		Of or pertaining to orography.
orographical		Of or pertaining to orography.
orography		That branch of science which treats of mountains and mountain systems; orology; as, the orography of Western Europe.
oroheliograph		A camera for obtaining a circular panoramic view of the horizon.
orohippus		A genus of American Eocene mammals allied to the horse, but having four toes in front and three behind.
oroide		An alloy, chiefly of copper and zinc or tin, resembling gold in color and brilliancy.
orological		Of or pertaining to orology.
orologist		One versed in orology.
orology		The science or description of mountains.
orometer		An aneroid barometer having a second scale that gives the approximate elevation above sea level of the place where the observation is made.
orotund		Characterized by fullness, clearness, strength, and smoothness; ringing and musical; -- said of the voice or manner of utterance. -- n.
orotundity		The orotund mode of intonation.
orphaline	Obsolete	See Orpheline — an orphan.
orphan		A child bereaved of both father and mother; sometimes, also, a child who has but one parent living.
orphanage		The state of being an orphan; orphanhood; orphans, collectively.
orphancy		Orphanhood.
orphanet		A little orphan.
orphanhood		The state or condition of being an orphan; orphanage.
orphanism		Orphanhood.
orphanotrophism		The care and support of orphans.
orphanotrophy		A hospital for orphans.
orpharion		An old instrument of the lute or cittern kind.
orphean		Of or pertaining to Orpheus, the mythic poet and musician; as, Orphean strains.
orpheline	Obsolete	An orphan.
orpheus		The famous mythic Thracian poet, son of the Muse Calliope, and husband of Eurydice.
orphic		Pertaining to Orpheus; Orphean; as, Orphic hymns.
orphrey		A band of rich embroidery, wholly or in part of gold, affixed to vestments, especially those of ecclesiastics.
orpiment		Arsenic sesquisulphide, produced artificially as an amorphous lemonyellow powder, and occurring naturally as a yellow crystalline mineral; -- formerly called auripigment.
orpin		A yellow pigment of various degrees of intensity, approaching also to red.
orpine		A low plant with fleshy leaves (Sedum telephium), having clusters of purple flowers.
orrach		See Orach — a genus (Atriplex) of herbs or low shrubs of the Goosefoot family, most of them with a mealy surface.
orrery		An apparatus which illustrates, by the revolution of balls moved by wheelwork, the relative size, periodic motions, positions, orbits, etc., of bodies in the solar system.
orris		A plant of the genus Iris (I.
orsedew		Leaf metal of bronze; Dutch metal. See under Dutch.
orsedue		Leaf metal of bronze; Dutch metal. See under Dutch.
orseille		See Archil — a violet dye obtained from several species of lichen (Roccella tinctoria, etc.), which grow on maritime rocks in the Canary and Cape Verd Islands, etc. Tomlinson.
orsellic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid found in certain lichens, and called also lecanoric acid.
orsellinic		Pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid obtained by a partial decomposition of orsellic acid as a white crystalline substance, and related to protocatechuic acid.
ort		A morsel left at a meal; a fragment; refuse; -- commonly used in the plural.
ortalidian		Any one of numerous small two-winged flies of the family Ortalidæ.
orthid		A brachiopod shell of the genus Orthis, and allied genera, of the family Orthidæ.
orthis		An extinct genus of Brachiopoda, abundant in the Paleozoic rocks.
orthite		A variety of allanite occurring in slender prismatic crystals.
ortho-		A combining form signifying straight, right, upright, correct, regular; as, orthodromy, orthodiagonal, orthodox, orthographic.
orthocarbonic		Designating a complex ether, C.(OC2H5)4, which is obtained as a liquid of a pleasant ethereal odor by means of chlorpicrin, and is believed to be a derivative of the hypothetical normal carbonic acid, C.(OH)4.
orthocenter		That point in which the three perpendiculars let fall from the angles of a triangle upon the opposite sides, or the sides produced, mutually intersect.
orthoceras		An extinct genus of Paleozoic Cephalopoda, having a long, straight, conical shell.
orthoceratite		An orthoceras; also, any fossil shell allied to Orthoceras.
orthoclase		Common or potash feldspar crystallizing in the monoclinic system and having two cleavages at right angles to each other.
orthoclastic		Breaking in directions at right angles to each other; -- said of the monoclinic feldspars.
orthodiagonal		The diagonal or lateral axis in a monoclinic crystal which is at right angles with the vertical axis.
orthodome		See the Note under Dome, 4.
orthodox		Sound in opinion or doctrine, especially in religious doctrine; hence, holding the Christian faith; believing the doctrines taught in the Scriptures; -- opposed to Ant: heretical and Ant: heterodox; as, an orthodox Christian.
orthodoxal		Pertaining to, or evincing, orthodoxy; orthodox.
orthodoxality		Orthodoxness.
orthodoxally		Orthodoxly.
orthodoxastical	Obsolete	Orthodox.
orthodoxical		Pertaining to, or evincing, orthodoxy; orthodox.
orthodoxly		In an orthodox manner; with soundness of faith.
orthodoxness		The quality or state of being orthodox; orthodoxy.
orthodoxy		Soundness of faith; a belief in the doctrines taught in the Scriptures, or in some established standard of faith; -- opposed to heterodoxy or to heresy.
orthodromic		Of or pertaining to orthodromy.
orthodromics		The art of sailing in a direct course, or on the arc of a great circle, which is the shortest distance between any two points on the surface of the globe; great-circle sailing; orthodromy.
orthodromy		The act or art of sailing on a great circle.
orthoepic		Of or pertaining to orthoëpy, or correct pronunciation. -- Or`tho*ëp"ic*al*ly, adv.
orthoepical		Of or pertaining to orthoëpy, or correct pronunciation. -- Or`tho*ëp"ic*al*ly, adv.
orthoepist		One who is skilled in orthoëpy.
orthoepy		The art of uttering words corectly; a correct pronunciation of words; also, mode of pronunciation.
orthogamy		Direct fertilization in plants, as when the pollen fertilizing the ovules comes from the stamens of the same blossom; -- opposed to heterogamy.
orthognathic		Orthognathous.
orthognathism		The quality or state of being orthognathous.
orthognathous		Having the front of the head, or the skull, nearly perpendicular, not retreating backwards above the jaws; -- opposed to Ant: prognathous.
orthogon		A rectangular figure.
orthogonal		Right-angled; rectangular; as, an orthogonal intersection of one curve with another.
orthogonally		Perpendicularly; at right angles; as, a curve cuts a set of curves orthogonally.
orthograph		An orthographic projection, sometimes partly in section, esp. of a building.
orthographer		One versed in orthography; one who spells words correctly.
orthographic		Of or pertaining to orthography, or right spelling; also, correct in spelling; as, orthographical rules; the letter was orthographic.
orthographical		Of or pertaining to orthography, or right spelling; also, correct in spelling; as, orthographical rules; the letter was orthographic.
orthographically		In an orthographical manner: (a) according to the rules of proper spelling; (b) according to orthographic projection.
orthographist		One who spells words correctly; an orthographer.
orthographize		To spell correctly or according to usage; to correct in regard to spelling.
orthography		The art or practice of writing words with the proper letters, according to standard usage; conventionally correct spelling; also, mode of spelling; as, his orthography is vicious.
orthology		The right description of things.
orthometric		Having the axes at right angles to one another; -- said of crystals or crystalline forms.
orthometry		The art or practice of constructing verses correctly; the laws of correct versification.
orthomorphic		Having the right form.
orthopedic		Pertaining to, or employed in, orthopedy; relating to the prevention or cure of deformities of children, or, in general, of the human body at any age; as, orthopedic surgery; an orthopedic hospital.
orthopedical		Pertaining to, or employed in, orthopedy; relating to the prevention or cure of deformities of children, or, in general, of the human body at any age; as, orthopedic surgery; an orthopedic hospital.
orthopedist		One who prevents, cures, or remedies deformities, esp. in children.
orthopedy		The art or practice of curing the deformities of children, or, by extension, any deformities of the human body.
orthophony		The art of correct articulation; voice training.
orthopinacoid		A name given to the two planes in the monoclinic system which are parallel to the vertical and orthodiagonal axes.
orthopnoea		Specifically, a morbid condition in which respiration can be performed only in an erect posture; by extension, any difficulty of breathing.
orthopny		Specifically, a morbid condition in which respiration can be performed only in an erect posture; by extension, any difficulty of breathing.
orthopoda		An extinct order of reptiles which stood erect on the hind legs, and resembled birds in the structure of the feet, pelvis, and other parts.
orthopraxy		The treatment of deformities in the human body by mechanical appliances.
orthoptera		An order of mandibulate insects including grasshoppers, locusts, cockroaches, etc. See Illust. under Insect.
orthopteran		One of the Orthoptera.
orthopterous		Of or pertaining to the Orthoptera.
orthorhombic		Noting the system of crystallization which has three unequal axes at right angles to each other; trimetric.
orthoscope		An instrument designed to show the condition of the superficial portions of the eye.
orthoscopic		Giving an image in correct or normal proportions; giving a flat field of view; as, an orthoscopic eyepiece.
orthosilicic		Designating the form of silicic acid having the normal or highest number of hydroxyl groups.
orthospermous		Having the seeds straight, as in the fruits of some umbelliferous plants; -- opposed to coelospermous.
orthostade		A chiton, or loose, ungirded tunic, falling in straight folds.
orthostichy		A longitudinal rank, or row, of leaves along a stem.
orthotomic		Cutting at right angles.
orthotomous		Having two cleavages at right angles with one another.
orthotomy		The property of cutting at right angles.
orthotone		Retaining the accent; not enclitic; -- said of certain indefinite pronouns and adverbs when used interrogatively, which, when not so used, are ordinarilly enclitic.
orthotropal		Having the axis of an ovule or seed straight from the hilum and chalaza to the orifice or the micropyle; atropous.
orthotropic		Having the longer axis vertical; -- said of erect stems.
orthotropous		Having the axis of an ovule or seed straight from the hilum and chalaza to the orifice or the micropyle; atropous.
orthoxylene		That variety of xylene in which the two methyl groups are in the ortho position; a colorless, liquid, combustible hydrocarbon resembling benzene.
ortive		Of or relating to the time or act of rising; eastern; as, the ortive amplitude of a planet.
ortolan		(a) A European singing bird (Emberiza hortulana), about the size of the lark, with black wings.
ortygan		One of several species of East Indian birds of the genera Ortygis and Hemipodius.
orval		A kind of sage (Salvia Horminum).
orvet		The blindworm.
orvietan	Obsolete	A kind of antidote for poisons; a counter poison formerly in vogue.
oryal		See Oriel — (Arch.) A bay window. See Bay window.
oryall		See Oriel — (Arch.) A bay window. See Bay window.
oryctere		The aard-vark.
orycterope		Same as Oryctere.
oryctognosy	Obsolete	Mineralogy. -- Or`yc*tog*nos tic*al, a. -- Or`yc*tog*nos"tic*al*ly, adv.
oryctography	Obsolete	Description of fossils.
oryctological	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to oryctology.
oryctologist	Obsolete	One versed in oryctology.
oryctology		An old name for paleontology.
oryx		A genus of African antelopes which includes the gemsbok, the leucoryx, the bisa antelope (O. beisa), and the beatrix antelope (O. beatrix) of Arabia.
oryza		A genus of grasses including the rice plant; rice.
