osages		A tribe of southern Sioux Indians, now living in the Indian Territory.	
osanne	Obsolete	Hosanna.	
osar		See 3d Os.	
oscan		Of or pertaining to the Osci, a primitive people of Campania, a province of ancient Italy. -- n.	
oscillancy		The state of oscillating; a seesaw kind of motion.	
oscillaria		A genus of dark green, or purplish black, filamentous, fresh- water algæ, the threads of which have an automatic swaying or crawling motion.	
oscillate		To move backward and forward; to vibrate like a pendulum; to swing; to sway.	
oscillating		That oscillates; vibrating; swinging.	
oscillation		The act of oscillating; a swinging or moving backward and forward, like a pendulum; vibration.	
oscillative		Tending to oscillate; vibratory.	
oscillator		(a) (Elec.) Any device for producing electric oscillations; esp., an apparatus for generating electric waves in a system of wireless telegraphy.	
oscillatoria		Same as Oscillaria.	
oscillatory		Moving, or characterized by motion, backward and forward like a pendulum; swinging; oscillating; vibratory; as, oscillatory motion.	
oscillogram		An autographic record made by an oscillograph.	
oscillograph		An apparatus for recording or indicating alternating-current wave forms or other electrical oscillations, usually consisting of a galvanometer with strong field…	
oscillometer		An instrument for measuring the angle through which a ship rolls or pitches at sea.	
oscilloscope		An instrument for showing visually the changes in a varying current; an oscillograph.	
oscine		Relating to the Oscines.	
oscines		Singing birds; a group of the Passeres, having numerous syringeal muscles, conferring musical ability.	
oscinian		One of the Oscines, or singing birds.	
oscinine		Of or pertaining to the Oscines.	
oscitancy		Drowsiness; dullness; sluggishness.	
oscitant		Yawning; gaping.	Latin oscitans.
oscitantly		In an oscitant manner.	
oscitate		To gape; to yawn.	
oscitation		The act of yawning or gaping.	
osculant		Kissing; hence, meeting; clinging.	Latin osculans.
osculate		(Geom.) To touch closely, so as to have a common curvature at the point of contact.	
osculation		(Geom.) The contact of one curve with another, when the number of consecutive points of the latter through which the former passes suffices for the complete determination of the former curve.	Latin osculatio.
osculatory		Of or pertaining to kissing; kissing.	
osculatrix		A curve whose contact with a given curve, at a given point, is of a higher order (or involves the equality of a greater number of successive differential coefficients of the ordinates of the curves taken at that point) than that…	
oscule		One of the excurrent apertures of sponges.	
osculum		Same as Oscule.	
osier		(a) A kind of willow (Salix viminalis) growing in wet places in Europe and Asia, and introduced into North America.	French osier, from Old French osiere.
osiered	Poetic	Covered or adorned with osiers; as, osiered banks.	
osiery		An osier bed.	
osiris		One of the principal divinities of Egypt, the brother and husband of Isis.	
osmanli		A Turkish official; one of the dominant tribe of Turks; loosely, any Turk.	
osmate		A salt of osmic acid.	
osmaterium		One of a pair of scent organs which the larvæ of certain butterflies emit from the first body segment, either above or below.	
osmazome		A substance formerly supposed to give to soup and broth their characteristic odor, and probably consisting of one or several of the class of nitrogenous substances which are called extractives.	
osmiamate		A salt of osmiamic acid.	
osmiamic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, a nitrogenous acid of osmium, H2N2Os2O5, forming a well-known series of yellow salts.	
osmic	Obsolete	Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, osmium; specifically, designating those compounds in which it has a valence higher than in other lower compounds; as, osmic oxide.	
osmidrosis		The secretion of fetid sweat.	
osmious		Denoting those compounds of osmium in which the element has a valence relatively lower than in the osmic compounds; as, osmious chloride.	
osmite		A salt of osmious acid.	
osmium		A rare metallic element of the platinum group, found native as an alloy in platinum ore, and in iridosmine.	
osmogene		An apparatus, consisting of a number of cells whose sides are of parchment paper, for conducting the process of osmosis.	
osmograph		An instrument for recording the height of the liquid in an endosmometer or for registering osmotic pressures.	
osmometer		An instrument for measuring the amount of osmotic action in different liquids.	
osmometry		The study of osmose by means of the osmometer.	
osmose		(a) The tendency in fluids to mix, or become equably diffused, when in contact.	
osmotic		Pertaining to, or having the property of, osmose; as, osmotic force.	
osmund		A fern of the genus Osmunda, or flowering fern.	
osnaburg		A species of coarse linen, originally made in Osnaburg, Germany.	
oso-berry		The small, blueblack, drupelike fruit of the Nuttallia cerasiformis, a shrub of Oregon and California, belonging to the Cherry tribe of Rosaceæ.	
osphradium		The olfactory organ of some Mollusca.	
ospray		The fishhawk.	
osprey		The fishhawk.	
oss		To prophesy; to presage.	
osse		A prophetic or ominous utterance.	
ossean		A fish having a bony skeleton; a teleost.	
ossein		The organic basis of bone tissue; the residue after removal of the mineral matters from bone by dilute acid; in embryonic tissue, the substance in which the mineral salts are deposited to form bone; -- called also ostein.	
osselet		(Zoöl.) The internal bone, or shell, of a cuttlefish.	
osseous		Composed of bone; resembling bone; capable of forming bone; bony; ossific.	
osseter		A species of sturgeon.	
ossianic		Of or pertaining to, or characteristic of, Ossian, a legendary Erse or Celtic bard.	
ossicle		A little bone; as, the auditory ossicles in the tympanum of the ear.	
ossiculated		Having small bones.	
ossiculum		Same as Ossicle.	
ossiferous		Containing or yielding bone.	
ossific		Capable of producing bone; having the power to change cartilage or other tissue into bone.	Latin os.
ossification		(Physiol.) The formation of bone; the process, in the growth of an animal, by which inorganic material (mainly lime salts) is deposited in cartilage or membrane, forming bony tissue; ostosis.	
ossified		Changed to bone or something resembling bone; hardened by deposits of mineral matter of any kind; -- said of tissues.	
ossifrage	Obsolete	(a) The lammergeir. (b) The young of the sea eagle or bald eagle.	
ossifragous		Serving to break bones; bone-breaking.	
ossify		(Physiol.) To form into bone; to change from a soft animal substance into bone, as by the deposition of lime salts.	Latin os.
ossifying		Changing into bone; becoming bone; as, the ossifying process.	
ossivorous		Feeding on bones; eating bones; as, ossivorous quadrupeds.	
osspringer		The osprey.	
ossuarium		A charnel house; an ossuary.	
ossuary	Obsolete	A place where the bones of the dead are deposited; a charnel house.	Latin ossuarium.
ost		See Oast — a kiln to dry hops or malt; a cockle.	
osteal		Osseous.	
osteitis		Inflammation of bone.	
osteler		Same as Hosteler.	
ostend	Obsolete	To exhibit; to manifest.	
ostensibility		The quality or state of being ostensible.	
ostensible		Capable of being shown; proper or intended to be shown.	
ostensibly		In an ostensible manner; avowedly; professedly; apparently.	
ostension		The showing of the sacrament on the altar in order that it may receive the adoration of the communicants.	Middle French ostension.
ostensive		Showing; exhibiting.	French ostensif, from Latin ostensivus.
ostensively		In an ostensive manner.	
ostensorium		Same as Monstrance.	
ostensory		Same as Monstrance.	
ostent		Appearance; air; mien.	Latin ostentus.
ostentate		To make an ambitious display of; to show or exhibit boastingly.	
ostentation		The act of ostentating or of making an ambitious display; unnecessary show; pretentious parade; -- usually in a detractive sense.	
ostentatious		Fond of, or evincing, ostentation; unduly conspicuous; pretentious; boastful.	
ostentator		One fond of display; a boaster.	
ostentive	Obsolete	Ostentatious.	
ostentous	Obsolete	Ostentatious.	
osteo-		A combining form of Gr. a bone.	
osteoblast		One of the protoplasmic cells which occur in the osteogenetic layer of the periosteum, and from or around which the matrix of the bone is developed; an osteoplast.	
osteoclasis		The operation of breaking a bone in order to correct deformity.	
osteoclast		An instrument for performing osteoclasis.	
osteocolla		A kind of glue obtained from bones.	
osteocomma		A metamere of the vertebrate skeleton; an osteomere; a vertebra.	
osteocope		Pain in the bones; a violent fixed pain in any part of a bone. -- Os`te*o*cop"ic, a.	
osteocranium		The bony cranium, as distinguished from the cartilaginous cranium.	
osteodentine		A hard substance, somewhat like bone, which is sometimes deposited within the pulp cavity of teeth.	
osteogen		The soft tissue, or substance, which, in developing bone, ultimately undergoes ossification.	
osteogenesis		The formation or growth of bone.	
osteogenetic		Connected with osteogenesis, or the formation of bone; producing bone; as, osteogenetic tissue; the osteogenetic layer of the periosteum.	
osteogenic		Osteogenetic.	
osteogeny		The formation or growth of bone.	
osteographer		An osteologist.	
osteography		The description of bones; osteology.	
osteoid		Resembling bone; bonelike.	
osteolite		A massive impure apatite, or calcium phosphate.	
osteologer		One versed in osteology; an osteologist.	
osteologic		Of or pertaining to osteology. -- Os`te*o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.	
osteological		Of or pertaining to osteology. -- Os`te*o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.	
osteologist		One who is skilled in osteology; an osteologer.	
osteology		The science which treats of the bones of the vertebrate skeleton.	
osteolysis		Softening and absorption of bone. -- Os`te*o*lyt"ic (#), a.	
osteoma		A tumor composed mainly of bone; a tumor of a bone.	
osteomalacia		A disease of the bones, in which they lose their earthy material, and become soft, flexible, and distorted.	
osteomanty		Divination by means of bones.	
osteomere		An osteocomma.	
osteopath		A practitioner of osteopathy.	
osteopathic		Of or pertaining to osteopathy. --Os`te*o*path"ic*al*ly (#), adv.	
osteopathist		One who practices osteopathy; an osteopath.	
osteopathy		(a) Any disease of the bones. (b) A system of treatment based on the theory that diseases are chiefly due to deranged mechanism of the bones, nerves, blood vessels, and other tissues…	
osteoperiostitis		Inflammation of a bone and its periosteum.	
osteophone		An instrument for transmission of auditory vibrations through the bones of the head, so as to be appreciated as sounds by persons deaf from causes other than those affecting the nervous apparatus of hearing.	
osteoplast		An osteoblast.	
osteoplastic		(Physiol.) Producing bone; as, osteoplastic cells.	
osteoplasty		An operation or process by which the total or partial loss of a bone is remedied.	
osteoporosis		An absorption of bone so that the tissue becomes unusually porous.	
osteopterygious		Having bones in the fins, as certain fishes.	
osteosarcoma		A tumor having the structure of a sacroma in which there is a deposit of bone; sarcoma connected with bone.	
osteosclerosis		Abnormal hardness and density of bone.	
osteotome		Strong nippers or a chisel for dividing bone.	
osteotomist		One skilled in osteotomy.	
osteotomy		The dissection or anatomy of bones; osteology.	
osteozoa		Same as Vertebrata.	
ostiary		One who keeps the door, especially the door of a church; a porter.	
ostic		Pertaining to, or applied to, the language of the Tuscaroras, Iroquois, Wyandots, Winnebagoes, and a part of the Sioux Indians.	
ostiole		(a) The exterior opening of a stomate. See Stomate. (b) Any small orifice.	
ostitis		See Osteitis — inflammation of bone.	
ostium		An opening; a passage.	
ostler		See Hostler — the person who has the care of horses at an inn or stable; hence, any one who takes care of horses; a groom; -- so called because the innkeeper formerly attended to this duty in person.	
ostleress		A female ostler.	
ostlery	Obsolete	See Hostelry — an inn; a lodging house.	
ostmen		East men; Danish settlers in Ireland, formerly so called.	
ostosis		Bone formation; ossification. See Ectostosis, and Endostosis.	
ostracea		A division of bivalve mollusks including the oysters and allied shells.	
ostracean		Any one of a family of bivalves, of which the oyster is the type.	
ostracion		A genus of plectognath fishes having the body covered with solid, immovable, bony plates.	
ostraciont		A fish of the genus Ostracion and allied genera.	
ostracism		(Gr. Antiq.) Banishment by popular vote, -- a means adopted at Athens to rid the city of a person whose talent and influence gave umbrage.	Greek ὀστρακισμός.
ostracite		A fossil oyster.	
ostracize		(Gr. Antiq.) To exile by ostracism; to banish by a popular vote, as at Athens.	Greek ὀστρακίζω.
ostracoda		Ostracoidea.	
ostracodermi		A suborder of fishes of which Ostracion is the type.	
ostracoid		Of or pertaining to the Ostracoidea. -- n.	
ostracoidea		An order of Entomostraca possessing hard bivalve shells.	
ostrea		A genus of bivalve Mollusca which includes the true oysters.	
ostreaceous		Of or pertaining to an oyster, or to a shell; shelly.	
ostreaculture		The artificial cultivation of oysters.	
ostreophagist		One who feeds on oysters.	
ostrich		A large bird of the genus Struthio, of which Struthio camelus of Africa is the best known species.	
ostriferous		Producing oysters; containing oysters.	
ostrogoth		One of the Eastern Goths. See Goth.	
ostrogothic		Of or pertaining to the Ostrogoths.	
