otacoustic		Assisting the sense of hearing; as, an otacoustic instrument.	
otacousticon		An instrument to facilitate hearing, as an ear trumpet.	
otalgia		Pain in the ear; earache.	
otalgic		Of or pertaining to otalgia. -- n.	
otalgy		Pain in the ear; otalgia.	
otary		Any eared seal.	
otheoscope		An instrument for exhibiting the repulsive action produced by light or heat in an exhausted vessel; a modification of the radoimeter.	
other		Different from that which, or the one who, has been specified; not the same; not identical; additional; second of two.	Middle English other, from Old English oþer.
othergates	Obsolete	In another manner.	
otherguess		Of another kind or sort; in another way.	
otherguise		Of another kind or sort; in another way.	
otherness		The quality or state of being other or different; alterity; oppositeness.	
otherways		See Otherwise — in a different manner; in another way, or in other ways; differently; contrarily.	
otherwhere		In or to some other place, or places; elsewhere.	
otherwhile	Archaic	At another time, or other times; sometimes; Weighing otherwhiles ten pounds and more.	
otherwhiles	Archaic	At another time, or other times; sometimes; Weighing otherwhiles ten pounds and more.	
otherwise		In a different manner; in another way, or in other ways; differently; contrarily.	
othman		See Ottoman — of or pertaining to the Turks; as, the Ottoman power or empire.	
otic		Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the ear; auricular; auditory.	
otiose		Being at leisure or ease; unemployed; indolent; idle.	Latin otiosus.
otiosity		Leisure; indolence; idleness; ease.	Middle French ociosité, from Latin otiositas.
otis		A genus of birds including the bustards.	
otitis		Inflammation of the ear.	
oto-		A combining form denoting relation to, or situation near or in, the ear.	
otoconite		(a) A mass of otoliths. (b) An otolith.	
otocrane		The cavity in the skull in which the parts of the internal ear are lodged.	
otocranial		Of or pertaining to the otocrane.	
otocyst		An auditory cyst or vesicle; one of the simple auditory organs of many invertebrates, containing a fluid and otoliths; also, the embryonic vesicle from which the parts of the internal ear of vertebrates are developed.	
otography		A description of the ear.	
otolite		One of the small bones or particles of calcareous or other hard substance in the internal ear of vertebrates, and in the auditory organs of many invertebrates; an ear stone.	
otolith		One of the small bones or particles of calcareous or other hard substance in the internal ear of vertebrates, and in the auditory organs of many invertebrates; an ear stone.	
otolithic		Of or pertaining to otoliths.	
otolitic		Of or pertaining to otoliths.	
otological		Of or pertaining tootology.	
otologist		One skilled in otology; an aurist.	
otology		The branch of science which treats of the ear and its diseases.	
otopathy		A diseased condition of the ear.	
otorrhea		A flow or running from the ear, esp. a purulent discharge.	
otorrhoea		A flow or running from the ear, esp. a purulent discharge.	
otoscope		An instrument for examining the condition of the ear.	
otoscopeic		Of or pertaining to the otoscope or to otoscopy.	
otoscopy		The examination of the ear; the art of using the otoscope.	
otosteal		An auditory ossicle.	
otozoum		An extinct genus of huge vertebrates, probably dinosaurs, known only from four-toed tracks in Triassic sandstones.	
ottar		See Attar — a fragrant essential oil; esp., a volatile and highly fragrant essential oil obtained from the petals of roses.	
ottawas		A tribe of Indians who, when first known, lived on the Ottawa River.	
otter		(Zoöl.) Any carnivorous animal of the genus Lutra, and related genera.	Old English oter.
otto		See Attar — a fragrant essential oil; esp., a volatile and highly fragrant essential oil obtained from the petals of roses.	
ottoman		Of or pertaining to the Turks; as, the Ottoman power or empire.	
ottomite		An Ottoman.	
ottrelite		A micaceous mineral occurring in small scales.	
