ouakari		Any South American monkey of the genus Brachyurus, especially B. ouakari.
ouananiche		A small landlocked variety of the Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar ounaniche) of Lake St. John, Canada, and neighboring waters, noted for its vigor and activity, and habit of leaping from the water when hooked.
ouanderoo		The wanderoo.
ouarine		A Brazilian monkey of the genus Mycetes.
oubliette		A dungeon with an opening only at the top, found in some old castles and other strongholds, into which persons condemned to perpetual imprisonment, or to perish secretly, were thrust, or lured to fall.
ouch		A socket or bezel holding a precious stone; hence, a jewel or ornament worn on the person.
ought		See Aught — property; possession.
oughtness		The state of being as a thing ought to be; rightness.
oughwhere	Obsolete	Anywhere; somewhere. See Owher.
ouistiti		See Wistit — a small South American monkey; a marmoset.
oulachan		Same as Eulachon.
ounce		A weight, the sixteenth part of a pound avoirdupois, and containing 437
ounded	Obsolete	Wavy; waving
oundy	Obsolete	Wavy; waving
ouphe	Obsolete	A fairy; a goblin; an elf.
our		Of or pertaining to us; belonging to us; as, our country; our rights; our troops; our endeavors.
ourang		The orang-outang.
ourang-outang		See Orang-outang — an arboreal anthropoid ape (Simia satyrus), which inhabits Borneo and Sumatra.
ouranographist		See Uranographist — one practiced in uranography.
ouranography		See Uranography — a description or plan of the heavens and the heavenly bodies; the construction of celestial maps, globes, etc.; uranology.
ourebi		A small, graceful, and swift African antelope, allied to the klipspringer.
ourology		See Urology.
ouroscopy		Ourology.
ours		See Note under Our.
ourselves		; sing. Ourself (we; also, alone in the predicate, in the nominative or the objective case.
ouse	Obsolete	See Ooze — soft mud or slime; earth so wet as to flow gently, or easily yield to pressure.
ousel		One of several species of European thrushes, especially the blackbird (Merula merula, or Turdus merula), and the mountain or ring ousel (Turdus torquatus).
oust		See Oast — a kiln to dry hops or malt; a cockle.
ouster		A putting out of possession; dispossession; ejection; disseizin.
out		In its original and strict sense, out means from the interior of something; beyond the limits or boundary of somethings; in a position or relation which is exterior to something; -- opposed to in or into.
out-herod		To surpass (Herod) in violence or wickedness; to exceed in any vicious or offensive particular.
out-of-door		Being out of the house; being, or done, in the open air; outdoor; as, out-of-door exercise.
out-of-the-way		See under Out, adv.
out-patient		A patient who is outside a hospital, but receives medical aid from it.
outact		To do or beyond; to exceed in acting.
outagamies		See lst Fox, 7.
outargue		To surpass or conquer in argument.
outbabble		To utter foolishly or excessively; to surpass in babbling.
outbalance		To outweight; to exceed in weight or effect.
outbar		To bar out.
outbeg		To surpass in begging.
outbid		To exceed or surpass in bidding.
outbidder		One who outbids.
outbleat		To surpass in bleating.
outblown		Inflated with wind.
outblush		To exceed in blushing; to surpass in rosy color.
outboard		Beyond or outside of the lines of a vessel's bulwarks or hull; in a direction from the hull or from the keel; -- opposed to inboard; as, outboard rigging; swing the davits outboard.
outborn		Foreign; not native.
outbound		Outward bound.
outbounds		The farthest or exterior bounds; extreme limits; boundaries.
outbow		To excel in bowing.
outbowed		Convex; curved outward.
outbrag		To surpass in bragging; hence, to make appear inferior.
outbrave		To excel in bravery o
outbray	Obsolete	To emit with great noise.
outbrazen		To bear down with a brazen face; to surpass in impudence.
outbreak		A bursting forth; eruption; insurrection.
outbreaking		The act of breaking out.
outbreast	Obsolete	To surpass in singing. See Breast, n., 6.
outbreathe		To breathe forth.
outbribe		To surpass in bribing.
outbring		To bring or bear out.
outbud	Poetic	To sprout.
outbuild		To exceed in building, or in durability of building.
outbuilding		A building separate from, and subordinate to, the main house; an outhouse.
outburn		To burn entirely; to be consumed.
outburst		A bursting forth.
outcant		To surpass in canting.
outcast		Cast out; degraded.
outcasting	Obsolete	That which is cast out.
outcheat		To exceed in cheating.
outclimb		To climb bevond; to surpass in climbing.
outcome		That which comes out of, or follows from, something else; issue; result; consequence; upshot.
outcompass		To exceed the compass or limits of.
outcourt		An outer or exterior court.
outcrafty		To exceed in cunning.
outcrier		One who cries out or proclaims; a herald or crier.
outcrop		(a) The coming out of a stratum to the surface of the ground.
outcry		A vehement or loud cry; a cry of distress, alarm, opposition, or detestation; clamor.
outdare		To surpass in daring; to overcome by courage; to brave.
outdated	Obsolete	Being out of date; antiquated.
outdazzle		To surpass in dazzing.
outdo		To go beyond in performance; to excel; to surpass.
outdoor		Being, or done, in the open air; being or done outside of certain buildings, as poorhouses, hospitals, etc.; as, outdoor exercise; outdoor relief; outdoor patients.
outdoors		Abread; out of the house; out of doors.
outdraw		To draw out; to extract.
outdream		To pass, or escape, while dreaming. & Fl.
outdrink		To exceed in drinking.
outdure	Obsolete	To outlast.
outdwell	Poetic	To dwell or stay beyond.
outdweller		One who holds land in a parish, but lives elsewhere.
outer		Being on the outside; external; farthest or farther from the interior, from a given station, or from any space or position regarded as a center or starting place; -- opposed to inner; as, the outer wall; the outer court or gate…
outerly		Toward the outside.
outermost		Being on the extreme external part; farthest outward; as, the outermost row.
outface		To face or look (one) out of countenance; to resist or bear down by bold looks or effrontery; to brave.
outfall		The mouth of a river; the lower end of a water course; the open end of a drain, culvert, etc., where the discharge occurs.
outfangthef		(a) A thief from without or abroad, taken within a lord's fee or liberty.
outfawn		To exceed in fawning.
outfeast		To exceed in feasting.
outfeat		To surpass in feats.
outfield		Arable land which has been or is being exhausted. See Infield,
outfit		A fitting out, or equipment, as of a ship for a voyage, or of a person for an expedition in an unoccupied region or residence in a foreign land; things required for equipment; the expense of, or allowance made for, equipment…
outfitter		One who furnishes outfits for a voyage, a journey, or a business.
outflank		To go beyond, or be superior to, on the flank; to pass around or turn the flank or flanks of.
outflatter		To exceed in flattering.
outfling		A gibe; a contemptuous remark.
outflow		A flowing out; efflux.
outfly		To surpass in flying; to fly beyond or faster than.
outfool		To exceed in folly.
outfoot	Colloquial	To outrun or outwalk; hence, of a vessel, to outsail.
outform	Obsolete	External appearance.
outfrown		To frown down; to overbear by frowning.
outgate	Obsolete	An outlet.
outgaze		To gaze beyond; to exceed in sharpness or persistence of seeing or of looking; hence, to stare out of countenance.
outgeneral		To exceed in generalship; to gain advantage over by superior military skill or executive ability; to outmaneuver.
outgive		To surpass in giving.
outgo		To go beyond; to exceed in swiftness; to surpass; to outdo.
outgoer		One who goes out or departs.
outgoing		The act or the state of going out.
outground		Ground situated at a distance from the house; outlying land.
outgrow		To surpass in growing; to grow more than.
outgrowth		That which grows out of, or proceeds from, anything; an excrescence; an offshoot; hence, a result or consequence.
outguard		A guard or small body of troops at a distance from the main body of an army, to watch for the approach of an enemy; hence, anything for defense placed at a distance from the thing to be defended.
outgush		A pouring out; an outburst.
outhaul		A rope used for hauling out a sail upon a spar; -- opposite of inhaul.
outhess	Obsolete	Outcry; alarm.
outhire	Obsolete	To hire out.
outhouse		A small house or building at a little distance from the main house; an outbuilding.
outing		The act of going out; an airing; an excursion; as, a summer outing.
outjest		To surpass in jesting; to drive out, or away, by jesting.
outjet		That which jets out or projects from anything.
outjuggle		To surpass in juggling.
outkeeper		An attachment to a surveyor's compass for keeping tally in chaining.
outknave		To surpass in knavery.
outlabor		To surpass in laboring.
outland	Obsolete	Foreign; outlandish.
outlander		A foreigner.
outlandish		Foreign; not native.
outlast		To exceed in duration; to survive; to endure longer than.
outlaugh		To laugh (one) out of a purpose, principle, etc.; to discourage or discomfit by laughing; to laugh down.
outlaw		A person excluded from the benefit of the law, or deprived of its protection.
outlawry		The act of outlawing; the putting a man out of the protection of law, or the process by which a man (as an absconding criminal) is deprived of that protection.
outlay		To lay out; to spread out; to display.
outleap		To surpass in leaping.
outlearn		To learn out; to exhaust knowledge of.
outlet		The place or opening by which anything is let out; a passage out; an exit; a vent.
outlie		To exceed in lying.
outlier		One who does not live where his office, or business, or estate, is.
outlimb	Obsolete	, An extreme member or part of a thing; a limb.
outline		(a) The line which marks the outer limits of an object or figure; the exterior line or edge; contour.
outlinear		Of or pertaining to an outline; being in, or forming, an outline.
outlive		To live beyond, or longer than; to survive.
outliver		One who outlives.
outlook		To face down; to outstare.
outloose	Obsolete	A loosing from; an escape; an outlet; an evasion.
outlope	Obsolete	An excursion.
outluster		To excel in brightness or luster.
outlustre		To excel in brightness or luster.
outlying		Lying or being at a distance from the central part, or the main body; being on, or beyond, the frontier; exterior; remote; detached.
outmaneuver		To surpass, or get an advantage of, in maneuvering; to outgeneral.
outmanoeuvre		To surpass, or get an advantage of, in maneuvering; to outgeneral.
outmantle		To excel in mantling; hence, to excel in splendor, as of dress.
outmarch		To surpass in marching; to march faster than, or so as to leave behind.
outmeasure		To exceed in measure or extent; to measure more than.
outmost		Farthest from the middle or interior; farthest outward; outermost.
outmount		To mount above.
outname	Obsolete	To exceed in name, fame, or degree.
outness		The state of being out or beyond; separateness.
outnoise		To exceed in noise; to surpass in noisiness.
outnumber		To exceed in number.
outpace		To outgo; to move faster than; to leave behind.
outparamour		To exceed in the number of mistresses.
outparish		A parish lying without the walls of, or in a remote part of, a town.
outpart		An outlying part.
outpass		To pass beyond; to exceed in progress.
outpassion		To exceed in passion.
outpeer		To excel.
outpension		To grant an outpension to.
outplay		To excel or defeat in a game; to play better than; as, to be outplayed in tennis or ball.
outpoise		To outweigh.
outport		A harbor or port at some distance from the chief town or seat of trade.
outpost		(a) A post or station without the limits of a camp, or at a distance from the main body of an army, for observation of the enemy.
outpour		To pour out.
outpower	Obsolete	To excel in power; to overpover.
outpray		To exceed or excel in prayer.
outpreach		To surpass in preaching.
outprize	Obsolete	To prize beyong value, or in excess; to exceed in value.
output		The amount of coal or ore put out from one or more mines, or the quantity of material produced by, or turned out from, one or more furnaces or mills, in a given time.
outquench		To quench entirely; to extinguish.
outrage		Injurious violence or wanton wrong done to persons or things; a gross violation of right or decency; excessive abuse; wanton mischief; gross injury.
outrageous		Of the nature of an outrage; exceeding the limits of right, reason, or decency; involving or doing an outrage; furious; violent; atrocious. -- Violent; furious; exorbitant; excessive; atrocious; monstrous; wanton; nefarious…
outrance		The utmost or last extremity.
outrank		To exceed in rank; hence, to take precedence of.
outray	Obsolete	To outshine.
outraye	Obsolete	See Outrage, v. i.
outraze	Obsolete	To obliterate.
outre		Being out of the common course or limits; extravagant; bizarre.
outreach		To reach beyond.
outreason		To excel or surpass in reasoning; to reason better than.
outreckon		To exceed in reckoning or computation.
outrecuidance		Excessive presumption.
outrede	Obsolete	To surpass in giving rede, or counsel. See Atrede.
outreign		To go beyond in reigning; to reign through the whole of, or longer than.
outride		To surpass in speed of riding; to ride beyond or faster than.
outrider		A servant on horseback attending a carriage.
outrigger		Any spar or projecting timber run out for temporary use, as from a ship's mast, to hold a rope or a sail extended, or from a building, to support hoisting teckle.
outright		Immediately; without delay; at once; as, he was killed outright.
outring		To excel in volume of ringing sound; to ring louder than.
outrival		To surpass in a rivalry.
outrive	Obsolete	To river; to sever.
outroad	Obsolete	An excursion. xv. 41 (Geneva Bible).
outroar		To exceed in roaring.
outrode	Obsolete	An excursion. xv. 41 (Geneva Bible).
outromance		To exceed in romantic character.
outroom		An outer room.
outroot		To eradicate; to extirpate.
outrun		To exceed, or leave behind, in running; to run faster than; to outstrip; to go beyond.
outrunner		An offshoot; a branch.
outrush		To rush out; to issue, or ru Garth.
outsail		To excel, or to leave behind, in sailing; to sail faster than.
outscent		To exceed in odor.
outscold		To exceed in scolding.
outscorn		To confront, or subdue, with greater scorn.
outscouring		That which is scoured out o Buckland.
outscout	Obsolete	To overpower by disdain; to outface.
outsee		To see beyond; to excel in cer
outsell		To exceed in amount of sales; to sell more than.
outsentry		A sentry who guards the entrance or approach to a place; an outguard.
outset		A setting out, starting, or beginning.
outsettler		One who settles at a distance, or away, from others.
outshine		To shine forth.
outshoot		To exceed or excel in shooting; to shoot beyond.
outshut		To shut out.
outside		The external part of a thing; the part, end, or side which forms the surface; that which appears, or is manifest; that which is superficial; the exterior.
outsider		One not belonging to the concern, institution, party, etc., spoken of; one disconnected in interest or feeling.
outsing		To surpass in singing.
outsit		To remain sitting, or in session, longer than, or beyond the time of; to outstay.
outskirt		A part remote from the center; outer edge; border; -- usually in the plural; as, the outskirts of a town.
outsleep		To exceed in sleeping.
outslide	Poetic	To slide outward, onward, or forward; to advance by sliding.
outsoar		To soar beyond or above.
outsole		The outside sole of a boot or shoe.
outsound		To surpass in sounding.
outspan		To unyoke or disengage, as oxen from a wagon.
outsparkle		To exceed in sparkling.
outspeak		To speak openly or boldly.
outspeed		To excel in speed.
outspend		Outlay; expenditure.
outspin		To spin out; to finish.
outspoken		Speaking, or spoken, freely, openly, or boldly; as, an outspoken man; an outspoken rebuke. -- Out*spo"ken*ness, n.
outsport		To exceed in sporting.
outspread		To spread out; to expand; -- usually as a past part. or adj.
outspring		To spring out; to issue.
outstand		To stand out, or project, from a surface or mass; hence, to remain standing out.
outstanding		That stands out; undischarged; uncollected; not paid; as, outstanding obligations.
outstare		To excel or overcome in staring; to face down.
outstart		To start out or up.
outstay		To stay beyond or longer than.
outstep		To exceed in stepping.
outstorm		To exceed in storming.
outstreet		A street remote from the center of a town.
outstretch		To stretch out.
outstride		To surpass in striding.
outstrike		To strike out; to strike faster than.
outstrip		To go faster than; to outrun; to advance beyond; to leave behing.
outsuffer		To exceed in suffering.
outswear		To exceed in swearing.
outsweeten		To surpass in sweetness.
outswell	Obsolete	To swell beyond; to overflow.
outtaken	Obsolete	or prep.
outtalk		To overpower by talking; to exceed in talking; to talk down.
outtell		To surpass in telling, counting, or reckoning. & Fl.
outterm	Obsolete	An external or superficial thing; outward manner; superficial remark, etc. Not to bear cold forms, nor men's outterms.
outthrow		To excel in throwing, as in ball playing.
outtoil		To exceed in toiling.
outtongue		To silence by talk, clamor, or noise.
outtop	Obsolete	To overtop.
outtravel		To exceed in speed o Mad.
outtwine	Obsolete	To disentangle.
outvalue		To exceed in value.
outvenom		To exceed in venom.
outvie		To exceed in vying.
outvillain		To exceed in villainy.
outvoice		To exceed in noise.
outvote		To exceed in the number of votes given; to defeat by votes.
outwalk		To excel in walking; to leave behind in walking.
outwall		The exterior wall; the outside surface, or appearance.
outward		From the interior part; in a direction from the interior toward the exterior; out; to the outside; beyond; off; away; as, a ship bound outward.
outwards		From the interior part; in a direction from the interior toward the exterior; out; to the outside; beyond; off; away; as, a ship bound outward.
outwatch		To exceed in watching.
outway		A way out; exit.
outwear		To wear out; to consume or destroy by wearing.
outweary		To weary out.
outweed	Obsolete	To weed out.
outweep		To exceed in weeping.
outweigh		To exceed in weight or value.
outwell	Obsolete	To pour out.
outwent		imp. of Outgo — to go beyond; to exceed in swiftness; to surpass; to outdo.
outwhore		To exceed in lewdness.
outwin	Obsolete	To win a way out of.
outwind		To extricate by winding; to unloose.
outwing		To surpass, exceed, or outstrip in flying.
outwit	Obsolete	To surpass in wisdom, esp. in cunning; to defeat or overreach by superior craft.
outwoe	Obsolete	To exceed in woe.
outwork		To exceed in working; to work more or faster than.
outworth		To exceed in worth.
outwrest	Obsolete	To extort; to draw from or forth by violence.
outwrite		To exceed or excel in writing.
outzany	Obsolete	To exceed in buffoonery.
ouvarovite		Chrome garnet.
ouze	Obsolete	See Ooze — soft mud or slime; earth so wet as to flow gently, or easily yield to pressure.
ouzel		Same as Ousel.
