ova		See Ovum — (Biol.) A more or less spherical and transparent mass of granular protoplasm, which by a process of multiplication and growth develops into a mass of cells…
oval		Having the figure of an egg; oblong and curvilinear, with one end broader than the other, or with both ends of about the same breadth; in popular usage, elliptical.
ovalbumen		The albumin from white of eggs; egg albumin; -- in distinction from serum albumin.
ovalbumin		The albumin from white of eggs; egg albumin; -- in distinction from serum albumin.
ovaliform		Having the form of an egg; having a figure such that any section in the direction of the shorter diameter will be circular, and any in the direction of the longer diameter will be oval.
ovally		In an oval form.
ovant	Obsolete	Exultant.
ovarial		Of or pertaining to an ovary.
ovarian		Of or pertaining to an ovary.
ovariole		One of the tubes of which the ovaries of most insects are composed.
ovariotomist		One who performs, or is skilled in, ovariotomy.
ovariotomy		The operation of removing one or both of the ovaries; oöphorectomy.
ovarious		Consisting of eggs; as, ovarious food.
ovaritis		Inflammation of the ovaries.
ovarium		An ovary. See Ovary.
ovary		(Bot.) That part of the pistil which contains the seed, and in most flowering plants develops into the fruit.
ovate		Shaped like an egg, with the lower extremity broadest.
ovate-acuminate		Having an ovate form, but narrowed at the end into a slender point.
ovate-cylindraceous		Having a form intermediate between ovate and cylindraceous.
ovate-lanceolate		Having a form intermediate between ovate and lanceolate.
ovate-oblong		Oblong. with one end narrower than the other; ovato-oblong.
ovate-rotundate		Having a form intermediate between that of an egg and a sphere; roundly ovate.
ovate-subulate		Having an ovate form, but with a subulate tip or extremity.
ovation		Hence: An expression of popular homage; the tribute of the multitude to a public favorite.
ovato-acuminate		Same as Ovate-acuminate.
ovato-cylindraceous		Same as Ovate-cylindraceous.
ovato-oblong		Same as Ovate-oblong.
ovato-rotundate		Same as Ovate-rotundate.
oven		A place arched over with brick or stonework, and used for baking, heating, or drying; hence, any structure, whether fixed or portable, which may be heated for baking, drying, etc.; esp., now, a chamber in a stove…
ovenbird		(a) Any species of the genus Furnarius, allied to the creepers.
over		Above, or higher than, in place or position, with the idea of covering; -- opposed to Ant: under; as, clouds are over our heads; the smoke rises over the city.
over-arm		Done (as bowling or pitching) with the arm raised above the shoulder. See Overhard.
over-busy		Too busy; officious.
over-garment		An outer garment.
over-story		The clearstory, or upper story, of a building.
overabound		To be exceedingly plenty or superabundant.
overact		To act or perform to excess; to exaggerate in acting; as, he overacted his part.
overaffect	Obsolete	To affect or care for unduly.
overagitate		To agitate or discuss beyond what is expedient.
overall	Obsolete	Everywhere.
overalls		A kind of loose trousers worn over others to protect them from soiling.
overanxiety		The state of being overanxious; excessive anxiety.
overanxious		Anxious in an excessive or needless degree. -- O ious*ly, adv.
overarch		To make or place an arch over; to hang over like an arch.
overawe		To awe exceedingly; to subjugate or restrain by awe or great fear.
overawful		Awful, or reverential, in an excessive degree.
overbalance		To exceed equality with; to outweigh.
overbarren		Excessively barren.
overbattle	Obsolete	Excessively fertile; bearing rank or noxious growths.
overbear		To bear down or carry down, as by excess of weight, power, force, etc.; to overcome; to suppress.
overbearing		Overpowering; subduing; repressing.
overbend		To bend to excess.
overbid		To bid or offer beyond, or in excess of.
overbide	Obsolete	To outlive.
overblow		To blow over, or be subdued.
overboard		Over the side of a ship; hence, from on board of a ship, into the water; as, to fall overboard.
overboil		To boil over or unduly.
overbold		Excessively or presumptuously bold; impudent.
overbookish		Excessively bookish.
overbounteous		Bounteous to excess.
overbow	Obsolete	To bend or bow over; to bend in a contrary direction.
overbreed		To breed to excess.
overbrim		To flow over the brim; to be so full as to overflow.
overbrow	Poetic	To hang over like a brow; to impend over.
overbuild		To build too much; to build beyond the demand.
overbuilt		Having too many buildings; as, an overbuilt part of a town.
overbulk	Obsolete	To oppress by bulk; to overtower.
overburden		To load with too great weight or too much care, etc. Sir P.
overburdensome		Too burdensome.
overburn		To burn too much; to be overzealous.
overbuy		To buy too much.
overcanopy		To cover as with a canopy.
overcapable		Too capable.
overcare		Excessive care.
overcareful		Too careful.
overcarking	Archaic	Too anxious; too full of care.
overcarry		To carry too far; to carry beyond the proper point.
overcast		To cast or cover over; hence, to cloud; to darken.
overcatch	Obsolete	To overtake.
overcautious		Too cautious; cautious or prudent to excess. -- O tious*ly, adv. -- O tiou*ness, n.
overchange		Too much or too frequent change; fickleness.
overcharge		To charge or load too heavily; to burden; to oppress; to cloy.
overclimb		To climb over.
overcloud		To cover or overspread with clouds; to becloud; to overcast.
overcloy		To fill beyond satiety.
overcoat		A coat worn over the other clothing; a greatcoat; a topcoat.
overcold		Cold to excess.
overcolor		To color too highly.
overcome		To get the better of; to surmount; to conquer; to subdue; as, to overcome enemies in battle.
overcomer		One who overcomes.
overcoming		Conquering; subduing. -- O`ver*com"ing*ly, adv.
overconfidence		Excessive confidence; too great reliance or trust.
overconfident		Confident to excess. -- O fi*dent*ly, adv.
overcostly		Too costly.
overcount		To rate too high; to outnumber.
overcover		To cover up.
overcredulous		Too credulous.
overcrow		To crow, exult, or boast, over; to overpower.
overcrowd		To crowd too much.
overcunning		Exceedingly or excessively cunning.
overcurious		Too curious.
overdare		To dare too much or rashly; to be too daring.
overdate		To date later than the true or proper period.
overdeal	Obsolete	The excess.
overdelicate		Too delicate.
overdelighted		Delighted beyond measure.
overdevelop		To develop excessively; specif. (Photog.), to subject (a plate or film) too long to the developing process.
overdight	Obsolete	Covered over.
overdo		To do too much; to exceed what is proper or true in doing; to exaggerate; to carry too far.
overdoer		One who overdoes.
overdose		To dose to excess; to give an overdose, or too many doses, to.
overdraft		The act of overdrawing; also, the amount or sum overdrawn.
overdraw		(Banking) To make drafts upon or against, in excess of the proper amount or limit.
overdress		To dress or adorn to excess; to dress too much.
overdrink		To drink to excess.
overdrive		To drive too hard, or far, or beyond strength.
overdrown	Obsolete	To wet or drench to excess.
overdry		To dry too much.
overdue		Due and more than due; delayed beyond the proper time of arrival or payment, etc.; as, an overdue vessel; an overdue note.
overdye		To dye with excess of color; to put one color over (another).
overeager		Too eager; too impatient. -- O`ver*ea ver*ea"ger*ness, n.
overearnest		Too earnest. -- O nest*ly, adv. -- O nest*ness, n.
overeat		To eat to excess; -- often with a reflexive.
overelegant		Too elegant.
overempty		To make too empty; to exhaust.
overest		Uppermost; outermost.
overestimate		To estimate too highly; to overvalue.
overexcite		To excite too much.
overexcitement		Excess of excitement; the state of being overexcited.
overexert		To exert too much.
overexertion		Excessive exertion.
overexpose		To expose excessively; specif. (Photog.), to subject (a plate or film) too long to the actinic action of the light used in producing a picture. -- O`ver*ex*po"sure (#), n.
overexquisite		Too exquisite; too exact or nice; too careful.
overeye	Obsolete	To superintend; to oversee; to inspect.
overfall		(Naut.) A turbulent surface of water, caused by strong currents setting over submerged ridges; also, a dangerous submerged ridge or shoal.
overfatigue		Excessive fatigue.
overfeed		To feed to excess; to surfeit.
overfierce		Excessively fierce.
overfill		To fill to excess; to surcharge.
overfish		To fish to excess.
overfloat		To overflow.
overflourish		To make excessive display or flourish of.
overflow		To flow over; to cover woth, or as with, water or other fluid; to spread over; to inundate; to overwhelm.
overflowing		An overflow; that which overflows; exuberance; copiousness.
overflowingly		In great abundance; exuberantly.
overflush		To flush to excess.
overflutter		To flutter over.
overflux		Overflow; exuberance.
overfly		To cross or pass over by flight.
overfond		, Milton. -- O ly, adv. -- O ness, n.
overforce		Excessive force; violence.
overforward		Forward to excess; too forward. -- O ward*ness, n.
overfree		Free to excess; too liberal; too familiar. -- O ly, adv.
overfreight		To put too much freight in or upon; to load too full, or too heavily; to overload.
overfrequent		Too frequent.
overfrieze		To cover with a frieze, or as with a frieze.
overfront	Obsolete	To confront; to oppose; to withstand.
overfruitful		Too fruitful.
overfull		Too full; filled to overflowing; excessively full; surfeited.
overfullness		The state of being excessively or abnormally full, so as to cause overflow, distention, or congestion; excess of fullness; surfeit.
overgarrison		To garrison to excess.
overgaze	Poetic	To gaze; to overlook.
overget		To get beyond; to get over or recover from.
overgild		To gild over; to varnish.
overgird		To gird too closely.
overgive	Obsolete	To give over; to surrender; to yield.
overglad		Excessively or unduly glad.
overglance		To glance over.
overglaze		(a) Applied over the glaze; -- said of enamel paintings, which sometimes are seen to project from the surface of the ware.
overglide		To glide over.
overgloom		To spread gloom over; to make gloomy; to overshadow.
overgo		To travel over.
overgorge		To gorge to excess.
overgrace		To grace or honor exceedingly or beyond desert.
overgrassed	Obsolete	Overstocked, or overgrown, or covered, with grass.
overgreat		Too great.
overgreatness		Excessive greatness.
overgreedy		Excessively greedy.
overgross		Too gross.
overground		Situated over or above ground; as, the overground portion of a plant.
overgrow		To grow over; to cover with growth or herbage, esp. that which is rank.
overgrowth		Excessive growth.
overhale	Obsolete	See Overhaul — to haul or drag over; hence, to turn over for examination; to inspect; to examine thoroughly with a view to corrections or repairs.
overhall	Obsolete	See Overhaul — to haul or drag over; hence, to turn over for examination; to inspect; to examine thoroughly with a view to corrections or repairs.
overhand		The upper hand; advantage; superiority; mastery.
overhandle		To handle, or use, too much; to mention too often.
overhang		To impend or hang over.
overhappy		Exceedingly happy.
overharden		To harden too much; to make too hard.
overhardy		Too hardy; overbold.
overhaste		Too great haste.
overhasty		Too hasty; precipitate; rash. -- O ti*ly, adv. -- O`ver*has"ti*ness, n.
overhaul		To haul or drag over; hence, to turn over for examination; to inspect; to examine thoroughly with a view to corrections or repairs.
overhauling		A strict examination with a view to correction or repairs.
overhead		Aloft; above; in or attached to the ceiling or roof; in the story or upon the floor above; in the zenith.
overhear		To hear more of (anything) than was intended to be heard; to hear by accident or artifice.
overheat		To heat to excess; to superheat.
overheavy		Excessively heavy.
overhele	Obsolete	To hele or cover over.
overhent	Obsolete	To overtake.
overhigh		Too high.
overhighly		Too highly; too greatly.
overhip	Obsolete	To pass over by, or as by a hop; to skip over; hence, to overpass.
overhold	Obsolete	To hold or value too highly; to estimate at too dear a rate.
overhung		Covered over; ornamented with hangings.
overinfluence		To influence in an excessive degree; to have undue influence over.
overinform		To inform, fill, or animate, excessively.
overissue		An excessive issue; an issue, as of notes or bonds, exceeding the limit of capital, credit, or authority.
overjealous		Excessively jealous; too jealous.
overjoy		To make excessively joyful; to gratify extremely.
overjump		To jump over; hence, to omit; to ignore.
overking		A king who has sovereignty over inferior kings or ruling princes.
overknowing		Too knowing or too cunning.
overlabor		To cause to labor excessively; to overwork.
overlade		To load with too great a cargo; to overburden; to overload.
overland		Being, or accomplished, over the land, instead of by sea; as, an overland journey.
overlander		One who travels over lands or countries; one who travels overland.
overlanguaged		Employing too many words; diffuse.
overlap		To lap over; to lap.
overlarge		Too large; too great.
overlargeness		Excess of size or bulk.
overlash	Obsolete	To drive on rashly; to go to excess; hence, to exaggerate; to boast.
overlashing	Obsolete	Excess; exaggeration.
overlate		Too late; exceedingly late.
overlave		To lave or bathe over.
overlavish		Lavish to excess.
overlay		To lay, or spread, something over or across; hence, to cover; to overwhelm; to press excessively upon.
overlayer		One who overlays; that with which anything is overlaid.
overlaying		A superficial covering; a coating.
overlead	Obsolete	To domineer over; to affront; to treat with indignity.
overleap		To leap over or across; hence, to omit; to ignore.
overlearned		Too learned. -- O ed, adv. -- O ed*ness, n.
overleather		Upper leather.
overleaven	Obsolete	To leaven too much; hence, to change excessively; to spoil.
overliberal		Too liberal.
overliberally		In an overliberal manner.
overlick		To lick over.
overlie		To lie over or upon; specifically, to suffocate by lying upon; as, to overlie an infant.
overlight		Too strong a light.
overliness	Obsolete	The quality or state of being overly; carelessness.
overlinger	Obsolete	To cause to linger; to detain too long.
overlip	Obsolete	The upper lip.
overlive		To outlive.
overliver		A survivor.
overload		To load or fill to excess; to load too heavily.
overlogical		Excessively logical; adhering too closely to the forms or rules of logic.
overlong		Too long.
overlook		To look down upon from a place that is over or above; to look over or view from a higher position; to rise above, so as to command a view of; as, to overlook a valley from a hill. with burning eye did hotly overlook them.
overlooker		One who overlooks.
overloop	Obsolete	See Orlop — the lowest deck of a vessel, esp. of a ship of war, consisting of a platform laid over the beams in the hold, on which the cables are coiled.
overlord		One who is lord over another or others; a superior lord; a master.
overlordship		Lordship or supremacy of a person or a people over others.
overloud		Too loud; noisy.
overlove		To love to excess.
overluscious		Excessively luscious.
overlusty		Too lusty, or lively.
overly	Archaic	Careless; negligent; inattentive; superfical; not thorough.
overlying		Lying over or upon something; as, overlying rocks.
overmagnify		To magnify too much.
overmalapert	Obsolete	Excessively malapert or impudent.
overman		One in authority over others; a chief; usually, an overseer or boss.
overmanner	Obsolete	In an excessive manner; excessively.
overmarch		To march too far, or too much; to exhaust by marching.
overmast		To furnish (a vessel) with too long or too heavy a mast or masts.
overmaster		To overpower; to subdue; to vanquish; to govern.
overmatch		To be more than equal to or a match for; hence, to vanquish.
overmeasure		To measure or estimate too largely.
overmeddle		To meddle unduly.
overmeddling		Excessive interference.
overmellow		Too mellow; overripe.
overmerit		Excessive merit.
overmickle	Obsolete	Overmuch.
overmix		To mix with too much.
overmodest		Modest to excess; bashful. -- O est*ly, adv.
overmoist		Excessively moist.
overmoisture		Excess of moisture.
overmore	Obsolete	Beyond; moreover.
overmorrow	Obsolete	The day after or following to-morrow.
overmost	Obsolete	Over the rest in authority; above all others; highest.
overmount		To mount over; to go higher than; to rise above.
overmuch		Too much. -- adv.
overmuchness		The quality or state of being in excess; superabundance.
overmultiply		To multiply or increase too much; to repeat too often.
overmultitude	Obsolete	To outnumber.
overname	Obsolete	To name over or in a series; to recount.
overneat		Excessively neat.
overnice		Excessively nice; fastidious.
overnight		The fore part of the night last past; the previous evening.
overnoise		To overpower by noise.
overnumerous		Excessively numerous; too many.
overoffice	Obsolete	To domineer over by virtue of office.
overofficious		Too busy; too ready to intermeddle; too officious.
overpaint		To color or describe too strongly.
overpamper		To pamper excessively; to feed or dress too much.
overpart	Obsolete	To give too important or difficult a part to.
overpass		To go over or beyond; to cross; as, to overpass a river; to overpass limits.
overpassionate		Passionate to excess. -- O sion*ate*ly, adv.
overpatient		Patient to excess.
overpay		To pay too much to; to reward too highly.
overpeer		To peer over; to rise above.
overpeople		To people too densely.
overperch	Obsolete	To perch upon; to fly over.
overpersuade		To persuade or influence against one's inclination or judgment.
overpester		To pester exceedingly or excessively.
overpicture	Obsolete	To surpass nature in the picture or representation of.
overplease		To please excessively.
overplus		That which remains after a supply, or beyond a quantity proposed; surplus.
overply		To ply to excess; to exert with too much vigor; to overwork.
overpoise		To outweigh; to overbalance.
overpolish		To polish too much.
overponderous		Too heavy.
overpost		To post over; to pass over swiftly, as by post.
overpotent		Too potent or powerful.
overpower		To excel or exceed in power; to cause to yield; to vanquish; to subdue; as, the light overpowers the eyes. -- To overbear; overcome; vanquish; defeat; crush; overwhelm; overthrow; rout; conquer; subdue.
overpowering		Excelling in power; too powerful; irresistible. -- O`ver*pow"er*ing*ly, adv.
overpraise		To praise excessively or unduly.
overpraising		The act of praising unduly; excessive praise.
overpress		To bear upon with irresistible force; to crush; to overwhelm.
overpressure		Excessive pressure or urging.
overprize		Toprize excessively; to overvalue.
overproduction		Excessive production; supply beyond the demand.
overprompt		Too prompt; too ready or eager; precipitate. -- O`ver*prompt"ness, n.
overproof		Containing more alcohol than proof spirit; stronger than proof spirit; that is, containing more than 49.3 per cent by weight of alcohol.
overproportion		To make of too great proportion.
overproud		Exceedingly or unduly proud.
overprovident		Too provident.
overprovoke		To provoke excessively.
overquell		To quell or subdue completely.
overquietness		Too much quietness.
overrake		To rake over, or sweep across, from end to end, as waves that break over a vessel anchored with head to the sea.
overrank		Too rank or luxuriant.
overrate		To rate or value too highly.
overreach		To reach above or beyond in any direction.
overreacher		One who overreaches; one who cheats; a cheat.
overread		To read over, or peruse.
overready		Too ready. -- O *i*ly, adv. -- O i*ness, n.
overreckon		To reckon too highly.
overred	Obsolete	To smear with red.
overrefine		To refine too much.
overrefinement		Excessive refinement.
overrent		To rent for too much.
overrich		Exccessively rich.
override		To ride over or across; to ride upon; to trample down.
overrigged		Having too much rigging.
overrighteous		Excessively righteous; -- usually implying hypocrisy.
overrigid		Too rigid; too severe.
overrigorous		Too rigorous; harsh.
overripe		Matured to excess.
overripen		To make too ripe.
overroast		To roast too much.
overrule		To rule over; to govern or determine by superior authority.
overruler		One who, or that which, controls, governs, or determines.
overruling		Exerting controlling power; as, an overruling Providence. -- O`ver*rul"ing*ly, adv.
overrun		To run over; to grow or spread over in excess; to invade and occupy; to take possession of; as, the vine overran its trellis; the farm is overrun with witch grass.
overrunner		One that overruns.
oversaturate		To saturate to excess.
oversay		To say over; to repeat.
overscented		Scented excessively.
overscrupulosity		Overscrupulousness.
overscrupulous		Scrupulous to excess.
overscrupulousness		The quality or state of being overscrupulous; excess of scrupulousness.
oversea		Beyond the sea; foreign.
oversearch		To search all over.
overseas		Over the sea; abroad.
overseason		To season too highly.
oversee		To superintend; to watch over; to direct; to look or see after; to overlook.
overseer		One who oversees; a superintendent; a supervisor; as, an overseer of a mill; specifically, one or certain public officers; as, an overseer of the poor; an overseer of highways.
overseership		The office of an overseer.
oversell		To sell for a higher price than; to exceed in selling price.
overset		To turn or tip (anything) over from an upright, or a proper, position so that it lies upon its side or bottom upwards; to upset; as, to overset a chair, a coach, a ship, or a building.
overshade		To cover with shade; to render dark or gloomy; to overshadow.
overshadow		To throw a shadow, or shade, over; to darken; to obscure.
overshadower		One that throws a shade, or shadow, over anything.
overshadowy		Overshadowing.
overshake	Obsolete	To shake over or away; to drive away; to disperse.
overshine		To shine over or upon; to illumine.
overshoe		A shoe that is worn over another for protection from wet or for extra warmth; esp., an India-rubber shoe; a galoche.
overshoot		To shoot over or beyond.
overshot		From Overshoot, v. t.
oversight		Watchful care; superintendence; general supervision.
oversize		To surpass in size.
overskip		To skip or leap over; to treat with indifference.
overskirt		An upper skirt, shorter than the dress, and usually draped.
overslaugh	Dialect	A bar in a river; as, the overslaugh in the Hudson River.
oversleep		To sleep beyond; as, to oversleep one's self or one's usual hour of rising.
overslide		To slide over or by.
overslip		To slip or slide over; to pass easily or carelessly beyond; to omit; to neglect; as, to overslip time or opportunity.
overslop	Obsolete	An outer garment, or slop.
overslow	Obsolete	To render slow; to check; to curb.
oversman		(Scots Law) An umpire; a third arbiter, appointed when two arbiters, previously selected, disagree.
oversnow	Poetic	To cover with snow, or as with snow.
oversoon		Too soon.
oversorrow	Obsolete	To grieve or afflict to excess.
oversoul		The all-containing soul.
oversow		To sow where something has already been sown.
overspan		To reach or extend over.
overspeak		To exceed in speaking; to speak too much; to use too many words.
overspin		To spin out to too great length; to protract unduly.
overspread		To spread over; to cover; as, the deluge overspread the earth.
overspring		To spring or leap over.
overstand	Obsolete	To stand on the price or conditions of, so as to lose a sale; to lose by an extravagant price or hard conditions.
overstare	Obsolete	To outstare.
overstate		To state in too strong terms; to exaggerate.
overstatement		An exaggerated statement or account.
overstay		To stay beyond the time or the limits of; as, to overstay the appointed time.
overstep		To step over or beyond; to transgress.
overstock		Stock in excess.
overstore		To overstock.
overstrain		To strain one's self to excess.
overstraitly	Obsolete	Too straitly or strictly.
overstraw	Obsolete	To overstrew.
overstrew		To strew or scatter over.
overstrict		Excessively strict.
overstride		To stride over or beyond.
overstrike	Obsolete	To strike beyond.
overstrow		See Overstrew — to strew or scatter over.
overstudious		Too studious.
oversubtile		Excessively subtile.
oversum	Obsolete	A sum or quantity over; surplus.
oversupply		To supply in excess.
oversure		Excessively sure.
oversway		To bear sway over.
overswell		To swell or rise above; to overflow.
overt		Open to view; public; apparent; manifest.
overtake		To come up with in a course, pursuit, progress, or motion; to catch up with.
overtalk		To talk to excess.
overtask		To task too heavily.
overtax		To tax or to task too heavily.
overtedious		Too tedious.
overtempt		To tempt exceedingly, or beyond the power of resistance.
overthrow		To throw over; to overturn; to upset; to turn upside down.
overthwart		Having a transverse position; placed or situated across; hence, opposite.
overthwartly	Obsolete	In an overthwart manner;across; also, perversely.
overthwartness	Obsolete	The state of being overthwart; perverseness.
overtilt		To tilt over; to overturn.
overtime		Time beyond, or in excess of, a limit; esp., extra working time.
overtire		To tire to excess; to exhaust.
overtitle		To give too high a title to.
overtly		Publicly; openly.
overtoil		To overwork.
overtone		One of the harmonics faintly heard with and above a tone as it dies away, produced by some aliquot portion of the vibrating sting or column of air which yields the fundamental tone; one of the natural harmonic scale of tones…
overtop		To rise above the top of; to exceed in height; to tower above.
overtower		To tower over or above.
overtrade		To trade beyond one's capital; to buy goods beyond the means of paying for or seleng them; to overstock the market.
overtrading		The act or practice of buying goods beyond the means of payment; a glutting of the market.
overtread		To tread over or upon.
overtrip		To trip over nimbly.
overtroubled		Excessively troubled.
overtrow	Obsolete	To be too trustful or confident; to trust too much.
overtrust		Excessive confidence.
overture		A proposal; an offer; a proposition formally submitted for consideration, acceptance, or rejection.
overturn		To turn or throw from a basis, foundation, or position; to overset; as, to overturn a carriage or a building.
overturnable		Capable of being, or liable to be, overturned or subverted.
overturner		One who overturns.
overvail		See Overveil — to veil or cover.
overvaluation		Excessive valuation; overestimate.
overvalue		To value excessively; to rate at too high a price.
overveil		To veil or cover.
overview	Obsolete	An inspection or overlooking.
overvote		To outvote; to outnumber in votes given.
overwalk		To walk over or upon.
overwar	Obsolete	To defeat.
overwary		Too wary; too cautious.
overwash		To overflow.
overwasted	Obsolete	Wasted or worn out; Drayton.
overwatch		To watch too much.
overwax	Obsolete	To wax or grow too rapindly or too much.
overweak		Too weak; too feeble.
overwear		To wear too much; to wear out.
overweary		To weary too much; to tire out.
overweather	Obsolete	To expose too long to the influence of the weather.
overween		To think too highly or arrogantly; to regard one's own thinking or conclusions too highly; hence, to egotistic, arrogant, or rash, in opinion; to think conceitedly; to presume.
overweener		One who overweens.
overweening		Unduly confident; arrogant; presumptuous; conceited. -- O`ver*ween ing*ness, n.
overweigh		To exceed in weight; to overbalance; to weigh down.
overweight		Weight over and above what is required by law or custom.
overwell		To overflow.
overwet	Obsolete	Excessive wetness.
overwhelm		To cover over completely, as by a great wave; to overflow and bury beneath; to ingulf; hence, figuratively, to immerse and bear down; to overpower; to crush; to bury; to oppress, etc., overpoweringly.
overwhelming		Overpowering; irresistible. -- O`ver*whelm"ing*ly, adv.
overwind		To wind too tightly, as a spring, or too far, as a hoisting rope on a drum.
overwing	Obsolete	To outflank.
overwise		Too wise; affectedly wise. -- O`ver*wise ness, n.
overwit		To outwit.
overword		To say in too many words; to express verbosely.
overwork		To work beyond the strength; to cause to labor too much or too long; to tire excessively; as, to overwork a horse.
overworn		Worn out or subdued by toil; worn out so as to be trite.
overwrest		To wrest or force from the natural or proper position.
overwrestle	Obsolete	To subdue by wrestling.
overwrought		Wrought upon excessively; overworked; overexcited.
overzeal		Excess of zeal.
overzealous		Too zealous.
ovicapsule		(Anat) The outer layer of a Graafian follicle.
ovicell		One of the dilatations of the body wall of Bryozoa in which the ova sometimes undegro the first stages of their development.
ovicular		Of or pertaining to an egg.
ovicyst		The pouch in which incubation takes place in some Tunicata.
ovidian		Of or pertaining to the Latin poet Ovid; resembling the style of Ovid.
oviducal		Of or pertaining to oviducts; as, oviducal glands.
oviduct		A tube, or duct, for the passage of ova from the ovary to the exterior of the animal or to the part where further development takes place.
oviferous		Egg-bearing; -- applied particularly to certain receptacles, as in Crustacea, that retain the eggs after they have been excluded from the formative organs, until they are hatched.
oviform		Having the form or figure of an egg; egg-shaped; as, an oviform leaf.
ovigerons		Bearing eggs; oviferous.
ovile		See Ovine — of or pertaining to sheep; consisting of sheep.
ovine		Of or pertaining to sheep; consisting of sheep.
ovipara		An artifical division of vertebrates, including those that lay eggs; -opposed to Vivipara.
oviparity		Generatuon by means of ova. See Generation.
oviparous		Producing young from rggs; as, an oviparous animal, in which the egg is generally separated from the animal, and hatched after exclusion; -- opposed to viviparous.
oviposit		To lay or deposit eggs; -- said esp. of insects.
ovipositing		The depositing of eggs, esp. by insects.
oviposition		The depositing of eggs, esp. by insects.
ovipositor		The organ with which many insects and some other animals deposit their eggs.
ovisac		(a) A Graafian follicle; any sac containing an ovum or ova. (b) The inner layer of the fibrous wall of a Graafian follicle.
ovism		The old theory that the egg contains the whole embryo of the future organism and the germs of all subsequent offsprings and is merely awakened to activity by the spermatozoön; -- opposed to spermism or animalculism.
ovist		Same as Ovulist.
ovococcus		A germinal vesicle.
ovoid		Resembling an egg in shape; egg-shaped; ovate; as, an ovoidal apple.
ovoidal		Resembling an egg in shape; egg-shaped; ovate; as, an ovoidal apple.
ovolo		A round, convex molding. See Illust. of Column.
ovology		That branch of natural history which treats of the origin and functions of eggs.
ovoplasma		Yolk; egg yolk.
ovotesttis		An organ which produces both ova and spermatozoids; an hermaphrodite gland.
ovoviviparous		Oviparous, but hatching the egg while it is within the body, as some fishes and reptiles.
ovular		Relating or belonging to an ovule; as, an ovular growth.
ovulary		Pertaining to ovules.
ovulate		Containing an ovule or ovules.
ovulation		The formation of ova or eggs in the ovary, and the discharge of the same.
ovule		(a) The rudiment of a seed.
ovuliferous		Producing ovules.
ovulist		A believer in the theory (called encasement theory), current during the last century, that the egg was the real animal germ…
ovulite		A fossil egg.
ovulum		An ovule.
ovum		(Biol.) A more or less spherical and transparent mass of granular protoplasm, which by a process of multiplication and growth develops into a mass of cells, constituting a new individual like the parent; an egg, spore, germ…
