ox	Obsolete	The male of bovine quadrupeds, especially the domestic animal when castrated and grown to its full size, or nearly so.	Old English oxa.
oxacid		See Oxyacid — an acid containing oxygen, as chloric acid or sulphuric acid; - - contrasted with the hydracids, which contain no oxygen, as hydrochloric acid.	
oxalan		A complex nitrogenous substance C3N3H5O3 obtained from alloxan (or when urea is fused with ethyl oxamate), as a stable white crystalline powder; -- called also oxaluramide.	
oxalantin		A white crystalline nitrogenous substance (C6H4N4O5) obtained by the reduction of parabanic acid; -- called also leucoturic acid.	
oxalate		A salt of oxalic acid.	
oxaldehyde		Same as Glyoxal.	
oxalethyline		A poisonous nitrogenous base (C6H10N2) obtained indirectly from oxamide as a thick transparent oil which has a strong narcotic odor, and a physiological action resembling that of atropine.	
oxalic		Pertaining to, derived from, or contained in, sorrel, or oxalis; specifically, designating an acid found in, and characteristic of, oxalis, and also certain plant of the Buckwheat family.	
oxaline		See Glyoxaline — a white, crystalline, organic base, C3H4N2, produced by the action of ammonia on glyoxal, and forming the origin of a large class of derivatives hence…	
oxalis		A genus of plants,mostly herbs, with acid-tasting trifoliolate or multifoliolate leaves; -- called also wood sorrel.	
oxalite		A yellow mineral consisting of oxalate of iron.	
oxaluramide		Same as Oxalan.	
oxalurate		A salt of oxaluric acid.	
oxaluric		Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acid related to the ureids, and obtained from parabanic acid as a white silky crystalline substance.	
oxalyl		(a) A hydrocarbon radical (C2O2) regarded as a residue of oxalic acid and occurring in derivatives of it.	
oxamate		A salt of oxamic acid.	
oxamethane		Ethyl oxamate, obtained as a white scaly crystalline powder.	
oxamethylane		Methyl oxamate, obtained as a pearly white crystalline substance.	
oxamic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid NH2.C2O2.HO obtained as a fine crystalline powder, intermediate between oxalic acid and oxamide.	
oxamide		A white crystalline neutral substance (C2O2(NH2)2) obtained by treating ethyl oxalate with ammonia.	
oxamidine		One of a series of bases containing the amido and the isonitroso groups united to the same carbon atom.	
oxanilamide		A white crystalline nitrogenous substance, obtained indirectly by the action of cyanogen on aniline, and regarded as an anilide of oxamic acid; -- called also phenyl oxamide.	
oxanilate		A salt of oxanilic acid.	
oxanilic		Pertaining to, or derived from, oxalic acid and aniline; -- used to designate an acid obtained in white crystalline scales by heating these substances together.	
oxanilide		a white crystalline substance, resembling oxanilamide, obtained by heating aniline oxalate, and regarded as a double anilide of oxalic acid; -- called also diphenyl oxamide.	
oxanillamide		A white crystalline nitrogenous substance, obtained indirectly by the action of cyanogen on aniline, and regarded as an anilide of oxamic acid; -- called also phenyl oxamide.	
oxbane		A poisonous bulbous plant (Buphane toxicaria) of the Cape of Good Hope.	
oxbird		(a) The dunlin. (b) The sanderling. (c) An African weaver bird (Textor alector).	
oxbiter	Dialect	The cow blackbird.	
oxbow		A frame of wood, bent into the shape of the letter U, and embracing an ox's neck as a kind of collar, the upper ends passing through the bar of the yoke; also, anything so shaped, as a bend in a river.	
oxeye		(Bot.) (a) The oxeye daisy. See under Daisy. (b) The corn camomile (Anthemis arvensis).	
oxeyed		Having large, full eyes, like those of an ox.	
oxfly		The gadfly of cattle.	
oxford		Of or pertaining to the city or university of Oxford, England.	
oxgang		See Bovate — an oxgang, or as much land as an ox can plow in a year; an ancient measure of land, of indefinite quantity, but usually estimated at fifteen acres.	Middle English oxegang, from Old English oxangang.
oxgoad		A goad for driving oxen.	
oxhead		Literally, the head of an ox (emblem of cuckoldom); hence, a dolt; a blockhead.	
oxheal		Same as Bear's-foot.	
oxheart		A large heart-shaped cherry, either black, red, or white.	
oxhide		The skin of an ox, or leather made from it.	
oxid		See Oxide — a binary compound of oxygen with an atom or radical, or a compound which is regarded as binary; as, iron oxide, ethyl oxide, nitrogen oxide, etc.	
oxidability		Capability of being converted into an oxide.	
oxidable		Capable of being converted into an oxide.	
oxidate	Obsolete	To oxidize.	
oxidation		The act or process of oxidizing, or the state or result of being oxidized.	
oxidator		A contrivance for causing a current of air to impinge on the flame of the Argand lamp; -- called also oxygenator.	
oxide		A binary compound of oxygen with an atom or radical, or a compound which is regarded as binary; as, iron oxide, ethyl oxide, nitrogen oxide, etc.	
oxidizable		Capable of being oxidized.	
oxidize		To combine with oxygen, or subject to the action of oxygen, or of an oxidizing agent.	
oxidizement		Oxidation.	
oxidizer		An agent employed in oxidation, or which facilitates or brings about combination with oxygen; as, nitric acid, chlorine, bromine, etc., are strong oxidizers.	
oxidulated		Existing in the state of a protoxide; -- said of an oxide.	
oxime		One of a series of isonitroso derivatives obtained by the action of hydroxylamine on aldehydes or ketones.	
oxindol		A white crystalline nitrogenous substance (C8H7NO) of the indol group, obtained by the reduction of dioxindol.	
oxiodic		Pertaining to, or designating, certain compounds of iodine and oxygen.	
oxlike		Characteristic of, or like, an ox.	
oxlip		The great cowslip (Primula veris, var. elatior).	
oxonate		A salt of oxonic acid.	
oxonian		Of or relating to the city or the university of Oxford, England.	
oxonic		Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acid (C4H5N3O4) not known in the free state, but obtained, in combination with its salts, by a slow oxidation of uric acid, to which it is related.	
oxpecker		An African bird of the genus Buphaga; the beefeater.	
oxshoe		A shoe for oxen, consisting of a flat piece of iron nailed to the hoof.	
oxter	English dialect	The armpit; also, the arm.	Old English ōxta.
oxtongue		A name given to several plants, from the shape and roughness of their leaves; as, Anchusa officinalis, a kind of bugloss, and Helminthia echioides, both European herbs.	
oxy-		A prefix, also used adjectively, designating: (a) A compound containing oxygen.	
oxyacetic		Hydroxyacetic; designating an acid called also glycolic acid.	
oxyacid		An acid containing oxygen, as chloric acid or sulphuric acid; - - contrasted with the hydracids, which contain no oxygen, as hydrochloric acid.	
oxyammonia		Same as Hydroxylamine.	
oxybenzene		Hydroxy benzene.	
oxybenzoic		Hydroxybenzoic; pertaining to, or designating, any one of several hydroxyl derivatives of benzonic acid, of which the commonest is salicylic acid.	
oxybromic		Pertaining to, or designating, certain compounds of oxygen and bromine.	
oxybutyric		Hydroxybutyric; designating any one of a group of metameric acids (C3H6.OH.CO2H).	
oxycalcium		Of or pertaining to oxygen and calcium; as, the oxycalcium light. See Drummond light.	
oxycaproic		See Leucic — pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from leucin, and called also oxycaproic acid.	
oxychloric		(a) Of, pertaining to, or designating in general, certain compounds containing oxygen and chlorine.	
oxychloride		A ternary compound of oxygen and chlorine; as, plumbic oxychloride.	
oxycrate		A Mixture of water and vinegar.	
oxycymene		Hydroxy cymene.	
oxygen		(Chem.) A colorless, tasteless, odorless, gaseous element occurring in the free state in the atmosphere, of which it forms about 23 per cent by weight and about 21 per cent by volume, being slightly heavier than nitrogen.	French oxygène.
oxygenate		To unite, or cause to combine, with oxygen; to treat with oxygen; to oxidize; as, oxygenated water (hydrogen dioxide).	
oxygenation		The act or process of combining or of treating with oxygen; oxidation.	
oxygenator		An oxidizer.	
oxygenic		Pertaining to, containing, or resembling, oxygen; producing oxygen.	
oxygenium		The technical name of oxygen.	
oxygenizable		Oxidizable.	
oxygenize		To oxidize.	
oxygenizement		Oxidation.	
oxygenous		Oxygenic.	
oxygon		A triangle having three acute angles.	
oxygonal		Having acute angles.	
oxygonial		Having acute angles.	
oxyhaemacyanin		See Hæmacyanin.	
oxyhaemocyanin		See Hæmacyanin.	
oxyhaemoglobin		See Hemoglobin — the normal coloring matter of the red blood corpuscles of vertebrate animals.	
oxyhemoglobin		See Hemoglobin — the normal coloring matter of the red blood corpuscles of vertebrate animals.	
oxyhydrogen		Of or pertaining to a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen; as, oxyhydrogen gas.	
oxymel		A mixture of honey, water, vinegar, and spice, boiled to a sirup.	Latin oxymel.
oxymethylene		Formic aldehyde, regarded as a methylene derivative.	
oxymoron		A figure in which an epithet of a contrary signification is added to a word; e. g., cruel kindness; laborious idleness.	
oxymuriate		A salt of the supposed oxymuriatic acid; a chloride.	
oxymuriatic	Archaic	Pertaining to, or consisting of, oxygen and muriatic acid, that is, hydrochloric acid.	
oxyneurine		See Betaine — a nitrogenous base, C5H11NO2, produced artificially, and also occurring naturally in beetroot molasses and its residues, from which it is extracted as a white crystalline substance…	
oxyntic		Acid; producing acid; -applied especially to certain glands and cells in the stomach.	
oxyopia		Excessive acuteness of sight.	
oxyopy		Excessive acuteness of sight.	
oxyphenic		Pertaining to, or designating, the phenol formerly called oxyphenic acid, and now oxyphenol and pyrocatechin.	
oxyphenol		A phenol, oxyphenic acid, and now pyrocatechin.	
oxyphony		Acuteness or shrillness of voice.	
oxyquinoline		Hydroxy quinoline; a phenol derivative of quinoline, -- called also carbostyril.	
oxyrhyncha		The maioid crabs.	
oxyrrhodine		A mixture of two parts of the oil of roses with one of the vinegar of roses.	
oxysalt		A salt of an oxyacid, as a sulphate.	
oxysulphide		A ternary compound of oxygen and sulphur.	
oxysulphuret	Obsolescent	An oxysulphide.	
oxytocic		Promoting uterine contractions, or parturition. -- n.	
oxytoluene		One of three hydroxy derivatives of toluene, called the cresols. See Cresol.	
oxytone		Having an acute sound; (Gr. Gram.), having an acute accent on the last syllable.	Greek ὀξύτονος.
oxytonical		Oxytone.	
