pa		A shortened form of Papa.	
paage		A toll for passage over another person's grounds.	
paard		The zebra.	
paas	Dialect	The Easter festival.	
pabular		Of, pertaining to, or fit for, pabulum or food; affording food.	
pabulation	Obsolete	The act of feeding, or providing food.	
pabulous		Affording pabulum, or food; alimental.	
pabulum		The means of nutriment to animals or plants; food; nourishment; hence, that which feeds or sustains, as fuel for a fire; that upon which the mind or soul is nourished; as, intellectual pabulum.	Latin pabulum.
pac		A kind of moccasin, having the edges of the sole turned up and sewed to the upper.	
paca		A small South American rodent (Cologenys paca), having blackish brown fur, with four parallel rows of white spots along its sides; the spotted cavy.	
pacable		Placable.	
pacane		A species of hickory. See Pecan.	
pacate		Appeased; pacified; tranquil.	Latin pacatus.
pacated		Pacified; pacate.	
pacation		The act of pacifying; a peacemaking.	Latin pacatio.
pacer		One who, or that which, paces; especially, a horse that paces.	
pachacamac		A divinity worshiped by the ancient Peruvians as the creator of the universe.	
pachak		The fragrant roots of the Saussurea Costus, exported from India to China, and used for burning as incense.	
pachalic		See Pashalic — the jurisdiction of a pasha.	
pachisi		A game adopted from the Indian game, using disks, as of pasteboard, and dice.	
pachometer		An instrument for measuring thickness, as of the glass of a mirror, or of paper; a pachymeter.	
pachonta		A substance resembling gutta-percha, and used to adulterate it, obtained from the East Indian tree Isonandra acuminata.	
pachy-		A combining form meaning thick; as, pachyderm, pachydactyl.	Greek παχύς.
pachycarpous		Having the pericarp thick.	
pachydactyl		A bird or other animal having thick toes.	
pachydactylous		Having thick toes.	
pachyderm		One of the Pachydermata.	
pachydermal		Of or relating to the pachyderms; as, pachydermal dentition.	
pachydermata		A group of hoofed mammals distinguished for the thickness of their skins, including the elephant, hippopotamus, rhinoceros, tapir, horse, and hog.	
pachydermatous		(Zoöl.) Of or pertaining to the pachyderms.	
pachydermoid		Related to the pachyderms.	
pachyglossal		Having a thick tongue; --applied to a group of lizards (Pachyglossæ), including the iguanas and agamas.	
pachymeningitis		Inflammation of the dura mater or outer membrane of the brain.	
pachymeter		Same as Pachometer.	
pachyote		One of a family of bats, including those which have thick external ears.	
pacifiable		Capable of being pacified or appeased; placable.	
pacific		Of or pertaining to peace; suited to make or restore peace; of a peaceful character; not warlike; not quarrelsome; conciliatory; as, pacific words or acts; a pacific nature or condition.	Middle French pacifique.
pacificable		Placable.	
pacifical		Of or pertaining to peace; pacific.	
pacification		The act or process of pacifying, or of making peace between parties at variance; reconciliation.	
pacificator		One who, or that which, pacifies; a peacemaker.	
pacificatory		Tending to make peace; conciliatory.	Latin pacificatorius.
pacifico		A peaceful person; -- applied specif. by the Spaniards to the natives in Cuba and the Philippine Islands who did not oppose the Spanish arms.	
pacifier		One who pacifies.	
pacify		To make to be at peace; to appease; to calm; to still; to quiet; to allay the agitation, excitement, or resentment of; to tranquillize; as, to pacify a man when angry; to pacify pride, appetite, or importunity.	
pacinian		Of, pertaining to, or discovered by, Filippo Pacini, an Italian physician of the 19th century.	
pack		To make a pack of; to arrange closely and securely in a pack; hence, to place and arrange compactly as in a pack; to press into close order or narrow compass; as to pack goods in a box; to pack fish.	Middle English pak.
package		A bundle made up for transportation; a packet; a bale; a parcel; as, a package of goods.	
packer		A person whose business is to pack things; especially, one who packs food for preservation; as, a pork packer.	
packet		A small pack or package; a little bundle or parcel; as, a packet of letters.	
packfong		A Chinese alloy of nickel, zinc, and copper, resembling German silver.	
packhouse		Warehouse for storing goods.	
packing		The act or process of one who packs.	
packman		One who bears a pack; a peddler.	
packwax		Same as Paxwax.	
packway		A path, as over mountains, followed by pack animals.	
paco		Etym: (Min.) An earthy-looking ore, consisting of brown oxide of iron with minute particles of native silver.	
pacos		Etym: (Min.) An earthy-looking ore, consisting of brown oxide of iron with minute particles of native silver.	
pact		An agreement; a league; a compact; a covenant.	Latin pactum.
paction		An agreement; a compact; a bargain.	
pactional		Of the nature of, or by means of, a paction.	
pactitious		Setted by a pact, or agreement.	Latin pactitius.
pactolian		Pertaining to the Pactolus, a river in ancient Lydia famous for its golden sands.	
pacu		A South American freah-water fish (Myleies pacu), of the family Characinidæ.	
pad		An easy-paced horse; a padnag.	
padar	Obsolete	Groats; coarse flour or meal.	
padder		One who, or that which, pads.	
padding		The act or process of making a pad or of inserting stuffing.	
paddle		To dabble in water with hands or feet; to use a paddle, or something which serves as a paddle, in swimming, in paddling a boat, etc. As the men were paddling for their lives.	Old English padell.
paddlecock	English dialect	The lumpfish.	
paddlefish		A large ganoid fish (Polyodon spathula) found in the rivers of the Mississippi Valley.	
paddler		One who, or that which, paddles.	
paddlewood		The light elastic wood of the Aspidosperma excelsum, a tree of Guiana having a fluted trunk readily split into planks.	
paddock		A small inclosure for pasture; esp., one adjoining a stable.	Middle English paddok.
paddy		Low; mean; boorish; vagabond.	Malay (macrolanguage padi.
padelion		A plant with pedately lobed leaves; the lady's mantle.	
padella		A large cup or deep saucer, containing fatty matter in which a wick is placed, -- used for public illuminations, as at St. Peter's, in Rome.	
pademelon		See Wallaby — any one of numerous species of kangaroos belonging to the genus Halmaturus, native of Australia and Tasmania, especially the smaller species, as the brush kangaroo (H.	
padesoy		See Paduasoy — a rich and heavy silk stuff.	
padge	English dialect	The barn owl; -- called also pudge, and pudge owl.	
padishah		Chief ruler; monarch; sovereign; -- a title of the Sultan of Turkey, and of the Shah of Persia.	
padlock		A portable lock with a bow which is usually jointed or pivoted at one end so that it can be opened, the other end being fastened by the bolt…	Middle English padlok.
padnag		An ambling nag.	
padow		A paddock, or toad.	
padre		A Christian priest or monk; -- used in Italy, Spain, Portugal, and Spanish America.	
padrone		The master of a small coaster in the Mediterranean.	
paduasoy		A rich and heavy silk stuff.	
paducahs		See Comanches — a warlike, savage, and nomadic tribe of the Shoshone family of Indians, inhabiting Mexico and the adjacent parts of the United States; -- called also Paducahs.	
paean		An ancient Greek hymn in honor of Apollo as a healing deity, and, later, a song addressed to other deities.	Greek παιάν.
paedobaptism		Pedobaptism.	
paedogenesis		Reproduction by young or larval animals.	
paedogenetic		Producing young while in the immature or larval state; -- said of certain insects, etc.	
paeon		A foot of four syllables, one long and three short, admitting of four combinations, according to the place of the long syllable.	
paeonine		An artifical red nitrogenous dyestuff, called also red coralline.	
paeony		See Peony — a plant, and its flower, of the ranunculaceous genus Pæonia.	
pagan		One who worships false goods; an idolater; a heathen; one who is neither a Christian, a Mohammedan, nor a Jew.	
pagandom		The pagan lands; pagans, collectively; paganism.	
paganic		Of or pertaining to pagans or paganism; heathenish; paganish. -- Pa*gan"ic*al*ly, adv.	
paganical		Of or pertaining to pagans or paganism; heathenish; paganish. -- Pa*gan"ic*al*ly, adv.	
paganish		Of or pertaining to pagans; heathenish.	
paganism		The state of being pagan; pagan characteristics; esp., the worship of idols or false gods, or the system of religious opinions and worship maintained by pagans; heathenism.	Latin paganismus.
paganity		The state of being a pagan; paganism.	
paganize		To render pagan or heathenish; to convert to paganism.	
paganly		In a pagan manner.	
page		A serving boy; formerly, a youth attending a person of high degree, especially at courts, as a position of honor and education; now commonly, in England, a youth employed for doin errands, waiting on the door…	Old French page, from Latin pagina.
pageant		A theatrical exhibition; a spectacle.	Latin pagina.
pageantry		Scenic shows or spectacles, taken collectivelly; spectacular guality; splendor.	
pagehood		The state of being a page.	
pagina		The surface of a leaf or of a flattened thallus.	
paginal		Consisting of pages.	
pagination		The act or process of paging a book; also, the characters used in numbering the pages; page number.	French pagination.
paging		The marking or numbering of the pages of a book.	
pagod		A pagoda.	
pagoda		A term by which Europeans designate religious temples and tower- like buildings of the Hindoos and Buddhists of India, Farther India, China, and Japan, -- usually but not always, devoted to idol worship.	
pagodite		Agalmatolite; -- so called because sometimes carved by the Chinese into the form of pagodas.	
paguma		Any one of several species of East Indian viverrine mammals of the genus Paguma.	
pagurian		Any one of a tribe of anomuran crustaceans, of which Pagurus is a type; the hermit crab.	
pah		An exclamation expressing disgust or contempt. See Bah.	
pahi		A large war canoe of the Society Islands.	
pahlevi		Same as Pehlevi.	
pahoehoe		A name given in the Sandwich Islands to lava having a relatively smooth surface, in distinction from the rough-surfaced lava, called a-a.	Hawaiian pāhoehoe.
pahutes		See Utes — an extensive tribe of North American Indians of the Shoshone stock, inhabiting Colorado, Utah, New Mexico, Arizona, and adjacent regions.	
paid		Receiving pay; compensated; hired; as, a paid attorney.	
paideutics		The science or art of teaching.	
paigle		A species of Primula, either the cowslip or the primrose.	
pail		A vessel of wood or tin, etc., usually cylindrical and having a bail, -- used esp. for carrying liquids, as water or milk, etc.; a bucket.	
pailful		The quantity that a pail will hold.	
paillasse		An under bed or mattress of straw.	
paillon		A thin leaf of metal, as for use in gilding or enameling, or to show through a translucent medium.	
pailmall	Obsolete	See Pall-mall — a game formerly common in England, in which a wooden ball was driven with a mallet through an elevated hoop or ring of iron.	
pain		Punishment suffered or denounced; suffering or evil inflicted as a punishment for crime, or connected with the commission of a crime; penalty.	
painable	Obsolete	Causing pain; painful.	
painful		Full of pain; causing uneasiness or distress, either physical or mental; afflictive; disquieting; distressing Addison.	
painim		A pagan; an infidel; -- used also adjectively.	
painless		Free from pain; without pain. -- Pain less*ness, n.	
pains		Labor; toilsome effort; care or trouble taken; -- plural in form, but used with a singular or plural verb, commonly the former.	
painstaker		One who takes pains; one careful and faithful in all work.	
painstaking		Careful in doing; diligent; faithful; attentive.	
painsworthy		Worth the pains o	
paint		To cover with coloring matter; to apply paint to; as, to paint a house, a signboard, etc. Jezebel painted her face and tired her head. 2 Kings ix. 30.	
painted		Covered or adorned with paint; portrayed in colors.	
painter		A rope at the bow of a boat, used to fasten it to anything.	
painterly	Obsolete	Like a painter's work.	
paintership		The state or position of being a painter.	
painting		The act or employment of laying on, or adorning with, paints or colors.	
paintless		Not capable of being painted or described.	
painture	Obsolete	The art of painting.	French peinture, from Latin pictura.
painty		Unskillfully painted, so that the painter's method of work is too obvious; also, having too much pigment applied to the surface.	
pair		A number of things resembling one another, or belonging together; a set; as, a pair or flight of stairs. & Fl.	Old French paire, from Latin paria.
pairer	Obsolete	One who impairs.	
pairing		See To pair off, under Pair, v. i.	
pairment	Obsolete	Impairment.	
pais		The country; the people of the neighborhood.	
paisano		The chaparral cock.	
paise		See Poise — weight; gravity; that which causes a body to descend; heaviness.	
pajamas		Originally, in India, loose drawers or trousers, such as those worn, tied about the waist, by Mohammedan men and women; by extension, a similar garment adopted among Europeans, Americans, etc.…	French pijama, from Persian پايجامه.
pajock	Obsolete	A peacock.	
pakfong		See Packfong — a chinese alloy of nickel, zinc, and copper, resembling German silver.	
pal	Slang	A mate; a partner; esp., an accomplice or confederate.	Angloromani phal, from Romany phral, from Sanskrit भ्रातृ.
palace		The residence of a sovereign, including the lodgings of high officers of state, and rooms for business, as well as halls for ceremony and reception.	
palacious	Obsolete	Palatial.	
paladin		A knight-errant; a distinguished champion; as, the paladins of Charlemagne.	
palaeo-		See Paleo- — a combining form meaning old, ancient; as, palearctic, paleontology, paleothere, paleography.	
palaeographer		See Paleographer, Paleographic, etc.	
palaeographic		See Paleographer, Paleographic, etc.	
palaeotype		A system of representing all spoken sounds by means of the printing types in common use.	
palaestra		See Palestra — (a) A wrestling school; hence, a gymnasium, or place for athletic exercise in general.	Middle French palestre.
palaestric		See Palestric — of or pertaining to the palestra, or to wrestling.	
palaetiologist		One versed in palætiology.	
palaetiology		The science which explains, by the law of causation, the past condition and changes of the earth. -- Pa*læ`ti*o*log"ic*al, a.	
palama		A membrane extending between the toes of a bird, and uniting them more or less closely together.	
palamate		Web-footed.	
palamedeae		An order, or suborder, including the kamichi, and allied South American birds; -- called also screamers.	
palampore		See Palempore — a superior kind of dimity made in India, -- used for bed coverings.	
palanka		A camp permanently intrenched, attached to Turkish frontier fortresses.	
palanquin		An inclosed carriage or litter, commonly about eight feet long, four feet wide, and four feet high, borne on the shoulders of men by means of two projecting poles, -- used in India, China, etc.…	Portuguese palanquim.
palapteryx		A large extinct ostrichlike bird of New Zealand.	
palatability		Palatableness.	
palatable		Agreeable to the palate or taste; savory; hence, acceptable; pleasing; as, palatable food; palatable advice.	
palatableness		The quality or state of being agreeable to the taste; relish; acceptableness.	
palatably		In a palatable manner.	
palatal		Of or pertaining to the palate; palatine; as, the palatal bones.	
palatalize		To palatize.	
palate		(Anat.) The roof of the mouth.	
palatial	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to a palace; suitable for a palace; resembling a palace; royal; magnificent; as, palatial structures.	
palatic		Palatal; palatine.	
palatinate	Obsolete	The province or seigniory of a palatine; the dignity of a palatine.	
palatine		Of or pertaining to a palace, or to a high officer of a palace; hence, possessing royal privileges.	Latin palatinus.
palative	Obsolete	Pleasing to the taste; palatable.	
palatize		To modify, as the tones of the voice, by means of the palate; as, to palatize a letter or sound. -- Pal`a*ti*za"tion, n.	
palato-		A combining form used in anatomy to indicate relation to, or connection with, the palate; as in palatolingual.	
palatonares		The posterior nares. See Nares.	
palatopterygoid		Pertaining to the palatine and pterygoid region of the skull; as, the palatopterygoid cartilage, or rod, from which the palatine and pterygoid bones are developed.	
palaver		Talk; conversation; esp., idle or beguiling talk; talk intended to deceive; flattery.	Portuguese palavra, from Latin parabola, from Greek παραβολή.
palaverer		One who palavers; a flatterer.	
pale		Wanting in color; not ruddy; dusky white; pallid; wan; as, a pale face; a pale red; a pale blue.	
palea		(Bot.) (a) The interior chaff or husk of grasses. (b) One of the chaffy scales or bractlets growing on the receptacle of many compound flowers, as the Coreopsis, the sunflower, etc.	
paleaceous		Chaffy; resembling or consisting of paleæ, or chaff; furnished with chaff; as, a paleaceous receptacle.	
palearctic		Belonging to a region of the earth's surface which includes all Europe to the Azores, Iceland, and all temperate Asia.	
paled		Inclosed with a paling.	
paleechinoidea		An extinct order of sea urchins found in the Paleozoic rocks.	
paleface		A white person; -- an appellation supposed to have been applied to the whites by the American Indians.	
paleichthyes		A comprehensive division of fishes which includes the elasmobranchs and ganoids.	
palely		In a pale manner; dimly; wanly; not freshly or ruddily.	
palempore		A superior kind of dimity made in India, -- used for bed coverings.	
paleness		The quality or condition of being pale; want of freshness or ruddiness; a sickly whiteness; lack of color or luster; wanness.	
palenque		A collective name for the Indians of Nicaragua and Honduras.	
paleo-		A combining form meaning old, ancient; as, palearctic, paleontology, paleothere, paleography.	Greek παλαιός.
paleobotanist		One versed in paleobotany.	
paleobotany		That branch of paleontology which treats of fossil plants.	
paleocarida		Same as Merostomata.	
paleocrinoidea		A suborder of Crinoidea found chiefly in the Paleozoic rocks.	
paleocrystic		Of, pertaining to, or derived from, a former glacial formation.	
paleogaean		Of or pertaining to the Eastern hemisphere.	
paleograph		An ancient manuscript.	
paleographer		One skilled in paleography; a paleographist.	
paleographic		Of or pertaining to paleography.	
paleographical		Of or pertaining to paleography.	
paleographist		One versed in paleography; a paleographer.	
paleography		An ancient manner of writing; ancient writings, collectively; as, Punic paleography.	
paleola		A diminutive or secondary palea; a lodicule.	
paleolith		A relic of the Paleolithic era.	
paleolithic		Of or pertaining to an era marked by early stone implements.	
paleologist		One versed in paleology; a student of antiquity.	
paleology		The study or knowledge of antiquities, esp. of prehistoric antiquities; a discourse or treatise on antiquities; archæology.	
paleontographical		Of or pertaining to the description of fossil remains.	
paleontography		The description of fossil remains.	
paleontological		Of or pertaining to paleontology. -- Pa`le*on`to*log"ic*al*ly, adv.	
paleontologist		One versed in paleontology.	
paleontology		The science which treats of the ancient life of the earth, or of fossils which are the remains of such life.	
paleophytologist		A paleobotanist.	
paleophytology		Paleobotany.	
paleornithology		The branch of paleontology which treats of fossil birds.	
paleosaurus		A genus of fossil saurians found in the Permian formation.	
paleotechnic		Belonging to, or connected with, ancient art.	
paleothere		Any species of Paleotherium.	French paléothère.
paleotherian		Of or pertaining to Paleotherium.	French paléothérien.
paleotherium		An extinct genus of herbivorous Tertiary mammals, once supposed to have resembled the tapir in form, but now known to have had a more slender form, with a long neck like that of a llama.	
paleotheroid		Resembling Paleotherium. -- n.	
paleotype		See Palæotype.	
paleous		Chaffy; like chaff; paleaceous.	
paleozoic		Of or pertaining to, or designating, the older division of geological time during which life is known to have existed, including the Silurian, Devonian, and Carboniferous ages, and also to the life or rocks of those ages.	
paleozooelogy		The science of extinct animals, a branch of paleontology.	
paleozoology		The science of extinct animals, a branch of paleontology.	
palestinean		Of or pertaining to Palestine.	
palestinian		Of or pertaining to Palestine.	
palestra		(a) A wrestling school; hence, a gymnasium, or place for athletic exercise in general.	
palestrian		Of or pertaining to the palestra, or to wrestling.	
palestric		Of or pertaining to the palestra, or to wrestling.	
palestrical		Of or pertaining to the palestra, or to wrestling.	
palet		Same as Palea.	
paletot		(a) An overcoat.	French paletot, from Spanish paletoque, from Latin palla.
palette		(Paint.) A thin, oval or square board, or tablet, with a thumb hole at one end for holding it, on which a painter lays and mixes his pigments.	French palette, from Old French palete.
palewise		In the manner of a pale or pales; by perpendicular lines or divisions; as, to divide an escutcheon palewise.	
palfrey		A saddle horse for the road, or for state occasions, as distinguished from a war horse.	
palfreyed		Mounted on a palfrey.	
palgrave		See Palsgrave — a count or earl who presided in the domestic court, and had the superintendence, of a royal household in Germany.	
pali		pl. of Palus — one of several upright slender calcareous processes which surround the central part of the calicle of certain corals.	
palification		The act or practice of driving piles or posts into the ground to make it firm.	
paliform		Resembling a palus; as, the paliform lobes of the septa in corals.	
palilogy		The repetition of a word, or part of a sentence, for the sake of greater emphasis; as, xxxviii. 19.	Latin palilogia, from Greek παλιλογία.
palimpsest		A parchment which has been written upon twice, the first writing having been erased to make place for the second.	Latin palimpsestus, from Greek παλίμψηστος.
palindrome		A word, verse, or sentence, that is the same when read backward or forward; as, madam; Hannah; or Lewd did I live, & evil I did dwel.	Greek παλίνδρομος.
palindromic		Of, pertaining to, or like, a palindrome.	
palindromical		Of, pertaining to, or like, a palindrome.	
palindromist		A writer of palindromes.	
paling		Pales, in general; a fence formed with pales or pickets; a limit; an inclosure.	
palingenesia		See Palingenesis — a new birth; a re-creation; a regeneration; a continued existence in different manner or form.	
palingenesis		A new birth; a re-creation; a regeneration; a continued existence in different manner or form.	
palingenesy		A new birth; a re-creation; a regeneration; a continued existence in different manner or form.	
palingenetic		Of or pertaining to palingenesis: as, a palingenetic process. -- Pal`in*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv.	
palinode		An ode recanting, or retracting, a former one; also, a repetition of an ode.	Latin palinodia, from Greek παλινῳδία.
palinodial		Of or pertaining to a palinode, or retraction.	
palinody	Obsolete	See Palinode — an ode recanting, or retracting, a former one; also, a repetition of an ode.	
palinurus		An instrument for obtaining directly, without calculation, the true bearing of the sun, and thence the variation of the compass	
palisade		(Fort.) A strong, long stake, one end of which is set firmly in the ground, and the other is sharpened; also, a fence formed of such stakes set in the ground as a means of defense.	French palissade.
palisading		) A row of palisades set in the ground.	
palisado	Obsolete	A palisade.	
palish		Somewhat pale or wan.	
palissander		(a) Violet wood. (b) Rosewood.	
palissy		Designating, or of the nature of, a kind of pottery made by Bernard Palissy, in France, in the 16th centry.	
palkee		A palanquin.	
pall		An outer garment; a cloak mantle.	Old English pæll.
pall-mall		A game formerly common in England, in which a wooden ball was driven with a mallet through an elevated hoop or ring of iron.	
palla		An oblong rectangular piece of cloth, worn by Roman ladies, and fastened with brooches.	Italian palla.
palladian		Of, pertaining to, or designating, a variety of the revived classic style of architecture, founded on the works of Andrea Palladio, an Italian architect of the 16th century.	
palladic		Of, pertaining to, or derived from, palladium; -- used specifically to designate those compounds in which the element has a higher valence as contrasted with palladious compounds.	
palladious		Of, pertaining to, or containing, palladium; -- used specifically to designate those compounds in which palladium has a lower valence as compared with palladic compounds.	
palladium		(Gr. Antiq.) Any statue of the goddess Pallas; esp., the famous statue on the preservation of which depended the safety of ancient Troy.	
palladiumize		To cover or coat with palladium.	
pallah		A large South African antelope (Æpyceros melampus).	
pallas		Pallas Athene, the Grecian goddess of wisdom, called also Athene, and identified, at a later period, with the Roman Minerva.	
pallbearer		One of those who attend the coffin at a funeral; -- so called from the pall being formerly carried by them.	
pallet		A small and mean bed; a bed of straw.	Middle English palet, from Anglo-Norman palete.
pallial		Of or pretaining to a mantle, especially to the mantle of mollusks; produced by the mantle; as, the pallial line, or impression, which marks the attachment of the mantle on the inner surface of a bivalve shell.	
palliament	Obsolete	A dress; a robe.	
palliard	Obsolete	A born beggar; a vagabond.	
palliasse		See Paillasse — an under bed or mattress of straw.	
palliate		To cover with excuses; to conceal the enormity of, by excuses and apologies; to extenuate; as, to palliate faults.	Latin palliatus.
palliation		The act of palliating, or state of being palliated; extenuation; excuse; as, the palliation of faults, offenses, vices.	
palliative		Serving to palliate; serving to extenuate or mitigate.	
palliatory		Palliative; extenuating.	
pallid		Deficient in color; pale; wan; as, a pallid countenance; pallid blue.	Latin pallidus.
pallidity		Pallidness; paleness.	
pallidly		In a pallid manner.	
pallidness		The quality or state of being pallid; paleness; pallor; wanness.	
palliobranchiata		Same as Brachiopoda.	
palliobranchiate		Having the pallium, or mantle, acting as a gill, as in brachiopods.	
pallium		(R.C.Ch.) A band of white wool, worn on the shoulders, with four purple crosses worked on it; a pall.	Latin pallium.
pallometa		A pompano.	
pallone		An Italian game, played with a large leather ball.	
pallor		Paleness; want of color; pallidity; as, pallor of the complexion.	Latin pallor.
palm		(Anat.) The inner and somewhat concave part of the hand between the bases of the fingers and the wrist.	Middle English palme, from Old English palm.
palmaceous		Of or pertaining to palms; of the nature of, or resembling, palms.	
palmacite		A fossil palm.	
palmar		(Anat.) Pertaining to, or corresponding with, the palm of the hand.	
palmarium		One of the bifurcations of the brachial plates of a crinoid.	
palmate		Having the shape of the hand; resembling a hand with the fingers spread.	Latin palmatus.
palmated		Having the shape of the hand; resembling a hand with the fingers spread.	
palmately		In a palmate manner.	
palmatifid		Palmate, with the divisions separated but little more than halfway to the common center.	
palmatilobed		Palmate, with the divisions separated less than halfway to the common center.	
palmatisect		Divided, as a palmate leaf, down to the midrib, so that the parenchyma is interrupted.	
palmatisected		Divided, as a palmate leaf, down to the midrib, so that the parenchyma is interrupted.	
palmcrist		The palma Christi. (Jonah iv. 6, margin, and Douay version, note.)	
palmed		Having or bearing a palm or palms.	
palmer		One who palms or cheats, as at cards or dice.	
palmerworm		(a) Any hairy caterpillar which appears in great numbers, devouring herbage, and wandering about like a palmer.	
palmette		A floral ornament, common in Greek and other ancient architecture; -- often called the honeysuckle ornament.	
palmetto		A name given to palms of several genera and species growing in the West Indies and the Southern United States.	
palmic	Passing out of use	Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the castor-oil plant (Ricinus communis, or Palma Christi); -- formerly used to designate an acid now called ricinoleic acid.	
palmidactyles		A group of wading birds having the toes webbed, as the avocet.	
palmiferous		Bearing palms.	
palmigrade		Putting the whole foot upon the ground in walking, as some mammals.	
palmin	Obsolete	(a) A white waxy or fatty substance obtained from castor oil. (b) Ricinolein.	
palmiped		Web-footed, as a water fowl. -- n.	Latin palmipes.
palmipedes		Same as Natatores.	
palmister		One who practices palmistry Bp.	
palmistry		The art or practice of divining or telling fortunes, or of judging of character, by the lines and marks in the palm of the hand; chiromancy.	Middle English palmestrie.
palmitate		A salt of palmitic acid.	
palmite		A South African plant (Prionium Palmita) of the Rush family, having long serrated leaves.	
palmitic		Pertaining to, or obtained from, palmitin or palm oil; as, palmitic acid, a white crystalline body belonging to the fatty acid series.	Latin palma.
palmitin		A solid crystallizable fat, found abundantly in animals and in vegetables.	
palmitolic		Pertaining to, or designating, an artificial acid of the oleic acid series, isomeric with linoleic acid.	
palmitone		The ketone of palmitic acid.	
palmy		Bearing palms; abounding in palms; derived from palms; as, a palmy shore.	
palmyra		A species of palm (Borassus flabelliformis) having a straight, black, upright trunk, with palmate leaves.	
palo		A pole or timber of any kind; -- in the names of trees.	
palola		An annelid (Palola viridis) which, at certain seasons of the year, swarms at the surface of the sea about some of the Pcific Islands, where it is collected for food.	
palolo		A polystome worm (Palolo viridis) that burrows in the coral reefs of certain of the Pacific Islands.	
palometa		A pompano.	
palp	Obsolete	Same as Palpus.	
palpability		The quality of being palpable, or perceptible by the touch.	
palpable		Capable of being touched and felt; perceptible by the touch; as, a palpable form.	
palpation		Act of touching or feeling.	
palpator		One of a family of clavicorn beetles, including those which have very long maxillary palpi.	
palpebra		The eyelid.	
palpebral		Of or pertaining to the eyelids.	
palpebrate		Having eyelids.	
palped		Having a palpus.	
palpi		pl. of Palpus. (Zoöl.) See Palpus.	
palpicorn		One of a group of aquatic beetles (Palpicornia) having short club-shaped antennæ, and long maxillary palpi.	
palpifer		Same as Palpiger.	
palpiform		Having the form of a palpus.	
palpiger		That portion of the labium which bears the palpi in insects.	
palpigerous		Bearing a palpus.	
palpitant		Palpitating; throbbing; trembling.	
palpitate		To beat rapidly and more strongly than usual; to throb; to bound with emotion or exertion; to pulsate violently; to flutter; -- said specifically of the heart when its action is abnormal, as from excitement.	
palpitation		A rapid pulsation; a throbbing; esp., an abnormal, rapid beating of the heart as when excited by violent exertion, strong emotion, or by disease.	
palpless		Without a palpus.	
palpocil		A minute soft filamentary process springing from the surface of certain hydroids and sponges.	
palpus		A feeler; especially, one of the jointed sense organs attached to the mouth organs of insects, arachnids, crustaceans, and annelids; as, the mandibular palpi, maxillary palpi, and labial palpi.	
palsgrave		A count or earl who presided in the domestic court, and had the superintendence, of a royal household in Germany.	
palsgravine		The consort or widow of a palsgrave.	
palsical		Affected with palsy; palsied; paralytic.	
palsied		Affected with palsy; paralyzed.	
palstave		A peculiar bronze adz, used in prehistoric Europe about the middle of the bronze age.	
palster	Obsolete	A pilgrim's staff.	
palsy		Paralysis, complete or partial. See Paralysis.	Anglo-Norman paralisie, from Latin paralysis, from Greek παράλυσις.
palsywort		The cowslip (Primula veris); -- so called from its supposed remedial powers.	
palter		To act in insincere or deceitful manner; to play false; to equivocate; to shift; to dodge; to trifle.	
palterer		One who palters.	
palterly	Obsolete	Paltry; shabby; shabbily; paltrily.	
paltock	Obsolete	A kind of doublet; a jacket.	
paltrily		In a paltry manner.	
paltriness		The state or quality of being paltry.	
paltry		Mean; vile; worthless; despicable; contemptible; pitiful; trifling; as, a paltry excuse; paltry gold.	Middle Low German paltrig.
paludal		Of or pertaining to marshes or fens; marshy.	
paludament		See Paludamentum — antiq.) A military cloak worn by a general and his principal officers.	
paludamentum		Antiq.) A military cloak worn by a general and his principal officers.	
paludicolae		A division of birds, including the cranes, rails, etc.	
paludicole		Marsh-inhabiting; belonging to the Paludicolæ	
paludina		Any one of numerous species of freshwater pectinibranchiate mollusks, belonging to Paludina, Melantho, and allied genera.	
paludinal		Inhabiting ponds or swamps.	
paludine		Of or pertaining to a marsh.	Latin palus, from Greek πηλος.
paludinous		(Zoöl.) (a) Paludinal. (b) Like or pertaining to the genus Paludina.	
paludism		The morbid phenomena produced by dwelling among marshes; malarial disease or disposition.	
paludose		Growing or living in marshy places; marshy.	
palule		See Palulus or Palus.	
palulus		Same as Palus.	
palus		One of several upright slender calcareous processes which surround the central part of the calicle of certain corals.	Latin palus, from Greek πηλος.
palustral		Of or pertaining to a bog or marsh; boggy.	Latin palustris.
palustrine		Of, pertaining to, or living in, a marsh or swamp; marshy.	
paly	Poetic	Pale; wanting color; dim.	
pam	Obsolete	The knave of clubs.	
pament	Obsolete	A pavement.	
pampano		Same as Pompano.	
pampas		Vast plains in the central and southern part of the Argentine Republic in South America.	
pamper		To feed to the full; to feed luxuriously; to glut; as, to pamper the body or the appetite.	Middle English pamperen.
pampered		Fed luxuriously; indulged to the full; hence, luxuriant. -- Pam"pered*ness, n.	
pamperer		One who, or that which, pampers.	
pamperize		To pamper.	
pampero		A violent wind from the west or southwest, which sweeps over the pampas of South America and the adjacent seas, often doing great damage.	
pamperos		A tribe of Indians inhabiting the pampas of South America.	
pamphlet		A small book consisting of a few sheets of printed paper, stitched together, often with a paper cover, but not bound; a short essay or written discussion, usually on a subject of current interest.	Latin panfletus.
pamphleteer		A writer of pamphlets; a scribbler.	
pampiniform		In the form of tendrils; -- applied especially to the spermatic and ovarian veins.	
pampre		An ornament, composed of vine leaves and bunches of grapes, used for decorating spiral columns.	
pamprodactylous		Having all the toes turned forward, as the colies.	
pan		(Fort.) The distance comprised between the angle of the epaule and the flanked angle.	
pan-		Combining forms signifying all, every; as, panorama, pantheism, pantagraph, pantograph.	Greek πᾶν.
pan-american		Of or pertaining to both North and South America.	
pan-americanism		The principle or advocacy of a political alliance or union of all the states of America.	
pan-anglican		Belonging to, or representing, the whole Church of England; used less strictly, to include the Protestant Episcopal Church of the United States; as, the Pan-Anglican Conference at Lambeth, in 1888.	
panabase		Same as Tetrahedrite.	
panacea		A remedy for all diseases; a universal medicine; a cure-all; catholicon; hence, a relief or solace for affliction.	Latin panacea, from Greek πανάκεια.
panacean		Having the properties of a panacea.	
panache		A plume or bunch of feathers, esp. such a bunch worn on the helmet; any military plume, or ornamental group of feathers.	Middle French pennache, from Italian pennaccio, from Latin pinnaculum.
panada		Bread boiled in water to the consistence of pulp, and sweetened or flavored.	Spanish pan, from Latin panis.
panade	Obsolete	Bread boiled in water to the consistence of pulp, and sweetened or flavored.	
panamanian		Of or pert. to Panama. -- n.	
panary		Of or pertaining to bread or to breadmaking.	
panathenaea		The most ancient and important festival of Athens, celebrated in honor of Athena, the tutelary goddess of the city.	
pancake		A thin cake of batter fried in a pan or on a griddle; a griddlecake; a flapjack.	
pancarte	Obsolete	A royal charter confirming to a subject all his possessions.	
pance		The pansy.	
panch		See Paunch — (Anat.) The belly and its contents; the abdomen; also, the first stomach, or rumen, of ruminants.	
panchway		A Bengalese four-oared boat for passengers.	
pancratian		Pancratic; athletic.	
pancratiast		One who engaged in the contests of the pancratium.	
pancratiastic		Of or pertaining to the pancratium.	
pancratic		Having all or many degrees of power; having a great range of power; -- said of an eyepiece made adjustable so as to give a varying magnifying power.	
pancratical		Of or pertaining to the pancratium; athletic.	
pancratist		An athlete; a gymnast.	
pancratium		(Gr. Antiq.) An athletic contest involving both boxing and wrestling.	
pancreas		The sweetbread, a gland connected with the intestine of nearly all vertebrates.	
pancreatic		Of or pertaining to the pancreas; as, the pancreatic secretion, digestion, ferments.	
pancreatin		One of the digestive ferments of the pancreatic juice; also, a preparation containing such a ferment, made from the pancreas of animals, and used in medicine as an aid to digestion.	
pancy	Obsolete	See Pansy — a plant of the genus Viola (V. tricolor) and its blossom, originally purple and yellow.	
panda		A small Asiatic mammal (Ailurus fulgens) having fine soft fur.	French panda.
pandanus		A genus of endogenous plants. See Screw pine.	Malay (macrolanguage pandan.
pandar		Same as Pander.	
pandarism		Same as Panderism.	
pandarize	Obsolete	To pander.	
pandarous	Obsolete	Panderous.	
pandean		Of or relating to the god Pan.	
pandect		A treatise which comprehends the whole of any science. a pandect mak'st, and universal book.	Latin pandectes, from Greek πανδέκτης.
pandemic		Affecting a whole people or a number of countries; everywhere epidemic. -- n.	Latin pandemus, from Greek πάνδημος.
pandemonium		The great hall or council chamber of demons or evil spirits.	
pander		A male bawd; a pimp; a procurer.	
panderage		The act of pandering.	
panderism		The employment, arts, or practices of a pander.	
panderly		Having the quality of a pander.	
pandermite		A hydrous borate of lime, near priceite.	
panderous		, Of or relating to a pander; characterizing a pander.	
pandiculated		Extended; spread out; stretched.	
pandiculation		A stretching and stiffening of the trunk and extremities, as when fatigued and drowsy.	
pandit		See Pundit — a learned man; a teacher; esp., a Brahman versed in the Sanskrit language, and in the science, laws, and religion of the Hindoos; in Cashmere, any clerk or native official.	
pandoor		Same as Pandour.	
pandora		(Zoöl.) A genus of marine bivalves, in which one valve is flat, the other convex.	
pandore		An ancient musical instrument, of the lute kind; a bandore.	
pandour		One of a class of Hungarian mountaineers serving in the Austrian army; -- so called from Pandur, a principal town in the region from which they originally came.	
pandowdy		A deep pie or pudding made of baked apples, or of sliced bread and apples baked together, with no bottom crust.	
pandurate		Obovate, with a concavity in each side, like the body of a violin; fiddle-shaped; as, a panduriform leaf; panduriform color markings of an animal.	
panduriform		Obovate, with a concavity in each side, like the body of a violin; fiddle-shaped; as, a panduriform leaf; panduriform color markings of an animal.	
pane		The narrow edge of a hammer head. See Peen.	Middle English pane.
paned		Having panes; provided with panes; also, having openings; as, a paned window; paned window sash.	
panegyric		An oration or eulogy in praise of some person or achievement; a formal or elaborate encomium; a laudatory discourse; laudation.	Greek πανηγυρικός.
panegyrical		Containing praise or eulogy; encomiastic; laudatory. -- Pan`e*gyr"ic*al*ly, adv.	
panegyris	Obsolete	A festival; a public assembly.	
panegyrist		One who delivers a panegyric; a eulogist; one who extols or praises, either by writing or speaking.	
panegyrize		To praise highly; to extol in a public speech; to write or deliver a panegyric upon; to eulogize.	
panegyry	Obsolete	A panegyric.	
panel		(Arch.) A sunken compartment with raised margins, molded or otherwise, as in ceilings, wainscotings, etc.	Old French panel, from Latin pannus.
panelation	Obsolete	The act of impaneling a jury.	
paneless		Without panes.	
paneling		A forming in panels; panelwork.	
panelwork		Wainscoting.	
paneulogism		Eulogy of everything; indiscriminate praise.	
panful		Enough to fill a pan.	
pang		A paroxysm of extreme pain or anguish; a sudden and transitory agony; a throe; as, the pangs of death.	
pangenesis		An hypothesis advanced by Darwin in explanation of heredity.	
pangenetic		Of or pertaining to pangenesis.	
pangful		Full of pangs.	
pangless		Without a pang; painless.	
pangolin		Any one of several species of Manis, Pholidotus, and related genera, found in Africa and Asia.	Malay (macrolanguage pengguling.
pangothic		Of, pertaining to, or including, all the Gothic races.	
panhandle		The handle of a pan; hence, fig., any arm or projection suggestive of the handle of a pan; as, the panhandle of West Virginia, Texas, or Idaho.	
panhellenic		Of or pertaining to all Greece, or to Panhellenism; including all Greece, or all the Greeks.	
panhellenism		A scheme to unite all the Greeks in one political body.	
panhellenist		An advocate of Panhellenism.	
panhellenium		An assembly or association of Greeks from all the states of Greece.	
panic		A plant of the genus Panicum; panic grass; also, the edible grain of some species of panic grass.	Middle French panique, from Greek πανικός.
panic-stricken		Struck with a panic, or sudden fear.	
panic-struck		Struck with a panic, or sudden fear.	
panical	Obsolete	See Panic, a.	
panicle		A pyramidal form of inflorescence, in which the cluster is loosely branched below and gradually simpler toward the end.	
panicled		Furnished with panicles; arranged in, or like, panicles; paniculate.	
paniculate		Same as Panicled.	
paniculated		Same as Panicled.	
panicum		A genus of grasses, including several hundred species, some of which are valuable; panic grass.	
panidiomorphic		Having a completely idiomorphic structure; -- said of certain rocks.	
panier	Obsolete	See Pannier, 3.	
panification		The act or process of making bread.	
panim	Obsolete	See Painim — a pagan; an infidel; -- used also adjectively.	
panislamism		A desire or plan for the union of all Mohammedan nations for the conquest of the world.	
panivorous		Eating bread; subsisting on bread.	
pannade		The curvet of a horse.	
pannage		(a) The food of swine in the woods, as beechnuts, acorns, etc.; -- called also pawns.	Old French pasnage.
pannary		See Panary — of or pertaining to bread or to breadmaking.	
panne		A fabric resembling velvet, but having the nap flat and less close.	
pannel		A kind of rustic saddle.	
pannier		A bread basket; also, a wicker basket (used commonly in pairs) for carrying fruit or other things on a horse or an ass Hudibras.	French panier, from Latin panarium.
panniered		Bearing panniers.	
pannikel	Obsolete	The brainpan, or skull; hence, the crest.	
pannikin		A small pan or cup.	
pannose		Similar in texture or appearance to felt or woolen cloth.	
pannus		A very vascular superficial opacity of the cornea, usually caused by granulation of the eyelids.	
panoistic		Producing ova only; -- said of the ovaries of certain insects which do not produce vitelligenous cells.	
panomphean		Uttering ominous or prophetic voices; divining.	Latin panomphaeus.
panoplied		Dressed in panoply.	
panoply		Defensive armor in general; a full suit of defensive armor.	Greek πανοπλία.
panopticon		A prison so contructed that the inspector can see each of the prisoners at all times, without being seen.	
panorama		A complete view in every direction.	
panoramic		Of, pertaining to, or like, a panorama.	
panoramical		Of, pertaining to, or like, a panorama.	
panorpian		Like, or pertaining to, the genus Panorpa. -- n.	
panorpid		Any neuropterous insect of the genus Panorpa, and allied genera.	
panpharmacon		A medicine for all diseases; a panacea.	
panpresbyterian		Belonging to, or representative of, those who hold Presbyterian views in all parts of the world; as, a Panpresbyterian council.	
panpsychism		The theory that all nature is psychical or has a psychical aspect; the theory that every particle of matter has a psychical character or aspect. -- Pan*psy chist (#), n. -- Pan`psy*chis"tic (#), a.	
pansclavic		See Panslavic, Panslavism, etc.	
pansclavism		See Panslavic, Panslavism, etc.	
pansclavist		See Panslavic, Panslavism, etc.	
pansclavonian		See Panslavic, Panslavism, etc.	
panshon	English dialect	An earthen vessel wider at the top than at the bottom, -- used for holding milk and for various other purposes.	
pansied		Covered or adorned with pansies.	
panslavic		Pertaining to all the Slavic races.	
panslavism		A scheme or desire to unite all the Slavic races into one confederacy.	
panslavist		One who favors Panslavism.	
panslavonian		See Panslavic — pertaining to all the Slavic races.	
pansophical		All-wise; claiming universal knowledge; as, pansophical pretenders.	
pansophy		Universal wisdom; esp., a system of universal knowledge proposed by Comenius (1592 -- 1671), a Moravian educator.	
panspermatist		A believer in panspermy; one who rejects the theory of spontaneous generation; a biogenist.	
panspermic		Of or pertaining to panspermy; as, the panspermic hypothesis.	
panspermist		A believer in panspermy; one who rejects the theory of spontaneous generation; a biogenist.	
panspermy		(a) The doctrine of the widespread distribution of germs, from which under favorable circumstances bacteria, vibrios, etc., may develop.	
panstereorama		A model of a town or country, in relief, executed in wood, cork, pasteboard, or the like.	
pansy		A plant of the genus Viola (V. tricolor) and its blossom, originally purple and yellow.	
pant		To breathe quickly or in a labored manner, as after exertion or from eagerness or excitement; to respire with heaving of the breast; to gasp.	
panta-		Combining forms signifying all, every; as, panorama, pantheism, pantagraph, pantograph.	
pantable	Obsolete	, n. See Pantofle.	
pantacosm		See Cosmolabe — an instrument resembling the astrolabe, formerly used for measuring the angles between heavenly bodies; -- called also pantacosm.	
pantagraph		See Pantograph — an instrument for copying plans, maps, and other drawings, on the same, or on a reduced or an enlarged, scale.	
pantagruelism		The theory or practice of the medical profession; -- used in burlesque or ridicule.	
pantalet		One of the legs of the loose drawers worn by children and women; particularly, the lower part of such a garment, coming below the knee, often made in a separate piece; -- chiefly in the plural.	
pantaloon		Aridiculous character, or an old dotard, in the Italian comedy; also, a buffoon in pantomimes.	French pantalon, from Italian Pantaleone.
pantaloonery		The character or performances of a pantaloon; buffoonery.	
pantamorph		That which assumes, or exists in, all forms.	
pantamorphic		Taking all forms.	
pantascope		A pantascopic camera.	
pantascopic		Viewing all; taking a view of the whole. See under Camera.	
pantastomata		One of the divisions of Flagellata, including the monads and allied forms.	
pantechnicon		A depository or place where all sorts of manufactured articles are collected for sale.	
pantelegraph		See under Telegraph.	
panter	Obsolete	One who pants.	
panteutonic		Of or pertaining to all the Teutonic races.	
pantheism		The doctrine that the universe, taken or conceived of as a whole, is God; the doctrine that there is no God but the combined force and laws which are manifested in the existing universe; cosmotheism.	
pantheist		One who holds to pantheism.	
pantheistic		Of or pertaining to pantheism; founded in, or leading to, pantheism. -- Pan`the*is"tic*al*ly, adv.	
pantheistical		Of or pertaining to pantheism; founded in, or leading to, pantheism. -- Pan`the*is"tic*al*ly, adv.	
pantheologist		One versed in pantheology.	
pantheology		A system of theology embracing all religions; a complete system of theology.	
pantheon		A temple dedicated to all the gods; especially, the building so called at Rome.	
panther		(Zoöl.) A large dark-colored variety of the leopard, by some zoölogists considered a distinct species.	Old French pantere, from Latin panthera, from Greek πανθήρα,.
pantheress		A female panther.	
pantherine		Like a panther, esp. in color; as, the pantherine snake (Ptyas mucosus) of Brazil.	
pantile		A roofing tile, of peculiar form, having a transverse section resembling an elongated S laid on its side (	
pantingly		With palpitation or rapid breathing.	
pantisocracy		A Utopian community, in which all should rule equally, such as was devised by Coleridge, Lovell, and Southey, in their younger days.	
pantisocrat		A pantisocratist.	
pantisocratic		Of or pertaining to a pantisocracy.	
pantisocratist		One who favors or supports the theory of a pantisocracy.	
pantler	Obsolete	The servant or officer, in a great family, who has charge of the bread and the pantry.	
panto-		Combining forms signifying all, every; as, panorama, pantheism, pantagraph, pantograph.	
pantochronometer		An instrument combining a compass, sundial, and universal time dial.	
pantofle		A slipper for the foot.	
pantograph		An instrument for copying plans, maps, and other drawings, on the same, or on a reduced or an enlarged, scale.	French pantographe.
pantographic		Of or pertaining to a pantograph; relating to pantography.	
pantographical		Of or pertaining to a pantograph; relating to pantography.	
pantography		A general description; entire view of an object.	
pantological		Of or pertaining to pantology.	
pantologist		One versed in pantology; a writer of pantology.	
pantology		A systematic view of all branches of human knowledge; a work of universal information.	
pantometer		An instrument for measuring angles for determining elevations, distances, etc.	
pantometry		Universal measurement. -- Pan`to*met"ric, a.	
pantomime		One who acts his part by gesticulation or dumb show only, without speaking; a pantomimist. saw a pantomime perform so well that he could follow the performance from the action alone.	
pantomimic		Of or pertaining to the pantomime; representing by dumb show. -- Pan`to*mim"ic*al*ly, adv.	
pantomimical		Of or pertaining to the pantomime; representing by dumb show. -- Pan`to*mim"ic*al*ly, adv.	
pantomimist		An actor in pantomime; also, a composer of pantomimes.	
panton		A horseshoe to correct a narrow, hoofbound heel.	French patin.
pantophagist		A person or an animal that has the habit of eating all kinds of food.	
pantophagous		Eating all kinds of food.	
pantophagy		The habit or power of eating all kinds of food.	
pantopoda		Same as Pycnogonida.	
pantoscopic		Literally, seeing everything; -- a term applied to eyeglasses or spectacles divided into two segments, the upper being designed for distant vision, the lower for vision of near objects.	
pantry		An apartment or closet in which bread and other provisions are kept.	Old French paneterie.
panurgic		Skilled in all kinds of work.	
panurgy		Skill in all kinds of work or business; craft.	
panyard	Obsolete	See Pannier — a bread basket; also, a wicker basket (used commonly in pairs) for carrying fruit or other things on a horse or an ass Hudibras.	
panym	Obsolete	See Panim.	
panzoism		A term used to denote all of the elements or factors which constitute vitality or vital energy.	
paolo		An old Italian silver coin, worth about ten cents.	
pap		A rounded, nipplelike hill or peak; anything resembling a nipple in shape; a mamelon.	Middle English pappe.
papa		A child's word for father.	
papabote	Dialect	The upland plover.	
papacy		The office and dignity of the pope, or pontiff, of Rome; papal jurisdiction.	
papagay		See Popinjay, 1 (b).	
papain		A proteolytic ferment, like trypsin, present in the juice of the green fruit of the papaw (Carica Papaya) of tropical America.	
papal		Of or pertaining to the pope of Rome; proceeding from the pope; ordered or pronounced by the pope; as, papal jurisdiction; a papal edict; the papal benediction.	
papalist	Obsolete	A papist.	
papality	Obsolete	The papacy.	
papalize		To make papal.	
papally		In a papal manner; popishly	
papalty	Obsolete	The papacy.	
papaphobia		Intense fear or dread of the pope, or of the Roman Catholic Church.	
paparchy		Government by a pope; papal rule.	
papaver		A genus of plants, including the poppy.	
papaveraceous		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of plants (Papaveraceæ) of which the poppy, the celandine, and the bloodroot are well-known examples.	
papaverine		An alkaloid found in opium.	
papaverous		Of or pertaining to the poppy; of the nature of the poppy.	
papaw		(Bot.) A tree (Carica Papaya) of tropical America, belonging to the order Passifloreæ.	
papboat		A kind of sauce boat or dish.	
pape	Obsolete	A spiritual father; specifically, the pope.	
papejay	Obsolete	A popinjay.	
paper		A substance in the form of thin sheets or leaves intended to be written or printed on, or to be used in wrapping.	Anglo-Norman paper, from Old French papier, from Latin papyrus, from Greek πάπυρος.
paperweight		See under Paper, n.	
papery		Like paper; having the thinness or consistence of paper.	
papescent		Containing or producing pap; like pap.	
papess	Obsolete	A female pope; i. e., the fictitious pope Joan.	French papesse.
papeterie		A case or box containing paper and materials for writing.	
paphian		Of or pertaining to Paphos, an ancient city of Cyprus, having a celebrated temple of Venus; hence, pertaining to Venus, or her rites., n.	
papier-mache		A hard and strong substance made of a pulp from paper, mixed with sise or glue, etc. It is formed into various articles, usually by means of molds.	
papilio		A genus of butterflies.	
papilionaceous		Resembling the butterfly.	
papiliones		The division of Lepidoptera which includes the butterflies.	
papilionides		The typical butterflies.	
papilla		Any minute nipplelike projection; as, the papillæ of the tongue.	Latin papilla.
papillar		Same as Papillose.	
papillary		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a papilla or papillæ; bearing, or covered with, papillæ; papillose.	
papillate		To cover with papillæ; to take the form of a papilla, or of papillæ.	
papilliform		Shaped like a papilla; mammilliform.	
papilloma		A tumor formed by hypertrophy of the papillæ of the skin or mucous membrane, as a corn or a wart.	
papillomatous		Of, pertaining to, or consisting of, papillomata.	
papillose		Covered with, or bearing, papillæ; resembling papillæ; papillate; papillar; papillary.	
papillote		a small piece of paper on which women roll up their hair to make it curl; a curl paper.	
papillous		Papillary; papillose.	
papillulate		Having a minute papilla in the center of a larger elevation or depression.	
papion		A West African baboon (Cynocephalus sphinx), allied to the chacma.	
papism		Popery; -- an offensive term.	
papist		A Roman catholic; one who adheres to the Church of Rome and the authority of the pope; -- an offensive designation applied to Roman Catholics by their opponents.	
papistic		Of or pertaining to the Church of Rome and its doctrines and ceremonies; pertaining to popery; popish; -- used disparagingly. -- Pa*pis"tic*al*ly, adv.	
papistical		Of or pertaining to the Church of Rome and its doctrines and ceremonies; pertaining to popery; popish; -- used disparagingly. -- Pa*pis"tic*al*ly, adv.	
papistry		The doctrine and ceremonies of the Church of Rome; popery.	
papized	Obsolete	Conformed to popery.	
papoose		A babe or young child of Indian parentage in North America.	Narragansett papoos.
pappiform		Resembling the pappus of composite plants.	
pappoose		Same as Papoose.	
pappose		Furnished with a pappus; downy.	
pappous		Pappose.	
pappus		The hairy or feathery appendage of the achenes of thistles, dandelions, and most other plants of the order Compositæ; also, the scales, awns, or bristles which represent the calyx in other plants of the same order.	
pappy		Like pap; soft; succulent; tender.	
paprica		The dried ripened fruit of Capsicum annuum or various other species of pepper; also, the mildly pungent condiment prepared from it.	
paprika		The dried ripened fruit of Capsicum annuum or various other species of pepper; also, the mildly pungent condiment prepared from it.	Hungarian paprika, from Serbo-Croatian paprika.
papuan		Of or pertaining to Papua.	
papuars		The native black race of Papua or New Guinea, and the adjacent islands.	
papula		(Med.) A pimple; a small, usually conical, elevation of the cuticle, produced by congestion, accumulated secretion, or hypertrophy of tissue; a papule.	Latin papula.
papular		Covered with papules.	
papule		Same as Papula.	
papulose		Having papulæ; papillose; as, a papulose leaf.	
papulous		Covered with, or characterized by, papulæ; papulose.	
papyraceous		Made of papyrus; of the consistency of paper; papery.	
papyrean		Of or pertaining to papyrus, or to paper; papyraceous.	
papyrine		Imitation parchment, made by soaking unsized paper in dilute sulphuric acid.	
papyrograph		An apparatus for multiplying writings, drawings, etc., in which a paper stencil, formed by writing or drawing with corrosive ink, is used.	
papyrography		The process of multiplying copies of writings, etc., by means of the papyrograph. -- Pap`y*ro*graph"ic, a.	
papyrus		(Bot.) A tall rushlike plant (Cyperus Papyrus) of the Sedge family, formerly growing in Egypt, and now found in Abyssinia, Syria, Sicily, etc. The stem is triangular and about an inch thick.	Latin papyrus, from Greek πάπυρος.
paque		See Pasch and Easter.	
par		See Parr — (a) A young salmon in the stage when it has dark transverse bands; -- called also samlet, skegger, and fingerling.	French par, from Latin per.
para		A piece of Turkish money, usually copper, the fortieth part of a piaster, or about one ninth of a cent.	
para-		A prefix signifying alongside of, beside, beyond, against, amiss; as parable, literally, a placing beside; paradox, that which is contrary to opinion; parachronism.	Greek παρά.
para-anaesthesia		Anæsthesia of both sides of the lower half of the body.	
para-anesthesia		Anæsthesia of both sides of the lower half of the body.	
parabanic		Pertaining to, or designating, a nitrogenous acid which is obtained by the oxidation of uric acid, as a white crystalline substance (C3N2H2O3); -- also called oxalyl urea.	
parablast		A portion of the mesoblast (of peripheral origin) of the developing embryo, the cells of which are especially concerned in forming the first blood and blood vessels.	
parablastic		Of or pertaining to the parablast; as, the parablastic cells.	
parable	Obsolete	Procurable.	Latin parabilis.
parabola		(a) A kind of curve; one of the conic sections formed by the intersection of the surface of a cone with a plane parallel to one of its sides.	Greek παραβολή.
parabole		Similitude; comparison.	
parabolic		Of the nature of a parable; expressed by a parable or figure; allegorical; as, parabolical instruction.	
parabolical		Of the nature of a parable; expressed by a parable or figure; allegorical; as, parabolical instruction.	
parabolically		By way of parable; in a parabolic manner.	
paraboliform		Resembling a parabola in form.	
parabolism	Obsolete	The division of the terms of an equation by a known quantity that is involved in the first term.	
parabolist		A narrator of parables.	
paraboloid		The solid generated by the rotation of a parabola about its axis; any surface of the second order whose sections by planes parallel to a given line are parabolas.	
paraboloidal		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a paraboloid.	
parabronchium		One of the branches of an ectobronchium or entobronchium.	
paracelsian		Of, pertaining to, or in conformity with, the practice of Paracelsus, a Swiss physician of the 15th century.	
paracelsist		A Paracelsian.	
paracentesis		The perforation of a cavity of the body with a trocar, aspirator, or other suitable instrument, for the evacuation of effused fluid, pus, or gas; tapping.	
paracentric		Deviating from circularity; changing the distance from a center.	
paracentrical		Deviating from circularity; changing the distance from a center.	
parachordal		Situated on either side of the notochord; -- applied especially to the cartilaginous rudiments of the skull on each side of the anterior part of the notochord. -- n.	
parachronism		An error in chronology, by which the date of an event is set later than the time of its occurrence.	
parachrose		Changing color by exposure Mohs.	
parachute		A contrivance somewhat in the form of an umbrella, by means of which a descent may be made from a balloon, or any eminence.	French parachute.
paraclete		An advocate; one called to aid or support; hence, the Consoler, Comforter, or Intercessor; -- a term applied to the Holy Spirit.	Old French paraclit, from Latin paraclet.
paraclose		See Parclose — a screen separating a chapel from the body of the church.	
paracmastic		Gradually decreasing; past the acme, or crisis, as a distemper.	
paraconic		Pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid obtained as a deliquescent white crystalline substance, and isomeric with itaconic, citraconic, and mesaconic acids.	
paraconine		A base resembling and isomeric with conine, and obtained as a colorless liquid from butyric aldehyde and ammonia.	
paracorolla		A secondary or inner corolla; a corona, as of the Narcissus.	
paracrostic		A poetical composition, in which the first verse contains, in order, the first letters of all the verses of the poem.	
paracyanogen		A polymeric modification of cyanogen, obtained as a brown or black amorphous residue by heating mercuric cyanide.	
paracymene		Same as Cymene.	
paradactylum		The side of a toe or finger.	
parade		The ground where a military display is held, or where troops are drilled.	French parade, from Spanish parada.
paradigm		(Gram.) An example of a conjugation or declension, showing a word in all its different forms of inflection.	
paradigmatic	Obsolete	Exemplary. -- Par`a*dig*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.	
paradigmatical	Obsolete	Exemplary. -- Par`a*dig*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.	
paradigmatize	Obsolete	To set forth as a model or example.	
paradisaic		Of or pertaining to, or resembling, paradise; paradisiacal.	
paradisaical		Of or pertaining to, or resembling, paradise; paradisiacal.	
paradisal		Paradisiacal.	
paradise		The garden of Eden, in which Adam and Eve were placed after their creation.	
paradisean		Paradisiacal.	
paradised		Placed in paradise; enjoying delights as of paradise.	
paradisiac		Of or pertaining to paradise; suitable to, or like, paradise.	
paradisiacal		Of or pertaining to paradise; suitable to, or like, paradise.	
paradisial		Paradisiacal.	
paradisian		Paradisiacal.	
paradisic		Paradisiacal.	
paradisical		Paradisiacal.	
parados		An intercepting mound, erected in any part of a fortification to protect the defenders from a rear or ricochet fire; a traverse.	
paradox		A tenet or proposition contrary to received opinion; an assertion or sentiment seemingly contradictory, or opposed to common sense; that which in appearance or terms is absurd, but yet may be true in fact.	Middle French paradoxe, from Latin paradoxum, from Greek παράδοξος.
paradoxal	Obsolete	Paradoxical.	
paradoxer		One who proposes a paradox.	
paradoxical		Of the nature of a paradox.	
paradoxides		A genus of large trilobites characteristic of the primordial formations.	
paradoxist		One who proposes a paradox.	
paradoxology	Obsolete	The use of paradoxes.	
paradoxure		Any species of Paradoxurus, a genus of Asiatic viverrine mammals allied to the civet, as the musang, and the luwack or palm cat (Paradoxurus hermaphroditus).	
paradoxy		A paradoxical statement; a paradox.	
paraffin		A white waxy substance, resembling spermaceti, tasteless and odorless, and obtained from coal tar, wood tar, petroleum, etc., by distillation.	Latin paraffinum.
paraffine		A white waxy substance, resembling spermaceti, tasteless and odorless, and obtained from coal tar, wood tar, petroleum, etc., by distillation.	
parage		(Old Eng. Law) Equality of condition, blood, or dignity; also, equality in the partition of an inheritance.	Anglo-Norman parage.
paragenesis		The science which treats of minerals with special reference to their origin.	
paragenic		Originating in the character of the germ, or at the first commencement of an individual; -- said of peculiarities of structure, character, etc.	
paraglobulin		An albuminous body in blood serum, belonging to the group of globulins.	
paraglossa		One of a pair of small appendages of the lingua or labium of certain insects.	
paragnath		Same as Paragnathus.	
paragnathous		Having both mandibles of equal length, the tips meeting, as in certain birds.	
paragnathus		(a) One of the two lobes which form the lower lip, or metastome, of Crustacea.	
paragoge		(Gram.) The addition of a letter or syllable to the end of a word, as withouten for without.	
paragogic		Of, pertaining to, or constituting, a paragoge; added to the end of, or serving to lengthen, a word.	
paragogical		Of, pertaining to, or constituting, a paragoge; added to the end of, or serving to lengthen, a word.	
paragon		(Print.) A size of type between great primer and double pica. See the Note under Type.	Anglo-Norman paragone.
paragonite		A kind of mica related to muscovite, but containing soda instead of potash.	
paragrammatist		A punster.	
paragrandine		An instrument to avert the occurrence of hailstorms. See Paragr.	
paragraph		Originally, a marginal mark or note, set in the margin to call attention to something in the text, e. g., a change of subject; now, the character	Middle French paragraphe, from Latin paragraphus, from Greek παράγραφος.
paragrapher		A writer of paragraphs; a paragraphist.	
paragraphic		Pertaining to, or consisting of, a paragraph or paragraphs. -- Par`a*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.	
paragraphical		Pertaining to, or consisting of, a paragraph or paragraphs. -- Par`a*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.	
paragraphist		A paragrapher.	
paragraphistical		Of or relating to a paragraphist.	
paragrele		A lightning conductor erected, as in a vineyard, for drawing off the electricity in the atmosphere in order to prevent hailstorms.	French paragrêle.
paraguayan		Of or pertaining to Paraguay. -- n.	
parail	Obsolete	See Apparel — external clothing; vesture; garments; dress; garb; external habiliments or array.	
parakeet		Same as Parrakeet.	Middle French perroquet.
parakite		A train or series of kites on one string and flying tandem, used for attaining great heights and for sending up instruments for meteorological observations or a man for military reconnoissance; also, a kite of such a train.	
paralactic		Designating an acid called paralactic acid. See Lactic acid, under Lactic.	
paralbumin		A proteidlike body found in the fluid from ovarian cysts and elsewhere.	
paraldehyde		A polymeric modification of aldehyde obtained as a white crystalline substance.	
paraleipsis		A pretended or apparent omission; a figure by which a speaker artfully pretends to pass by what he really mentions; as, for example, if an orator should say,	Greek παράλειψις.
paralepsis		See Paraleipsis — a pretended or apparent omission; a figure by which a speaker artfully pretends to pass by what he really mentions; as, for example, if an orator should say,	
paralgesia		Disordered sensibility to pain, including absence of sensibility to pain, excessive sensibility to pain, and abnormal painful results of stimuli. -- Par`al*ge"sic (#), a.	
paralian		A dweller by the sea.	
paralipomenon		A title given in the Douay Bible to the Books of Chronicles.	
paralipsis		See Paraleipsis — a pretended or apparent omission; a figure by which a speaker artfully pretends to pass by what he really mentions; as, for example, if an orator should say,	
parallactic		Of or pertaining to a parallax.	
parallactical		Of or pertaining to a parallax.	
parallax		The apparent displacement, or difference of position, of an object, as seen from two different stations, or points of view.	
parallel		(Geom.) Extended in the same direction, and in all parts equally distant; as, parallel lines; parallel planes.	Greek παράλληλος.
parallelable		Capable of being paralleled, or equaled.	
parallelism		The quality or state of being parallel.	
parallelistic		Of the nature of a parallelism; involving parallelism.	
parallelize		To render parallel.	
parallelless		Matchless.	
parallelly		In a parallel manner; with parallelism.	
parallelogram		A right-lined quadrilateral figure, whose opposite sides are parallel, and consequently equal; -- sometimes restricted in popular usage to a rectangle, or quadrilateral figure which is longer than it is broad…	
parallelogrammatic		Of or pertaining to a parallelogram; parallelogrammic.	
parallelogrammic		Having the properties of a parallelogram.	
parallelogrammical		Having the properties of a parallelogram.	
parallelopiped		A solid, the faces of which are six parallelograms, the opposite pairs being parallel, and equal to each other; a prism whose base is a parallelogram.	
parallelopipedon		A parallelopiped.	
paralogical		Containing paralogism; illogical.	
paralogism		A reasoning which is false in point of form, that is, which is contrary to logical rules or formulæ; a formal fallacy, or pseudo- syllogism, in which the conclusion does not follow from the premises.	Middle French paralogisme.
paralogize		To reason falsely; to draw conclusions not warranted by the premises.	
paralogy		False reasoning; paralogism.	
paralyse		Same as Paralyze.	
paralysis		Abolition of function, whether complete or partial; esp., the loss of the power of voluntary motion, with or without that of sensation, in any part of the body; palsy.	Latin paralysis, from Greek παράλυσις.
paralytic		Of or pertaining to paralysis; resembling paralysis.	Greek παραλυτικός.
paralytical		See Paralytic — of or pertaining to paralysis; resembling paralysis.	
paralyzation		The act or process of paralyzing, or the state of being paralyzed.	
paralyze		To affect or strike with paralysis or palsy.	
param		A white crystalline nitrogenous substance (C2H4N4); -- called also dicyandiamide.	
paramagnetic		Magnetic, as opposed to Ant: diamagnetic. -- n.	
paramagnetism		Magnetism, as opposed to diamagnetism.	
paramaleic	Obsolete	Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from malic acid, and now called fumaric acid.	
paramalic		Pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid metameric with malic acid.	
paramastoid		Situated beside, or near, the mastoid portion of the temporal bone; paroccipital; -- applied especially to a process of the skull in some animals.	
paramatta		A light fabric of cotton and worsted, resembling bombazine or merino.	
parament	Obsolete	Ornamental hangings, furniture, etc., as of a state apartment; rich and elegant robes worn by men of rank; -- chiefly in the plural.	Anglo-Norman parement.
paramento		Ornament; decoration.	
paramere		One of the symmetrical halves of any one of the radii, or spheromeres, of a radiate animal, as a starfish.	
parameter		(a) (Math.) A term applied to some characteristic magnitude whose value, invariable as long as one and the same function, curve, surface, etc., is considered, serves to distinguish that function, curve, surface, etc.…	French paramètre, from Latin parametrum.
parametritis		Inflammation of the cellular tissue in the vicinity of the uterus.	
paramiographer		A collector or writer of proverbs.	
paramitome		The fluid portion of the protoplasm of a cell.	
paramo		A high, bleak plateau or district, with stunted trees, and cold, damp atmosphere, as in the Andes, in South America.	
paramorph		A kind of pseudomorph, in which there has been a change of physical characters without alteration of chemical composition, as the change of aragonite to calcite.	
paramorphism		The change of one mineral species to another, so as to involve a change in physical characters without alteration of chemical composition.	
paramorphous		Relating to paramorphism; exhibiting paramorphism.	
paramount		Having the highest rank or jurisdiction; superior to all others; chief; supreme; preëminent; as, a paramount duty.	
paramountly		In a paramount manner.	
paramour		A lover, of either sex; a wooer or a mistress (formerly in a good sense, now only in a bad one); one who takes the place, without possessing the rights, of a husband or wife; -- used of a man or a woman.	
paramours	Obsolete	By or with love, esp. the love of the sexes; -- sometimes written as two words.	
paramylum		A substance resembling starch, found in the green frothy scum formed on the surface of stagnant water.	
paranaphthalene	Obsolete	Anthracene; -- called also paranaphthaline.	
paranoia		Mental derangement; insanity.	Greek παράνοια.
paranoiac		Of or pertaining to paranoia; affected with, or characteristic of, paranoia.	
paranthracene		An inert isomeric modification of anthracene.	
paranucleus		Some as Nucleolus.	
paranymph		(Gr. Antiq.) (a) A friend of the bridegroom who went with him in his chariot to fetch home the bride.	Latin paranymphus.
paranymphal		Bridal; nuptial.	
parapectin		A gelatinous modification of pectin.	
parapegm		An engraved tablet, usually of brass, set up in a public place.	Latin parapegma.
parapeptone		An albuminous body formed in small quantity by the peptic digestion of proteids.	
parapet		(Arch.) A low wall, especially one serving to protect the edge of a platform, roof, bridge, or the like.	Middle French parapet.
parapetalous		Growing by the side of a petal, as a stamen.	
parapeted		Having a parapet.	
paraph		A flourish made with the pen at the end of a signature.	
parapherna		The property of a woman which, on her marriage, was not made a part of her dower, but remained her own.	
paraphernal		Of or pertaining to paraphernalia; as, paraphernal property.	
paraphernalia		(Law) Something reserved to a wife, over and above her dower, being chiefly apparel and ornaments suited to her degree.	
paraphimosis		A condition in which the prepuce, after being retracted behind the glans penis, is constricted there, and can not be brought forward into place again.	
paraphosphoric	Obsolete	Pyrophosphoric.	
paraphragma		One of the outer divisions of an endosternite of Crustacea. -- Par`a*phrag"mal, a.	
paraphrase		A restatement of a text, passage, or work, expressing the meaning of the original in another form, generally for the sake of its clearer and fuller exposition…	
paraphraser		One who paraphrases.	
paraphrasian		A paraphraser.	
paraphrast		A paraphraser.	
paraphrastic		Paraphrasing; of the nature of paraphrase; explaining, or translating in words more clear and ample than those of the author; not literal; free. -- Par`a*phras"tic*al*ly, adv.	
paraphrastical		Paraphrasing; of the nature of paraphrase; explaining, or translating in words more clear and ample than those of the author; not literal; free. -- Par`a*phras"tic*al*ly, adv.	
paraphysis		A minute jointed filament growing among the archegonia and antheridia of mosses, or with the spore cases, etc., of other flowerless plants.	
paraplegia		Palsy of the lower half of the body on both sides, caused usually by disease of the spinal cord. -- Par`a*pleg"ic, a.	Latin paraplegia, from Greek παραπληγία.
paraplegy		Palsy of the lower half of the body on both sides, caused usually by disease of the spinal cord. -- Par`a*pleg"ic, a.	
parapleura		A chitinous piece between the metasternum and the pleuron of certain insects.	
parapodium		One of the lateral appendages of an annelid; -- called also foot tubercle.	
parapophysis		The ventral transverse, or capitular, process of a vertebra. See Vertebra. -- Par*ap`o*phys"ic*al, a.	
parapterum		A special plate situated on the sides of the mesothorax and metathorax of certain insects.	
paraquet		See Parrakeet — any one of numerous species of small parrots having a graduated tail, which is frequently very long; -- called also paroquet and paraquet.	
paraquito		See Parrakeet — any one of numerous species of small parrots having a graduated tail, which is frequently very long; -- called also paroquet and paraquet.	
parasang		A Persian measure of length, which, according to Herodotus and Xenophon, was thirty stadia, or somewhat more than three and a half miles.	Latin parasanga, from Greek παρασάγγης.
parascenium		One of two apartments adjoining the stage, probably used as robing rooms.	
parasceve	Obsolete	Among the Jews, the evening before the Sabbath.	
paraschematic		Of or pertaining to a change from the right form, as in the formation of a word from another by a change of termination, gender, etc. Max Müller.	
paraselene		A mock moon; an image of the moon which sometimes appears at the point of intersection of two lunar halos.	
parashah		A lesson from the Torah, or Law, from which at least one section is read in the Jewish synagogue on every Sabbath and festival.	
parashoth		pl. of Parashah — a lesson from the Torah, or Law, from which at least one section is read in the Jewish synagogue on every Sabbath and festival.	
parasita		(a) An artificial group formerly made for parasitic insects, as lice, ticks, mites, etc. (b) A division of copepod Crustacea, having a sucking mouth, as the lerneans.	
parasital		Of or pertaining to parasites; parasitic.	
parasite		One who frequents the tables of the rich, or who lives at another's expense, and earns his welcome by flattery; a hanger-on; a toady; a sycophant.	Latin parasitus, from Greek παράσιτος.
parasitic		Of the nature of a parasite; fawning for food or favors; sycophantic.	
parasitical		Of the nature of a parasite; fawning for food or favors; sycophantic.	
parasiticide		Anything used to destroy parasites.	
parasitism		The state or behavior of a parasite; the act of a parasite.	
parasol		A kind of small umbrella used by women as a protection from the sun.	French parasol, from Italian parasole.
parasolette		A small parasol.	
parasphenoid		Near the sphenoid bone; -- applied especially to a bone situated immediately beneath the sphenoid in the base of the skull in many animals. -- n.	
parastichy		A secondary spiral in phyllotaxy, as one of the evident spirals in a pine cone.	
parasynaxis		An unlawful meeting.	
parasynthetic		Formed from a compound word.	Greek παρασύνθετος.
paratactic		Of pertaining to, or characterized by, parataxis.	
parataxis		The mere ranging of propositions one after another, without indicating their connection or interdependence; -- opposed to syntax.	Greek παράταξις.
parathesis		(Gram.) The placing of two or more nouns in the same case; apposition.	Greek παράθεσις.
parathetic		Of or pertaining to parathesis.	
paratonnerre		A conductor of lightning; a lightning rod.	
paraunter	Obsolete	Peradventure. See Paraventure.	
parauque		A bird (Nyctidromus albicollis) ranging from Texas to South America.	
paravail		At the bottom; lowest.	
paravant	Obsolete	In front; publicly.	Old French par avant.
paraventure	Obsolete	Peradventure; perchance.	
paraxanthin		A crystalline substance closely related to xanthin, present in small quantity in urine.	
paraxial		On either side of the axis of the skeleton.	
paraxylene		A hydrocarbon of the aromatic series obtained as a colorless liquid by the distillation of camphor with zinc chloride.	
parboil		To boil in part; to cook partially by boiling.	Old French parbouillir, from Latin perbullio.
parbreak	Obsolete	To throw out; to vomit.	
parbuckle		(a) A kind of purchase for hoisting or lowering a cylindrical burden, as a cask.	
parcae		The Fates. See Fate, 4.	
parcase	Obsolete	Perchance; by chance.	
parcel		(Law) A part; a portion; a piece; as, a certain piece of land is part and parcel of another piece.	Old French parcelle, from Latin particella.
parcel-mele	Obsolete	By parcels or parts.	
parceling		The act of dividing and distributing in portions or parts.	
parcenary		The holding or occupation of an inheritable estate which descends from the ancestor to two or more persons; coheirship.	
parcener		A coheir, or one of two or more persons to whom an estate of inheritance descends jointly, and by whom it is held as one estate.	Old French parçonier.
parch		To burn the surface of; to scorch; to roast over the fire, as dry grain; as, to parch the skin; to parch corn.	
parchedness		The state of being parched.	
parcheesi		A game adopted from the Indian game, using disks, as of pasteboard, and dice.	
parchesi		A game adopted from the Indian game, using disks, as of pasteboard, and dice.	
parching		Scorching; burning; drying. -- Parch"ing*ly, adv.	
parchisi		A game adopted from the Indian game, using disks, as of pasteboard, and dice.	
parchment		The skin of a lamb, sheep, goat, young calf, or other animal, prepared for writing on.	Middle English parchement, from Old French parchemin.
parchmentize		To convert to a parchmentlike substance, esp. by sulphuric acid.	
parcity	Obsolete	Sparingless.	Latin parcitas.
parclose		A screen separating a chapel from the body of the church.	Anglo-Norman parclos.
pard		A leopard; a panther.	
pardale	Obsolete	A leopard.	
parde	Obsolete	Certainly; surely; truly; verily; -- originally an oath.	
pardie	Obsolete	Certainly; surely; truly; verily; -- originally an oath.	Anglo-Norman pardi.
pardine		Spotted like a pard.	
pardo		A money of account in Goa, India, equivalent to about 2s. 6d. sterling. or 60 cts.	Portuguese pardao.
pardon		The act of pardoning; forgiveness, as of an offender, or of an offense; release from penalty; remission of punishment; absolution.	Middle English pardonen, from Old French pardoner, from Latin perdono.
pardonable		Admitting of pardon; not requiring the excution of penalty; venial; excusable; -- applied to the offense or to the offender; as, a pardonable fault, or culprit.	
pardonableness		The quality or state of being pardonable; as, the pardonableness of sin.	
pardonably		In a manner admitting of pardon; excusably.	
pardoner		One who pardons.	
pardoning		Relating to pardon; having or exercising the right to pardon; willing to pardon; merciful; as, the pardoning power; a pardoning God.	
pare		To cut off, or shave off, the superficial substance or extremities of; as, to pare an apple; to pare a horse's hoof.	
paregoric		Mitigating; assuaging or soothing pain; as, paregoric elixir.	
parelcon		The addition of a syllable or particle to the end of a pronoun, verb, or adverb.	
parelectronomic		Of or relating to parelectronomy; as, the parelectronomic part of a muscle.	
parelectronomy		A condition of the muscles induced by exposure to severe cold, in which the electrical action of the muscle is reversed.	
parella		(a) A name for two kinds of dock (Rumex Patientia and R.	
parelle		(a) A name for two kinds of dock (Rumex Patientia and R.	
parembole		A kind of parenthesis.	
parement	Obsolete	See Parament — ornamental hangings, furniture, etc., as of a state apartment; rich and elegant robes worn by men of rank; -- chiefly in the plural.	
paremptosis		Same as Parembole.	
parenchyma		The soft celluar substance of the tissues of plants and animals, like the pulp of leaves, to soft tissue of glands, and the like.	Greek παρέγχυμα.
parenchymal		Of, pertaining to, or consisting of, parenchyma.	
parenchymatous		Of, pertaining to, or connected with, the parenchyma of a tissue or an organ; as, parenchymatous degeneration.	
parenchymous		Of, pertaining to, or connected with, the parenchyma of a tissue or an organ; as, parenchymatous degeneration.	
parenesis		Exhortation.	Greek παραίνεσις.
parenetic		Hortatory; encouraging; persuasive.	
parenetioal		Hortatory; encouraging; persuasive.	
parent		One who begets, or brings forth, offspring; a father or a mother.	Anglo-Norman parent.
parentage		Descent from parents or ancestors; parents or ancestors considered with respect to their rank or character; extraction; birth; as, a man of noble parentage.	Old French parentage.
parental		Of or pertaining to a parent or to parents; as, parental authority; parental obligations.	Latin parentalis.
parentally		In a parental manner.	
parentation	Obsolete	Something done or said in honor of the dead; obsequies.	Latin parentatio.
parentele	Obsolete	Kinship; parentage.	
parenthesis		A word, phrase, or sentence, by way of comment or explanation, inserted in, or attached to, a sentence which would be grammatically complete without it.	
parenthesize		To make a parenthesis of; to include within parenthetical marks.	
parenthetic		Of the nature of a parenthesis; pertaining to, or expressed in, or as in, a parenthesis; as, a parenthetical clause; a parenthetic remark.	
parenthetical		Of the nature of a parenthesis; pertaining to, or expressed in, or as in, a parenthesis; as, a parenthetical clause; a parenthetic remark.	
parenthetically		In a parenthetical manner; by way of parenthesis; by parentheses.	
parenthood		The state of a parent; the office or character of a parent.	
parenticide		The act of one who kills one's own parent.	
parentless		Deprived of parents.	
parepididymis		A small body containing convoluted tubules, situated near the epididymis in man and some other animals, and supposed to be a remnant of the anterior part of the Wolffian body.	
parer		One who, or that which, pares; an instrument for paring.	
parergon		See Parergy — something unimportant, incidental, or superfluous.	
parergy	Obsolete	Something unimportant, incidental, or superfluous.	
paresis		Incomplete paralysis, affecting motion but not sensation.	
parethmoid		Near or beside the ethmoid bone or cartilage; -- applied especially to a pair of bones in the nasal region of some fishes, and to the ethmoturbinals in some higher animals. -- n.	
paretic		Of or pertaining to paresis; affected with paresis.	
parfay	Obsolete	By my faith; verily.	
parfit	Obsolete	Perfect.	
parfitly	Obsolete	Perfectly.	
parfleche		A kind of rawhide consisting of hide, esp. of the buffalo, which has been soaked in crude wood-ash lye to remove the hairs, and then dried.	
parfocal		With the lower focal points all in the same plane; -- said of sets of eyepieces so mounted that they may be interchanged without varying the focus of the instrument (as a microscope or telescope) with which they are used.	
parforn	Obsolete	To perform.	
parfourn	Obsolete	To perform.	
pargasite		A dark green aluminous variety of amphibole, or hornblende.	
pargeboard		See Bargeboard — a vergeboard.	
parget		To coat with parget; to plaster, as walls, or the interior of flues; as, to parget the outside of their houses.	
pargeter		A plasterer.	
pargeting		Plasterwork; esp.: (a) A kind of decorative plasterwork in raised ornamental figures, formerly used for the internal and external decoration of houses.	
pargetory	Obsolete	Something made of, or covered with, parget, or plaster.	
parhelic		Of or pertaining to parhelia.	
parhelion		A mock sun appearing in the form of a bright light, sometimes near the sun, and tinged with colors like the rainbow, and sometimes opposite to the sun.	Latin parelion, from Greek παρήλιον.
parhelium		See Parhelion — a mock sun appearing in the form of a bright light, sometimes near the sun, and tinged with colors like the rainbow, and sometimes opposite to the sun.	
pari-		A combining form signifying equal; as, paridigitate, paripinnate.	Latin par.
pariah		One of an aboriginal people of Southern India, regarded by the four castes of the Hindoos as of very low grade.	Tamil பறையர்.
parial		See Pair royal, under Pair, n.	
parian		Of or pertaining to Paros, an island in the Ægean Sea noted for its excellent statuary marble; as, Parian marble.	
paridigitata		Same as Artiodactyla.	
paridigitate		Having an evennumber of digits on the hands or the feet.	
paries		The triangular middle part of each segment of the shell of a barnacle.	Latin paries.
parietal		Of or pertaining to a wall; hence, pertaining to buildings or the care of them.	
parietary		Any one of several species of Parietaria. See 1st Pellitory.	
parietes		(Anat.) The walls of a cavity or an organ; as, the abdominal parietes; the parietes of the cranium.	
parietic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid found in the lichen Parmelia parietina, and called also chrysophanic acid.	
parietine	Obsolete	A piece of a fallen wall; a ruin.	
parieto-		A combining form used to indicate connection with, or relation to, the parietal bones or the parietal segment of the skull; as, the parieto-mastoid suture.	
parigenin		A curdy white substance, obtained by the decomposition of parillin.	
parillin		A glucoside resembling saponin, found in the root of sarsaparilla, smilax, etc., and extracted as a bitter white crystalline substance; -- called also smilacin, sarsaparilla saponin, and sarsaparillin.	
paring		The act of cutting off the surface or extremites of anything.	
paripinnate		Pinnate with an equal number of leaflets on each side; having no odd leaflet at the end.	
paris		A plant common in Europe (Paris quadrifolia); herb Paris; truelove.	
parish		(Eccl. & Eng. Law) (a) That circuit of ground committed to the charge of one parson or vicar, or other minister having cure of souls therein.	Old French paroisse, from Latin parochia, from Greek παροικία.
parishen	Obsolete	A parishioner.	
parishional		Of or pertaining to a parish; parochial.	
parishioner		One who belongs to, or is connected with, a parish.	
parisian		A native or inhabitant of Paris, the capital of France.	
parisienne		A female native or resident of Paris.	
parisology		The use of equivocal or ambiguous words.	
parisyllabic		Having the same number of syllables in all its inflections.	
parisyllabical		Having the same number of syllables in all its inflections.	
paritor		An apparitor.	
paritory	Obsolete	Pellitory.	
parity		The quality or condition of being equal or equivalent; A like state or degree; equality; close correspondence; analogy; as, parity of reasoning.	French parité, from Latin paritas.
park		(Eng. Law) A piece of ground inclosed, and stored with beasts of the chase, which a man may have by prescription, or the king's grant.	Middle English park, from Old French parc, from Latin parcus.
parka		An outer garment made of the skins of birds or mammals, worn by Eskimos, etc.	Aleut parka, from Russian парка.
parkee		An outer garment made of the skins of birds or mammals, worn by Eskimos, etc.	
parker		, The keeper of a park.	
parkeria		A genus of large arenaceous fossil Foraminifera found in the Cretaceous rocks.	
parkesine		A compound, originally made from gun cotton and castor oil, but later from different materials, and used as a substitute for vulcanized India rubber and for ivory; -- called also xylotile.	
parkleaves		A European species of Saint John's-wort; the tutsan. See Tutsan.	
parlance		Conversation; discourse; talk; diction; phrase; as, in legal parlance; in common parlance.	Anglo-Norman parlance.
parlando		Speaking; in a speaking or declamatory manner; to be sung or played in the style of a recitative.	
parlante		Speaking; in a speaking or declamatory manner; to be sung or played in the style of a recitative.	
parle	Obsolete	To talk; to converse; to parley.	
parley		Mutual discourse or conversation; discussion; hence, an oral conference with an enemy, as with regard to a truce.	Old French parler.
parliament		A formal conference on public affairs; a general council; esp., an assembly of representatives of a nation or people having authority to make laws.	
parliamental	Obsolete	Parliamentary.	
parliamentarian		(Eng. Hist.) One who adhered to the Parliament, in opposition to King Charles I.	
parliamentarily		In a parliamentary manner.	
parliamentary		Of or pertaining to Parliament; as, parliamentary authority.	
parlor		A room for business or social conversation, for the reception of guests, etc. Specifically: (a) The apartment in a monastery or nunnery where the inmates are permitted to meet and converse with each other…	Old English ''[[parlour]], [[parlur]]''.
parlous	Archaic	Attended with peril; dangerous; as, a parlous cough. & Fl.	
parmesan		Of or pertaining to Parma in Italy.	French parmesan, from Italian parmigiano.
parnassia		A genus of herbs growing in wet places, and having white flowers; grass of Parnassus.	
parnassian		Of or pertaining to Parnassus.	
parnassien		Same as Parnassian.	
parnassus	Colloquial	A mountain in Greece, sacred to Apollo and the Muses, and famous for a temple of Apollo and for the Castalian spring.	
parnellism		The policy or principles of the Parnellites.	
parnellite		One of the adherents of Charles Stewart Parnell (1846-91) in his advocacy of home rule for Ireland.	
paroccipital		Situated near or beside the occipital condyle or the occipital bone; paramastoid; -- applied especially to a process of the skull in some animals.	
parochial		Of or pertaining to a parish; restricted to a parish; as, parochial duties.	
parochialism		The quality or state of being parochial in form or nature; a system of management peculiar to parishes.	
parochiality		The state of being parochial.	
parochialize		To render parochial; to form into parishes.	
parochially		In a parochial manner; by the parish, or by parishes.	
parochian	Obsolete	Parochial.	Latin parochianus.
parodic		Having the character of parody.	
parodical		Having the character of parody.	
parodist		One who writes a parody; one who parodies.	
parody		A writing in which the language or sentiment of an author is mimicked; especially, a kind of literary pleasantry, in which what is written on one subject is altered, and applied to another by way of burlesque; travesty.	Latin parodia, from Greek παρωδία.
paroket		See Paroquet — same as Parrakeet.	
parol		(Law) Oral declaration; word of mouth; also, a writing not under seal.	Middle French parole, from Latin parabola, from Greek παραβολή.
parole		Word of promise; word of honor; plighted faith; especially (Mil.), promise, upon one's faith and honor, to fulfill stated conditions, as not to bear arms against one's captors, to return to custody, or the like.	Old French parole, from Latin parabola, from Greek παραβολή.
paromology		A concession to an adversary in order to strengthen one's own argument.	
paronomasia		A play upon words; a figure by which the same word is used in different senses, or words similar in sound are set in opposition to each other, so as to give antithetical force to the sentence; punning.	Latin paronomasia, from Greek παρονομασία.
paronomastic		Of or pertaining to paronomasia; consisting in a play upon words.	
paronomastical		Of or pertaining to paronomasia; consisting in a play upon words.	
paronomasy		Paronomasia.	
paronychia		A whitlow, or felon.	Latin paronychia.
paronym		A paronymous word.	
paronymous		Having the same derivation; allied radically; conjugate; -- said of certain words, as man, mankind, manhood, etc.	
paronymy		The quality of being paronymous; also, the use of paronymous words.	
parooephoron		A small mass of tubules near the ovary in some animals, and corresponding with the parepididymis of the male.	
paroophoron		A small mass of tubules near the ovary in some animals, and corresponding with the parepididymis of the male.	
paroquet		Same as Parrakeet.	
parorchis		The part of the epididymis; or the corresponding part of the excretory duct of the testicle, which is derived from the Wolffian body.	
parosteal		Of or pertaining to parostosis; as, parosteal ossification.	
parostosis		Ossification which takes place in purely fibrous tracts; the formation of bone outside of the periosteum.	
parostotic		Pertaining to parostosis.	
parotic		On the side of the auditory capsule; near the external ear.	
parotid		(a) Situated near the ear; -- applied especially to the salivary gland near the ear.	
parotitis		Inflammation of the parotid glands.	
parotoid		Resembling the parotid gland; -- applied especially to cutaneous glandular elevations above the ear in many toads and frogs. -- n.	
parousia		(a) The nativity of our Lord. (b) The last day.	Greek παρουσία.
parovarium		A group of tubules, a remnant of the Wolffian body, often found near the ovary or oviduct; the epoöphoron.	
paroxysm		(Med.) The fit, attack, or exacerbation, of a disease that occurs at intervals, or has decided remissions or intermissions.	French paroxysme, from Latin paroxysmus, from Greek παροξυσμός.
paroxysmal		Of the nature of a paroxysm; characterized or accompanied by paroxysms; as, a paroxysmal pain; paroxysmal temper. -- Par`ox*ys"mal*ly, adv.	
paroxytone		A word having an acute accent on the penultimate syllable.	Greek παροξύτονος.
parquet		A body of seats on the floor of a music hall or theater nearest the orchestra; but commonly applied to the whole lower floor of a theater, from the orchestra to the dress circle; the pit.	
parquetage		See Parquetry — a species of joinery or cabinet-work consisting of an inlay of geometric or other patterns, generally of different colors, -- used especially for floors.	
parqueted		Formed in parquetry; inlaid with wood in small and differently colored figures.	
parquetry		A species of joinery or cabinet-work consisting of an inlay of geometric or other patterns, generally of different colors, -- used especially for floors.	
parquette		See Parquet — a body of seats on the floor of a music hall or theater nearest the orchestra; but commonly applied to the whole lower floor of a theater, from the orchestra to the dress circle; the pit.	
parr		(a) A young salmon in the stage when it has dark transverse bands; -- called also samlet, skegger, and fingerling.	
parrakeet		Any one of numerous species of small parrots having a graduated tail, which is frequently very long; -- called also paroquet and paraquet.	
parral		(Naut.) The rope or collar by which a yard or spar is held to the mast in such a way that it may be hoisted or lowered at pleasure.	
parraqua		A curassow of the genus Ortalida, allied to the guan.	
parrel		(Naut.) The rope or collar by which a yard or spar is held to the mast in such a way that it may be hoisted or lowered at pleasure.	French appareil.
parrhesia		Boldness or freedom of speech.	
parricidal		Of or pertaining to parricide; guilty of parricide.	
parricide		Properly, one who murders one's own father; in a wider sense, one who murders one's father or mother or any ancestor.	Middle French parricide, from Latin parricida.
parricidious	Obsolete	Parricidal.	
parrock	English dialect	A croft, or small field; a paddock.	Middle English parroken.
parrot		(Zoöl.) In a general sense, any bird of the order Psittaci.	
parroter		One who simply repeats what he has heard.	
parrotry		Servile imitation or repetition.	
parry		To ward off; to stop, or to turn aside; as, to parry a thrust, a blow, or anything that means or threatens harm.	
parse		To resolve into its elements, as a sentence, pointing out the several parts of speech, and their relation to each other by government or agreement; to analyze and describe grammatically.	Middle English pars, from Old French pars, from Latin pars.
parsee		One of the adherents of the Zoroastrian or ancient Persian religion, descended from Persian refugees settled in India; a fire worshiper; a Gheber.	
parseeism		The religion and customs of the Parsees.	
parser		One who parses.	
parsimonious		Exhibiting parsimony; sparing in expenditure of money; frugal to excess; penurious; niggardly; stingy. -- Par`si*mo ni*ous*ness, n.	
parsimony		Closeness or sparingness in the expenditure of money; -- generally in a bad sense; excessive frugality; niggardliness.	Old French parsimonie, from Latin parsimonia.
parsley		An aromatic umbelliferous herb (Carum Petroselinum), having finely divided leaves which are used in cookery and as a garnish.	
parsnip		The aromatic and edible spindle-shaped root of the cultivated form of the Pastinaca sativa, a biennial umbelliferous plant which is very poisonous in its wild state; also, the plant itself.	
parson		(Eng. Eccl. Law) A person who represents a parish in its ecclesiastical and corporate capacities; hence, the rector or incumbent of a parochial church, who has full possession of all the rights thereof, with the cure of souls.	
parsonage		(Eng. Eccl. Law) A certain portion of lands, tithes, and offerings, for the maintenance of the parson of a parish.	
parsoned		Furnished with a parson.	
parsonic		Of or pertaining to a parson; clerical.	
parsonical		Of or pertaining to a parson; clerical.	
parsonish	Colloquial	Appropriate to, or like, a parson; -- used in disparagement.	
part		One of the portions, equal or unequal, into which anything is divided, or regarded as divided; something less than a whole; a number, quantity, mass, or the like, regarded as going to make up, with others, a larger number…	Middle English part.
partable		See Partible — admitting of being parted; divisible; separable; susceptible of severance or partition; as, an estate of inheritance may be partible.	
partage	Obsolete	Division; the act of dividing or sharing.	Middle French partage.
partake		To take a part, portion, lot, or share, in common with others; to have a share or part; to participate; to share; as, to partake of a feast with others.	
partaker		One who partakes; a sharer; a participator.	
partan	English dialect	An edible British crab.	
parted		Separated; devided.	
partenope		(Gr. Myth.) One of the Sirens, who threw herself into the sea, in despair at not being able to beguile Ulysses by her songs.	
parter		One who, or which, parts or separates.	
parterre		(Hort.) An ornamental and diversified arrangement of beds or plots, in which flowers are cultivated, with intervening spaces of gravel or turf for walking on.	
partheniad	Obsolete	A poem in honor of a virgin.	
parthenic		Of or pertaining to the Spartan Partheniæ, or sons of unmarried women.	
parthenogenesis		(Biol.) The production of new individuals from virgin females by means of ova which have the power of developing without the intervention of the male element; the production, without fertilization, of cells capable of germination.	
parthenogenetic		Of, pertaining to, or produced by, parthenogenesis; as, parthenogenetic forms. -- Par`the*no*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv.	
parthenogenitive		Parthenogenetic.	
parthenogeny		Same as Parthenogenesis.	
parthenon		A celebrated marble temple of Athene, on the Acropolis at Athens.	
parthenope		(Gr. Myth.) One of the Sirens, who threw herself into the sea, in despair at not being able to beguile Ulysses by her songs.	
parthian		Of or pertaining to ancient Parthia, in Asia. -- n.	
parti-colored		Colored with different tints; variegated; as, a party-colored flower.	
partial		Of, pertaining to, or affecting, a part only; not general or universal; not total or entire; as, a partial eclipse of the moon.	Middle English parcial, from Latin partialis.
partialism		Partiality; specifically (Theol.), the doctrine of the Partialists.	
partialist		(Theol.) One who holds that the atonement was made only for a part of mankind, that is, for the elect.	
partiality		The quality or state of being partial; inclination to favor one party, or one side of a question, more than the other; undue bias of mind.	
partialize		To make or be partial.	
partially		In part; not totally; as, partially true; the sun partially eclipsed.	
partibility		The quality or state of being partible; divisibility; separability; as, the partibility of an inherttance.	
partible		Admitting of being parted; divisible; separable; susceptible of severance or partition; as, an estate of inheritance may be partible.	Latin partibilis.
participable		Capable of being participated or shared.	
participant		Sharing; participating; having a share of part.	Latin participans.
participantly		In a participant manner.	
participate		Acting in common; participating.	
participation		The act or state of participating, or sharing in common with others; as, a participation in joy or sorrows.	
participative		Capable of participating.	
participator		One who participates, or shares with another; a partaker.	
participial		Having, or partaking of, the nature and use of a participle; formed from a participle; as, a participial noun.	Latin participialis.
participialize		To form into, or put in the form of, a participle.	
participially		In the sense or manner of a participle.	
participle		(Gram.) A part of speech partaking of the nature both verb and adjective; a form of a verb, or verbal adjective, modifying a noun, but taking the adjuncts of the verb from which it is derived.	Old French participle.
particle		A minute part or portion of matter; a morsel; a little bit; an atom; a jot; as, a particle of sand, of wood, of dust.	Middle French particule.
particolored		Same as Party-colored.	
particular		Relating to a part or portion of anything; concerning a part separated from the whole or from others of the class; separate; sole; single; individual; specific; as, the particular stars of a constellation.	Anglo-Norman particuler.
particularism		A minute description; a detailed statement.	
particularist		One who holds to particularism. -- Par*tic`u*lar*is"tic, a.	
particularity		The state or quality of being particular; distinctiveness; circumstantiality; minuteness in detail.	
particularization		The act of particularizing.	
particularize		To give as a particular, or as the particulars; to mention particularly; to give the particulars of; to enumerate or specify in detail.	
particularly		In a particular manner; expressly; with a specific reference or interest; in particular; distinctly.	
particularment	Obsolete	A particular; a detail.	
particulate		Having the form of a particle.	Latin particulatus.
parting		Serving to part; dividing; separating.	
partisan		An adherent to a party or faction; esp., one who is strongly and passionately devoted to a party or an interest.	Middle French partizaine.
partisanship		The state of being a partisan, or adherent to a party; feelings or conduct appropriate to a partisan.	
partita		A suite; a set of variations.	Italian partita.
partite		Divided nearly to the base; as, a partite leaf is a simple separated down nearly to the base.	
partition		The act of parting or dividing; the state of being parted; separation; division; distribution; as, the partition of a kingdom.	
partitionment		The act of partitioning.	
partitive		Denoting a part; as, a partitive genitive.	
partitively		In a partitive manner.	
partlet		A hen; -- so called from the ruffing of her neck feathers.	
partly		In part; in some measure of degree; not wholly. 1 Cor. xi. 18.	
partner		One who has a part in anything with an other; a partaker; an associate; a sharer.	
partnership		The state or condition of being a partner; as, to be in partnership with another; to have partnership in the fortunes of a family or a state.	
partook		imp. of Partake — to take a part, portion, lot, or share, in common with others; to have a share or part; to participate; to share; as, to partake of a feast with others.	
partridge		Any one of numerous species of small gallinaceous birds of the genus Perdix and several related genera of the family Perdicidæ, of the Old World.	
parture	Obsolete	Departure.	
parturiate	Obsolete	To bring forth young.	
parturiency		Parturition.	
parturient		Bringing forth, or about to bring forth, young; fruitful.	
parturifacient		A medicine tending to cause parturition, or to give relief in childbearing.	
parturious	Obsolete	Parturient.	
parturition		The act of bringing forth, or being delivered of, young; the act of giving birth; delivery; childbirth.	
parturitive		Pertaining to parturition; obstetric.	
party		A number of persons united in opinion or action, as distinguished from, or opposed to, the rest of a community or association; esp., one of the parts into which a people is divided on questions of public policy.	
party-coated		Having a motley coat, or coat of divers colors.	
party-colored		Colored with different tints; variegated; as, a party-colored flower.	
partyism		Devotion to party.	
parumbilical		Near the umbilicus; -- applied especially to one or more small veins which, in man, connect the portal vein with the epigastric veins in the front wall of the abdomen.	
parure		An ornament or decoration for the person; esp., a decoration consisting of a set of ornaments to be used together; as, a parure of rubies or of embroideries.	
parusia		A figure of speech by which the present tense is used instead of the past or the future, as in the animated narration of past, or in the prediction of future, events.	Greek παρουσία.
parvanimity		The state or quality of having a little or ignoble mind; pettiness; meanness; -- opposed to magnanimity.	
parvenu		An upstart; a man newly risen into notice.	French parvenu, from Latin parvenir.
parvis		a court of entrance to, or an inclosed space before, a church; hence, a church porch; -- sometimes formerly used as place of meeting, as for lawyers.	Anglo-Norman parvis.
parvise		a court of entrance to, or an inclosed space before, a church; hence, a church porch; -- sometimes formerly used as place of meeting, as for lawyers.	
parvitude	Obsolete	Littleness.	
parvity	Obsolete	Littleness.	
parvolin		A nonoxygenous ptomaine, formed in the putrefaction of albuminous matters, especially of horseflesh and mackerel.	
parvoline		A liquid base, C	
pas		Right of going foremost; precedence.	
pasan		The gemsbok.	
pasch		The passover; the feast of Easter.	
pascha		The passover; the feast of Easter.	
paschal		Of or pertaining to the passover, or to Easter; as, a paschal lamb; paschal eggs.	
paseng		The wild or bezoar goat. See Goat.	
pash		The head; the poll.	
pasha		An honorary title given to officers of high rank in Turkey, as to governers of provinces, military commanders, etc. The earlier form was bashaw.	
pashalic		The jurisdiction of a pasha.	
pashaw		See Pasha — an honorary title given to officers of high rank in Turkey, as to governers of provinces, military commanders, etc. The earlier form was bashaw.	
pasigraphic		Of or pertaining to pasigraphy.	
pasigraphical		Of or pertaining to pasigraphy.	
pasigraphy		A system of universal writing, or a manner of writing that may be understood and used by all nations.	
pasilaly		A form of speech adapted to be used by all mankind; universal language.	
pask		See Pasch — the passover; the feast of Easter.	
paspy		A kind of minuet, in triple time, of French origin, popular in the reign of Queen Elizabeth and for some time after; -- called also passing measure, and passymeasure.	French passe-pied.
pasque		See Pasch — the passover; the feast of Easter.	
pasquil		See Pasquin. See Pasquin.	
pasquilant		A lampooner; a pasquiler.	
pasquiler		A lampooner.	
pasquin		A lampooner; also, a lampoon. See Pasquinade.	
pasquinade		A lampoon or satirical writing.	French pasquinade.
pass		To go; to move; to proceed; to be moved or transferred from one point to another; to make a transit; -- usually with a following adverb or adverbal phrase defining the kind or manner of motion; as, to pass on, by, out, in, etc.…	Middle English passen, from Old French passer.
pass-key		A key for opening more locks than one; a master key.	
pass-parole		An order passed from front to rear by word of mouth.	French passe-parole.
passable		Capable of being passed, traveled, navigated, traversed, penetrated, or the like; as, the roads are not passable; the stream is passablein boats.	French passable.
passableness		The quality of being passable.	
passably		Tolerably; moderately.	
passacaglia		An old Italian or Spanish dance tune, in slow three-four measure, with divisions on a ground bass, resembling a chaconne.	Italian passacaglia, from Spanish pasacalle.
passacaglio		An old Italian or Spanish dance tune, in slow three-four measure, with divisions on a ground bass, resembling a chaconne.	
passade		(Man.) A turn or course of a horse backward or forward on the same spot of ground.	
passado		(Man.) A turn or course of a horse backward or forward on the same spot of ground.	
passage		The act of passing; transit from one place to another; movement from point to point; a going by, over, across, or through; as, the passage of a man or a carriage; the passage of a ship or a bird; the passage of light…	French passager, from Middle French passagier.
passager	Obsolete	A passenger; a bird or boat of passage.	
passageway		A way for passage; a hall. See Passage, 5.	
passant		(Her.) Walking; -- said of any animal on an escutcheon, which is represented as walking with the dexter paw raised.	Anglo-Norman passant.
passe		Past; gone by; hence, past one's prime; worn; faded; as, a passée belle.	
passee		Past; gone by; hence, past one's prime; worn; faded; as, a passée belle.	
passegarde		A ridge or projecting edge on a shoulder piece to turn the blow of a lance or other weapon from the joint of the armor.	
passement		Lace, gimp, braid etc., sewed on a garment.	
passementerie		Beaded embroidery for women's dresses.	
passenger		A traveler by some established conveyance, as a coach, steamboat, railroad train, etc. Passenger falcon (Zoöl.), a migratory hawk.	
passer		One who passes; a passenger.	
passer-by		One who goes by; a passer.	
passeres		An order, or suborder, of birds, including more that half of all the known species.	
passeriform		Like or belonging to the Passeres.	Latin passer.
passerine		Of or pertaining to the Passeres.	Latin passerinus.
passibility		The quality or state of being passible; aptness to feel or suffer; sensibility.	
passible		Susceptible of feeling or suffering, or of impressions from external agents.	
passibleness		Passibility.	
passiflora		A genus of plants, including the passion flower.	
passim		Here and there; everywhere; as, this word occurs passim in the poem.	
passing		The act of one who, or that which, passes; the act of going by or away.	
passingly		Exceedingly.	
passion		A suffering or enduring of imposed or inflicted pain; any suffering or distress (as, a cardiac passion); specifically, the suffering of Christ between the time of the last supper and his death, esp. in the garden upon the cross.	
passional		Of or pertaining to passion or the passions; exciting, influenced by, or ministering to, the passions. -- n.	
passionary		A book in which are described the sufferings of saints and martyrs.	
passionate		Capable or susceptible of passion, or of different passions; easily moved, excited or agitated; specifically, easily moved to anger; irascible; quick-tempered; as, a passionate nature.	Latin passionatus.
passionately		In a passionate manner; with strong feeling; ardently.	
passionateness		The state or quality of being passionate.	
passionist		A member of a religious order founded in Italy in 1737, and introduced into the United States in 1852.	
passionless		Void of passion; without anger or emotion; not easily excited; calm.	
passiontide		The last fortnight of Lent.	
passive		Not active, but acted upon; suffering or receiving impressions or influences; as, they were passive spectators, not actors in the scene.	French passif, from Latin passivus.
passively		In a passive manner; inertly; unresistingly.	
passiveness		The quality or state of being passive; unresisting submission.	
passivity		(Physics) The tendency of a body to remain in a given state, either of motion or rest, till disturbed by another body; inertia.	
passless		Having no pass; impassable.	
passman		One who passes for a degree, without honors. See Classman,	
passover		(a) A feast of the Jews, instituted to commemorate the sparing of the Hebrews in Egypt, when God, smiting the firstborn of the Egyptians, passed over the houses of the Israelites which were marked with the blood of a lamb.	
passport		Permission to pass; a document given by the competent officer of a state, permitting the person therein named to pass or travel from place to place, without molestation, by land or by water.	French passeport.
passus		A division or part; a canto; as, the passus of Piers Plowman. See 2d Fit.	
password		A word to be given before a person is allowed to pass; a watchword; a countersign.	
passymeasure		See Paspy — a kind of minuet, in triple time, of French origin, popular in the reign of Queen Elizabeth and for some time after; -- called also passing measure, and passymeasure.	
past		Of or pertaining to a former time or state; neither present nor future; gone by; elapsed; ended; spent; as, past troubles; past offences.	
paste		A soft composition, as of flour moistened with water or milk, or of earth moistened to the consistence of dough, as in making potter's ware.	
pasteboard		A stiff thick kind of paper board, formed of several single sheets pasted one upon another, or of paper macerated and pressed into molds, etc.	
pastel		A crayon made of a paste composed of a color ground with gum water.	Latin pasta, from Greek παστά.
paster		One who pastes; as, a paster in a government department.	
pastern		The part of the foot of the horse, and allied animals, between the fetlock and the coffin joint.	Old French pasturon.
pasteurian		Of or pertaining to Pasteur.	
pasteurism		A method of treatment, devised by Pasteur, for preventing certain diseases, as hydrophobia, by successive inoculations with an attenuated virus of gradually increasing strength.	
pasteurization		A process devised by Pasteur for preventing or checking fermentation in fluids, such as wines, milk, etc., by exposure to a temperature of 140º F., thus destroying the vitality of the contained germs or ferments.	
pasteurize		To subject to pasteurization.	
pasteurizer		One that Pasteurizes, specif. an apparatus for heating and agitating, fluid.	
pasticcio		(Fine Arts) (a) A work of art imitating directly the work of another artist, or of more artists than one.	
pastil		(Pharmacy) A small cone or mass made of paste of gum, benzoin, cinnamon, and other aromatics, -- used for fumigating or scenting the air of a room.	
pastille		(Pharmacy) A small cone or mass made of paste of gum, benzoin, cinnamon, and other aromatics, -- used for fumigating or scenting the air of a room.	
pastime		That which amuses, and serves to make time pass agreeably; sport; amusement; diversion.	Middle English passe tyme, from Middle French passe-temps.
pastor		A shepherd; one who has the care of flocks and herds.	Old French pastor, from Latin pastor.
pastorage		The office, jurisdiction, or duty, of a pastor; pastorate.	
pastoral		Of or pertaining to shepherds; hence, relating to rural life and scenes; as, a pastoral life.	Latin pastoralis.
pastorale		(Mus.) A composition in a soft, rural style, generally in 6-8 or 12-8 time.	
pastorally		In a pastoral or rural manner.	
pastorate		The office, state, or jurisdiction of a pastor.	
pastorium		A parsonage; -- so called in some Baptist churches.	
pastorless		Having no pastor.	
pastorling		An insignificant pastor.	
pastorly		Appropriate to a pastor.	
pastorship		Pastorate.	
pastry		Articles of food made of paste, or having a crust made of paste, as pies, tarts, etc. Pastry cook, one whose occupation is to make pastry; as, the pastry cook of a hotel.	
pasturable		Fit for pasture.	
pasturage		Grazing ground; grass land used for pasturing; pasture.	
pasture		Specifically: Grass growing for the food of cattle; the food of cattle taken by grazing.	Anglo-Norman pastour.
pastureless		Destitute of pasture.	
pasturer		One who pastures; one who takes cattle to graze. See Agister.	
pasty		Like paste, as in color, softness, stickness.	
pat		To strike gently with the fingers or hand; to stroke lightly; to tap; as, to pat a dog.	
pataca	Obsolete	The Spanish dollar; -- called also patacoon.	
patache		A tender to a fleet, formerly used for conveying men, orders, or treasure.	Spanish patache.
patacoon		See Pataca — the spanish dollar; -- called also patacoon.	
patagium		(Anat.) In bats, an expansion of the integument uniting the fore limb with the body and extending between the elongated fingers to form the wing; in birds, the similar fold of integument uniting the fore limb with the body.	Latin patagium, from Greek παταγεῖον.
patagonian		Of or pertaining to Patagonia. -- n.	
patamar		A vessel resembling a grab, used in the coasting trade of Bombay and Ceylon.	
patas		A West African long-tailed monkey (Cercopithecus ruber); the red monkey.	
patavinity		The use of local or provincial words, as in the peculiar style or diction of Livy, the Roman historian; -- so called from Patavium, now Padua, the place of Livy's nativity.	Latin patavinitas.
patch		A piece of cloth, or other suitable material, sewed or otherwise fixed upon a garment to repair or strengthen it, esp. upon an old garment to cover a hole.	Middle English pacche.
patcher		One who patches or botches.	
patchery		Botchery; covering of defects; bungling; hypocrisy.	
patchingly	Obsolete	Knavishy; deceitfully.	
patchouli		(Bot.) A mintlike plant (Pogostemon Patchouli) of the East Indies, yielding an essential oil from which a highly valued perfume is made.	
patchouly		(Bot.) A mintlike plant (Pogostemon Patchouli) of the East Indies, yielding an essential oil from which a highly valued perfume is made.	
patchwork		Work composed of pieces sewed together, esp. pieces of various colors and figures; hence, anything put together of incongruous or ill-adapted parts; something irregularly clumsily composed; a thing putched up.	
patchy		Full of, or covered with, patches; abounding in patches.	
pate		(Fort.) A kind of platform with a parapet, usually of an oval form, and generally erected in marshy grounds to cover a gate of a fortified place.	
pated		Having a pate; -- used only in composition; as, long-pated; shallow-pated.	
patee		See Pattee — narrow at the inner, and very broad at the other, end, or having its arms of that shape; -- said of a cross.	
patefaction		The act of opening, disclosing, or manifesting; open declaration.	Latin patefactio.
patela		A large flat-bottomed trading boat peculiar to the river Ganges; -- called also puteli.	
patella		A small dish, pan, or vase.	Latin patella.
patellar		Of or pertaining to the patella, or kneepan.	
patelliform		Having the form of a patella.	
patellula		A cuplike sucker on the feet of certain insects.	
paten		(Eccl.) The place on which the consecrated bread is placed in the Eucharist, or on which the host is placed during the Mass.	Old French patene, from Latin patina, from Greek πατάνη.
patena		A paten.	
patency		The condition of being open, enlarged, or spread.	
patent		Note: (Oftener pronounced pat"ent in this sense) Open; expanded; evident; apparent; unconcealed; manifest; public; conspicuous.	Latin patens.
patent-hammered		Having a surface dressed by cutting with a hammer the head of which consists of broad thin chisels clamped together.	
patentable		Suitable to be patented; capable of being patented.	
patentee		One to whom a grant is made, or a privilege secured, by patent.	
patently		Openly; evidently.	
patera		A saucerlike vessel of earthenware or metal, used by the Greeks and Romans in libations and sacrificies.	
paterero	Obsolete	See Pederero — a term formerly applied to a short piece of chambered ordnance.	
paterfamilias		The head of a family; in a large sense, the proprietor of an estate; one who is his own master.	
paternal		Of or pertaining to a father; fatherly; showing the disposition of a father; guiding or instructing as a father; as, paternal care.	Old French paternal.
paternalism		The theory or practice of paternal government. See Paternal government, under Paternal.	
paternally		In a paternal manner.	
paternity		The relation of a father to his child; fathership; fatherhood; family headship; as, the divine paternity.	Latin paternitas.
paternoster		The Lord's prayer, so called from the first two words of the Latin version.	
patesi		A religious as well as a secular designation applied to rulers of some of the city states of ancient Chaldea, as Lagash or Shirpurla, who were conceived to be direct representatives of the tutelary god of the place.	
path		A trodden way; a footway.	Old English pæþ.
pathematic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, emotion or suffering.	
pathetic		Affecting or moving the tender emotions, esp. pity or grief; full of pathos; as, a pathetic song or story.	Latin patheticus, from Greek παθητικός.
pathetical		Pathetic. -- Pa*thet ic*al*ness, n.	
pathetism		See Mesmerism — the art of inducing an extraordinary or abnormal state of the nervous system, in which the actor claims to control the actions, and communicate directly with the mind, of the recipient.	
pathfinder		One who discovers a way or path; one who explores untraversed regions.	
pathic		A male who submits to the crime against nature; a catamite.	Latin pathicus, from Greek παθικός.
pathless		Having no beaten path or way; untrodden; impenetrable; as, pathless woods.	
pathmaker		One who, or that which, makes a way or path.	
pathogene		One of a class of virulent microörganisms or bacteria found in the tissues and fluids in infectious diseases, and supposed to be the cause of the disease; a pathogenic organism; a pathogenic bacterium; -- opposed to zymogene.	
pathogenesis		Pathogeny.	
pathogenetic		Pathogenic.	
pathogenic		Of or pertaining to pathogeny; producting disease; as, a pathogenic organism; a pathogenic bacterium.	
pathogeny		(a) The generation, and method of development, of disease; as, the pathogeny of yellow fever is unsettled.	
pathognomonic		Specially or decisively characteristic of a disease; indicating with certainty a disease; as, a pathognomonic symptom.	
pathognomy		Expression of the passions; the science of the signs by which human passions are indicated.	
pathologic		Of or pertaining to pathology. -- Path`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.	Greek παθολογικός.
pathological		Of or pertaining to pathology. -- Path`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.	
pathologist		One skilled in pathology; an investigator in pathology; as, the pathologist of a hospital, whose duty it is to determine the causes of the diseases.	
pathology		The science which treats of diseases, their nature, causes, progress, symptoms, etc.	
pathopoela		A speech, or figure of speech, designed to move the passion.	
pathos		That quality or property of anything which touches the feelings or excites emotions and passions, esp., that which awakens tender emotions, such as pity, sorrow, and the like; contagious warmth of feeling, action, or expression…	Greek πάθος.
pathway		A footpath; a beaten track; any path or course.	
patible	Obsolete	Sufferable; tolerable; endurable.	
patibulary		Of or pertaining to the gallows, or to execution.	
patibulated		Hanged on a gallows.	
patience		The state or quality of being patient; the power of suffering with fortitude; uncomplaining endurance of evils or wrongs, as toil, pain, poverty, insult, oppression, calamity, etc. Strenthened with all might…	Middle English pacience, from Old French pacience, from Latin patientia.
patient		Having the quality of enduring; physically able to suffer or bear.	Latin patiens.
patiently		In a patient manner.	
patin		A plate. See Paten.	
patina		(Fine Arts) The color or incrustation which age gives to works of art; especially, the green rust which covers ancient bronzes, coins, and medals.	Latin patina, from Greek πατάνη.
patine		A plate. See Paten.	
patio		A paved yard or floor where ores are cleaned and sorted, or where ore, salt, mercury, etc., are trampled by horses, to effect intermixture and amalgamation.	Spanish patio.
patly		Fitly; seasonably.	
patness		Fitness or appropriateness; striking suitableness; convenience.	
patois		A dialect peculiar to the illiterate classes; a provincial form of speech.	
patolli		An American Indian game analogous to dice, probably originally a method of divination.	Classical Nahuatl patolli.
patonce		Having the arms growing broader and floriated toward the end; - - said of a cross.	
patrial		Derived from the name of a country, and designating an inhabitant of the country; gentile; -- said of a noun. -- n.	
patriarch		The father and ruler of a family; one who governs his family or descendants by paternal right; -- usually applied to heads of families in ancient history…	Old English patriarcha.
patriarchal		Of or pertaining to a patriarch or to patriarchs; possessed by, or subject to, patriarchs; as, patriarchal authority or jurisdiction; a patriarchal see; a patriarchal church.	
patriarchate		The office, dignity, or jurisdiction of a patriarch.	
patriarchdom		The office or jurisdiction of a patriarch; patriarchate.	
patriarchic		Patriarchal.	
patriarchism		Government by a patriarch, or the head of a family.	
patriarchship		A patriarchate.	
patriarchy		The jurisdiction of a patriarch; patriarchship.	Latin patriarchia.
patrician		Of, pertaining to, or appropriate to, a person of high birth; noble; not plebeian.	Middle French patricien, from Latin patricius.
patricianism		The rank or character of patricians.	
patriciate		The patrician class; the aristocracy; also, the office of patriarch.	
patricidal		Of or pertaining to patricide; parricidal.	
patricide		The murderer of his father.	Latin patricida.
patrimonial		Of or pertaining to a patrimony; inherited from ancestors; as, a patrimonial estate.	
patrimonially		By inheritance.	
patrimony		A right or estate inherited from one's father; or, in a larger sense, from any ancestor.	
patriot		One who loves his country, and zealously supports its authority and interests.	
patriotic		Inspired by patriotism; actuated by love of one's country; zealously and unselfishly devoted to the service of one's country; as, a patriotic statesman, vigilance.	
patriotical		Patriotic; that pertains to a patriot. -- Pa`tri*ot"ic*al*ly, adv.	
patriotism		Love of country; devotion to the welfare of one's country; the virtues and actions of a patriot; the passion which inspires one to serve one's country.	
patripassian		One of a body of believers in the early church who denied the independent preëxistent personality of Christ, and who, accordingly, held that the Father suffered in the Son; a monarchian. -- Pa`tri*pas"sian*ism, n.	
patrist		One versed in patristics.	
patristic		Of or pertaining to the Fathers of the Christian church.	
patristical		Of or pertaining to the Fathers of the Christian church.	
patristics		That departnent of historical theology which treats of the lives and doctrines of the Fathers of the church.	
patrizate		To imitate one's father.	
patrocinate	Obsolete	To support; to patronize.	
patrocination	Obsolete	The act of patrocinating or patronizing.	
patrociny		See Patrocination — the act of patrocinating or patronizing.	
patrol		To go the rounds along a chain of sentinels; to traverse a police district or beat. t To go the rounds of, as a sentry, guard, or policeman; as, to patrol a frontier; to patrol a beat.	French patrouiller, from Old French patrouiller.
patrole		See Patrol, n. & v.	
patrolman		One who patrols; a watchman; especially, a policeman who patrols a particular precinct of a town or city.	Spanish patrol.
patron		One who protects, supports, or countenances; a defender.	Old English patron.
patronage		Special countenance or support; favor, encouragement, or aid, afforded to a person or a work; as, the patronage of letters; patronage given to an author.	
patronal		Patron; protecting; favoring.	
patronate		The right or duty of a patron; patronage.	Latin patronatus.
patroness		A female patron or helper.	Latin patronissa.
patronization		The act of patronizing; patronage; support.	
patronize		To act as patron toward; to support; to countenance; to favor; to aid.	
patronizer		One who patronizes.	
patronizing		Showing condescending favor; assuming the manner of airs of a superior toward another. -- Pat"ron*i`zing*ly, adv.	
patronless		Destitute of a patron.	
patronomayology		That branch of knowledge which deals with personal names and their origin; the study of patronymics.	
patronymic		Derived from ancestors; as, a patronymic denomination.	
patronymical		Same as Patronymic.	
patroon		One of the proprietors of certain tracts of land with manorial privileges and right of entail, under the old Dutch governments of New York and New Jersey.	
patroonship		The office of a patroon.	
patte		Narrow at the inner, and very broad at the other, end, or having its arms of that shape; -- said of a cross.	
pattee		Narrow at the inner, and very broad at the other, end, or having its arms of that shape; -- said of a cross.	
pattemar		See Patamar — a vessel resembling a grab, used in the coasting trade of Bombay and Ceylon.	
patten		A clog or sole of wood, usually supported by an iron ring, worn to raise the feet from the wet or the mud.	Middle English paten.
pattened		Wearing pattens.	
patter		To strike with a quick succession of slight, sharp sounds; as, pattering rain or hail; pattering feet.	
patterer		One who patters, or talks glibly; specifically, a street peddler.	
pattern		Anything proposed for imitation; an archetype; an exemplar; that which is to be, or is worthy to be, copied or imitated; as, a pattern of a machine.	
patty		A little pie.	
pattypan		A pan for baking patties.	
patulous		Open; expanded; slightly spreading; having the parts loose or dispersed; as, a patulous calyx; a patulous cluster of flowers.	
pau		See Pah — an exclamation expressing disgust or contempt. See Bah.	
pauciloquent		Uttering few words; brief in speech.	
pauciloquy		Brevity in speech.	
paucispiral		Having few spirals, or whorls; as, a paucispiral operculum or shell.	
paucity		Fewness; smallness of number; scarcity.	Latin paucitas.
paugie		The scup. See Porgy, and Scup.	
paugy		The scup. See Porgy, and Scup.	
pauhaugen		The menhaden; -- called also poghaden.	
paul		See Pawl — a pivoted tongue, or sliding bolt, on one part of a machine, adapted to fall into notches, or interdental spaces, on another part, as a ratchet wheel…	
pauldron		A piece of armor covering the shoulder at the junction of the body piece and arm piece.	
paulian		A follower of Paul of Samosata, a bishop of Antioch in the third century, who was deposed for denying the divinity of Christ.	
paulianist		A follower of Paul of Samosata, a bishop of Antioch in the third century, who was deposed for denying the divinity of Christ.	
paulician		One of a sect of Christian dualists originating in Armenia in the seventh century.	
paulin		See Tarpaulin — a piece of canvas covered with tar or a waterproof composition, used for covering the hatches of a ship, hammocks, boats, etc.	
pauline		Of or pertaining to the apostle Paul, or his writings; resembling, or conforming to, the writings of Paul; as, the Pauline epistles; Pauline doctrine.	
paulist		A member of The Institute of the Missionary Priests of St. Paul the Apostle, founded in 1858 by the Rev.	
paulownia		A genus of trees of the order Scrophulariaceæ, consisting of one species, Paulownia imperialis.	
paum	Obsolete	To palm off by fraud; to cheat at cards.	
paunce		The pansy.	Anglo-Norman pance.
paunch		(Anat.) The belly and its contents; the abdomen; also, the first stomach, or rumen, of ruminants.	
paunchy		Pot-bellied.	
paune		A kind of bread. See Pone.	
pauper		A poor person; especially, one development on private or public charity.	Latin pauper.
pauperism		The state of being a pauper; the state of indigent persons requiring support from the community.	
pauperization		The act or process of reducing to pauperism.	
pauperize		To reduce to pauperism; as, to pauperize the peasantry.	
pauropoda		An order of small myriapods having only nine pairs of legs and destitute of tracheæ.	
pause		A temporary stop or rest; an intermission of action; interruption; suspension; cessation.	Middle French pause, from Latin pausa, from Greek παῦσις.
pauser		One who pauses.	
pausingly		With pauses; haltingly.	
pauxi		A curassow (Ourax pauxi), which, in South America, is often domesticated.	
pavage		See Pavage.	
pavan		A stately and formal Spanish dance for which full state costume is worn; -- so called from the resemblance of its movements to those of the peacock.	
pave		To lay or cover with stone, brick, or other material, so as to make a firm, level, or convenient surface for horses, carriages, or persons on foot, to travel on; to floor with brick, stone, or other solid material; as…	
pavement	Obsolete	That with which anythingis paved; a floor or covering of solid material, laid so as to make a hard and convenient surface for travel; a paved road or sidewalk; a decorative interior floor of tiles or colored bricks.	
paven		See Pavan — a stately and formal Spanish dance for which full state costume is worn; -- so called from the resemblance of its movements to those of the peacock.	
paver		One who paves; one who lays a pavement.	
pavesade		A canvas screen, formerly sometimes extended along the side of a vessel in a naval engagement, to conceal from the enemy the operations on board.	
paviage		A contribution or a tax for paving streets or highways.	
pavian		, n. See Pavan.	
pavid		Timid; fearful.	Latin pavere.
pavidity		Timidity.	
pavier		A paver.	
paviin		A glucoside found in species of the genus Pavia of the Horse- chestnut family.	
pavilion		A temporary movable habitation; a large tent; a marquee; esp., a tent raised on posts.	Middle English pavilloun, from Anglo-Norman pavilloun, from Latin papilionem.
pavin		See Pavan — a stately and formal Spanish dance for which full state costume is worn; -- so called from the resemblance of its movements to those of the peacock.	
paving		The act or process of laying a pavement, or covering some place with a pavement.	
pavior		One who paves; a paver.	
pavise		A large shield covering the whole body, carried by a pavisor, who sometimes screened also an archer with it.	
pavisor		A soldier who carried a pavise.	
pavo		(Zoöl.) A genus of birds, including the peacocks.	
pavon		A small triangular flag, esp. one attached to a knight's lance; a pennon.	
pavone	Obsolete	A peacock.	Italian pavone, from Latin pavo.
pavonian		Of or pertaining to a peacock.	
pavonine		(Zoöl.) Like, or pertaining to, the genus Pavo.	Latin pavoninus.
paw		The foot of a quadruped having claws, as the lion, dog, cat, etc.	
pawk		A small lobster.	
pawky	Scots	Arch; cunning; sly.	
pawl		A pivoted tongue, or sliding bolt, on one part of a machine, adapted to fall into notches, or interdental spaces, on another part, as a ratchet wheel…	
pawn		See Pan, the masticatory.	Middle French pan.
pawnable		Capable of being pawned.	
pawnbroker		One who makes a business of lending money on the security of personal property pledged or deposited in his keeping.	
pawnbroking		The business of a pawnbroker.	
pawnee		One or two whom a pledge is delivered as security; one who takes anything in pawn.	
pawnees		A tribe of Indians (called also Loups) who formerly occupied the region of the Platte river, but now live mostly in the Indian Territory.	
pawner		One who pawns or pledges anything as security for the payment of borrowed money or of a debt.	
pawnor		One who pawns or pledges anything as security for the payment of borrowed money or of a debt.	
pawpaw		See Papaw — (Bot.) A tree (Carica Papaya) of tropical America, belonging to the order Passifloreæ.	
pax		(Eccl.) The kiss of peace; also, the embrace in the sanctuary now substituted for it at High Mass in Roman Catholic churches.	
paxillose		Resembling a little stake.	
paxillus		One of a peculiar kind of spines covering the surface of certain starfishes.	Latin paxillus.
paxwax		The strong ligament of the back of the neck in quadrupeds.	
paxywaxy		See Paxwax — the strong ligament of the back of the neck in quadrupeds.	
pay		To cover, as bottom of a vessel, a seam, a spar, etc., with tar or pitch, or waterproof composition of tallow, resin, etc.; to smear.	Middle English payen, from Old French paier, from Latin pacare.
payable		That may, can, or should be paid; suitable to be paid; justly due.	
payee		The person to whom money is to be, or has been, paid; the person named in a bill or note, to whom, or to whose order, the amount is promised or directed to be paid.	
payer		One who pays; specifically, the person by whom a bill or note has been, or should be, paid.	
paymaster		One who pays; one who compensates, rewards, or requites; specifically, an officer or agent of a government, a corporation, or an employer, whose duty it is to pay salaries, wages, etc., and keep account of the same.	
paymaster-general		(a) (Mil.) In the United States army, an officer of the rank of brigadier general, who commands the pay department, which is charged with the payment of the officers and men.	
payment		The act of paying, or giving compensation; the discharge of a debt or an obligation.	
payndemain	Obsolete	The finest and whitest bread made in the Middle Ages; -- called also paynemain, payman.	Latin ''[[panis]] [[domini]]''.
paynim		See Painim — a pagan; an infidel; -- used also adjectively.	Anglo-Norman paienime.
paynize		To treat or preserve, as wood, by a process resembling kyanizing.	
payor		See Payer — one who pays; specifically, the person by whom a bill or note has been, or should be, paid.	
payse	Obsolete	To poise.	
paytine		An alkaloid obtained from a white bark resembling that of the cinchona, first brought from Payta, in Peru.	
