pea		The sliding weight on a steelyard. See Peak, n., 3.	
pea-jacket		A thick loose woolen jacket, or coat, much worn by sailors in cold weather.	
peabird	English dialect	The wryneck; -- so called from its note.	
peace		A state of quiet or tranquillity; freedom from disturbance or agitation; calm; repose; specifically: (a) Exemption from, or cessation of, war with public enemies.	Middle English pece, from Old French piece.
peaceable		Begin in or at peace; tranquil; quiet; free from, or not disposed to, war, disorder, or excitement; not quarrelsome. -- Peace a*bly, adv.	Anglo-Norman pesible.
peacebreaker		One who disturbs the public peace. -- Peace"break`ing, n.	
peaceful		Possessing or enjoying peace; not disturbed by war, tumult, agitation, anxiety, or commotion; quiet; tranquil; as, a peaceful time; a peaceful country; a peaceful end.	
peaceless		Without peace; disturbed.	
peacemaker		One who makes peace by reconciling parties that are at variance.	
peach	Obsolete	To accuse of crime; to inform against.	Middle English pechen.
peach-colored		Of the color of a peach blossom.	
peachblow		Of the delicate purplish pink color likened to that of peach blooms; -- applied esp. to a Chinese porcelain, small specimens of which bring great prices in the Western countries.	
peacher	Low	One who peaches.	
peachick		The chicken of the peacock.	
peachy		Resembling a peach or peaches.	
peacock		(Zoöl.) The male of any pheasant of the genus Pavo, of which at least two species are known, native of Southern Asia and the East Indies.	
peafowl		The peacock or peahen; any species of Pavo.	
peag		A kind of aboriginal shell money, or wampum, of the Atlantic coast of the United States; -- originally applied only to polished white cylindrical beads.	
peage		See Paage — a toll for passage over another person's grounds.	
peagrit		A coarse pisolitic limestone. See Pisolite.	
peahen		The hen or female peafowl.	
peak		A point; the sharp end or top of anything that terminates in a point; as, the peak, or front, of a cap. & Fl.	
peaked		Pointed; ending in a point; as, a peaked roof.	
peaking	Vulgar	Mean; sneaking.	
peakish		Of or relating to a peak; or to peaks; belonging to a mountainous region.	
peaky	Colloquial	Sickly; peaked.	
peal		A loud sound, or a succession of loud sounds, as of bells, thunder, cannon, shouts, of a multitude, etc. Whether those peals of praise be his or no.	
pean		One of the furs, the ground being sable, and the spots or tufts or.	
peanism		The song or shout of praise, of battle, or of triumph.	
peanut		The fruit of a trailing leguminous plant (Arachis hypogæa); also, the plant itself, which is widely cultivated for its fruit.	
pear		The fleshy pome, or fruit, of a rosaceous tree (Pyrus communis), cultivated in many varieties in temperate climates; also, the tree which bears this fruit.	Old English pere.
pear-shaped		Of the form of a pear.	
pearch		See Perch — any fresh-water fish of the genus Perca and of several other allied genera of the family Percidæ, as the common American or yellow perch (Perca flavescens, or Americana)…	
pearl		(Zoöl.) A shelly concretion, usually rounded, and having a brilliant luster, with varying tints, found in the mantle, or between the mantle and shell, of certain bivalve mollusks…	French perle, from Latin perla.
pearl-eyed		Having a pearly speck in the eye; afflicted with the cataract.	
pearlaceous		Resembling pearl or mother-of-pearl; pearly in quality or appearance.	
pearlash		A white amorphous or granular substance which consists principally of potassium carbonate, and has a strong alkaline reaction.	
pearlfish		Any fish whose scales yield a pearl-like pigment used in manufacturing artificial pearls, as the bleak, and whitebait.	
pearlings	Scots	A kind of lace of silk or thread.	
pearlins	Scots	A kind of lace of silk or thread.	
pearlite		A glassy volcanic rock of a grayish color and pearly luster, often having a spherulitic concretionary structure due to the curved cracks produced by contraction in cooling.	
pearlstone		A glassy volcanic rock of a grayish color and pearly luster, often having a spherulitic concretionary structure due to the curved cracks produced by contraction in cooling.	
pearlwort		A name given to several species of Sagina, low and inconspicuous herbs of the Chickweed family.	
pearly		Containing pearls; abounding with, or yielding, pearls; as, pearly shells.	
pearmain		The name of several kinds of apples; as, the blue pearmain, winter pearmain, and red pearmain.	Anglo-Norman parmain.
peart		Active; lively; brisk; smart; -- often applied to convalescents; as, she is quite peart to-day.	
peasant		A countryman; a rustic; especially, one of the lowest class of tillers of the soil in European countries.	
peasantlike		Rude; clownish; illiterate.	
peasantly	Obsolete	Peasantlike.	
peasantry		Peasants, collectively; the body of rustics.	
peascod		The legume or pericarp, or the pod, of the pea.	
pease		A plural form of Pea. See the Note under Pea.	Anglo-Norman paiser.
peastone		Pisolite.	
peasweep		(a) The pewit, or lapwing. (b) The greenfinch.	
peat	Obsolete	A small person; a pet; -- sometimes used contemptuously.	
peaty		Composed of peat; abounding in peat; resembling peat.	
peavey		A cant hook having the end of its lever armed with a spike.	
peavy		A cant hook having the end of its lever armed with a spike.	
peba		An armadillo (Tatusia novemcincta) which is found from Texas to Paraguay; -- called also tatouhou.	
pebble		A small roundish stone or bowlder; especially, a stone worn and rounded by the action of water; a pebblestone.	
pebbled		Abounding in pebbles.	
pebblestone		A pebble; also, pebbles collectively.	
pebbly		Full of pebbles; pebbled.	
pebrine		An epidemic disease of the silkworm, characterized by the presence of minute vibratory corpuscles in the blood.	
pecan		A species of hickory (Carya olivæformis), growing in North America, chiefly in the Mississippi valley and in Texas, where it is one of the largest of forest trees; also, its fruit, a smooth, oblong nut…	
pecary		See Peccary — a pachyderm of the genus Dicotyles.	
peccability		The state or quality of being peccable; lability to sin.	
peccable		Liable to sin; subject to transgress the divine law.	Latin peccare.
peccadillo		A slight trespass or offense; a petty crime or fault.	Spanish pecadillo.
peccancy		The quality or state of being peccant.	
peccant		Sinning; guilty of transgression; criminal; as, peccant angels.	Latin peccans.
peccantly		In a peccant manner.	
peccary		A pachyderm of the genus Dicotyles.	
peccavi		I have sinned; -- used colloquially to express confession or acknowledgment of an offense.	Latin peccavi.
pecco		See Pekoe — a kind of black tea.	
peck		The fourth part of a bushel; a dry measure of eight quarts; as, a peck of wheat.	
pecker		One who, or that which, pecks; specif., a bird that pecks holes in trees; a woodpecker.	
peckish	Colloquial	Inclined to eat; hungry.	
peckled	Obsolete	Speckled; spotted.	
pecopteris		An extensive genus of fossil ferns; -- so named from the regular comblike arrangement of the leaflets.	
pecora		An extensive division of ruminants, including the antelopes, deer, and cattle.	
pectate		A salt of pectic acid.	
pecten		(Anat.) (a) A vascular pigmented membrane projecting into the vitreous humor within the globe of the eye in birds, and in many reptiles and fishes; -- also called marsupium.	Latin pecten.
pectic		Of or pertaining to pectin; specifically, designating an acid obtained from ordinary vegetable jelly (pectin) as an amorphous substance, tough and horny when dry, but gelatinous when moist.	
pectin		One of a series of carbohydrates, commonly called vegetable jelly, found very widely distributed in the vegetable kingdom, especially in ripe fleshy fruits, as apples, cranberries, etc. It is extracted as variously colored…	
pectinal		Of or pertaining to a comb; resembling a comb.	
pectinate		Resembling the teeth of a comb.	
pectinated		Resembling the teeth of a comb.	
pectinately		In a pectinate manner.	
pectination		The state of being pectinated; that which is pectinated.	
pectineal		(a) Of or pertaining to the pecten. (b) Relating to, or connected with, the pubic bone.	
pectinibranch		One of the Pectinibranchiata.	
pectinibranchiata		A division of Gastropoda, including those that have a comblike gill upon the neck.	
pectinibranchiate		Having pectinated gills.	Latin pecten.
pectiniform		Comblike in form.	
pectize		To congeal; to change into a gelatinous mass.	
pectolite		A whitish mineral occurring in radiated or fibrous crystalline masses.	
pectoral		Of or pertaining to the breast, or chest; as, the pectoral muscles.	Latin pectoralis.
pectorally		As connected with the breast.	
pectoriloquial		Pertaining to, or of the nature of, pectoriloquy.	
pectoriloquism		Pectoriloquy.	
pectoriloquous		Pectoriloquial.	
pectoriloquy		The distinct articulation of the sounds of a patient's voice, heard on applying the ear to the chest in auscultation.	
pectose		An amorphous carbohydrate found in the vegetable kingdom, esp. in unripe fruits.	
pectosic		Of, pertaining to, resembling, or derived from, pectose; specifically, designating an acid supposed to constitute largely ordinary pectin or vegetable jelly.	
pectostraca		A degenerate order of Crustacea, including the Rhizocephala and Cirripedia.	
pectous		Of, pertaining to, or consisting of, pectose.	
pectus		The breast of a bird.	
pecul		See Picul — a commercial weight varying in different countries and for different commodities.	
peculate		To appropriate to one's own use the property of the public; to steal public moneys intrusted to one's care; to embezzle.	Latin peculatus.
peculation		The act or practice of peculating, or of defrauding the public by appropriating to one's own use the money or goods intrusted to one's care for management or disbursement; embezzlement.	Latin peculatus.
peculator		One who peculates.	Latin peculator.
peculiar		One's own; belonging solely or especially to an individual; not possessed by others; of private, personal, or characteristic possession and use; not owned in common or in participation.	Latin peculiaris.
peculiarity		The quality or state of being peculiar; individuality; singularity.	
peculiarize		To make peculiar; to set appart or assign, as an exclusive possession.	
peculiarly		In a peculiar manner; particulary; in a rare and striking degree; unusually.	
peculiarness		The quality or state of being peculiar; peculiarity.	
peculium		A special fund for private and personal uses.	
pecunial	Obsolete	Pecuniary.	
pecuniarily		In a pecuniary manner; as regards money.	
pecuniary		Relating to money; monetary; as, a pecuniary penalty; a pecuniary reward.	Latin pecuniarius.
pecunious	Obsolete	Abounding in money; wealthy; rich.	
ped	Obsolete	A basket; a hammer; a pannier.	
pedage	Obsolete	A toll or tax paid by passengers, entitling them to safe- conduct and protection.	Latin pedagium.
pedagog		Pedagogue.	
pedagogic		See Pedagogics — the science or art of teaching; the principles and rules of teaching; pedagogy.	
pedagogical		Of or pertaining to a pedagogue; suited to, or characteristic of, a pedagogue.	
pedagogics		The science or art of teaching; the principles and rules of teaching; pedagogy.	
pedagogism		The system, occupation, character, or manner of pedagogues.	
pedagogue		(Gr. Antiq.) A slave who led his master's children to school, and had the charge of them generally.	Old French pedagogue, from Latin paedagogus, from Greek παιδαγωγέω.
pedagogy		Pedagogics; pedagogism.	Greek παιδαγωγία.
pedal		Of or pertaining to the foot, or to feet, literally or figuratively; specifically (Zoöl.), pertaining to the foot of a mollusk; as, the pedal ganglion.	French pédale.
pedalian		Relating to the foot, or to a metrical foot; pedal.	
pedality		The act of measuring by paces.	
pedaneous		Going on foot; pedestrian.	
pedant		One who puts on an air of learning; one who makes a vain display of learning; a pretender to superior knowledge.	Middle French pedant.
pedantic		Of or pertaining to a pedant; characteristic of, or resembling, a pedant; ostentatious of learning; as, a pedantic writer; a pedantic description; a pedantical affectation.	
pedantical		Of or pertaining to a pedant; characteristic of, or resembling, a pedant; ostentatious of learning; as, a pedantic writer; a pedantic description; a pedantical affectation.	
pedantically		In a pedantic manner.	
pedanticly		Pedantically.	
pedantism	Obsolete	The office, disposition, or act of a pedant; pedantry.	
pedantize		To play the pedant; to use pedantic expressions.	
pedantocracy		The sway of pedants.	
pedantry		The act, character, or manners of a pedant; vain ostentation of learning.	
pedanty	Obsolete	An assembly or clique of pedants.	
pedarian		One of a class eligible to the office of senator, but not yet chosen, who could sit and speak in the senate, but could not vote…	Latin pedarius.
pedary	Obsolete	A sandal.	
pedata		An order of holothurians, including those that have ambulacral suckers, or feet, and an internal gill.	
pedate		Palmate, with the lateral lobes cleft into two or more segments; -- said of a leaf. -- Ped"ate*ly, adv.	
pedatifid		Cleft in a pedate manner, but having the lobes distinctly connected at the base; -- said of a leaf.	
peddle		To travel about with wares for sale; to go from place to place, or from house to house, for the purpose of retailing goods; as, to peddle without a license.	
peddler		One who peddles; a traveling trader; one who travels about, retailing small wares; a hawker.	
peddlery		The trade, or the goods, of a peddler; hawking; small retail business, like that of a peddler.	
peddling		Hawking; acting as a peddler.	
pederast		One guilty of pederasty; a sodomite.	Greek παιδεραστής.
pederastic		Of or pertaining to pederasty.	
pederasty		The crime against nature; sodomy.	Greek παιδεραστία.
pederero		A term formerly applied to a short piece of chambered ordnance.	Spanish pedrero.
pedesis		Same as Brownian movement, under Brownian.	
pedestal		(Arch.) The base or foot of a column, statue, vase, lamp, or the like; the part on which an upright work stands.	Middle French piédestal.
pedestaled		Placed on, or supported by, a pedestal; figuratively, exalted.	
pedestrial		Of or pertaining to the feet; employing the foot or feet.	Latin pedester.
pedestrially		In a pedestrial manner.	
pedestrian		Going on foot; performed on foot; as, a pedestrian journey.	
pedestrianism		The act, art, or practice of a pedestrian; walking or running; traveling or racing on foot.	
pedestrianize		To practice walking; to travel on foot.	
pedestrious	Obsolete	Going on foot; not winged.	
pedetentous		Proceeding step by step; advancing cautiously.	Latin pes.
pedi-		Combining forms from L. pes, pedis, foot, as pedipalp, pedireme, pedometer.	
pedial		Pertaining to the foot, or to any organ called a foot; pedal.	
pediatric		Pertaining to the care and medical treatment of children.	
pediatrics		That branch of medical science which treats of the hygiene and diseases of children.	Greek παιδός.
pedicel		(Bot.) (a) A stalk which supports one flower or fruit, whether solitary or one of many ultimate divisions of a common peduncle.	
pediceled		Pedicellate.	
pedicellaria		A peculiar forcepslike organ which occurs in large numbers upon starfishes and echini.	
pedicellate		Having a pedicel; supported by a pedicel.	
pedicellina		A genus of Bryozoa, of the order Entoprocta, having a bell- shaped body supported on a slender pedicel.	
pedicle		Same as Pedicel.	Latin pedīculus.
pedicular		Of or pertaining to lice; having the lousy distemper (phthiriasis); lousy.	Latin pedicularis.
pediculate		Of or pertaining to the Pediculati.	
pediculati		An order of fishes including the anglers. See Illust. of Angler and Batfish.	
pediculation		Phthiriasis.	
pedicule		A pedicel.	
pediculina		A division of parasitic hemipterous insects, including the true lice. See Illust. in Appendix.	
pediculous		Pedicular.	Latin pediculosus.
pediculus		A genus of wingless parasitic Hemiptera, including the common lice of man.	
pedicure		The care of the feet and nails.	Latin pedis.
pediform		Shaped like a foot.	
pedigerous		Bearing or having feet or legs.	
pedigree		A line of ancestors; descent; lineage; genealogy; a register or record of a line of ancestors.	
pediluvy	Obsolete	The bathing of the feet, a bath for the feet.	
pedimana		A division of marsupials, including the opossums.	
pedimane		A pedimanous marsupial; an opossum.	
pedimanous		Having feet resembling hands, or with the first toe opposable, as the opossums and monkeys.	
pediment		Originally, in classical architecture, the triangular space forming the gable of a simple roof; hence, a similar form used as a decoration over porticoes, doors, windows, etc.; also…	
pedimental		Of or pertaining to a pediment.	
pedipalp		One of the Pedipalpi.	
pedipalpi		A division of Arachnida, including the whip scorpions (Thelyphonus) and allied forms.	
pedipalpous		Pertaining to, or resembling, the pedipalps.	
pedipalpus		One of the second pair of mouth organs of arachnids.	
pedireme		A crustacean, some of whose feet serve as oars.	
pedlar		See Peddler — one who peddles; a traveling trader; one who travels about, retailing small wares; a hawker.	
pedler		See Peddler — one who peddles; a traveling trader; one who travels about, retailing small wares; a hawker.	
pedo-		Combining forms from L. pes, pedis, foot, as pedipalp, pedireme, pedometer.	Greek πέδον.
pedobaptism		The baptism of infants or of small children.	
pedobaptist		One who advocates or practices infant baptism.	
pedograph		An instrument carried by a pedestrian for automatically making a topographical record of the ground covered during a journey.	
pedology		Pediatrics.	
pedomancy		Divination by examining the soles of the feet.	
pedometer		An instrument for including the number of steps in walking, and so ascertaining the distance passed over.	
pedometric		Pertaining to, or measured by, a pedometer.	
pedometrical		Pertaining to, or measured by, a pedometer.	
pedomotive		Moved or worked by the action of the foot or feet on a pedal or treadle.	
pedotrophy		The art of nourishing children properly.	
pedrail		(a) A device intended to replace the wheel of a self-propelled vehicle for use on rough roads and to approximate to the smoothness in running of a wheel on a metal track.	
pedregal		A lava field.	
pedro		(a) The five of trumps in certain varieties of auction pitch. (b) A variety of auction pitch in which the five of trumps counts five.	
peduncle		(Bot.) The stem or stalk that supports the flower or fruit of a plant, or a cluster of flowers or fruits.	
peduncled		Having a peduncle; supported on a peduncle; pedunculate.	
peduncular		Of or pertaining to a peduncle; growing from a peduncle; as, a peduncular tendril.	
pedunculata		A division of Cirripedia, including the stalked or goose barnacles.	
pedunculate		Having a peduncle; growing on a peduncle; as, a pedunculate flower; a pedunculate eye, as in a lobster.	
pedunculated		Having a peduncle; growing on a peduncle; as, a pedunculate flower; a pedunculate eye, as in a lobster.	
pee		See 1st Pea.	
peece		See Piece — a fragment or part of anything separated from the whole, in any manner, as by cutting, splitting, breaking, or tearing; a part; a portion; as, a piece of sugar; to break in pieces.	
peechi		The dauw.	
peek	Colloquial	To look slyly, or with the eyes half closed, or through a crevice; to peep.	
peekaboo		A child's game; bopeep.	
peel		To strip off the skin, bark, or rind of; to strip by drawing or tearing off the skin, bark, husks, etc.; to flay; to decorticate; as, to peel an orange.	Old French pele, from Latin pala.
peele		A graceful and swift South African antelope (Pelea capreola).	
peeler		One who peels or strips.	
peelhouse		See 1st Peel.	
peen		(a) A round-edged, or hemispherical, end to the head of a hammer or sledge, used to stretch or bend metal by indentation.	
peenge	Scots	To complain.	
peep		To cry, as a chicken hatching or newly hatched; to chirp; to cheep.	Middle English pepen.
peeper		A chicken just breaking the shell; a young bird.	
peephole		A hole, or crevice, through which one may peep without being discovered.	
peer		Etym: To look narrowly or curiously or intently; to peep; as, the peering day.	
peerage		The body of peers; the nobility, collectively.	
peerdom	Obsolete	Peerage; also, a lordship.	
peeress		The wife of a peer; a woman ennobled in her own right, or by right of marriage.	
peerie	English dialect	Inquisitive; suspicious; sharp.	
peerless		Having no peer or equal; matchless; superlative.	
peert		Same as Peart.	
peerweet		Same as Pewit (a & b).	
peery	English dialect	Inquisitive; suspicious; sharp.	
peevish		Habitually fretful; easily vexed or fretted; hard to please; apt to complain; querulous; petulant.	
peevishly		In a peevish manner.	
peevishness		The quality of being peevish; disposition to murmur; sourness of temper.	
peevit		See Pewit — (a) The lapwing. (b) The European black-headed, or laughing, gull (Xema ridibundus).	
peewit		See Pewit — (a) The lapwing. (b) The European black-headed, or laughing, gull (Xema ridibundus).	
peg		A small, pointed piece of wood, used in fastening boards together, in attaching the soles of boots or shoes, etc.; as, a shoe peg.	
pegador		A species of remora (Echeneis naucrates). See Remora.	
pegasean		Of or pertaining to Pegasus, or, figuratively, to poetry.	
pegasoid		Like or pertaining to Pegasus.	
pegasus		(Gr. Myth.) A winged horse fabled to have sprung from the body of Medusa when she was slain.	
pegger		One who fastens with pegs.	
pegging		The act or process of fastening with pegs.	
pegm	Obsolete	A sort of moving machine employed in the old pageants.	
pegmatite		(a) Graphic granite. See under Granite. (b) More generally, a coarse granite occurring as vein material in other rocks.	
pegmatitic		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, pegmatite; as, the pegmatic structure of certain rocks resembling graphic granite.	
pegmatoid		Resembling pegmatite; pegmatic.	
pegomancy		Divination by fountains.	
pegroots		Same as Setterwort.	
pehlevi		An ancient Persian dialect in which words were partly represented by their Semitic equivalents.	
peignoir		A woman's loose dressing sack; hence, a loose morning gown or wrapper.	
pein		See Peen — (a) A round-edged, or hemispherical, end to the head of a hammer or sledge, used to stretch or bend metal by indentation.	
peirameter		A dynamometer for measuring the force required to draw wheel carriages on roads of different constructions.	
peirastic		Fitted for trail or test; experimental; tentative; treating of attempts.	
peise	Obsolete	A weight; a poise.	
peitrel		See Peytrel — the breastplate of a horse's armor or harness. See Poitrel.	
pejorative		Implying or imputing evil; depreciatory; disparaging; unfavorable.	
pekan		See Fisher, 2.	
pekoe		A kind of black tea.	
pela		See Wax insect, under Wax.	
pelage		The covering, or coat, of a mammal, whether of wool, fur, or hair.	
pelagian		Of or pertaining to the sea; marine; pelagic; as, pelagian shells.	
pelagianism		The doctrines of Pelagius.	
pelagic		Of or pertaining to the ocean; -- applied especially to animals that live at the surface of the ocean, away from the coast.	
pelargonic		Pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid (called also nonoic acid) found in the leaves of the geranium (Pelargonium) and allied plants.	
pelargonium		A large genus of plants of the order Geraniaceæ, differing from Geranium in having a spurred calyx and an irregular corolla.	
pelasgian		Of or pertaining to the Pelasgians, an ancient people of Greece, of roving habits.	
pelasgic		Of or pertaining to the Pelasgians, an ancient people of Greece, of roving habits.	
pelecan		See Pelican — (Zoöl.) Any large webfooted bird of the genus of Pelecanus, of which about a dozen species are known.	
pelecaniformes		Those birds that are related to the pelican; the Totipalmi.	
pelecoid		A figure, somewhat hatched-shaped, bounded by a semicircle and two inverted quadrants, and equal in area to the square ABCD inclosed by the chords of the four quadrants.	
pelecypoda		Same as Lamellibranchia.	
pelegrine	Obsolete	See Peregrine — foreign; not native; extrinsic or from without; exotic.	
pelerine		A woman's cape; especially, a fur cape that is longer in front than behind.	
pelf		Money; riches; lucre; gain; -- generally conveying the idea of something ill-gotten or worthless.	
pelfish		Of or pertaining to pelf.	
pelfray	Obsolete	Pelf; also, figuratively, rubbish; trash.	
pelfry	Obsolete	Pelf; also, figuratively, rubbish; trash.	
pelican		(Zoöl.) Any large webfooted bird of the genus of Pelecanus, of which about a dozen species are known.	Old English pellicane, from Latin pelecanus, from Greek πελεκάνος.
pelick		The American coot (Fulica).	
pelicoid		See Pelecoid — a figure, somewhat hatched-shaped, bounded by a semicircle and two inverted quadrants, and equal in area to the square ABCD inclosed by the chords of the four quadrants.	
pelicosauria		A suborder of Theromorpha, including terrestrial reptiles from the Permian formation.	
peliom		A variety of iolite, of a smoky blue color; pelioma.	
pelioma		(Med.) A livid ecchymosis.	
pelisse		An outer garment for men or women, originally of fur, or lined with fur; a lady's outer garment, made of silk or other fabric.	
pell		A roll of parchment; a parchment record.	
pell-mell		See Pall-mall — a game formerly common in England, in which a wooden ball was driven with a mallet through an elevated hoop or ring of iron.	
pellack		A porpoise.	
pellage		A customs duty on skins of leather.	Latin pellicula.
pellagra		An erythematous affection of the skin, with severe constitutional and nervous symptoms, endemic in Northern Italy.	
pellagrin		One who is afficted with pellagra.	
pellagrous		Pertaining to, or affected with, or attendant on, pellagra; as, pellagrous insanity.	
pellet		A little ball; as, a pellet of wax.	
pelleted		Made of, or like, pellets; furnished with pellets.	
pellibranchiata		A division of Nudibranchiata, in which the mantle itself serves as a gill.	
pellicle		A thin skin or film.	Latin pellicula.
pellicular		Of or pertaining to a pellicle.	
pellile	English dialect	The redshank; -- so called from its note.	
pellitory		The common name of the several species of the genus Parietaria, low, harmless weeds of the Nettle family; -- also called wall pellitory, and lichwort.	
pellmell		In utter confusion; with confused violence.	
pellucid		Transparent; clear; limpid; translucent; not opaque.	Latin pellucidus.
pellucidity		The quality or state of being pellucid; transparency; translucency; clearness; as, the pellucidity of the air.	
pellucidly		In a pellucid manner.	
pellucidness		The quality or state of being pellucid; transparency; translucency; clearness; as, the pellucidity of the air.	
pelma		The under surface of the foot.	
pelopium		A supposed new metal found in columbite, afterwards shown to be identical with columbium, or niobium.	
peloponnesian		Of or pertaining to the Peloponnesus, or southern peninsula of Greece. -- n.	
peloria		Abnormal regularity; the state of certain flowers, which, being naturally irregular, have become regular through a symmetrical repetition of the special irregularity.	Greek πέλωρ.
peloric		Abnormally regular or symmetrical.	
pelorus		An instrument similar to a mariner's compass, but without magnetic needles, and having two sight vanes by which bearings are taken, esp. such as cannot be taken by the compass.	
pelota		A Basque, Spanish, and Spanish-American game played in a court, in which a ball is struck with a wickerwork racket.	
pelotage		Packs or bales of Spanish wool.	
pelt		The skin of a beast with the hair on; a raw or undressed hide; a skin preserved with the hairy or woolly covering on it.	Old French pelette.
pelta		(Antiq.) A small shield, especially one of an approximately elliptic form, or crescent-shaped.	
peltate		Shield-shaped; scutiform; (Bot.) having the stem or support attached to the lower surface, instead of at the base or margin; -- said of a leaf or other organ. -- Pel"tate*ly, adv.	
peltated		Shield-shaped; scutiform; (Bot.) having the stem or support attached to the lower surface, instead of at the base or margin; -- said of a leaf or other organ. -- Pel"tate*ly, adv.	
pelter	Obsolete	One who pelts.	
peltiform		Shieldlike, with the outline nearly circular; peltate.	
pelting	Obsolete	Mean; paltry.	
peltry		Pelts or skins, collectively; skins with the fur on them; furs.	Old French peleterie.
peludo		The South American hairy armadillo (Dasypus villosus).	
pelure		A crisp, hard, thin paper, sometimes used for postage stamps.	
pelusiac		Of or pertaining to Pelusium, an ancient city of Egypt; as, the Pelusiac (or former eastern) outlet of the Nile.	
pelvic		Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the pelvis; as, pelvic cellulitis.	
pelvimeter		An instrument for measuring the dimensions of the pelvis.	
pelvimetry		The measurement of the pelvis.	
pelvis		(Anat.) The pelvic arch, or the pelvic arch together with the sacrum. See Pelvic arch, under Pelvic, and Sacrum.	Latin pelvis.
pemmican		Among the North American Indians, meat cut in thin slices, divested of fat, and dried in the sun.	Cree ᐱᒦᐦᑳᐣ.
pemphigus		A somewhat rare skin disease, characterized by the development of blebs upon different part of the body.	Greek πέμφιξ.
pen		An instrument used for writing with ink, formerly made of a reed, or of the quill of a goose or other bird, but now also of other materials, as of steel, gold, etc. Also, originally…	Middle English penne, from Old English penn.
penal		Of or pertaining to punishment, to penalties, or to crimes and offenses; pertaining to criminal jurisprudence: as: (a) Enacting or threatening punishment; as, a penal statue; the penal code.	Old French peinal, from Latin penalis.
penality		The quality or state of being penal; lability to punishment.	
penalize		To make penal.	
penally		In a penal manner.	
penalty		Penal retribution; punishment for crime or offense; the suffering in person or property which is annexed by law or judicial decision to the commission of a crime, offense, or trespass.	
penance		(Eccl.) A means of repairing a sin committed, and obtaining pardon for it, consisting partly in the performance of expiatory rites, partly in voluntary submission to a punishment corresponding to the transgression.	
penanceless		Free from penance.	
penannular		Nearly annular; having nearly the form of a ring.	
penates		The household gods of the ancient Romans.	Latin Penates.
penaunt	Obsolete	A penitent.	
pence		pl. of Penny. See Penny.	
pencel	Obsolete	A small, narrow flag or streamer borne at the top of a lance; - - called also pennoncel.	Anglo-Norman pencel.
penchant		Inclination; decided taste; bias; as, a penchant for art.	
penchute		See Penstock — a close conduit or pipe for conducting water, as, to a water wheel, or for emptying a pond, or for domestic uses.	
pencil		A small, fine brush of hair or bristles used by painters for laying on colors.	
penciled		Painted, drawn, sketched, or marked with a pencil.	
penciling		The work of the pencil or bruch; as, delicate penciling in a picture.	
pencillate		Shaped like a pencil; penicillate.	
pencillated		Shaped like a pencil; penicillate.	
pencraft		Penmanship; skill in writing; chirography.	
pend		Oil cake; penock.	Middle French pendre.
pendant		Something which hangs or depends; something suspended; a hanging appendage, especially one of an ornamental character; as to a chandelier or an eardrop; also, an appendix or addition, as to a book.	Anglo-Norman pendaunt.
pendence	Obsolete	Slope; inclination.	
pendency		The quality or state of being pendent or suspended.	
pendent		Supported from above; suspended; depending; pendulous; hanging; as, a pendent leaf.	Latin pendens.
pendentive		(a) The portion of a vault by means of which the square space in the middle of a building is brought to an octagon or circle to receive a cupola.	
pendently		In a pendent manner.	
pendice	Obsolete	A sloping roof; a lean-to; a penthouse.	
pendicle		An appendage; something dependent on another; an appurtenance; a pendant.	
pendicler	Scots	An inferior tenant; one who rents a pendicle or croft.	
pending		Not yet decided; in continuance; in suspense; as, a pending suit.	
pendragon		A chief leader or a king; a head; a dictator; -- a title assumed by the ancient British chiefs when called to lead other chiefs.	
pendular		Pendulous.	
pendulate		To swing as a pendulum.	
pendule		A pendulum.	
penduline		A European titmouse (Parus, or Ægithalus, pendulinus).	
pendulosity		The state or quality of being pendulous.	
pendulous		Depending; pendent loosely; hanging; swinging.	
pendulously		In a pendulous manner.	
pendulousness		The quality or state of being pendulous; the state of hanging loosely; pendulosity.	
pendulum		A body so suspended from a fixed point as to swing freely to and fro by the alternate action of gravity and momentum.	
penelope		A genus of curassows, including the guans.	
peneplain		A land surface reduced by erosion to the general condition of a plain, but not wholly devoid of hills; a base-level plain.	
penetrability		The quality of being penetrable; susceptibility of being penetrated, entered, or pierced.	
penetrable		Capable of being penetrated, entered, or pierced. Used also figuratively.	
penetrail	Obsolete	Penetralia.	
penetralia		The recesses, or innermost parts, of any thing or place, especially of a temple or palace.	
penetrance		The quality or state of being penetrant; power of entering or piercing; penetrating power of quality; as, the penetrancy of subtile effluvia.	
penetrancy		The quality or state of being penetrant; power of entering or piercing; penetrating power of quality; as, the penetrancy of subtile effluvia.	
penetrant		Having power to enter or pierce; penetrating; sharp; subtile; as, penetrant cold.	
penetrate		To enter into; to make way into the interior of; to effect an entrance into; to pierce; as, light penetrates darkness.	Latin penetratus.
penetrating		Having the power of entering, piercing, or pervading; sharp; subtile; penetrative; as, a penetrating odor.	
penetratingly		In a penetrating manner.	
penetration		The act or process of penetrating, piercing, or entering; also, the act of mentally penetrating into, or comprehending, anything difficult.	Middle French pénétration.
penetrative		Tending to penetrate; of a penetrating quality; piercing; as, the penetrative sun.	
penetrativeness		The quality of being penetrative.	
penfish		A squid.	
penfold		See Pinfold — a place in which stray cattle or domestic animals are confined; a pound; a penfold.	
pengolin		The pangolin.	
penguin		(Zoöl.) Any bird of the order Impennes, or Ptilopteri.	
penguinery		A breeding place, or rookery, of penguins.	
penholder		A handle for a pen.	
penhouse	Obsolete	A penthouse.	
penible	Obsolete	Painstaking; assidous.	Old French penible.
penicil		A tent or pledget for wounds or ulcers.	Latin penicillum.
penicillate		Having the form of a pencil; furnished with a pencil of fine hairs; ending in a tuft of hairs like a camel's-hair brush, as the stigmas of some grasses.	
penicilliform		Penicillate.	
peninsula		A portion of land nearly surrounded by water, and connected with a larger body by a neck, or isthmus.	Latin paeninsula.
peninsular		Of or pertaining to a peninsula; as, a peninsular form; peninsular people; the peninsular war.	
peninsulate		To form into a peninsula.	
penis		The male member, or organ of generation.	Latin penis.
penitence		The quality or condition of being penitent; the disposition of a penitent; sorrow for sins or faults; repentance; contrition.	
penitencer	Obsolete	A priest who heard confession and enjoined penance in extraordinary cases.	French pénitencier.
penitency	Obsolete	Penitence.	
penitent		Feeling pain or sorrow on account of sins or offenses; repentant; contrite; sincerely affected by a sense of guilt, and resolved on amendment of life.	
penitential		Of or pertaining to penitence, or to penance; expressing penitence; of the nature of penance; as, the penitential book; penitential tears.	
penitentially		In a penitential manner.	
penitentiary		Relating to penance, or to the rules and measures of penance.	Latin penitentiaria.
penitentiaryship		The office or condition of a penitentiary of the papal court.	
penitently		In a penitent manner.	
penk	English dialect	A minnow. See Pink, n., 4.	
penknife		A small pocketknife; formerly, a knife used for making and mending quill pens.	
penman		One who uses the pen; a writer; esp., one skilled in the use of the pen; a calligrapher; a writing master.	
penmanship		The use of the pen in writing; the art of writing; style or manner of writing; chirography; as, good or bad penmanship.	
penna		A perfect, or normal, feather.	Latin penna.
pennaceous		Like or pertaining to a normal feather.	
pennach	Obsolete	A bunch of feathers; a plume.	
pennached	Obsolete	Variegated; striped.	
pennage	Obsolete	Feathery covering; plumage.	
pennant		(a) A small flag; a pennon.	
pennate		Winged; plume-shaped.	Latin pennatus.
pennated		Winged; plume-shaped.	
pennatula		Any one of numerous species of Pennatula, Pteroides, and allied genera of Alcyonaria, having a featherlike form; a sea-pen.	
pennatulacea		A division of alcyonoid corals, including the seapens and related kinds.	
penned		Written with a pen; composed.	
penner		One who pens; a writer.	
penniform		Having the form of a feather or plume.	
pennigerous		Bearing feathers or quills.	
penniless		Destitute of money; impecunious; poor. -- Pen"ni*less*ness, n.	
penninerved		Pinnately veined or nerved.	
pennipotent	Poetic	Strong of wing; strong on the wing.	
pennon		A wing; a pinion.	Anglo-Norman penun.
pennoncel		See Pencel — a small, narrow flag or streamer borne at the top of a lance; - - called also pennoncel.	Old French penoncel.
pennoncelle		See Pencel — a small, narrow flag or streamer borne at the top of a lance; - - called also pennoncel.	
penny		Denoting pound weight for one thousand; -- used in combination, with respect to nails; as, tenpenny nails, nails of which one thousand weight ten pounds.	Old English penning.
penny-a-liner		One who furnishes matter to public journals at so much a line; a poor writer for hire; a hack writer.	
pennyroyal		An aromatic herb (Mentha Pulegium) of Europe; also, a North American plant (Hedeoma pulegioides) resembling it in flavor.	
pennyweight		A troy weight containing twenty-four grains, or the twentieth part of an ounce; as, a pennyweight of gold or of arsenic.	
pennywort		A European trailing herb (Linaria Cymbalaria) with roundish, reniform leaves.	
pennyworth		A penny's worth; as much as may be bought for a penny.	
penock		See Pend — oil cake; penock.	
penological		Of or pertaining to penology.	
penologist		One versed in, or a student of, penology.	
penology		The science or art of punishment.	
penrack		A rack for pens not in use.	
pens	Obsolete	pl. of Penny — denoting pound weight for one thousand; -- used in combination, with respect to nails; as, tenpenny nails, nails of which one thousand weight ten pounds.	
pensative	Obsolete	Pensive.	
pensel		A pencel.	
pensible	Obsolete	Held aloft.	
pensile		Hanging; suspended; pendent; pendulous.	
pensileness		State or quality of being pensile; pendulousness.	
pension		A stated allowance to a person in consideration of past services; payment made to one retired from service, on account of age, disability, or other cause; especially…	
pensionary		Maintained by a pension; receiving a pension; as, pensionary spies.	
pensioner		One in receipt of a pension; hence, figuratively, a dependent.	
pensive		Thoughtful, sober, or sad; employed in serious reflection; given to, or favorable to, earnest or melancholy musing.	French pensif, from Latin penso.
pensived		Made pensive.	
pensively		In a pensive manner.	
pensiveness		The state of being pensive; serious thoughtfulness; seriousness.	
penstock		A close conduit or pipe for conducting water, as, to a water wheel, or for emptying a pond, or for domestic uses.	
pent		Penned or shut up; confined; -- often with up.	
penta-		A combining form denoting five; as, pentacapsular; pentagon.	Greek πέντε.
pentabasic		Capable of uniting with five molecules of a monacid base; having five acid hydrogen atoms capable of substitution by a basic radical; -- said of certain acids.	
pentacapsular		Having five capsules.	
pentachenium		A dry fruit composed of five carpels, which are covered by an epigynous calyx and separate at maturity.	
pentachloride		A chloride having five atoms of chlorine in each molecule.	
pentachord		An ancient instrument of music with five strings.	
pentacid		Capable of neutralizing, or combining with, five molecules of a monobasic acid; having five hydrogen atoms capable of substitution by acid residues; -- said of certain complex bases.	
pentacle		A figure composed of two equilateral triangles intersecting so as to form a six-pointed star, -- used in early ornamental art, and also with superstitious import by the astrologers and mystics of the Middle Ages.	
pentacoccous		Composed of five united carpels with one seed in each, as certain fruits.	
pentaconter		See Penteconter — a grecian vessel with fifty oars.	
pentacrinin		A red and purple pigment found in certain crinoids of the genus Pentacrinus.	
pentacrinite		Any species of Pentacrinus.	
pentacrinoid		An immature comatula when it is still attached by a stem, and thus resembles a Pentacrinus.	
pentacrinus		A genus of large, stalked crinoids, of which several species occur in deep water among the West Indies and elsewhere.	
pentacron		A solid having five summits or angular points.	
pentacrostic		A set of verses so disposed that the name forming the subject of the acrostic occurs five times -- the whole set of verses being divided into five different parts from top to bottom.	
pentad		Any element, atom, or radical, having a valence of five, or which can be combined with, substituted for, or compared with, five atoms of hydrogen or other monad; as, nitrogen is a pentad in the ammonium compounds.	
pentadactyl		(Anat.) Having five digits to the hand or foot.	
pentadactyle		(Anat.) Having five digits to the hand or foot.	
pentadactyloid		Having the form of, or a structure modified from, a pentadactyl limb.	
pentadecane		A hydrocarbon of the paraffin series, (C15H32) found in petroleum, tar oil, etc., and obtained as a colorless liquid; -- so called from the fifteen carbon atoms in the molecule.	
pentadecatoic		Of, pertaining to, or derived from, pentadecane, or designating an acid related to it.	
pentadecylic		Same as Quindecylic.	
pentadelphous		Having the stamens arranged in five clusters, those of each cluster having their filaments more or less united, as the flowers of the linden.	
pentafid		Divided or cleft into five parts.	
pentaglot		A work in five different tongues.	
pentagon		A plane figure having five angles, and, consequently, five sides; any figure having five angles.	
pentagonal		Having five corners or angles.	
pentagonally		In the form of a pentagon; with five angles.	
pentagonous		Pentagonal.	
pentagram		A pentacle or a pentalpha.	
pentagraphic		Pantographic. See Pantograph.	
pentagraphical		Pantographic. See Pantograph.	
pentagynia		A Linnæan order of plants, having five styles or pistils.	
pentagynian		Of or pertaining to plants of the order Pentagyna; having five styles.	
pentagynous		Of or pertaining to plants of the order Pentagyna; having five styles.	
pentahedral		Having five sides; as, a pentahedral figure.	
pentahedrical		Pentahedral.	
pentahedron		A solid figure having five sides.	
pentahedrous		Pentahedral.	
pentail		A peculiar insectivore (Ptilocercus Lowii) of Borneo; -- so called from its very long, quill-shaped tail, which is scaly at the base and plumose at the tip.	
pentalpha		A five-pointed star, resembling five alphas joined at their bases; -- used as a symbol.	Greek πένταλφα.
pentamera		An extensive division of Coleoptera, including those that normally have five-jointed tarsi.	
pentameran		One of the Pentamera.	
pentamerous		(Biol.) Divided into, or consisting of, five parts; also, arranged in sets, with five parts in each set, as a flower with five sepals, five petals, five, or twice five, stamens, and five pistils.	
pentamerus		A genus of extinct Paleozoic brachiopods, often very abundant in the Upper Silurian.	
pentameter		A verse of five feet.	
pentamethylene		A hypothetical hydrocarbon, C5H10, metameric with the amylenes, and the nucleus of a large number of derivatives; -- so named because regarded as composed of five methylene residues.	
pentandria		A Linnæan class of plants having five separate stamens.	
pentandrian		Of or pertaining to the class Pentadria; having five stamens.	
pentandrous		Of or pertaining to the class Pentadria; having five stamens.	
pentane		Any one of the three metameric hydrocarbons, C5H12, of the methane or paraffin series.	
pentangle		A pentagon.	
pentangular		Having five corners or angles.	
pentapetalous		Having five petals, or flower leaves.	
pentaphyllous		Having five leaves or leaflets.	
pentapody		A measure or series consisting of five feet.	
pentaptote		A noun having five cases.	
pentaptych		A picture, or combination of pictures, consisting of a centerpiece and double folding doors or wings, as for an altarpiece.	
pentarchy		A government in the hands of five persons; five joint rulers.	
pentaspast		A purchase with five pulleys.	
pentaspermous		Containing five seeds.	
pentastich		A composition consisting of five verses.	
pentastichous		Having, or arranged in, five vertical ranks, as the leaves of an apple tree or a cherry tree.	
pentastomida		Same as Linguatulina.	
pentastyle		Having five columns in front; -- said of a temple or portico in classical architecture. -- n.	
pentateuch		The first five books of the Old Testament, collectively; -- called also the Law of Moses, Book of the Law of Moses, etc.	
pentateuchal		Of or pertaining to the Pentateuch.	
pentathionic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of sulphur obtained by leading hydrogen sulphide into a solution of sulphur dioxide; -- so called because it contains five atoms of sulphur.	
pentathlon		A fivefold athletic performance peculiar to the great national games of the Greeks, including leaping, foot racing, wrestling, throwing the discus, and throwing the spear.	
pentatomic		(a) Having five atoms in the molecule. (b) Having five hydrogen atoms capable of substitution.	
pentavalent		Having a valence of five; -- said of certain atoms and radicals.	
penteconter		A Grecian vessel with fifty oars.	Greek πεντηκόντερος.
pentecost		A solemn festival of the Jews; -- so called because celebrated on the fiftieth day (seven weeks) after the second day of the Passover (which fell on the sixteenth of the Jewish month Nisan); -- hence called, also…	
pentecostal		Of or pertaining to Pentecost or to Whitsuntide.	
pentecostals		Offerings formerly made to the parish priest, or to the mother church, at Pentecost.	
pentecoster		An officer in the Spartan army commanding fifty men.	
pentecosty		A troop of fifty soldiers in the Spartan army; -- called also pentecostys.	
pentelic		Of or pertaining to Mount Pentelicus, near Athens, famous for its fine white marble quarries; obtained from Mount Pentelicus; as, the Pentelic marble of which the Parthenon is built.	
pentelican		Of or pertaining to Mount Pentelicus, near Athens, famous for its fine white marble quarries; obtained from Mount Pentelicus; as, the Pentelic marble of which the Parthenon is built.	
pentene		Same as Amylene.	
penthouse		A shed or roof sloping from the main wall or building, as over a door or window; a lean-to.	Anglo-Norman pentiz.
pentice	Obsolete	A penthouse.	Middle English pentis.
pentile		See Pantile — a roofing tile, of peculiar form, having a transverse section resembling an elongated S laid on its side (	
pentine		An unsaturated hydrocarbon, C5H8, of the acetylene series.	
pentoic		Pertaining to, or desingating, an acid (called also valeric acid) derived from pentane.	
pentone		Same as Valylene.	
pentosan		One of a class of substances (complex carbohydrates widely distributed in plants, as in fruits, gums, woods, hay, etc.) which yield pentoses on hydrolysis.	
pentosane		One of a class of substances (complex carbohydrates widely distributed in plants, as in fruits, gums, woods, hay, etc.) which yield pentoses on hydrolysis.	
pentose		Any of a group of sugars of the formula C5H10O5, as arabinose; -- so called from the five carbon atoms in the molecule.	
pentoxide		An oxide containing five atoms of oxygen in each molecule; as, phosphorus pentoxide, P2O5.	
pentremite		Any species of Pentremites.	
pentremites		A genus of crinoids belonging to the Blastoidea.	
pentroof		See Lean-to — having only one slope or pitch; -- said of a roof. -- n.	
pentrough		A penstock.	
pentyl		The hypothetical radical, C5H11, of pentane and certain of its derivatives.	
pentylic		Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, pentyl; as, pentylic alcohol	
penuchle		A game at cards, played with forty-eight cards, being all the cards above the eight spots in two packs.	
penult		The last syllable but one of a word; the syllable preceding the final one.	
penultima		Same as Penult.	
penultimate		Last but one; as, the penultimate syllable, the last syllable but one of a word.	Latin paenultimus.
penumbra		An incomplete or partial shadow.	Latin penumbra.
penumbrala		Of or pertaining to a penumbra; resembling a penumbra; partially illuminated.	
penurious		Excessively sparing in the use of money; sordid; stingy; miserly.	
penury		Absence of resources; want; privation; indigence; extreme poverty; destitution.	French pénurie, from Latin penuria.
penwiper		A cloth, or other material, for wiping off or cleaning ink from a pen.	
penwoman		A female writer; an authoress.	
peon		See Poon — a name for several East Indian, or their wood, used for the masts and spars of vessels, as Calophyllum angustifolium, C. inophullum, and Sterculia foetida; -- called also peon.	Spanish peón, from Latin pedo.
peonage		The condition of a peon.	
peonism		Same as Peonage.	
peony		A plant, and its flower, of the ranunculaceous genus Pæonia.	Old English peonie.
people		The body of persons who compose a community, tribe, nation, or race; an aggregate of individuals forming a whole; a community; a nation.	Middle English peple.
peopled		Stocked with, or as with, people; inhabited.	
peopleless		Destitute of people.	
peopler		A settler; an inhabitant.	
peorias		An Algonquin tribe of Indians who formerly inhabited a part of Illinois.	
pepastic		Same as Maturative.	
peperine		A volcanic rock, formed by the cementing together of sand, scoria, cinders, etc.	
peperino		A volcanic rock, formed by the cementing together of sand, scoria, cinders, etc.	
peplis		A genus of plants including water purslane.	
peplum		A peplos. Hence: An overskirt hanging like an ancient peplos; also, a short fitted skirt attached to a waist or coat.	
peplus		An upper garment worn by Grecian and Roman women.	
pepo		Any fleshy fruit with a firm rind, as a pumpkin, melon, or gourd. See Gourd.	Latin pepo, from Greek πέπων.
pepper		A well-known, pungently aromatic condiment, the dried berry, either whole or powdered, of the Piper nigrum.	Latin piper, from Greek πέπερι.
pepperbrand		See 1st Bunt.	
peppercorn		A dried berry of the black pepper (Piper nigrum).	
pepperer	Obsolete	A grocer; -- formerly so called because he sold pepper.	
peppergrass		(a) Any herb of the cruciferous genus Lepidium, especially the garden peppergrass, or garden cress, Lepidium sativum; -- called also pepperwort.	
pepperidge		A North American tree (Nyssa multiflora) with very tough wood, handsome oval polished leaves, and very acid berries, -- the sour gum, or common tupelo.	
peppering		Hot; pungent; peppery.	
peppermint		(Bot.) An aromatic and pungent plant of the genus Mentha (M. piperita), much used in medicine and confectionery.	
pepperwort		See Peppergrass — (a) Any herb of the cruciferous genus Lepidium, especially the garden peppergrass, or garden cress, Lepidium sativum; -- called also pepperwort.	
peppery		Of or pertaining to pepper; having the qualities of pepper; hot; pungent.	
pepsin		An unorganized proteolytic ferment or enzyme contained in the secretory glands of the stomach.	
pepsinhydrochloric		Same as Peptohydrochloric.	
pepsinogen		The antecedent of the ferment pepsin.	
peptic		Relating to digestion; promoting digestion; digestive; as, peptic sauces.	
peptics		The science of digestion.	
peptogen		A substance convertible into peptone.	
peptogenic		Same as Peptogenous.	
peptogenous		Capable of yielding, or being converted into, peptone.	
peptohydrochloric		Designating a hypothetical acid (called peptohydrochloric acid, pepsinhydrochloric acid, and chloropeptic acid) which is supposed to be formed when pepsin and dilute (0.1-0.4 per cent) hydrochloric acid are mixed together.	
peptone		(a) The soluble and diffusible substance or substances into which albuminous portions of the food are transformed by the action of the gastric and pancreatic juices.	
peptonize		To convert into peptone; to digest or dissolve by means of a proteolytic ferment; as, peptonized food.	
peptonoid		A substance related to peptone.	
peptonuria		The presence of peptone, or a peptonelike body, in the urine.	
peptotoxine		A toxic alkaloid found occasionally associated with the peptones formed from fibrin by pepsinhydrochloric acid.	
pequots		A tribe of Indians who formerly inhabited Eastern Connecticut.	
per		Through; by means of; through the agency of; by; for; for each; as, per annum; per capita, by heads, or according to individuals; per curiam, by the court; per se, by itself, of itself.	Latin per.
per-		A prefix used to signify through, throughout, by, for, or as an intensive as perhaps, by hap or chance; perennial, that lasts throughout the year; perforce, through or by force; perfoliate, perforate; perspicuous…	
peract	Obsolete	To go through with; to perform.	Latin peractus.
peracute		Very sharp; very violent; as, a peracute fever.	
peradventure		By chance; perhaps; it may be; if; supposing.	Middle English peraventure, from Old French par aventure.
peraeopod		One of the thoracic legs of a crustacean. See Illust. of Crustacea.	
peragrate	Obsolete	To travel over or through.	Latin peragratus.
peragration	Obsolete	The act or state of passing through any space; as, the peragration of the moon in her monthly revolution.	
perambulate		To walk through or over; especially, to travel over for the purpose of surveying or examining; to inspect by traversing; specifically, to inspect officially the boundaries of, as of a town or parish…	Latin perambulo.
perambulation		The act of perambulating; traversing.	
perambulator		One who perambulates.	
perameles		Any marsupial of the genus Perameles, which includes numerous species found in Australia.	
perbend		See Perpender — a large stone reaching through a wall so as to appear on both sides of it, and acting as a binder; -- called also perbend, perpend stone, and perpent stone.	
perbreak		See Parbreak — to throw out; to vomit.	
perbromate		A salt of perbromic acid.	
perbromic		Pertaining to, or designating, the highest oxygen acid, HBrO4, of bromine.	
perbromide		A bromide having a higher proportion of bromine than any other bromide of the same substance or series.	
perca		A genus of fishes, including the fresh-water perch.	
percale		A fine cotton fabric, having a linen finish, and often printed on one side, -- used for women's and children's wear.	French percale.
percaline		A fine kind of French cotton goods, usually of one color.	
percarbide		A compound containing a relatively large amount of carbon.	
percarburet	Passing out of use	A percarbide.	
percarbureted		Combined with a relatively large amount of carbon.	
percase	Obsolete	Perhaps; perchance.	Middle English per cas.
perce	Obsolete	To pierce.	
perceivable		Capable of being perceived; perceptible. -- Per*ceiv"a*bly, adv.	
perceivance	Obsolete	Power of perceiving.	
perceive		To obtain knowledge of through the senses; to receive impressions from by means of the bodily organs; to take cognizance of the existence, character, or identity of, by means of the senses; to see, hear, or feel; as…	Middle English perceiven, from Old French ''[[percevoir]], [[perceveir]]'', from Latin percipere.
perceiver		One who perceives (in any of the senses of the verb).	
percely	Obsolete	Parsley.	
percentage		A certain rate per cent; the allowance, duty, rate of interest, discount, or commission, on a hundred.	Latin ''[[per]] [[centum]]''.
percept		That which is perceived.	Latin perceptum.
perceptibility		The quality or state of being perceptible; as, the perceptibility of light or color.	
perceptible		Capable of being perceived; cognizable; discernible; perceivable.	
perception		The act of perceiving; cognizance by the senses or intellect; apperhension by the bodily organs, or by the mind, of what is presented to them; discernment; apperhension; cognition.	French perception, from Latin perceptio.
perceptive		Of or pertaining to the act or power of perceiving; having the faculty or power of perceiving; used in perception.	
perceptivity		The quality or state of being perceptive; power of perception.	
percesoces		An order of fishes including the gray mullets (Mugil), the barracudas, the silversides, and other related fishes.	
perch		Any fresh-water fish of the genus Perca and of several other allied genera of the family Percidæ, as the common American or yellow perch (Perca flavescens, or Americana), and the European perch (P. fluviatilis).	French perche, from Latin pertica.
perchance		By chance; perhaps; peradventure.	
perchant		A bird tied by the foot, to serve as decoy to other birds by its fluttering.	
percher		One who, or that which, perches.	
percheron		One of a breed of draught horses originating in Perche, an old district of France; -- called also Percheron-Norman.	
perchlorate		A salt of perchloric acid.	
perchloric		Pertaining to, or designating, the highest oxygen acid (HClO4), of chlorine; -- called also hyperchloric.	
perchloride		A chloride having a higher proportion of chlorine than any other chloride of the same substance or series.	
perchromic		Pertaining to, or designating, a certain one of the highly oxidized compounds of chromium, which has a deep blue color, and is produced by the action of hydrogen peroxide.	
perciform		Pertaining to the Perciformes.	
perciformes		An extensive tribe or suborder of fishes, including the true perches (Percidæ); the pondfishes (Centrarchidæ); the sciænoids (Sciænidæ); the sparoids (Sparidæ); the serranoids (Serranidæ), and some other related families.	
percipience		The faculty, act or power of perceiving; perception.	
percipiency		The faculty, act or power of perceiving; perception.	
percipient		Having the faculty of perception; perceiving; as, a percipient being.	
perclose	Obsolete	Conclusion; end.	
percoid		Belonging to, or resembling, the perches, or family Percidæ. -- n.	Latin perca, from Greek πέρκη.
percoidea		Same as Perciformes.	
percolate		To cause to pass through fine interstices, as a liquor; to filter; to strain.	Latin percolare.
percolation		The act or process of percolating, or filtering; filtration; straining.	
percolator		One who, or that which, filters.	
percomorphi		A division of fishes including the perches and related kinds.	
perculaced		Latticed. See Lattice, n., 2.	
percurrent		Running through the entire length.	Latin percurrens.
percursory		Running over slightly or in haste; cursory.	
percuss		To strike smartly; to strike upon or against; as, to percuss the chest in medical examination.	Old French percussir, from Latin percussus.
percussion		The act of percussing, or striking one body against another; forcible collision, esp. such as gives a sound or report.	Latin percussio.
percussive		Striking against; percutient; as, percussive force.	
percutient		Striking; having the power of striking. -- n.	
perdicine		Of or pertaining to the family Perdicidæ, or partridges.	
perdie		See Parde — certainly; surely; truly; verily; -- originally an oath.	
perdifoil		A deciduous plant; -- opposed to Ant: evergreen.	
perdition		Entire loss; utter destruction; ruin; esp., the utter loss of the soul, or of final happiness in a future state; future misery or eternal death.	Old French perdiciun, from Latin perditio.
perditionable		Capable of being ruined; worthy of perdition.	
perdix		A genus of birds including the common European partridge.	
perdu		A soldier sent on a forlorn hope.	
perdue		Lost to view; in concealment or ambush; close.	
perduellion		Treason.	Latin perduellio.
perdulous	Obsolete	Lost; thrown away.	
perdurability	Archaic	Durability; lastingness.	
perdurable	Archaic	Very durable; lasting; continuing long.	
perdurance	Archaic	Long continuance.	
perduration	Archaic	Long continuance.	
perdure	Archaic	To last or endure for a long time; to be perdurable or lasting.	
perdy	Obsolete	Truly. See Parde.	
peregal	Obsolete	Fully equal.	
peregrinate	Obsolete	To travel from place to place, or from one country to another; hence, to sojourn in foreign countries.	Latin peregrinatus.
peregrination		A traveling from one country to another; a wandering; sojourn in foreign countries.	
peregrinator		One who peregrinates; one who travels about.	
peregrine		Foreign; not native; extrinsic or from without; exotic.	
peregrinity		Travel; wandering.	
perel	Obsolete	Apparel.	
perempt		To destroy; to defeat.	
peremption	Obsolete	A quashing; a defeating.	
peremptorily		In a peremptory manner; absolutely; positively.	
peremptoriness		The quality of being peremptory; positiveness.	
peremptory		Precluding debate or expostulation; not admitting of question or appeal; positive; absolute; decisive; conclusive; final.	Anglo-Norman peremptorie.
perennial		ing or continuing through the year; as, perennial fountains.	
perennially		In a perennial manner.	
perennibranchiata		Those Batrachia which retain their gills through life, as the menobranchus.	
perennibranchiate		(Anat.) Having branchæ, or gills, through life; -- said especially of certain Amphibia, like the menobranchus.	
perennity		The quality of being perennial.	Latin perennitas.
pererration		A wandering, or rambling, through various places.	Latin pererrare.
perfect		Brought to consummation or completeness; completed; not defective nor redundant; having all the properties or qualities requisite to its nature and kind; without flaw, fault, or blemish; without error; mature; whole; pure; sound…	Middle English perfit, from Old French parfit, from Latin perfectus.
perfecter		One who, or that which, makes perfect.	
perfectibilian		A perfectionist.	
perfectibilist		A perfectionist. See also Illuminati,	
perfectibility		The quality or state of being perfectible.	
perfectible		Capable of becoming, or being made, perfect.	
perfection		The quality or state of being perfect or complete, so that nothing requisite is wanting; entire development; consummate culture, skill, or moral excellence; the highest attainable state or degree of excellence; maturity; as…	
perfectional		Of or pertaining to perfection; characterized by perfection.	
perfectionate		To perfect.	
perfectionism		The doctrine of the Perfectionists.	
perfectionist		One pretending to perfection; esp., one pretending to moral perfection; one who believes that persons may and do attain to moral perfection and sinlessness in this life.	
perfectionment		The act of bringing to perfection, or the state of having attained to perfection.	
perfective		Tending or conducing to make perfect, or to bring to perfection; -- usually followed by of.	
perfectively		In a perfective manner.	
perfectly		In a perfect manner or degree; in or to perfection; completely; wholly; throughly; faultlessly.	
perfectness		The quality or state of being perfect; perfection. iii. 14.	
perfervid		Very fervid; too fervid; glowing; ardent.	Latin perfervidus.
perficient		Making or doing throughly; efficient; effectual.	
perfidious		Guilty of perfidy; violating good faith or vows; false to trust or confidence reposed; teacherous; faithless; as, a perfidious friend.	
perfidiously		In a perfidious manner.	
perfidiousness		The quality of being perfidious; perfidy.	
perfidy		The act of violating faith or allegiance; violation of a promise or vow, or of trust reposed; faithlessness; teachery.	Latin perfidus.
perfit	Obsolete	Perfect.	
perfix	Obsolete	To fix surely; to appoint.	
perflable	Obsolete	Capable of being blown through.	Latin perflabilis.
perflate	Obsolete	To blow through.	
perflation	Obsolete	The act of perflating.	Latin perflatio.
perfoliate		(Bot.) Having the basal part produced around the stem; -- said of leaves which the stem apparently passes directory through.	
perforata		(a) A division of corals including those that have a porous texture, as Porites and Madrepora; -- opposed to Aporosa.	
perforate		To bore through; to pierce through with a pointed instrument; to make a hole or holes through by boring or piercing; to pierce or penetrate the surface of.	
perforated		Pierced with a hole or holes, or with pores; having transparent dots resembling holes.	
perforation		The act of perforating, or of boring or piercing through.	
perforative		Having power to perforate or pierce.	
perforator		One who, or that which, perforates; esp., a cephalotome.	
perforce	Obsolete	By force; of necessary; at any rate.	Middle English par force.
perform		To carry through; to bring to completion; to achieve; to accomplish; to execute; to do.	Middle English performen.
performable		Admitting of being performed, done, or executed; practicable.	
performance		The act of performing; the carrying into execution or action; execution; achievement; accomplishment; representation by action; as, the performance of an undertaking of a duty.	
performer		One who performs, accomplishes, or fulfills; as, a good promiser, but a bad performer; especially, one who shows skill and training in any art; as, a performer of the drama; a performer on the harp.	
perfricate		To rub over.	
perfumatory		Emitting perfume; perfuming.	
perfume		To fill or impregnate with a perfume; to scent.	Middle French parfum.
perfumer		One who, oe that which, perfumes.	
perfumery		Etym: The art of preparing perfumes.	
perfunctorily		In a perfunctory manner; formally; carelessly.	
perfunctoriness		The quality or state of being perfunctory.	
perfunctory		Done merely to get rid of a duty; performed mechanically and as a thing of rote; done in a careless and superficial manner; characterized by indifference; as, perfunctory admonitions.	Latin perfunctorius.
perfuncturate		To perform in a perfunctory manner; to do negligently.	
perfuse		To suffuse; to fill full or to excess.	
perfusion		The act of perfusing.	Latin perfusio.
perfusive		Of a nature to flow over, or to spread through.	
pergamenous		Like parchment.	
pergamentaceous		Like parchment.	
pergola		Lit., an arbor or bower; specif.: (Italian art) An arbor or trellis treated architecturally, as with stone columns or similar massive structure.	Italian pergola, from Latin pergula.
pergolo		A continuous colonnade or arcade; -- applied to the decorative groups of windows, as in Venetian palazzi.	
perhaps		By chance; peradventure; perchance; it may be.	
peri		An imaginary being, male or female, like an elf or fairy, represented as a descendant of fallen angels, excluded from paradise till penance is accomplished.	Persian پری.
peri-		A prefix used to signify around, by, near, over, beyond, or to give an intensive sense; as, perimeter, the measure around; perigee, point near the earth; periergy, work beyond what is needed; perispherical, quite spherical.	Greek περί.
periagua		See Pirogue — a dugout canoe; by extension, any small boat.	Spanish piragua.
perianth		(a) The leaves of a flower generally, especially when the calyx and corolla are not readily distinguished.	
perianthium		The perianth.	
periapt		A charm worn as a protection against disease or mischief; an amulet.	
periastral		Among or around the stars.	
periastron		That point, in the real or apparent orbit of one star revolving around another, at which the former is nearest to the latter.	
periauger		See Pirogue — a dugout canoe; by extension, any small boat.	
periblast		The protoplasmic matter which surrounds the entoblast, or cell nucleus, and undergoes segmentation. -- Per`i*blas"tic, a.	
periblem		Nascent cortex, or immature cellular bark.	
peribolos		In ancient architecture, an inclosed court, esp., one surrounding a temple.	Greek περίβολος.
peribranchial		Surrounding the branchiæ; as, a peribranchial cavity.	
pericambium		A layer of thin-walled young cells in a growing stem, in which layer certain new vessels originate.	
pericardiac		Of or pertaining to pericardium; situated around the heart.	
pericardial		Of or pertaining to pericardium; situated around the heart.	
pericardian		Pericardiac.	
pericardic		Pericardiac.	
pericarditus		Inflammation of the pericardium.	
pericardium		The double baglike fold of serous membrane which incloses the heart.	
pericarp		The ripened ovary; the walls of the fruit. See Illusts. of Capsule, Drupe, and Legume.	French péricarpe, from Latin pericarpium, from Greek περικάρπιον.
pericarpial		Of or pertaining to a pericarp.	
pericarpic		Of or pertaining to a pericarp.	
pericellular		Surrounding a cell; as, the pericellular lymph spaces surrounding ganglion cells.	
perichaeth		The leafy involucre surrounding the fruit stalk of mosses; perichætium; perichete.	
perichaetial		Of or pertaining to the perichæth.	
perichaetium		Same as Perichæth.	
perichaetous		Surrounded by setæ; -- said of certain earthworms (genus Perichætus).	
perichete		Same as Perichæth.	
perichondrial		Of or pertaining to the perichondrium; situated around cartilage.	
perichondritis		Inflammation of the perichondrium.	
perichondrium		The membrane of fibrous connective tissue which closely invests cartilage, except where covering articular surfaces.	
perichordal		Around the notochord; as, a perichordal column. See Epichordal.	
periclase		A grayish or dark green mineral, consisting essentially of magnesia (magnesium oxide), occurring in granular forms or in isometric crystals.	
periclasite		A grayish or dark green mineral, consisting essentially of magnesia (magnesium oxide), occurring in granular forms or in isometric crystals.	
periclinium		The involucre which surrounds the common receptacle in composite flowers.	
periclitate	Obsolete	To endanger.	
periclitation	Obsolete	Trial; experiment.	
pericope		A selection or extract from a book; especially (Theol.), a selection from the Bible, appointed to be read in the churches or used as a text for a sermon.	
pericranial		Of or pertaining to the pericranium.	
pericranium		The periosteum which covers the cranium externally; the region around the cranium.	
periculous	Obsolete	Dangerous; full of peril.	Latin periculosus.
periculum		In a narrower, judicial sense: Accident or casus, as distinguished from dolus and culpa, and hence relieving one from the duty of performing an obligation.	
pericystitis		Inflammation of the tissues surrounding the bladder.	
periderm		(Bot.) The outer layer of bark.	
peridiastole		The almost inappreciable time which elapses between the systole and the diastole of the heart.	
peridium		The envelope or coat of certain fungi, such as the puffballs and earthstars.	
peridot		Chrysolite.	Anglo-Norman peridou.
peridotite		An eruptive rock characterized by the presence of chrysolite (peridot).	
peridrome		The space between the columns and the wall of the cella, in a Greek or a Roman temple.	
periecians		See Perioecians — those who live on the same parallel of latitude but on opposite meridians, so that it is noon in one place when it is midnight in the other.	
perienteron		The primitive perivisceral cavity.	
periergy		(Rhet.) A bombastic or labored style.	
periganglionic		Surrounding a ganglion; as, the periganglionic glands of the frog.	
perigastric		Surrounding the stomach; -- applied to the body cavity of Bryozoa and various other Invertebrata.	
perigean		Pertaining to the perigee.	
perigee		That point in the orbit of the moon which is nearest to the earth; -- opposed to Ant: apogee.	
perigenesis		A theory which explains inheritance by the transmission of the type of growth force possessed by one generation to another.	
perigenetic		Of or pertaining to perigenesis.	
perigeum		That point in the orbit of the moon which is nearest to the earth; -- opposed to Ant: apogee.	
perigone		(Bot.) (a) Any organ inclosing the essential organs of a flower; a perianth.	
perigonium		Same as Perigone.	
perigraph		A careless or inaccurate delineation of anything.	
perigynium		Some unusual appendage about the pistil, as the bottle-shaped body in the sedges, and the bristles or scales in some other genera of the Sedge family, or Cyperaceæ.	
perigynous		Having the ovary free, but the petals and stamens borne on the calyx; -- said of flower such as that of the cherry or peach.	
perihelion		That point of the orbit of a planet or comet which is nearest to the sun; -- opposed to Ant: aphelion.	
perihelium		That point of the orbit of a planet or comet which is nearest to the sun; -- opposed to Ant: aphelion.	
peril	Obsolete	Danger; risk; hazard; jeopardy; exposure of person or property to injury, loss, or destruction.	Old French peril, from Latin periculum.
perilla		A genus of labiate herbs, of which one species (Perilla ocimoides, or P.	
perilous		Full of, attended with, or involving, peril; dangerous; hazardous; as, a perilous undertaking.	Old French perilleus.
perilymph		The fluid which surrounds the membranous labyrinth of the internal ear, and separates it from the walls of the chambers in which the labyrinth lies.	
perilymphangial		Around, or at the side of, a lymphatic vessel.	
perilymphatic		(a) Pertaining to, or containing, perilymph. (b) Perilymphangial.	
perimeter		(Geom.) The outer boundary of a body or figure, or the sum of all the sides.	Greek περίμετρος.
perimetric		Of or pertaining to the perimeter, or to perimetry; as, a perimetric chart of the eye.	
perimetrical		Of or pertaining to the perimeter, or to perimetry; as, a perimetric chart of the eye.	
perimetry		The art of using the perimeter; measurement of the field of vision.	
perimorph		A crystal of one species inclosing one of another species. See Endomorph.	
perimysial		(a) Surrounding a muscle or muscles. (b) Of or pertaining to the perimysium.	
perimysium		The connective tissue sheath which surrounds a muscle, and sends partitions inwards between the bundles of muscular fibers.	
perinaeum		See Perineum — the region which is included within the outlet of the pelvis, and is traversed by the urinogenital canal and the rectum.	
perineal		Of or pertaining to the perineum.	
perineoplasty		The act or process of restoring an injured perineum.	
perineorrhaphy		The operation of sewing up a ruptured perineum.	
perinephritis		Inflammation of the cellular tissue around the kidney. -- Per`i*ne*phrit"ic, a.	
perineum		The region which is included within the outlet of the pelvis, and is traversed by the urinogenital canal and the rectum.	
perineurial		Surrounding nerves or nerve fibers; of or pertaining to the perineurium.	
perineurium		The connective tissue sheath which surrounds a bundle of nerve fibers.	
perinuclear		Of or pertaining to a nucleus; situated around a nucleus; as, the perinuclear protoplasm.	
period		A portion of time as limited and determined by some recurring phenomenon, as by the completion of a revolution of one of the heavenly bodies; a division of time, as a series of years, months, or days…	Middle English periode, from Middle French periode, from Latin periodus, from Greek περίοδος.
periodate		A salt of periodic acid.	
periodic		Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, the highest oxygen acid (HIO	French périodique, from Latin periodicus.
periodical		Performed in a period, or regular revolution; proceeding in a series of successive circuits; as, the periodical motion of the planets round the sun.	
periodicalist		One who publishes, or writes for, a periodical.	
periodically		In a periodical manner.	
periodicalness		Periodicity.	
periodicity		The quality or state of being periodical, or regularly recurrent; as, the periodicity in the vital phenomena of plants.	French périodicité.
periodide		An iodide containing a higher proportion of iodine than any other iodide of the same substance or series.	
periodontal		Surrounding the teeth.	
periodoscope		A table or other means for calculating the periodical functions of women.	
perioeci		Those who live on the same parallel of latitude but on opposite meridians, so that it is noon in one place when it is midnight in the other.	
perioecians		Those who live on the same parallel of latitude but on opposite meridians, so that it is noon in one place when it is midnight in the other.	
periople		The external smooth horny layer of the hoof of the horse and allied animals.	French périople.
perioplic		Of or pertaining to the periople; connected with the periople.	
periosteal		Situated around bone; of or pertaining to the periosteum.	
periosteum		The membrane of fibrous connective tissue which closely invests all bones except at the articular surfaces.	
periostitis		Inflammation of the periosteum.	
periostracum		A chitinous membrane covering the exterior of many shells; -- called also epidermis.	
periotic		Surrounding, or pertaining to the region surrounding, the internal ear; as, the periotic capsule. -- n.	
peripatecian	Obsolete	A peripatetic.	
peripatetic		Walking about; itinerant.	French peripatetique, from Latin peripateticus, from Greek περιπατητικός.
peripatetical		Peripatetic.	
peripateticism		The doctrines or philosophical system of the peripatetics. See Peripatetic, n., 2.	
peripatus		A genus of lowly organized arthropods, found in South Africa, Australia, and tropical America.	
peripetalous		Surrounding, or situated about, the petals.	
peripheral		Of or pertaining to a periphery; constituting a periphery; peripheric.	
peripheric		See Peripheral — of or pertaining to a periphery; constituting a periphery; peripheric.	
peripherical		See Peripheral — of or pertaining to a periphery; constituting a periphery; peripheric.	
periphery		The outside or superficial portions of a body; the surface.	Middle English periferie, from Old French peripherie, from Latin peripheria, from Greek περιφέρεια.
periphrase		The use of more words than are necessary to express the idea; a roundabout, or indirect, way of speaking; circumlocution.	Latin periphrasis, from Greek περίφρασις.
periphrasis		See Periphrase — the use of more words than are necessary to express the idea; a roundabout, or indirect, way of speaking; circumlocution.	
periphrastic		Expressing, or expressed, in more words than are necessary; characterized by periphrase; circumlocutory.	Greek περίφρασις.
periphrastical		Expressing, or expressed, in more words than are necessary; characterized by periphrase; circumlocutory.	
periphrastically		With circumlocution.	
periplast		Same as Periblast. -- Per`i*plas"tic, a.	
peripneumonia		Pneumonia. (Obsoles.)	
peripneumonic		Of or pertaining to peripneumonia.	Latin peripneumonicus.
peripneumony		Pneumonia. (Obsoles.)	
periproct		The region surrounding the anus, particularly of echinoderms.	
periproctitis		Inflammation of the tissues about the rectum.	
peripteral		Having columns on all sides; -- said of an edifice. See Apteral.	
peripterous		(Zoöl.) Feathered all around.	
periptery		The region surrounding a moving body, such as the wing of a bird or a gliding aëroplane, within which cyclic or vortical motion of the air occur.	
perique		A kind of tobacco with medium-sized leaf, small stem, tough and gummy fiber, raised in Louisiana, and cured in its own juices, so as to be very dark colored, usually black.	
perisarc		The outer, hardened integument which covers most hydroids.	
periscian		Having the shadow moving all around.	
periscians		Those who live within a polar circle, whose shadows, during some summer days, will move entirely round, falling toward every point of the compass.	
periscii		Those who live within a polar circle, whose shadows, during some summer days, will move entirely round, falling toward every point of the compass.	
periscope		A general or comprehensive view.	
periscopic		Viewing all around, or on all sides.	
perish	Obsolete	To be destroyed; to pass away; to become nothing; to be lost; to die; hence, to wither; to waste away.	Middle English perishen.
perishability		Perishableness.	
perishable		Liable to perish; subject to decay, destruction, or death; as, perishable goods; our perishable bodies.	
perishableness		The quality or state of being perishable; liability to decay or destruction.	
perishably		In a perishable degree or manner.	
perishment		The act of perishing.	
perisoma		Same as Perisome.	
perisome		The entire covering of an invertebrate animal, as echinoderm or coelenterate; the integument.	
perisperm		The albumen of a seed, especially that portion which is formed outside of the embryo sac. -- Per`i*sper"mic, a.	French périsperme.
perispheric		Exactly spherical; globular.	
perispherical		Exactly spherical; globular.	
perispomenon		A word which has the circumflex accent on the last syllable.	
perispore		The outer covering of a spore.	
perissad		Odd; not even; -- said of elementary substances and of radicals whose valence is not divisible by two without a remainder.	
perisse	Obsolete	To perish.	
perissodactyl		One of the Perissodactyla.	
perissodactyla		A division of ungulate mammals, including those that have an odd number of toes, as the horse, tapir, and rhinoceros; -- opposed to Artiodactyla.	
perissological		Redundant or excessive in words.	
perissology		Superfluity of words.	Latin perissologia.
peristalsis		Peristaltic contraction or action.	
peristaltic		Applied to the peculiar wormlike wave motion of the intestines and other similar structures, produced by the successive contraction of the muscular fibers of their walls, forcing their contents onwards; as…	
peristeria		A genus of orchidaceous plants. See Dove plant.	
peristerion		The herb vervain (Verbena officinalis).	
peristerite		A variety of albite, whitish and slightly iridescent like a pigeon's neck.	
peristeromorphous		Like or pertaining to the pigeons or Columbæ.	
peristeropodous		Having pigeonlike feet; -- said of those gallinaceous birds that rest on all four toes, as the curassows and megapods.	
peristole		Peristaltic action, especially of the intestines.	
peristoma		Same as Peristome.	
peristome		(Bot.) The fringe of teeth around the orifice of the capsule of mosses.	
peristomial		Of or pertaining to a peristome.	
peristomium		Same as Peristome.	
peristrephic		Turning around; rotatory; revolving; as, a peristrephic painting (of a panorama).	
peristyle		A range of columns with their entablature, etc.; specifically, a complete system of columns, whether on all sides of a court, or surrounding a building, such as the cella of a temple.	French péristyle.
perisystole		The interval between the diastole and systole of the heart.	
perite	Obsolete	Skilled.	
perithecium		An organ in certain fungi and lichens, surrounding and enveloping the masses of fructification.	
peritomous		Cleaving in more directions than one, parallel to the axis.	
peritonaeum		Same as Peritoneum.	
peritoneal		Of or pertaining to the peritoneum.	
peritoneum		The smooth serous membrane which lines the cavity of the abdomen, or the whole body cavity when there is no diaphragm, and, turning back, surrounds the viscera, forming a closed, or nearly closed, sac.	
peritonitis		Inflammation of the peritoneum.	
peritracheal		Surrounding the tracheæ.	
peritreme		(a) That part of the integument of an insect which surrounds the spiracles.	
peritricha		A division of ciliated Infusoria having a circle of cilia around the oral disk and sometimes another around the body.	
peritrochium		The wheel which, together with the axle, forms the axis in peritrochio, which see under Axis.	
peritropal		Rotatory; circuitous.	
peritropous		Peritropal.	
perityphlitis		Inflammation of the connective tissue about the cæcum.	
periuterine		Surrounding the uterus.	
perivascular		Around the blood vessels; as, perivascular lymphatics.	
perivertebral		Surrounding the vertebræ.	
perivisceral		Around the viscera; as, the perivisceral cavity.	
perivitelline		Situated around the vitellus, or between the vitellus and zona pellucida of an ovum.	
periwig		A headdress of false hair, usually covering the whole head, and representing the natural hair; a wig.	
periwinkle		Any small marine gastropod shell of the genus Littorina.	
perjenet	Obsolete	A kind of pear.	
perjure		To cause to violate an oath or a vow; to cause to make oath knowingly to what is untrue; to make guilty of perjury; to forswear; to corrupt; -- often used reflexively; as, he perjured himself.	
perjured		Guilty of perjury; having sworn falsely; forsworn.	
perjurer		One who is guilty of perjury; one who perjures or forswears, in any sense.	
perjurious	Obsolete	Guilty of perjury; containing perjury.	
perjurous	Obsolete	Guilty of perjury; containing perjury.	
perjury		False swearing.	
perk		To make trim or smart; to straighten up; to erect; to make a jaunty or saucy display of; as, to perk the ears; to perk up one's head.	
perkin		A kind of weak perry.	
perkinism		A remedial treatment, by drawing the pointed extremities of two rods, each of a different metal, over the affected part; tractoration, -- first employed by Dr. Elisha Perkins of Norwich, Conn.	
perky		Perk; pert; jaunty; trim.	
perlaceous		Pearly; resembling pearl.	
perlid		Any insect of the genus Perla, or family Perlidæ. See Stone fly, under Stone.	
perlite		Same as Pearlite.	
perlitic		Relating to or resembling perlite, or pearlstone; as, the perlitic structure of certain rocks.	
perlous	Obsolete	Perilous.	
perlustration	Archaic	The act of viewing all over.	
permanable	Obsolete	Permanent; durable.	
permanence		The quality or state of being permanent; continuance in the same state or place; duration; fixedness; as, the permanence of institutions; the permanence of nature.	Latin permanentia.
permanency		The quality or state of being permanent; continuance in the same state or place; duration; fixedness; as, the permanence of institutions; the permanence of nature.	
permanent		Continuing in the same state, or without any change that destroys form or character; remaining unaltered or unremoved; abiding; durable; fixed; stable; lasting; as, a permanent impression.	
permanently		In a permanent manner.	
permanganate		A salt of permanganic acid.	
permanganic		Pertaining to, or designating, one of the higher acids of manganese, HMnO4, which forms salts called permanganates.	
permansion	Obsolete	Continuance.	Latin permansio.
permeability		The quality or state of being permeable.	
permeable		Capable of being permeated, or passed through; yielding passage; passable; penetrable; -- used especially of substances which allow the passage of fluids; as, wood is permeable to oil; glass is permeable to light.	Latin permeabilis.
permeably		In a permeable manner.	
permeance		Permeation; specif. (Magnetism), the reciprocal of reluctance.	
permeant		Passing through; permeating.	
permeate		To pass through the pores or interstices of; to penetrate and pass through without causing rupture or displacement; -- applied especially to fluids which pass through substances of loose texture; as, water permeates sand.	Latin permeātus.
permeation		The act of permeating, passing through, or spreading throughout, the pores or interstices of any substance.	
permian		Belonging or relating to the period, and also to the formation, next following the Carboniferous, and regarded as closing the Carboniferous age and Paleozoic era. -- n.	
permians		A tribe belonging to the Finnic race, and inhabiting a portion of Russia.	
permiscible		Capable of being mixed.	
permiss	Obsolete	A permitted choice; a rhetorical figure in which a thing is committed to the decision of one's opponent.	
permissibility		The quality of being permissible; permissibleness; allowableness.	
permissible		That may be permitted; allowable; admissible. -- Per*mis si*bly, adv.	
permission		The act of permitting or allowing; formal consent; authorization; leave; license or liberty granted.	Middle English permitten, from Middle French permettre, from Latin permittere.
permissive		Permitting; granting leave or liberty.	
permissively		In a permissive manner.	
permistion		The act of mixing; the state of being mingled; mixture.	
permit		To grant (one) express license or liberty to do an act; to authorize; to give leave; -- followed by an infinitive.	Latin permitto.
permittance		The act of permitting; allowance; permission; leave.	
permittee		One to whom a permission or permit is given.	
permitter		One who permits.	
permix	Obsolete	To mix; to mingle.	
permixtion		See Permission — the act of permitting or allowing; formal consent; authorization; leave; license or liberty granted.	
permulator		A special form of rotary converter with stationary commutator and rotating brushes…	
permutable		Capable of being permuted; exchangeable. -- Per*mut a*bly, adv.	
permutation		The act of permuting; exchange of the thing for another; mutual transference; interchange.	Old French permutacion.
permute		To interchange; to transfer reciprocally.	
permuter		One who permutes.	
pern	Obsolete	To take profit of; to make profitable.	
pernancy		A taking or reception, as the receiving of rents or tithes in kind, the receiving of profits.	Old French prenance.
pernel	Obsolete	See Pimpernel — a plant of the genus Anagallis, of which one species (A. arvensis) has small flowers, usually scarlet, but sometimes purple, blue, or white…	
pernicion	Obsolete	Destruction; perdition. hudibras.	
pernicious		Quick; swift (to burn).	
pernicity		Swiftness; celerity.	
pernio		A chilblain.	Latin pernio.
pernoctalian		One who watches or keeps awake all night.	
pernoctation		The act or state of passing the whole night; a remaining all night.	Latin pernoctatio.
pernor		One who receives the profits, as of an estate.	
perofskite		A titanate of lime occurring in octahedral or cubic crystals.	
perogue		See Pirogue — a dugout canoe; by extension, any small boat.	
peronate		A term applied to the stipes or stalks of certain fungi which are covered with a woolly substance which at length becomes powdery.	
peroneal		Of or pertaining to the fibula; in the region of the fibula.	
perorate	Colloquial	To make a peroration; to harangue.	
peroration		The concluding part of an oration; especially, a final summing up and enforcement of an argument.	
peroxidation		Act, process, or result of peroxidizing; oxidation to a peroxide.	
peroxide		An oxide containing more oxygen than some other oxide of the same element.	
peroxidize		To oxidize to the utmost degree, so as to form a peroxide.	
perpend		To weight carefully in the mind.	Latin perpendere.
perpender		A large stone reaching through a wall so as to appear on both sides of it, and acting as a binder; -- called also perbend, perpend stone, and perpent stone.	
perpendicle	Obsolete	Something hanging straight down; a plumb line.	
perpendicular		Exactly upright or vertical; pointing to the zenith; at right angles to the plane of the horizon; extending in a right line from any point toward the center of the earth.	Latin perpendiculum.
perpendicularity		The quality or state of being perpendicular.	
perpendicularly		In a perpendicular manner; vertically.	
perpension	Obsolete	Careful consideration; pondering.	
perpensity	Obsolete	Perpension.	
perpession	Obsolete	Suffering; endurance.	Latin perpessio.
perpetrable		Capable of being perpetrated.	
perpetrate		To do or perform; to carry through; to execute, commonly in a bad sense; to commit (as a crime, an offense); to be guilty of; as, to perpetrate a foul deed.	Latin perpetratus.
perpetration		The act of perpetrating; a doing; -- commonly used of doing something wrong, as a crime.	
perpetrator		One who perpetrates; esp., one who commits an offense or crime.	
perpetuable		Capable of being perpetuated or continued.	
perpetual		Neverceasing; continuing forever or for an unlimited time; unfailing; everlasting; continuous.	Latin perpetualis.
perpetually		In a perpetual manner; constantly; continually.	
perpetualty	Obsolete	The state or condition of being perpetual.	
perpetuance	Obsolete	Perpetuity.	
perpetuate		To make perpetual; to cause to endure, or to be continued, indefinitely; to preserve from extinction or oblivion; to eternize.	
perpetuation		The act of making perpetual, or of preserving from extinction through an endless existence, or for an indefinite period of time; continuance.	
perpetuity		The quality or state of being perpetual; as, the perpetuity of laws.	
perplex		To involve; to entangle; to make intricate or complicated, and difficult to be unraveled or understood; as, to perplex one with doubts.	
perplexed		Entangled, involved, or confused; hence, embarrassd; puzzled; doubtful; anxious. -- Per*plex ed*ness, n.	
perplexing		Embarrassing; puzzling; troublesome.	
perplexity		The quality or state of being perplexed or puzzled; complication; intricacy; entanglement; distraction of mind through doubt or difficulty; embarrassment; bewilderment; doubt.	
perplexiveness	Obsolete	The quality of being perplexing; tendency to perplex.	
perplexly	Obsolete	Perplexedly.	
perpotation	Obsolete	The act of drinking excessively; a drinking bout.	Latin perpotatio.
perquisite		Something gained from a place or employment over and above the ordinary salary or fixed wages for services rendered; especially, a fee allowed by law to an officer for a specific service.	Latin perquisitum.
perquisited	Obsolete	Supplied with perquisites.	
perquisition		A thorough inquiry of search.	
perradial		Situated around the radii, or radial tubes, of a radiate.	
perrie	Obsolete	Precious stones; jewels.	
perrier		A short mortar used formerly for throwing stone shot.	Old French perriere.
perron		An out-of-door flight of steps, as in a garden, leading to a terrace or to an upper story; -- usually applied to mediævel or later structures of some architectural pretensions.	
perroquet		See Paroquet, Parakeet.	
perruque		See Peruke — a wig; a periwig.	
perruquier		A marker of perukes or wigs.	
perry	Obsolete	A fermented liquor made from pears; pear cider.	
pers	Obsolete	Light blue; grayish blue; -- a term applied to different shades at different periods. -- n.	
persalt	Passing out of use	A term formerly given to the salts supposed to be formed respectively by neutralizing acids with certain peroxides.	
persant	Obsolete	Piercing.	
perscrutation		A thorough searching; a minute inquiry or scrutiny.	Latin perscrutatio.
persecot		See Persicot — a cordial made of the kernels of apricots, nectarines, etc., with refined spirit.	
persecute		To pursue in a manner to injure, grieve, or afflict; to beset with cruelty or malignity; to harass; especially, to afflict, harass, punish, or put to death, for adherence to a particular religious creed or mode of worship.	French persécuter, from Latin persequor.
persecution		The act or practice of persecuting; especially, the infliction of loss, pain, or death for adherence to a particular creed or mode of worship.	Latin persecutio.
persecutor		One who persecutes, or harasses.	
persecutrix		A woman who persecutes.	
perseid		One of a group of shooting stars which appear yearly about the 10th of August, and cross the heavens in paths apparently radiating from the constellation Perseus.	
perseus		(Astron.) A consellation of the northern hemisphere, near Taurus and Cassiopea.	
persever	Obsolete	To persevere.	
perseverance		The act of persevering; persistence in anything undertaken; continued pursuit or prosecution of any business, or enterprise begun.	
perseverant		Persevering. -- Per`se*ver"ant*ly, adv.	Middle English perseveraunt, from Middle French perseverant, from Latin perseverans.
persevere		To persist in any business or enterprise undertaken; to pursue steadily any project or course begun; to maintain a purpose in spite of counter influences, opposition, or discouragement; not to give or abandon what is undertaken.	Latin persévérer.
persevering		Characterized by perseverance; persistent. -- Per`se*ver"ing*ly, adv.	
persian		Of or pertaining to Persia, to the Persians, or to their language.	
persic		Of or relating to Persia. -- n.	
persicaria		See Lady's thumb.	
persico		= Persicot.	
persicot		A cordial made of the kernels of apricots, nectarines, etc., with refined spirit.	
persienne		Properly, printed calico, whether Oriental or of fanciful design with flowers, etc., in Western work.	
persiennes		Window blinds having movable slats, similar to Venetian blinds.	
persiflage		Frivolous or bantering talk; a frivolous manner of treating any subject, whether serious or otherwise; light raillery.	
persifleur		One who indulges in persiflage; a banterer; a quiz.	
persimmon		An American tree (Diospyros Virginiana) and its fruit, found from New York southward.	
persis		A kind of coloring matter obtained from lichens.	
persism		A Persian idiom.	
persist		To stand firm; to be fixed and unmoved; to stay; to continue steadfastly; especially, to continue fixed in a course of conduct against opposing motives; to persevere; -- sometimes conveying an unfavorable notion…	
persistence		The quality or state of being persistent; staying or continuing quality; hence, in an unfavorable sense, doggedness; obstinacy.	
persistency		The quality or state of being persistent; staying or continuing quality; hence, in an unfavorable sense, doggedness; obstinacy.	
persistent		Inclined to persist; having staying qualities; tenacious of position or purpose.	
persistently		In a persistent manner.	
persisting		Inclined to persist; tenacious of purpose; persistent. -- Per*sist"ing*ly, adv.	
persistive		See Persistent — inclined to persist; having staying qualities; tenacious of position or purpose.	
persolve	Obsolete	To pay wholly, or fully.	
person		The bodily form of a human being; body; outward appearance; as, of comely person.	Anglo-Norman parsone.
persona		Same as Person, n., 8.	Latin persona, from Etruscan 𐌘𐌄𐌓𐌔𐌖, from Greek πρόσωπον.
personable		Having a well-formed body, or person; graceful; comely; of good appearance; presentable; as, a personable man or woman.	Middle English personable.
personage		Form, appearance, or belongings of a person; the external appearance, stature, figure, air, and the like, of a person.	
personal		Pertaining to human beings as distinct from things.	Middle English personal.
personalism		The quality or state of being personal; personality.	
personality		That which constitutes distinction of person; individuality.	
personalize		To make personal.	
personally		In a personal manner; by bodily presence; in person; not by representative or substitute; as, to deliver a letter personally.	Middle English personally.
personalty		The state of being a person; personality.	
personate		To assume the character of; to represent by a fictitious appearance; to act the part of; hence, to counterfeit; to feign; as, he tried to personate his brother; a personated devotion.	Latin personatus.
personation		The act of personating, or conterfeiting the person or character of another.	
personator		One who personates.	
personeity		Personality.	
personification		The act of personifying; impersonation; embodiment.	
personifier		One who personifies.	
personify		To regard, treat, or represent as a person; to represent as a rational being.	
personize		To personify.	
personnel		The body of persons employed in some public service, as the army, navy, etc.; -- distinguished from matériel.	French personnel.
perspective		Pertaining to the art, or in accordance with the laws, of perspective.	
perspectively		According to the rules of perspective.	
perspectograph		An instrument for obtaining, and transferring to a picture, the points and outlines of objects, so as to represent them in their proper geometrical relations as viewed from some one point.	
perspectography		The science or art of delineating objects according to the laws of perspective; the theory of perspective.	
perspicable	Obsolete	Discernible.	Latin perspicabilis.
perspicacious		Having the power of seeing clearly; quick-sighted; sharp of sight.	
perspicacity		The state of being perspicacious; acuteness of sight or of intelligence; acute discernment.	
perspicacy	Obsolete	Perspicacity.	
perspicience	Obsolete	The act of looking sharply.	Latin perspicientia.
perspicil	Obsolete	An optical glass; a telescope.	Latin perspicilla.
perspicuity		The quality of being perspicuous to the understanding; clearness of expression or thought.	
perspicuous		Clear to the understanding; capable of being clearly understood; clear in thought or in expression; not obscure or ambiguous; as, a perspicuous writer; perspicuous statements. -- Per*spic u*ous*ness, n.	Latin perspicuus.
perspirability		The quality or state of being perspirable.	
perspirable		Capable of being perspired.	
perspiration		That which is excreted through the skin; sweat.	French perspiration.
perspirative		Performing the act of perspiration; perspiratory.	
perspiratory		Of, pertaining to, or producing, perspiration; as, the perspiratory ducts.	
perspire		(Physiol.) To excrete matter through the skin; esp., to excrete fluids through the pores of the skin; to sweat.	Old French perspirer, from Latin perspirare.
perstreperous	Obsolete	Noisy; obstreperous.	
perstringe		To criticise; to touch upon.	Latin perstringere.
persuadable		That may be persuaded. -- Per*suad a*bly, adv.	
persuade		To influence or gain over by argument, advice, entreaty, expostulation, etc.; to draw or incline to a determination by presenting sufficient motives.	Latin persuadeo.
persuaded		Prevailed upon; influenced by argument or entreaty; convinced. -- Per*suad ed*ness, n.	
persuader		One who, or that which, persuades or influences.	
persuasibility		Capability of being persuaded.	
persuasible		Capable of being persuaded; persuadable.	
persuasion		The act of persuading; the act of influencing the mind by arguments or reasons offered, or by anything that moves the mind or passions, or inclines the will to a determination.	
persuasive		Tending to persuade; having the power of persuading; as, persuasive eloquence.	Latin persuasivus.
persuasory		Persuasive.	
persulphate		A sulphate of the peroxide of any base.	
persulphide		A sulphide containing more sulphur than some other compound of the same elements; as, iron pyrites is a persulphide; -- formerly called persulphuret.	
persulphocyanate		A salt of persulphocyanic acid.	
persulphocyanic		Pertaining to, or designating, a yellow crystalline substance (called also perthiocyanic acid), analogous to sulphocyanic acid, but containing more sulphur.	
persulphocyanogen		An orange-yellow substance, produced by the action of chlorine or boiling dilute nitric acid and sulphocyanate of potassium; -- called also pseudosulphocyanogen, perthiocyanogen, and formerly sulphocyanogen.	
persulphuret	Obsolete	A persulphide.	
pert	Obsolete	Open; evident; apert.	
pertain		To belong; to have connection with, or dependence on, something, as an appurtenance, attribute, etc.; to appertain; as, saltness pertains to the ocean; flowers pertain to plant life.	Old French partenir.
perterebration	Obsolete	The act of boring through.	
perthiocyanogen		Same as Persulphocyanogen.	
perthite		A kind of feldspar consisting of a laminated intertexture of albite and orthoclase, usually of different colors. -- Per*thit"ic, a.	
pertinacious		Holding or adhering to any opinion, purpose, or design, with obstinacy; perversely persistent; obstinate; as, pertinacious plotters; a pertinacious beggar.	
pertinacity		The quality or state of being pertinacious; obstinacy; perseverance; persistency.	
pertinacy	Obsolete	The quality or state of being pertinent; pertinence.	
pertinate	Obsolete	Pertinacious.	
pertinately	Obsolete	Pertinaciously.	
pertinence		The quality or state of being pertinent; justness of relation to the subject or matter in hand; fitness; appositeness; relevancy; suitableness.	
pertinency		The quality or state of being pertinent; justness of relation to the subject or matter in hand; fitness; appositeness; relevancy; suitableness.	Latin pertinere.
pertinent		Belonging or related to the subject or matter in hand; fit or appropriate in any way; adapted to the end proposed; apposite; material; relevant; as, pertinent illustrations or arguments; pertinent evidence.	
pertly		In a pert manner.	
pertness		The quality or state of being pert.	
pertransient		Passing through or over.	Latin pertransiens.
perturb		To disturb; to agitate; to vex; to trouble; to disquiet.	Middle English perturben, from Old French perturber, from Latin perturbare.
perturbability		The quality or state of being perturbable.	
perturbable		Liable to be perturbed or agitated; liable to be disturbed or disquieted.	
perturbance		Disturbance; perturbation.	
perturbate	Obsolete	To perturb.	
perturbation		The act of perturbing, or the state of being perturbed; esp., agitation of mind.	
perturbational		Of or pertaining to perturbation, esp. to the perturbations of the planets.	
perturbative		Tending to cause perturbation; disturbing.	
perturbator		A perturber.	
perturbed		Agitated; disturbed; troubled.	
perturber		One who, or that which, perturbs, or cause perturbation.	
pertusate		Pierced at the apex.	
pertuse		Punched; pierced with, or having, holes.	
pertused		Punched; pierced with, or having, holes.	
pertusion		The act of punching or piercing with a pointed instrument; as, pertusion of a vein.	Latin pertusio.
pertussis		The whooping cough.	
peruke		A wig; a periwig.	French perruque.
perula		(Bot.) One of the scales of a leaf bud.	
perule		Same as Perula.	
perusal		The act of carefully viewing or examining.	
peruse		To observe; to examine with care.	
peruser		One who peruses.	
peruvian		Of or pertaining to Peru, in South America. -- n.	
pervade		To pass or flow through, as an aperture, pore, or interstice; to permeate.	
pervasion		The act of pervading, passing, or spreading through the whole extent of a thing.	Latin pervasio.
pervasive		Tending to pervade, or having power to spread throughout; of a pervading quality.	Latin pervasus.
perverse		Turned aside; hence, specifically, turned away from the right; willfully erring; wicked; perverted.	
perversed	Obsolete	Turned aside.	
perversedly	Obsolete	Perversely.	
perversely		In a perverse manner.	
perverseness		The quality or state of being perverse.	
perversion		The act of perverting, or the state of being perverted; a turning from truth or right; a diverting from the true intent or object; a change to something worse; a turning or applying to a wrong end or use.	Latin perversio.
perversity		The quality or state of being perverse; perverseness.	
perversive		Tending to pervert.	
pervert		To turn from truth, rectitude, or propriety; to divert from a right use, end, or way; to lead astray; to corrupt; also, to misapply; to misinterpret designedly; as, to pervert one's words.	Old French pervertir, from Latin perverto.
perverter		One who perverts (a person or thing).	
pervertible		Capable of being perverted.	
pervestigate	Obsolete	To investigate thoroughly.	
pervestigation	Obsolete	Thorough investigation.	Latin pervestigatio.
pervial	Obsolete	Pervious. -- Per"vi*al*ly, adv.	
pervicacious	Obsolete	Obstinate; willful; refractory. -- Per`vi*ca cious*ness, n.	Latin pervicax.
pervicacity	Obsolete	Obstinacy; pervicaciousness.	
pervicacy	Obsolete	Pervicacity.	Latin pervicacia.
pervigilation	Obsolete	Careful watching.	Latin pervigilatio.
pervious		Admitting passage; capable of being penetrated by another body or substance; permeable; as, a pervious soil…. pervious to winds, and open every way.	
perviousness		The quality or state of being pervious; as, the perviousness of glass.	
pervis		See Parvis — a court of entrance to, or an inclosed space before, a church; hence, a church porch; -- sometimes formerly used as place of meeting, as for lawyers.	
pery	Obsolete	A pear tree. See Pirie.	
pes		The distal segment of the hind limb of vertebrates, including the tarsus and foot.	
pesade		The motion of a horse when, raising his fore quarters, he keeps his hind feet on the ground without advancing; rearing.	
pesage		A fee, or toll, paid for the weighing of merchandise.	
pesane		See Pusane — a piece of armor for the breast; often, an addition to, or reënforcement of. the breastplate; -- called also pesane.	
pesanted	Obsolete	Made heavy or dull; debased.	
peschito		See Peshito — the earliest Syriac version of the Old Testament, translated from Hebrew; also, the incomplete Syriac version of the New Testament.	
peseta		A Spanish silver coin, and money of account, equal to about nineteen cents, and divided into 100 centesimos.	
peshito		The earliest Syriac version of the Old Testament, translated from Hebrew; also, the incomplete Syriac version of the New Testament.	
peshitto		The earliest Syriac version of the Old Testament, translated from Hebrew; also, the incomplete Syriac version of the New Testament.	
pesky	Colloquial	Pestering; vexatious; troublesome. Used also as an intensive.	
peso		A Spanish dollar; also, an Argentine, Chilian, Colombian, etc., coin, equal to from 75 cents to a dollar; also, a pound weight.	
pessary		(a) An instrument or device to be introduced into and worn in the vagina, to support the uterus, or remedy a malposition.	
pessimism		(Metaph.) The opinion or doctrine that everything in nature is ordered for or tends to the worst, or that the world is wholly evil; -- opposed to Ant: optimism.	Latin pessimus.
pessimist		(Metaph.) One who advocates the doctrine of pessimism; -- opposed to Ant: optimist.	
pessimistic		Of or pertaining to pessimism; characterized by pessimism; gloomy; foreboding.	
pessimistical		Pessimistic.	
pessimize		To hold or advocate the doctrine of pessimism.	
pessulus		A delicate bar of cartilage connecting the dorsal and ventral extremities of the first pair of bronchial cartilages in the syrinx of birds.	
pest		A fatal epidemic disease; a pestilence; specif., the plague.	Middle French peste, from Latin pestis.
pestalozzian		Belonging to, or characteristic of, a system of elementary education which combined manual training with other instruction, advocated and practiced by Jean Henri Pestalozzi (1746-1827), a Swiss teacher. -- n.	
pestalozzianism		The system of education introduced by Pestalozzi.	
pester		To trouble; to disturb; to annoy; to harass with petty vexations.	
pesterer		One who pesters or harasses.	
pesterment		The act of pestering, or the state of being pestered; vexation; worry.	
pesterous	Obsolete	Inclined to pester.	
pestful		Pestiferous.	
pesthouse		A house or hospital for persons who are infected with any pestilential disease.	
pestiduct	Obsolete	That which conveys contagion or infection.	
pestiferous		Pest-bearing; pestilential; noxious to health; malignant; infectious; contagious; as, pestiferous bodies.	
pestiferously		In a pestiferuos manner.	
pestilence		Specifically, the disease known as the plague; hence, any contagious or infectious epidemic disease that is virulent and devastating.	
pestilent		Pestilential; noxious; pernicious; mischievous.	
pestilential		Having the nature or qualities of a pestilence.	
pestilentially		Pestilently.	
pestilentious	Obsolete	Pestilential.	
pestilently		In a pestilent manner; mischievously; destructively.	
pestilentness		The quality of being pestilent.	
pestillation		The act of pounding and bruising with a pestle in a mortar.	
pestle		An implement for pounding and breaking or braying substances in a mortar.	
pet		A cade lamb; a lamb brought up by hand.	
petal		(Bot.) One of the leaves of the corolla, or the colored leaves of a flower.	Greek πέταλον.
petaled		Having petals; as, a petaled flower; -- opposed to Ant: apetalous, and much used in compounds; as, one-petaled, three- petaled, etc.	
petaliferous		Bearing petals.	
petaliform		Having the form of a petal; petaloid; petal-shaped.	
petaline		Pertaining to a petal; attached to, or resembling, a petal.	
petalism		A form of sentence among the ancient Syracusans by which they banished for five years a citizen suspected of having dangerous influence or ambition.	Middle French petalisme.
petalite		A rare mineral, occurring crystallized and in cleavable masses, usually white, or nearly so, in color.	
petalody		The metamorphosis of various floral organs, usually stamens, into petals.	
petaloid		Petaline.	
petaloideous		Having the whole or part of the perianth petaline.	
petalosticha		An order of Echini, including the irregular sea urchins, as the spatangoids.	
petalous		Having petals; petaled; -- opposed to Ant: apetalous.	
petalum		A petal.	
petar	Obsolete	See Petard — a case containing powder to be exploded, esp. a conical or cylindrical case of metal filled with powder and attached to a plank, to be exploded against and break down gates, barricades…	
petard		A case containing powder to be exploded, esp. a conical or cylindrical case of metal filled with powder and attached to a plank, to be exploded against and break down gates, barricades, drawbridges, etc. It has been superseded.	Middle French petarder, from French petard.
petardeer		One who managed a petard.	
petardier		One who managed a petard.	French pétardier.
petasus		The winged cap of Mercury; also, a broad-brimmed, low-crowned hat worn by Greeks and Romans.	
petaurist		Any flying marsupial of the genera Petaurus, Phalangista, Acrobata, and allied genera.	
petechiae		Small crimson, purple, or livid spots, like flea-bites, due to extravasation of blood, which appear on the skin in malignant fevers, etc.	
petechial		Characterized by, or pertaining to, petechiæ; spotted.	
peter	Slang	A common baptismal name for a man.	
peterel		See Petrel — any one of numerous species of longwinged sea birds belonging to the family Procellaridæ.	
peterero		See Pederero — a term formerly applied to a short piece of chambered ordnance.	
peterman		A fisherman; -- so called after the apostle Peter.	
petersham		A rough, knotted woolen cloth, used chiefly for men's overcoats; also, a coat of that material.	
peterwort		See Saint Peter's-wort, under Saint.	
petiolar		Of or pertaining to petiole, or proceeding from it; as, a petiolar tendril; growing or supported upon a petiole; as, a petiolar gland; a petiolar bud.	
petiolary		Of or pertaining to petiole, or proceeding from it; as, a petiolar tendril; growing or supported upon a petiole; as, a petiolar gland; a petiolar bud.	
petiolate		Having a stalk or petiole; as, a petioleate leaf; the petiolated abdomen of certain Hymenoptera.	
petiolated		Having a stalk or petiole; as, a petioleate leaf; the petiolated abdomen of certain Hymenoptera.	
petiole		(Bot.) A leafstalk; the footstalk of a leaf, connecting the blade with the stem.	French pétiole.
petioled		Petiolate.	
petiolulate		Supported by its own petiolule.	
petiolule		A small petiole, or the petiole of a leaflet.	
petit	Obsolete	Small; little; insignificant; mean; -- Same as Petty.	
petite		Small, little; of a woman or girl, of small size and trim figure.	French petite.
petition		A prayer; a supplication; an imploration; an entreaty; especially, a request of a solemn or formal kind; a prayer to the Supreme Being, or to a person of superior power, rank, or authority; also, a single clause in such a prayer.	
petitionarily		By way of begging the question; by an assumption.	
petitionary		Supplicatory; making a petition.	
petitionee		A person cited to answer, or defend against, a petition.	
petitioner		One who presents a petition.	
petitioning		The act of presenting apetition; a supplication.	
petitor		One who seeks or asks; a seeker; an applicant.	
petitory		Petitioning; soliciting; supplicating.	
petong		See Packfong — a chinese alloy of nickel, zinc, and copper, resembling German silver.	
petralogy		See Petrology — the department of science which is concerned with the mineralogical and chemical composition of rocks, and with their classification: lithology.	
petrary		An ancient war engine for hurling stones.	Latin petraria.
petre		See Saltpeter — potassium nitrate; niter, a white crystalline substance, KNO3, having a cooling saline taste…	
petrean		Of or pertaining to to rock.	
petrel		Any one of numerous species of longwinged sea birds belonging to the family Procellaridæ.	
petrescence		The process of changing into stone; petrification.	
petrescent		Petrifying; converting into stone; as, petrescent water.	
petrifaction		The process of petrifying, or changing into stone; conversion of any organic matter (animal or vegetable) into stone, or a substance of stony hardness.	
petrifactive		Having the quality of converting organic matter into stone; petrifying.	
petrific		Petrifying; petrifactive.	
petrificate	Obsolete	To petrify.	
petrification		See Petrifaction — the process of petrifying, or changing into stone; conversion of any organic matter (animal or vegetable) into stone, or a substance of stony hardness.	
petrify		To convert, as any animal or vegetable matter, into stone or stony substance.	Malayalam petrificare, from Latin petra, from Greek πέτρα.
petrine		Of or pertaining to St.Peter; as, the Petrine Epistles.	
petro-		A combining form from Gr. rock, stone; as, petrology, petroglyphic.	
petrogale		Any Australian kangaroo of the genus Petrogale, as the rock wallaby (P. penicillata).	
petroglyphic		Of or pertaining to petroglyphy.	
petroglyphy		The art or operation of carving figures or inscriptions on rock or stone.	
petrographic		Pertaining to petrography.	
petrographical		Pertaining to petrography.	
petrography		The scientific description of rocks; that department of science which investigates the constitution of rocks; petrology.	
petrohyoid		Pertaining to petrous, oe periotic, portion of the skull and the hyoid arch; as, the petrohyoid muscles of the frog.	
petrol		Petroleum.	
petrolatum		A semisolid unctuous substance, neutral, and without taste or odor, derived from petroleum by distilling off the lighter portions and purifying the residue.	
petroleum		Rock oil, mineral oil, or natural oil, a dark brown or greenish inflammable liquid, which, at certain points, exists in the upper strata of the earth, from whence it is pumped, or forced by pressure of the gas attending it.	Latin petroleum.
petroleur		One who makes use of petroleum for incendiary purposes.	
petroleuse		One who makes use of petroleum for incendiary purposes.	
petroline		A paraffin obtained from petroleum from Rangoon in India, and practically identical with ordinary paraffin.	
petrologic		Of or pertaining to petrology.	
petrological		Of or pertaining to petrology.	
petrologically		According to petrology.	
petrologist		One who is versed in petrology.	
petrology		The department of science which is concerned with the mineralogical and chemical composition of rocks, and with their classification: lithology.	
petromastoid		Of or pertaining to the petrous and mastoid parts of the temporal bone, periotic.	
petromyzont		A lamprey.	
petronel		A sort of hand cannon, or portable firearm, used in France in the 15th century.	French petrinal.
petrosal		(a) Hard; stony; petrous; as, the petrosal bone; petrosal part of the temporal bone.	
petrosilex		Felsite.	
petrosilicious		Containing, or consisting of, petrosilex.	
petrostearine		A solid unctuous material, of which candles are made.	
petrous		Like stone; hard; stony; rocky; as, the petrous part of the temporal bone.	
pettichaps		See Pettychaps — any one of several species of small European singing birds of the subfamily Sylviinæ, as the willow warbler, the chiff-chaff, and the golden warbler (Sylvia hortensis).	
petticoat	Colloquial	A loose under-garment worn by women, and covering the body below the waist.	
pettifog	Colloquial	To do a petty business as a lawyer; also, to do law business in a petty or tricky way.	
pettifogger		A lawyer who deals in petty cases; an attorney whose methods are mean and tricky; an inferior lawyer.	
pettifoggery		The practice or arts of a pettifogger; disreputable tricks; quibbles.	
pettifogging		Paltry; quibbling; mean.	
pettifogulize		To act as a pettifogger; to use contemptible tricks.	
pettily		In a petty manner; frivolously.	
pettiness		The quality or state of being petty or paltry; littleness; meanness.	
pettish		Fretful; peevish; moody; capricious; inclined to ill temper. -- Pet tish*ness, n.	
pettitoes		The toes or feet of a pig, -- often used as food; sometimes, in contempt, the human feet.	
petto		The breast.	
petty		Little; trifling; inconsiderable; also, inferior; subordinate; as, a petty fault; a petty prince.	Middle French petit.
pettychaps		Any one of several species of small European singing birds of the subfamily Sylviinæ, as the willow warbler, the chiff-chaff, and the golden warbler (Sylvia hortensis).	
pettywhin		The needle furze. See under Needle.	
petulance		The quality or state of being petulant; temporary peevishness; pettishness; capricious ill humor.	
petulancy		The quality or state of being petulant; temporary peevishness; pettishness; capricious ill humor.	
petulant		Capriciously fretful; characterized by ill-natured freakishness; irritable. -- Irritable; ill-humored; peevish; cross; fretful; querulous.	
petulantly		In a petulant manner.	
petulcity	Obsolete	Wantonness; friskiness.	
petulcous	Obsolete	Wanton; frisky; lustful.	
petune		To spray (tobacco) with a liquid intended to produce flavor or aroma.	
petunia		A genus of solanaceous herbs with funnelform or salver-shaped corollas.	Latin Petunia, from French petun, from Portuguese petum, from Paraguayan Guaraní pety.
petunse		Powdered fledspar, kaolin, or quartz, used in the manufacture of porcelain.	
petuntse		Powdered fledspar, kaolin, or quartz, used in the manufacture of porcelain.	
petuntze		Powdered fledspar, kaolin, or quartz, used in the manufacture of porcelain.	
petzite		A telluride of silver and gold, related to hessite.	
peucedanin		A tasteless white crystalline substance, extracted from the roots of the sulphurwort (Peucedanum), masterwort (Imperatoria), and other related plants; -- called also imperatorin.	
peucil		A liquid resembling camphene, obtained by treating turpentine hydrochloride with lime.	Greek πεύκη.
pew		One of the compartments in a church which are separated by low partitions, and have long seats upon which several persons may sit; - - sometimes called slip.	Middle English pewe, from Middle French puie, from Latin podia.
pewee		(Zoöl.) A common American tyrant flycatcher (Sayornis phoebe, or S. fuscus).	
pewet		Same as Pewit.	
pewfellow		One who occupies the same pew with another.	
pewit		(a) The lapwing. (b) The European black-headed, or laughing, gull (Xema ridibundus).	
pewter		A hard, tough, but easily fusible, alloy, originally consisting of tin with a little lead, but afterwards modified by the addition of copper, antimony, or bismuth.	
pewterer		One whose occupation is to make utensils of pewter; a pewtersmith.	
pewtery		Belonging to, or resembling, pewter; as, a pewtery taste.	
pexity	Obsolete	Nap of cloth.	
peytrel	Obsolete	The breastplate of a horse's armor or harness. See Poitrel.	
peziza		A genus of fungi embracing a great number of species, some of which are remarkable for their regular cuplike form and deep colors.	
pezizoid		Resembling a fungus of the genus Peziza; having a cuplike form.	
