phacellus		One of the filaments on the inner surface of the gastric cavity of certain jellyfishes.
phacochere		The wart hog.
phacoid		Resembling a lentil; lenticular.
phacolite		A colorless variety of chabazite; the original was from Leipa, in Bohemia.
phacops		A genus of trilobites found in the Silurian and Devonian formations.
phaeacian		Of or pertaining to the Phæacians, a fabulous seafaring people fond of the feast, the lyre, and the dance, mentioned by Homer.
phaenogam		Any plant of the class Phænogamia.
phaenogamia		The class of flowering plants including all which have true flowers with distinct floral organs; phanerogamia.
phaenogamian		Same as Phænogamous.
phaenogamic		Same as Phænogamous.
phaenogamous		Having true flowers with with distinct floral organs; flowering.
phaenomenon		See Phenomenon — an appearance; anything visible; whatever, in matter or spirit, is apparent to, or is apprehended by, observation; as, the phenomena of heat, light, or electricity…
phaeospore		A brownish zoöspore, characteristic of an order (Phæosporeæ) of dark green or olive-colored algæ. -- Phæ`o*spor"ic, a.
phaethon		(Zoöl.) A genus of oceanic birds including the tropic birds.
phaeton		A four-wheeled carriage (with or without a top), open, or having no side pieces, in front of the seat.
phagedena	Obsolete	(a) A canine appetite; bulimia. (b) Spreading, obstinate ulceration.
phagedenic		Of, like, or pertaining to, phagedena; used in the treatment of phagedena; as, a phagedenic ulcer or medicine. -- n.
phagedenical		Of, like, or pertaining to, phagedena; used in the treatment of phagedena; as, a phagedenic ulcer or medicine. -- n.
phagedenous		Phagedenic.
phagocyte		A leucocyte which plays a part in retrogressive processes by taking up (eating), in the form of fine granules, the parts to be removed.
phainopepla		A small crested passerine bird (Phaïnopepla nitens), native of Mexico and the Southern United States.
phakoscope		An instrument for studying the mechanism of accommodation.
phalaena		A linnæan genus which included the moths in general.
phalaenid		Any moth of the family Phalænidæ, of which the cankerworms are examples; a geometrid.
phalangal		Of or pertaining to the phalanges. See Phalanx, 2.
phalangeal		Of or pertaining to the phalanges. See Phalanx, 2.
phalanger		Any marsupial belonging to Phalangista, Cuscus, Petaurus, and other genera of the family Phalangistidæ.
phalanges		, pl. of Phalanx.
phalangial		Phalangeal.
phalangian		Phalangeal.
phalangid		One of the Phalangoidea.
phalangious		Of or pertaining to Phalangoidea.
phalangist		Any arboreal marsupial of the genus Phalangista.
phalangister		Same as Phalangist.
phalangistine		Same as Phalangist.
phalangite	Obsolete	A soldier belonging to a phalanx.
phalangoidea		A division of Arachnoidea, including the daddy longlegs or harvestman (Phalangium) and many similar kinds.
phalanstere		A phalanstery.
phalansterian		Of or pertaining to phalansterianism.
phalansterianism		A system of phalansteries proposed by Fourier; Fourierism.
phalansterism		A system of phalansteries proposed by Fourier; Fourierism.
phalanstery		An association or community organized on the plan of Fourier. See Fourierism.
phalanx		(Gr. Antiq.) A body of heavy-armed infantry formed in ranks and files close and deep.
phalarope		Any species of Phalaropus and allied genera of small wading birds (Grallæ), having lobate toes.
phallic		Of or pertaining to the phallus, or to phallism.
phallicism		See Phallism — the worship of the generative principle in nature, symbolized by the phallus.
phallism		The worship of the generative principle in nature, symbolized by the phallus.
phallus		The emblem of the generative power in nature, carried in procession in the Bacchic orgies, or worshiped in various ways.
phanar		A quarter of Constantinople which, after the Turkish conquest of the city, became the chief Greek quarter; hence, the Greek officials of Turkey, or phanariots, as a class.
phanariot		One of the Greeks of Constantinople who after the Turkish conquest became powerful in clerical and other offices under Turkish patronage.
phanariote		One of the Greeks of Constantinople who after the Turkish conquest became powerful in clerical and other offices under Turkish patronage.
phane	Obsolete	See Fane — a temple; a place consecrated to religion; a church.
phanerite		Evident; visible.
phanerocarpae		Same as Acraspeda.
phanerocodonic		Having an umbrella-shaped or bell-shaped body, with a wide, open cavity beneath; -- said of certain jellyfishes.
phanerocrystalline		Distinctly crystalline; -- used of rocks.
phanerodactyla		Same as Saururæ.
phanerogamia		That one of the two primary divisions of the vegetable kingdom which contains the phanerogamic, or flowering, plants.
phanerogamian		Phanerogamous.
phanerogamic		Having visible flowers containing distinct stamens and pistils; -- said of plants.
phanerogamous		Having visible flowers containing distinct stamens and pistils; -- said of plants.
phaneroglossal		Having a conspicious tongue; -- said of certain reptiles and insects.
phantascope		An optical instrument or toy, resembling the phenakistoscope, and illustrating the same principle; -- called also phantasmascope.
phantasm		An image formed by the mind, and supposed to be real or material; a shadowy or airy appearance; sometimes, an optical illusion; a phantom; a dream.
phantasma		A phantasm.
phantasmagoria		An optical effect produced by a magic lantern.
phantasmagorial		Of, relating to, or resembling phantasmagoria; phantasmagoric.
phantasmagoric		Of or pertaining to phantasmagoria; phantasmagorial.
phantasmagory		See Phantasmagoria — an optical effect produced by a magic lantern.
phantasmal		Pertaining to, of the nature of, or resembling, a phantasm; spectral; illusive.
phantasmascope		See Phantascope — an optical instrument or toy, resembling the phenakistoscope, and illustrating the same principle; -- called also phantasmascope.
phantasmatical		Phantasmal.
phantasmatography		A description of celestial phenomena, as rainbows, etc.
phantastic		See Fantastic — existing only in imagination; fanciful; imaginary; not real; chimerical.
phantastical		See Fantastic — existing only in imagination; fanciful; imaginary; not real; chimerical.
phantasy		See Fantasy, and Fancy.
phantom		That which has only an apparent existence; an apparition; a specter; a phantasm; a sprite; an airy spirit; an ideal image.
phantomatic		Phantasmal.
pharaoh		A title by which the sovereigns of ancient Egypt were designated.
pharaon		See Pharaoh, 2.
pharaonic		Of or pertaining to the Pharaohs, or kings of ancient Egypt.
phare	Obsolete	A beacon tower; a lighthouse.
pharisaic		Of or pertaining to the Pharisees; resembling the Pharisees.
pharisaical		Of or pertaining to the Pharisees; resembling the Pharisees.
pharisaism		The notions, doctrines, and conduct of the Pharisees, as a sect. Sharp.
pharisean	Obsolete	Following the practice of Pharisees; Pharisaic.
pharisee		One of a sect or party among the Jews, noted for a strict and formal observance of rites and ceremonies and of the traditions of the elders…
phariseeism		See Pharisaism — the notions, doctrines, and conduct of the Pharisees, as a sect. Sharp.
pharmaceutic		Of or pertaining to the knowledge or art of pharmacy, or to the art of preparing medicines according to the rules or formulas of pharmacy; as, pharmaceutical preparations. -- Phar`ma*ceu"tic*al*ly, adv.
pharmaceutical		Of or pertaining to the knowledge or art of pharmacy, or to the art of preparing medicines according to the rules or formulas of pharmacy; as, pharmaceutical preparations. -- Phar`ma*ceu"tic*al*ly, adv.
pharmaceutics		The science of preparing medicines.
pharmaceutist		One skilled in pharmacy; a druggist. See the Note under Apothecary.
pharmacist		One skilled in pharmacy; a pharmaceutist; a druggist.
pharmacodymanics		That branch of pharmacology which treats of the action and the effects of medicines.
pharmacodynamics		That branch of pharmacology which considers the mode of action, and the effects, of medicines.
pharmacognosis		That branch of pharmacology which treats of unprepared medicines or simples; -- called also pharmacography, and pharmacomathy.
pharmacognosy		Pharmacognosis.
pharmacography		See Pharmacognosis — that branch of pharmacology which treats of unprepared medicines or simples; -- called also pharmacography, and pharmacomathy.
pharmacolite		A hydrous arsenate of lime, usually occurring in silky fibers of a white or grayish color.
pharmacologist		One skilled in pharmacology.
pharmacology		Knowledge of drugs or medicines; the art of preparing medicines.
pharmacomathy		See Pharmacognosis — that branch of pharmacology which treats of unprepared medicines or simples; -- called also pharmacography, and pharmacomathy.
pharmacon		A medicine or drug; also, a poison.
pharmacopoeia		A book or treatise describing the drugs, preparations, etc., used in medicine; especially, one that is issued by official authority and considered as an authoritative standard.
pharmacopolist		One who sells medicines; an apothecary.
pharmacosiderite		A hydrous arsenate of iron occurring in green or yellowish green cubic crystals; cube ore.
pharmacy		The art or practice of preparing and preserving drugs, and of compounding and dispensing medicines according to prescriptions of physicians; the occupation of an apothecary or a pharmaceutical chemist.
pharo		See Faro — a gambling game at cardds, in whiich all the other players play against the dealer or banker, staking their money upon the order in which the cards will lie and be dealt from the pack.
pharology		The art or science which treats of lighthouses and signal lights.
pharos		A lighthouse or beacon for the guidance of seamen.
pharyngal		Pharyngeal.
pharyngeal		Of or pertaining to the pharynx; in the region of the pharynx.
pharyngitis		Inflammation of the pharynx.
pharyngobranchial		Of or pertaining to the pharynx and the branchiæ; -- applied especially to the dorsal elements in the branchial arches of fishes.
pharyngobranchii		Same as Leptocardia.
pharyngognathi		A division of fishes in which the lower pharyngeal bones are united.
pharyngolaryngeal		Of or pertaining both to pharynx and the larynx.
pharyngopneusta		A group of invertebrates including the Tunicata and Enteropneusta. -- Pha*ryn`gop*neus"tal, a.
pharyngotome		An instrument for incising or scarifying the tonsils, etc.
pharyngotomy		(a) The operation of making an incision into the pharynx, to remove a tumor or anything that obstructs the passage.
pharynx		The part of the alimentary canal between the cavity of the mouth and the esophagus.
phascolome		A marsupial of the genus Phascolomys; a wombat.
phase		That which is exhibited to the eye; the appearance which anything manifests, especially any one among different and varying appearances of the same object.
phasel		The French bean, or kidney bean.
phaseless		Without a phase, or visible form.
phasemeter		A device for measuring the difference in phase of two alternating currents of electromotive forces.
phaseolus		A genus of leguminous plants, including the Lima bean, the kidney bean, the scarlet runner, etc. See Bean.
phaseomannite		Same as Inosite.
phasing		Pertaining to phase or differences of phase.
phasis		See Phase — that which is exhibited to the eye; the appearance which anything manifests, especially any one among different and varying appearances of the same object.
phasm		An apparition; a phantom; an appearance.
phasma		An apparition; a phantom; an appearance.
phasmid		Any orthopterous insect of the family Phasmidæ, as a leaf insect or a stick insect.
phassachate		The lead-colored agate; -- so called in reference to its color.
phatagin		The long-tailed pangolin (Manis tetradactyla); -- called also ipi.
pheasant		(Zoöl.) Any one of numerous species of large gallinaceous birds of the genus Phasianus, and many other genera of the family Phasianidæ, found chiefly in Asia.
pheasantry		A place for keeping and rearing pheasants.
phebe		See Phoebe — the pewee, or pewit.
pheer	Obsolete	See 1st Fere.
pheese	Obsolete	To comb; also, to beat; to worry. See Feaze, v.
phelloderm		A layer of green parenchimatous cells formed on the inner side of the phellogen.
phellogen		The tissue of young cells which produces cork cells.
phelloplastics		Art of modeling in cork.
phenacetin		A white, crystalline compound, C10H13O2N, used in medicine principally as an antipyretic.
phenacetine		A white, crystalline compound, C10H13O2N, used in medicine principally as an antipyretic.
phenacite		A glassy colorless mineral occurring in rhombohedral crystals, sometimes used as a gem.
phenakistoscope		A revolving disk on which figures drawn in different relative attitudes are seen successively, so as to produce the appearance of an object in actual motion, as an animal leaping, etc.…
phenalgin		An ammoniated compound of phenyl and acetamide, used as an analgesic and antipyretic.
phenanthrene		A complex hydrocarbon, C14H10, found in coal tar, and obtained as a white crystalline substance with a bluish fluorescence.
phenanthridine		A nitrogenous hydrocarbon base, C13H9N, analogous to phenanthrene and quinoline.
phenanthroline		Either of two metameric nitrogenous hydrocarbon bases, C12H8N2, analogous to phenanthridine, but more highly nitrogenized.
phene	Obsolete	Benzene.
phenetol		The ethyl ether of phenol, obtained as an aromatic liquid, C6H5.O.C2H5.
phenic	Passing out of use	Of, pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, phenyl or phenol.
phenician		See Phoenician — of or pertaining to Phoenica. -- n.
phenicine		(a) A purple powder precipitated when a sulphuric solution of indigo is diluted with water.
phenicious		Of a red color with a slight mixture of gray.
phenicopter		A flamingo.
phenix		(Gr. Myth.) A bird fabled to exist single, to be consumed by fire by its own act, and to rise again from its ashes.
phenocryst		One of the prominent embedded crystals of a porphyry.
phenogamia		Same as Phænogamia.
phenogamian		Same as Phænogamian, Phænogamic, etc.
phenogamic		Same as Phænogamian, Phænogamic, etc.
phenogamous		Same as Phænogamian, Phænogamic, etc.
phenol		A white or pinkish crystalline substance, C6H5OH, produced by the destructive distillation of many organic bodies, as wood, coal, etc., and obtained from the heavy oil from coal tar.
phenolate		A compound of phenol analogous to a salt.
phenology		The science of the relations between climate and periodic biological phenomena, as the migrations and breeding of birds, the flowering and fruiting of plants, etc. -- Phe`no*log ic*al*ly, adv. -- Phe*nol"o*gist (#), n.
phenolphthalein		A white or yellowish white crystalline substance, C20H14O4, formed by condensation of the anhydride of phthalic acid and phenol.
phenomenal		Relating to, or of the nature of, a phenomenon; hence, extraordinary; wonderful; as, a phenomenal memory. -- Phe*nom"e*nal*ly, adv.
phenomenalism		That theory which limits positive or scientific knowledge to phenomena only, whether material or spiritual.
phenomenist		One who believes in the theory of phenomenalism.
phenomenology		A description, history, or explanation of phenomena.
phenomenon		An appearance; anything visible; whatever, in matter or spirit, is apparent to, or is apprehended by, observation; as, the phenomena of heat, light, or electricity; phenomena of imagination or memory.
phenose		A sweet amorphous deliquescent substance obtained indirectly from benzene, and isometric with, and resembling, dextrose.
phenyl		A hydrocarbon radical (C6H5) regarded as the essential residue of benzene, and the basis of an immense number of aromatic derivatives.
phenylamine		Any one of certain class of organic bases regarded as formed from ammonia by the substitution of phenyl for hydrogen.
phenylene		A hypothetic radical (C6H4) occurring in certain derivatives of benzene; as, phenylene diamine.
phenylic		Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, phenyl.
pheon		A bearing representing the head of a dart or javelin, with long barbs which are engrailed on the inner edge.
phial		A glass vessel or bottle, especially a small bottle for medicines; a vial.
philabeg		See Filibeg — same as Kilt.
philadelphian		Of or pertaining to Ptolemy Philadelphus, or to one of the cities named Philadelphia, esp. the modern city in Pennsylvania.
philalethist	Obsolete	A lover of the truth.
philander		To make love to women; to play the male flirt.
philanderer		One who hangs about women; a male flirt.
philanthrope	Obsolete	A philanthropist.
philanthropic		Of or pertaining to philanthropy; characterized by philanthropy; loving or helping mankind; as, a philanthropic enterprise. -- Phil`an*throp"ic*al*ly, adv.
philanthropical		Of or pertaining to philanthropy; characterized by philanthropy; loving or helping mankind; as, a philanthropic enterprise. -- Phil`an*throp"ic*al*ly, adv.
philanthropinism		A system of education on so-called natural principles, attempted in Germany in the last century by Basedow, of Dessau.
philanthropinist		An advocate of, or believer in, philanthropinism.
philanthropist		One who practices philanthropy; one who loves mankind, and seeks to promote the good of others.
philanthropistic		Pertaining to, or characteristic of, a philanthropist.
philanthropy		Love to mankind; benevolence toward the whole human family; universal good will; desire and readiness to do good to all men; -- opposed to misanthropy.
philatelic		Of or pertaining to philately.
philatelist		One versed in philately; one who collects postage stamps.
philately		The collection of postage stamps of various issues.
philathea		An international, interdenominational organization of Bible classes of young women.
philatory		A kind of transparent reliquary with an ornamental top.
philauty	Obsolete	Self-love; selfishness.
philharmonic		Loving harmony or music.
philhellene		A friend of Greece, or of the Greeks; a philhellenist.
philhellenic		Of or pertaining to philhellenism.
philhellenism		Love of Greece.
philhellenist		A friend of Greece; one who supports the cause of the Greeks; particularly, one who supported them in their struggle for independence against the Turks; a philhellene.
philibeg	Scots	See Filibeg — same as Kilt.
philip	English dialect	(a) The European hedge sparrow. (b) The house sparrow.
philippian		Of or pertaining to Philippi, a city of ancient Macedonia. -- n.
philippic		Any one of the series of famous orations of Demosthenes, the Grecian orator, denouncing Philip, king of Macedon.
philippium		A rare and doubtful metallic element said to have been discovered in the mineral samarskite.
philippize		To support or advocate the cause of Philip of Macedon.
philister		A Philistine; -- a cant name given to townsmen by students in German universities.
philistine		A native or an inhabitant of ancient Philistia, a coast region of southern Palestine.
philistinism		The condition, character, aims, and habits of the class called Philistines.
phillipsite		(a) A hydrous silicate of aluminia, lime, and soda, a zeolitic mineral commonly occurring in complex twin crystals, often cruciform in shape; -- called also christianite.
phillygenin		A pearly crystalline substance obtained by the decomposition of phillyrin.
phillyrea		A genus of evergreen plants growing along the shores of the Mediterranean, and breading a fruit resembling that of the olive.
phillyrin		A glucoside extracted from Phillyrea as a bitter white crystalline substance.
philo-		A combining form from Gr. fi`los loving, fond of, attached to; as, philosophy, philotechnic.
philogynist		A lover or friend of women; one who esteems woman as the higher type of humanity; -- opposed to Ant: misogynist.
philogyny		Fondness for women; uxoriousness; -- opposed to Ant: misogyny.
philohellenian		A philhellenist.
philologer		A philologist.
philologian		A philologist.
philologic		Of or pertaining to philology. -- Phil`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
philological		Of or pertaining to philology. -- Phil`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
philologist		One versed in philology.
philologize		To study, or make critical comments on, language.
philologue		A philologist.
philology		Criticism; grammatical learning.
philomath		A lover of learning; a scholar.
philomathematic		A philomath.
philomathic		Having love of learning or letters.
philomathy		The love of learning or letters.
philomel	Poetic	Same as Philomela, the nightingale.
philomela		The nightingale; philomel.
philomene	Obsolete	The nightingale.
philomot	Obsolete	Of the color of a dead leaf.
philomusical		Loving music.
philopena		A present or gift which is made as a forfeit in a social game that is played in various ways; also, the game itself.
philopolemic		Fond of polemics or controversy.
philopolemical		Fond of polemics or controversy.
philoprogenitive		Having the love of offspring; fond of children.
philoprogenitiveness		The love of offspring; fondness for children.
philosophaster	Obsolete	A pretender to philosophy.
philosophate	Obsolete	To play the philosopher; to moralize.
philosophation	Obsolete	Philosophical speculation and discussion.
philosophe		A philosophaster; a philosopher.
philosopheme		A philosophical proposition, doctrine, or principle of reasoning.
philosopher		One who philosophizes; one versed in, or devoted to, philosophy.
philosophic		Of or pertaining to philosophy; versed in, or imbued with, the principles of philosophy; hence, characterizing a philosopher; rational; wise; temperate; calm; cool. -- Phil`o*soph"ic*al*ly, adv.
philosophical		Of or pertaining to philosophy; versed in, or imbued with, the principles of philosophy; hence, characterizing a philosopher; rational; wise; temperate; calm; cool. -- Phil`o*soph"ic*al*ly, adv.
philosophism		Spurious philosophy; the love or practice of sophistry.
philosophist		A pretender in philosophy.
philosophistic		Of or pertaining to the love or practice of sophistry.
philosophistical		Of or pertaining to the love or practice of sophistry.
philosophize		To reason like a philosopher; to search into the reason and nature of things; to investigate phenomena, and assign rational causes for their existence.
philosophizer		One who philosophizes.
philosophy		Literally, the love of, including the search after, wisdom; in actual usage, the knowledge of phenomena as explained by, and resolved into, causes and reasons, powers and laws.
philostorgy		Natural affection, as of parents for their children.
philotechnic		Fond of the arts.
philotechnical		Fond of the arts.
philter		A potion or charm intended to excite the passion of love.
phimosis		A condition of the penis in which the prepuce can not be drawn back so as to uncover the glans penis.
phitoness	Obsolete	Pythoness; witch.
phiz	Colloquial	The face or visage.
phlebitis		Inflammation of a vein.
phlebogram		A tracing (with the sphygmograph) of the movements of a vein, or of the venous pulse.
phlebolite		A small calcareous concretion formed in a vein; a vein stone.
phlebolith		A small calcareous concretion formed in a vein; a vein stone.
phlebology		A branch of anatomy which treats of the veins.
phlebotomist		One who practiced phlebotomy.
phlebotomize		To let blood from by opening a vein; to bleed.
phlebotomy		The act or practice of opening a vein for letting blood, in the treatment of disease; venesection; bloodletting.
phlegethon		One of the principal rivers of Hades, in the channel of which fire flowed instead of water.
phlegm		One of the four humors of which the ancients supposed the blood to be composed.
phlegmagogue		A medicine supposed to expel phlegm.
phlegmasia		An inflammation; more particularly, an inflammation of the internal organs.
phlegmatic		Abounding in phlegm; as, phlegmatic humors; a phlegmatic constitution.
phlegmatical		Phlegmatic.
phlegmatically		In a phlegmatic manner.
phlegmaticly	Obsolete	Phlegmatically.
phlegmon		Purulent inflammation of the cellular or areolar tissue.
phlegmonous		Having the nature or properties of phlegmon; as, phlegmonous pneumonia.
phleme		See Fleam — a sharp instrument used for opening veins, lancing gums, etc.; a kind of lancet.
phleum		A genus of grasses, including the timothy (Phleum pratense), which is highly valued for hay; cat's-tail grass.
phloem		That portion of fibrovascular bundles which corresponds to the inner bark; the liber tissue; -- distinguished from xylem.
phlogistian		A believer in the existence of phlogiston.
phlogistic		(Old Chem.) Of or pertaining to phlogiston, or to belief in its existence.
phlogistical		Phlogistic.
phlogisticate		To combine phlogiston with; -- usually in the form and sense of the p. p. or the adj.; as, highly phlogisticated substances.
phlogistication		The act or process of combining with phlogiston.
phlogiston		The hypothetical principle of fire, or inflammability, regarded by Stahl as a chemical element.
phlogogenous		Causing inflammation.
phlogopite		A kind of mica having generally a peculiar bronze-red or copperlike color and a pearly luster.
phlogosis		Inflammation of external parts of the body; erysipelatous inflammation.
phlogotic		Of or pertaining to phlogisis.
phloramine		A basic amido derivative of phloroglucin, having an astringent taste.
phloretic		Pertaining to, or derived from, or designating, an organic acid obtained by the decomposition of phloretin.
phloretin		A bitter white crystalline substance obtained by the decomposition of phlorizin, and formerly used to some extent as a substitute for quinine.
phlorizin		A bitter white crystalline glucoside extracted from the root bark of the apple, pear, cherry, plum, etc.
phloroglucin		A sweet white crystalline substance, metameric with pyrogallol, and obtained by the decomposition of phloretin, and from certain gums, as catechu, kino, etc. It belongs to the class of phenols.
phlorol		A liquid metameric with xylenol, belonging to the class of phenols, and obtained by distilling certain salts of phloretic acid.
phlorone		A yellow crystalline substance having a peculiar unpleasant odor, resembling the quinones, and obtained from beechwood tar and coal tar, as also by the oxidation of xylidine; -- called also xyloquinone.
phlox		A genus of American herbs, having showy red, white, or purple flowers.
phlyctenular		Characterized by the presence of small pustules, or whitish elevations resembling pustules; as, phlyctenular ophthalmia.
phoca		A genus of seals.
phocacean		Any species of Phoca; a seal.
phocal		Pertaining to seals.
phocenic		Of or pertaining to dolphin oil or porpoise oil; -- said of an acid (called also delphinic acid) subsequently found to be identical with valeric acid.
phocenin		See Delphin — pertaining to the dauphin of France; as, the Delphin classics, an edition of the Latin classics, prepared in the reign of Louis XIV., for the use of the dauphin (in usum Delphini).
phocine		Of or pertaining to the seal tribe; phocal.
phocodont		One of the Phocodontia.
phocodontia		A group of extinct carnivorous whales.
phoebe		The pewee, or pewit.
phoenician		Of or pertaining to Phoenica. -- n.
phoenicious		See Phenicious — of a red color with a slight mixture of gray.
phoenicopterus		A genus of birds which includes the flamingoes.
phoenix		(Bot.) A genus of palms including the date tree.
pholad		Any species of Pholas.
pholas		Any one of numerous species of marine bivalve mollusks of the genus Pholas, or family Pholadidæ.
phonal		Of or relating to the voice; as, phonal structure.
phonascetics		Treatment for restoring or improving the voice.
phonation		The act or process by which articulate sounds are uttered; the utterance of articulate sounds; articulate speech.
phonautograph		An instrument by means of which a sound can be made to produce a visible trace or record of itself.
phone		Colloq. for Telephone.
phoneidoscope		An instrument for studying the motions of sounding bodies by optical means.
phonetic		Of or pertaining to the voice, or its use.
phonetically		In a phonetic manner.
phonetician		One versed in phonetics; a phonetist.
phonetics		The doctrine or science of sounds; especially those of the human voice; phonology.
phonetism		The science which treats of vocal sounds.
phonetist		One who advocates a phonetic spelling.
phonetization		The act, art, or process of representing sounds by phonetic signs.
phonetize		To represent by phonetic signs.
phonic		Of or pertaining to sound; of the nature of sound; acoustic.
phonics		See Phonetics — the doctrine or science of sounds; especially those of the human voice; phonology.
phono		A South American butterfly (Ithonia phono) having nearly transparent wings.
phono-		A combining form from Gr. sound, tone; as, phonograph, phonology.
phonocamptic		Reflecting sound.
phonogram		A letter, character, or mark used to represent a particular sound.
phonograph		A character or symbol used to represent a sound, esp. one used in phonography.
phonographer		One who uses, or is skilled in the use of, the phonograph. See Phonograph, 2.
phonographic		Of or pertaining to phonography; based upon phonography.
phonographical		Of or pertaining to phonography; based upon phonography.
phonographically		In a phonographic manner; by means of phonograph.
phonographist		Phonographer.
phonography		A description of the laws of the human voice, or sounds uttered by the organs of speech.
phonolite		A compact, feldspathic, igneous rock containing nephelite, haüynite, etc. Thin slabs give a ringing sound when struck; -- called also clinkstone.
phonologer		A phonologist.
phonologic		Of or pertaining to phonology.
phonological		Of or pertaining to phonology.
phonologist		One versed in phonology.
phonology		The science or doctrine of the elementary sounds uttered by the human voice in speech, including the various distinctions, modifications, and combinations of tones; phonetics.
phonometer		An instrument for measuring sounds, as to their intensity, or the frequency of the vibrations.
phonomotor		An instrument in which motion is produced by the vibrations of a sounding body.
phonorganon		A speaking machine.
phonoscope		(a) An instrument for observing or exhibiting the motions or properties of sounding bodies; especially, an apparatus invented by König for testing the quality of musical strings.
phonotype		A type or character used in phonotypy.
phonotypic		Of or pertaining to phonotypy; as, a phonotypic alphabet.
phonotypical		Of or pertaining to phonotypy; as, a phonotypic alphabet.
phonotypist		One versed in phonotypy.
phonotypy		A method of phonetic printing of the English language, as devised by Mr. Pitman, in which nearly all the ordinary letters and many new forms are employed in order to indicate each elementary sound by a separate character.
phorminx		A kind of lyre used by the Greeks.
phormium		A genus of liliaceous plants, consisting of one species (Phormium tenax).
phorone		A yellow crystalline substance, having a geraniumlike odor, regarded as a complex derivative of acetone, and obtained from certain camphor compounds.
phoronis		A remarkable genus of marine worms having tentacles around the mouth.
phoronomia		See Phoronomics — the science of motion; kinematics.
phoronomics		The science of motion; kinematics.
phosgene		Producing, or produced by, the action of light; -- formerly used specifically to designate a gas now called carbonyl chloride.
phosgenite		A rare mineral occurring in tetragonal crystals of a white, yellow, or grayish color and adamantine luster.
phospham		An inert amorphous white powder, PN2H, obtained by passing ammonia over heated phosphorus. -- Phos"pham"ic, a.
phosphate		A salt of phosphoric acid.
phosphatic		Pertaining to, or containing, phosphorus, phosphoric acid, or phosphates; as, phosphatic nodules.
phosphaturia		The excessive discharge of phosphates in the urine.
phosphene		A luminous impression produced through excitation of the retina by some cause other than the impingement upon it of rays of light, as by pressure upon the eyeball when the lids are closed.
phosphide		A binary compound of phosphorus.
phosphine		A colorless gas, PH3, analogous to ammonia, and having a disagreeable odor resembling that of garlic.
phosphinic		Pertaining to, or designating, certain acids analogous to the phosphonic acids, but containing two hydrocarbon radicals, and derived from the secondary phosphines by oxidation.
phosphite		A salt of phosphorous acid.
phosphonic		Pertaining to, or designating, certain derivatives of phosphorous acid containing a hydrocarbon radical, and analogous to the sulphonic acid.
phosphonium		The hypothetical radical PH4, analogous to ammonium, and regarded as the nucleus of certain derivatives of phosphine.
phosphor	Poetic	The planet Venus, when appearing as the morning star; Lucifer.
phosphor-bronze		A variety of bronze possessing great hardness, elasticity, and toughness, obtained by melting copper with tin phosphide.
phosphorate		To impregnate, or combine, with phosphorus or its compounds; as, phosphorated oil.
phosphoreous	Obsolete	Phosphorescent.
phosphoresce		To shine as phosphorus; to be phosphorescent; to emit a phosphoric light.
phosphorescence		The quality or state of being phosphorescent; or the act of phosphorescing.
phosphorescent		Shining with a phosphoric light; luminous without sensible heat. -- n.
phosphoric		(Chem.) Of or pertaining to phosphorus; resembling, or containing, from us; specifically, designating those compounds in which phosphorus has a higher valence as contrasted with the phosphorous compounds.
phosphorical		Phosphoric.
phosphorite		(min.) A massive variety of apatite.
phosphoritic		Pertaining to phosphorite; resembling, or of the nature of, phosphorite.
phosphorize		To phosphorate.
phosphorized		Containing, or impregnated with, phosphorus.
phosphorogenic		Generating phosphorescence; as, phosphorogenic rays.
phosphoroscope		An apparatus for observing the phosphorescence produced in different bodies by the action of light, and for measuring its duration.
phosphorous		Of or pertaining to phosphorus; resembling or containing phosphorus; specifically, designating those compounds in which phosphorus has a lower valence as contrasted with phosphoric compounds; as, phosphorous acid, H3PO3.
phosphorus		The morning star; Phosphor.
phosphoryl		The radical PO, regarded as the typical nucleus of certain compounds.
phosphuret	Passing out of use	A phosphide.
phosphureted	Passing out of use	Impregnated, or combined, with phosphorus.
photic		Relating to the production of light by the lower animals.
photics		The science of light; -- a general term sometimes employed when optics is restricted to light as a producing vision.
photism		A luminous image or appearance of a hallucinatory character.
photo	Colloquial	A contraction of Photograph.
photo-		A combining form from Gr. fw^s, fwto`s, light; as, photography, phototype, photometer.
photo-electric		Acting by the operation of both light and electricity; -- said of apparatus for producing pictures by electric light.
photo-electrical		Pert. to, or capable of developing, photo-electricity.
photo-electricity		Electricity produced by light.
photo-electrograph		An electrometer registering by photography.
photo-electrotype		An electrotype plate formed in a mold made by photographing on prepared gelatine, etc.
photo-engrave		To engrave by a photomechanical process; to make a photo- engraving of. -- Pho`to-en*grav"er (#), n.
photo-engraving		The process of obtaining an etched or engraved plate from the photographic image, to be used in printing; also, a picture produced by such a process.
photo-epinasty		A disproportionately rapid growth of the upper surface of dorsiventral organs, such as leaves, through the stimulus of exposure to light.
photo-etch		To engrave, or make an engraving of, by any photomechanical process involving etching of the plate.
photo-etching		A photo-engraving produced by any process involving the etching of the plate.
photobacterium		A genus including certain comma-shaped marine bacteria which emit bluish or greenish phosphorescence.
photobiotic		Requiring light to live; incapable of living without light; as, photobiotic plant cells.
photoceramics		Art or process of decorating pottery with photographically prepared designs. -- Pho`to*ce*ram"ic (#), a.
photochemical		Of or pertaining to chemical action of light, or produced by it; as, the photochemical changes of the visual purple of the retina.
photochemistry		The branch of chemistry which relates to the effect of light in producing chemical changes, as in photography.
photochromatic		Of or pertaining to photochromy; produced by photochromy.
photochromic		Of or pertaining to photochromy; produced by photochromy.
photochromography		Art or process of printing colored photographs.
photochromoscope		A device for giving shifting effects of color to a photograph.
photochromotype		A colored print made photomechanically.
photochromotypy		The art of making photochromotypes.
photochromy		The art or process of reproducing colors by photography.
photochronograph		(Physics) An instrument for recording minute intervals of time.
photochronography		Art of recording or measuring intervals of time by the photochronograph. -- Pho`to*chron`o*graph ic*al (#), a. -- -graph"ic*al*ly, adv.
photodrome		An apparatus consisting of a large wheel with spokes, which when turning very rapidly is illuminated by momentary flashes of light passing through slits in a rotating disk.
photodynamics		The relation of light to the movements of plants and their organs; the study of the phenomena of curvatures induced by the stimulus of light. --Pho`to*dy*nam ic*al (#), a.
photogalvanography		The art or process of making photo-electrotypes.
photogen		A light hydrocarbon oil resembling kerosene.
photogene		A more or less continued impression or image on the retina.
photogenic		Of or pertaining to photogeny; producing or generating light.
photogeny	Passing out of use	See Photography — the science which relates to the action of light on sensitive bodies in the production of pictures, the fixation of images, and the like.
photoglyphic		Pertaining to the art of engraving by the action of light.
photoglyphy		Photoglyphic engraving. See under Photoglyphic.
photoglyptic		Same as Photoglyphic.
photogram		A photograph.
photogrammeter		A phototheodolite, or a camera designed for use in photogrammetry. --Pho`to*gram*met ric*al (#), a.
photogrammetry		A method of surveying or map making by photography, used also in determining the height and motions of clouds, sea waves, and the like.
photograph		A picture or likeness obtained by photography.
photographer		One who practices, or is skilled in, photography.
photographic		Of or pertaining to photography; obtained by photography; used ib photography; as a photographic picture; a photographic camera. -- Pho`to*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.
photographical		Of or pertaining to photography; obtained by photography; used ib photography; as a photographic picture; a photographic camera. -- Pho`to*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.
photographist		A photographer.
photographometer		An instrument for determining the sensibility of the plates employed in photographic processes to luminous rays.
photographone		A device, consisting essentially of an electric arc and a camera, by which a series of photographs of the variations of the arc due to sound waves are obtained for reproduction by means of a selenium cell and a telephone.
photography		The science which relates to the action of light on sensitive bodies in the production of pictures, the fixation of images, and the like.
photogravure		A photoengraving; also, the process by which such a picture is produced.
photoheliograph		A modified kind of telescope adapted to taking photographs of the sun.
photoheliometer		A double-lens instrument for measuring slight variations of the sun's diameter by photography, utilizing the common chord of two overlapping images.
photolithograph		A lithographic picture or copy from a stone prepared by the aid of photography.
photolithographer		One who practices, or one who employs, photolithography.
photolithographic		Of or pertaining to photolithography; produced by photolithography.
photolithography		The art or process of producing photolithographs.
photologic		Pertaining to photology, or the doctrine of light.
photological		Pertaining to photology, or the doctrine of light.
photologist		One who studies or expounds the laws of light.
photology		The doctrine or science of light, explaining its nature and phenomena; optics.
photoluminescent		Luminescent by exposure to light waves. -- Pho`to*lu`mi*nes"cence (#), n.
photomagnetic		Of or pertaining to photomagnetism.
photomagnetism		The branch of science which treats of the relation of magnetism to light.
photomechanical		Pertaining to, or designating, any photographic process in which a printing surface is obtained without the intervention of hand engraving.
photometer		An instrument for measuring the intensity of light, or, more especially, for comparing the relative intensities of different lights, or their relative illuminating power.
photometric		Of or pertaining to photometry, or to a photometer.
photometrical		Of or pertaining to photometry, or to a photometer.
photometrician		One engaged in the scientific measurement of light.
photometrist		A specialist in photometry.
photometry		That branch of science which treats of the measurement of the intensity of light.
photomezzotype		A photomechanical process similar to collotype.
photomicrograph		An enlarged or macroscopic photograph of a microscopic object. See Microphotograph.
photomicrography		The art of producing photomicrographs.
photonephograph		A nephoscope registering by photography, commonly consisting of a pair of cameras used simultaneously.
photophilous		Light-loving; growing in strong light, as many plants.
photophobia		A dread or intolerance of light.
photophone		An apparatus for the production of sound by the action of rays of light.
photophonic		Of or pertaining to photophone.
photophony		The art or practice of using the photophone.
photophore		(Med.) A form of endoscope using an electric light.
photoplay		A play for representation or exhibition by moving pictures; also, the moving-picture representation of a play.
photoprint		Any print made by a photomechanical process.
photopsia		An affection of the eye, in which the patient perceives luminous rays, flashes, coruscations, etc. See phosphene.
photopsy		Same as Photopsia.
photorelief		A printing surface in relief, obtained by photographic means and subsequent manipulations.
photoscope		Anything employed for the observation of light or luminous effects.
photoscopic		Of or pertaining to the photoscope or its uses.
photosculpture		A process in which, by means of a number of photographs simultaneously taken from different points of view on the same level, rough models of the figure or bust of a person or animal may be made with great expedition.
photosphere		A sphere of light; esp., the luminous envelope of the sun.
photospheric		Of or pertaining to the photosphere.
photosynthesis		The process of constructive metabolism by which carbohydrates are formed from water vapor and the carbon dioxide of the air in the chlorophyll-containing tissues of plants exposed to the action of light.
phototaxis		The influence of light on the movements of low organisms, as various infusorians, the zoöspores of certain algæ, etc.; also, the tendency to follow definite directions of motion or assume definite positions under such influence.
phototaxy		The influence of light on the movements of low organisms, as various infusorians, the zoöspores of certain algæ, etc.; also, the tendency to follow definite directions of motion or assume definite positions under such influence.
phototelegraphy		Telegraphy by means of light, as by the heliograph or the photophone.
phototelescope		A telescope adapted for taking photographs of the heavenly bodies.
phototheodolite		An arrangement of two photographic cameras, the plates of which may be brought into exactly the same plane, used in surveying and map making.
phototherapy		The application of light for therapeutic purposes, esp. for treating diseases of the skin. -- Pho`to*the*rap tic (#), a.
photothermic		Of or pertaining to both light and heat.
phototonus		A motile condition in plants resulting from exposure to light. -- Pho`to*ton"ic, a.
phototopography		Photogrammetry. -- Pho`to*top`o*graph ic*al (#), a.
phototrichromatic		Designating a photomechanical process for making reproductions in natural colors by three printings.
phototropic		Same as Heliotropic.
phototropism		The tendency of growing plant organs to move or curve under the influence of light.
phototype		A plate or block with a printing surface (usually in relief) obtained from a photograph; also, any one of the many methods of processes by which such a printing surface is obtained.
phototypic		Of or pertaining to a phototype or phototypy.
phototypography		Same as Phototypy.
phototypy		The art or process of producing phototypes.
photovisual		Of certain achromatic lenses, having the same focus for the actinic and for the brightest of the visual rays.
photoxylography		The process of producing a representation of an object on wood, by photography, for the use of the wood engraver.
photozincograph		A print made by photozincography. -- Pho`to*zin`co*graph"ic, a.
photozincography		A process, analogous to photolithography, for reproducing photographed impressions transferred to zinc plate.
phragmocone		The thin chambered shell attached to the anterior end of a belemnite.
phragmosiphon		The siphon of a phragmocone.
phrasal		Of the nature of a phrase; consisting of a phrase; as, a phrasal adverb.
phrase		A brief expression, sometimes a single word, but usually two or more words forming an expression by themselves, or being a portion of a sentence; as, an adverbial phrase. the wise it call. foh! a fico for the phrase.
phraseless		Indescribable.
phraseogram		A symbol for a phrase.
phraseologic		Of or pertaining to phraseology; consisting of a peculiar form of words.
phraseological		Of or pertaining to phraseology; consisting of a peculiar form of words.
phraseologist		A collector or coiner of phrases.
phraseology		Manner of expression; peculiarity of diction; style.
phrasing		Method of expression; association of words.
phratry		A subdivision of a phyle, or tribe, in Athens.
phreatic		Subterranean; -- applied to sources supplying wells.
phrenetic		Relating to phrenitis; suffering from frenzy; delirious; mad; frantic; frenetic. -- Phre*net"ic*al*ly, adv.
phrenetical		Relating to phrenitis; suffering from frenzy; delirious; mad; frantic; frenetic. -- Phre*net"ic*al*ly, adv.
phrenic		Of or pertaining to the diaphragm; diaphragmatic; as, the phrenic nerve.
phrenics		That branch of science which relates to the mind; mental philosophy.
phrenism		See Vital force, under Vital.
phrenitis		(Med.) Inflammation of the brain, or of the meninges of the brain, attended with acute fever and delirium; -- called also cephalitis.
phrenograph		An instrument for registering the movements of the diaphragm, or midriff, in respiration.
phrenologer		A phrenologist.
phrenologic		Phrenological.
phrenological		Of or pertaining to phrenology. -- Phren`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
phrenologist		One versed in phrenology; a craniologist.
phrenology		The science of the special functions of the several parts of the brain, or of the supposed connection between the various faculties of the mind and particular organs in the brain.
phrenomagnetism		The power of exciting the organs of the brain by magnetic or mesmeric influence.
phrenosin		A nitrogenous body, related to cerebrin, supposed to exist in the brain.
phrensied		See Frenzied — affected with frenzy; frantic; maddened. -- Fren"zied-ly, adv.
phrensy		Violent and irrational excitement; delirium. See Frenzy.
phrentic	Obsolete	See Phrenetic — relating to phrenitis; suffering from frenzy; delirious; mad; frantic; frenetic. -- Phre*net"ic*al*ly, adv.
phryganeid		Any insect belonging to the Phryganeides.
phryganeides		A tribe of neuropterous insects which includes the caddice flies; -- called also Trichoptera.
phrygian		Of or pertaining to Phrygia, or to its inhabitants.
phthalate		A salt of phthalic acid.
phthalein		One of a series of artificial organic dyes made as condensation products of the phenols with phthalic acid, and well represented by phenol phthaleïn.
phthalic		Pertaining to, or designating, a dibasic acid obtained by the oxidation of naphthalene and allied substances.
phthalide		A lactone obtained by reduction of phthalyl chloride, as a white crystalline substance; hence, by extension, any one of the series of which phthalide proper is the type.
phthalimide		An imido derivative of phthalic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance, C6H4.(CO)2NH, which has itself (like succinimide) acid properties, and forms a series of salts.
phthalin		A colorless crystalline substance obtained by reduction from phthaleïn, into which it is easily converted by oxidation; hence, any one of the series of which phthalin proper is the type.
phthalyl		The hypothetical radical of phthalic acid.
phthiriasis		A disease (morbus pediculous) consisting in the excessive multiplication of lice on the human body.
phthisic		Same as Phthisis.
phthisical		Of or pertaining to phthisis; affected with phthisis; wasting; consumptive.
phthisicky		Having phthisis, or some symptom of it, as difficulty in breathing.
phthisiology		A treatise on phthisis.
phthisipneumonia		Pulmonary consumption.
phthisipneumony		Pulmonary consumption.
phthisis		A wasting or consumption of the tissues.
phthongal		Formed into, or characterized by, voice; vocalized; -- said of all the vowels and the semivowels, also of the vocal or sonant consonants g, d, b, l, r, v, z, etc. A vocalized element or letter.
phthongometer		An instrument for measuring vocal sounds.
phthor		Fluorine.
phycite		See Erythrite, 1.
phycochrome		A bluish green coloring matter of certain algæ.
phycocyanin		A blue coloring matter found in certain algæ.
phycocyanine		A blue coloring matter found in certain algæ.
phycoerythrin		A red coloring matter found in algæ of the subclass Florideæ.
phycoerythrine		A red coloring matter found in algæ of the subclass Florideæ.
phycography		A description of seaweeds.
phycology		The science of algæ, or seaweeds; algology.
phycomater		A gelatin in which the algæ spores have been supposed to vegetate.
phycomycetes		A large, important class of parasitic or saprophytic fungi, the algal or algalike fungi.
phycophaeine		A brown coloring matter found in certain algæ.
phycoxanthin		A yellowish coloring matter found in certain algæ.
phycoxanthine		A yellowish coloring matter found in certain algæ.
phylacter		A phylactery.
phylactered		Wearing a phylactery.
phylacteric		Of or pertaining to phylacteries.
phylacterical		Of or pertaining to phylacteries.
phylactery		Any charm or amulet worn as a preservative from danger or disease.
phylactocarp		A branch of a plumularian hydroid specially modified in structure for the protection of the gonothecæ.
phylactolaema		An order of fresh-water Bryozoa in which the tentacles are arranged on a horseshoe-shaped lophophore, and the mouth is covered by an epistome.
phylactolaemata		An order of fresh-water Bryozoa in which the tentacles are arranged on a horseshoe-shaped lophophore, and the mouth is covered by an epistome.
phylactolaematous		Of or pertaining to the Phylactolæma.
phylactolema		Same as Phylactolæma.
phylactolemata		Same as Phylactolæma.
phylarch		The chief of a phyle, or tribe.
phylarchy		The office of a phylarch; government of a class or tribe.
phyle		A local division of the people in ancient Athens; a clan; a tribe.
phyllite		(a) A mineral related to ottrelite. (b) Clay slate; argillaceous schist.
phyllo-		A combining form from Gr. a leaf; as, phyllopod, phyllotaxy.
phyllobranchia		A crustacean gill composed of lamellæ.
phyllocladium		A flattened stem or branch which more or less resembles a leaf, and performs the function of a leaf as regards respiration and assimilation.
phyllocyanin		A blue coloring matter extracted from chlorophyll.
phyllocyst		The cavity of a hydrophyllium.
phyllode		Same as Phyllodium.
phyllodineous		Having phyllodia; relating to phyllodia.
phyllodium		A petiole dilated into the form of a blade, and usually with vertical edges, as in the Australian acacias.
phyllody		A retrograde metamorphosis of the floral organs to the condition of leaves.
phylloid		Resembling a leaf.
phyllomania		An abnormal or excessive production of leaves.
phyllome		A foliar part of a plant; any organ homologous with a leaf, or produced by metamorphosis of a leaf.
phyllomorphosis		The succession and variation of leaves during different seasons.
phyllophagan		(a) One of a group of marsupials including the phalangists. (b) One of a tribe of beetles which feed upon the leaves of plants, as the chafers.
phyllophagous		Substituting on leaves; leaf-eating.
phyllophorous		Leaf-bearing; producing leaves.
phyllopod		One of the Phyllopoda.
phyllopoda		An order of Entomostraca including a large number of species, most of which live in fresh water.
phyllopodous		Of or pertaining to the Phyllopoda.
phyllorhine		Of or pertaining to Phyllorhina and other related genera of bats that have a leaflike membrane around the nostrils.
phyllosoma		The larva of the spiny lobsters (Palinurus and allied genera).
phyllostome		Any bat of the genus Phyllostoma, or allied genera, having large membranes around the mouth and nose; a nose-leaf bat.
phyllostomid		A phyllostome.
phyllotactic		Of or pertaining to phyllotaxy.
phyllotaxis		The order or arrangement of leaves on the stem; the science of the relative position of leaves.
phyllotaxy		The order or arrangement of leaves on the stem; the science of the relative position of leaves.
phyllous		Homologous with a leaf; as, the sepals, petals, stamens, and pistils are phyllous organs.
phylloxanthin		A yellow coloring matter extracted from chlorophyll.
phylloxera		(Zoöl.) A small hemipterous insect (Phylloxera vastatrix) allied to the aphids.
phylogenesis		The history of genealogical development; the race history of an animal or vegetable type; the historic exolution of the phylon or tribe, in distinction from ontogeny, or the development of the individual organism…
phylogenetic		Relating to phylogenesis, or the race history of a type of organism. -- Phy*lo*ge*net"ic*al*ly, adv.
phylogeny		The history of genealogical development; the race history of an animal or vegetable type; the historic exolution of the phylon or tribe, in distinction from ontogeny, or the development of the individual organism…
phylon		A tribe.
phylum		One of the larger divisions of the animal kingdom; a branch; a grand division.
phyma		A tubercle on any external part of the body.
physa		A genus of fresh-water Pulmonifera, having reversed spiral shells. See Pond snail, under Pond.
physalia		A genus of large oceanic Siphonophora which includes the Portuguese man-of-war.
physaliae		An order of Siphonophora which includes Physalia.
physemaria		A group of simple marine organisms, usually classed as the lowest of the sponges.
physeter		(Zoöl.) The genus that includes the sperm whale.
physianthropy		The philosophy of human life, or the doctrine of the constitution and diseases of man, and their remedies.
physic		The art of healing diseases; the science of medicine; the theory or practice of medicine.
physical		Of or pertaining to nature (as including all created existences); in accordance with the laws of nature; also, of or relating to natural or material things, or to the bodily structure, as opposed to things mental, moral…
physically		In a physical manner; according to the laws of nature or physics; by physical force; not morally.
physician		A person skilled in physic, or the art of healing; one duty authorized to prescribe remedies for, and treat, diseases; a doctor of medicine.
physicianed	Obsolete	Licensed as a physician.
physicism		The tendency of the mind toward, or its preoccupation with, physical phenomena; materialism in philosophy and religion.
physicist		(Biol.) A believer in the theory that the fundamental phenomena of life are to be explained upon purely chemical and physical principles; -- opposed to vitalist.
physicking		p. pr. & vb. n. fr.
physico-		A combining form, denoting relation to, or dependence upon, natural causes, or the science of physics.
physico-mathematics		Mixed mathematics.
physico-philosophy		The philosophy of nature.
physico-theology		Theology or divinity illustrated or enforced by physics or natural philosophy.
physicochemical		Involving the principles of both physics and chemistry; dependent on, or produced by, the joint action of physical and chemical agencies.
physicologic		Logic illustrated by physics.
physicological		Of or pertaining to physicologic.
physicology		Physics. -- Phys`i*col"o*gist, n.
physics		The science of nature, or of natural objects; that branch of science which treats of the laws and properties of matter, and the forces acting upon it; especially…
physiocrat		One of the followers of Quesnay of France, who, in the 18th century, founded a system of political economy based upon the supremacy of natural order.
physiogeny		The germ history of the functions, or the history of the development of vital activities, in the individual, being one of the branches of ontogeny.
physiognomer		Physiognomist.
physiognomic		Of or pertaining to physiognomy; according with the principles of physiognomy. -- Phys`i*og*nom"ic*al*ly, adv.
physiognomical		Of or pertaining to physiognomy; according with the principles of physiognomy. -- Phys`i*og*nom"ic*al*ly, adv.
physiognomist		One who tells fortunes by physiognomy.
physiognomize		To observe and study the physiognomy of.
physiognommonic		Physiognomic.
physiognomy		The art and science of discovering the predominant temper, and other characteristic qualities of the mind, by the outward appearance, especially by the features of the face.
physiogony		The birth of nature.
physiographic		Of or pertaining to physiography.
physiographical		Of or pertaining to physiography.
physiography		The science which treats of the earth's exterior physical features, climate, life, etc., and of the physical movements or changes on the earth's surface, as the currents of the atmosphere and ocean…
physiolatry		The worship of the powers or agencies of nature; materialism in religion; nature worship.
physiologer		A physiologist.
physiologic		Physiological.
physiological		Of or pertaining to physiology; relating to the science of the functions of living organism; as, physiological botany or chemistry.
physiologically		In a physiological manner.
physiologist		One who is versed in the science of physiology; a student of the properties and functions of animal and vegetable organs and tissues.
physiologize		To speculate in physiology; to make physiological investigations.
physiology		The science which treats of the phenomena of living organisms; the study of the processes incidental to, and characteristic of, life.
physiophyly		The tribal history of the functions, or the history of the paleontological development of vital activities, -- being a branch of phylogeny.
physique		The natural constitution, or physical structure, of a person.
physnomy	Obsolete	Physiogmony.
physoclist		One of the Physoclisti.
physoclisti		An order of teleost in which the air bladder has no opening.
physograde		Any siphonophore which has an air sac for a float, as the Physalia.
physophorae		An order of Siphonophora, furnished with an air sac, or float, and a series of nectocalyces.
physopod		One of the Physopoda; a thrips.
physopoda		Same as Thysanoptera.
physostigmine		An alkaloid found in the Calabar bean (the seed of Physostigma venenosum), and extracted as a white, tasteless, substance, amorphous or crystalline; -- formerly called eserine, with which it was regarded as identical.
physostomi		An order of fishes in which the air bladder is provided with a duct, and the ventral fins, when present, are abdominal.
physostomous		(a) Having a duct to the air bladder. (b) Pertaining to the Physostomi.
phytelephas		A genus of South American palm trees, the seeds of which furnish the substance called vegetable ivory.
phytivorous		Feeding on plants or herbage; phytophagous; as, phytivorous animals.
phyto-		A combining form from Gr. fyto`n a plant; as, phytochemistry, phytography.
phytochemical		Relating to phytochemistry.
phytochemistry		Chemistry in its relation to vegetable bodies; vegetable chemistry.
phytochimy	Passing out of use	Phytochemistry.
phytogenesis		The doctrine of the generation of plants.
phytogeny		The doctrine of the generation of plants.
phytogeographical		Of or pertaining to phytogeography.
phytogeography		The geographical distribution of plants.
phytoglyphic		Relating to phytoglyphy.
phytoglyphy		See Nature printing, under Nature.
phytographical		Of or pertaining to phytography.
phytography		The science of describing plants in a systematic manner; also, a description of plants.
phytoid		Resembling a plant; plantlike.
phytolacca		A genus of herbaceous plants, some of them having berries which abound in intensely red juice; poke, or pokeweed.
phytolite		An old name for a fossil plant.
phytolithologist		One versed in phytolithology; a paleobotanist.
phytolithology		The branch of science which treats of fossil plants; -- usually called paleobotany, sometimes paleophytology.
phytological		Of or pertaining to phytology; botanical.
phytologist		One skilled in phytology; a writer on plants; a botanist.
phytology		The science of plants; a description of the kinds and properties of plants; botany.
phytomer		An organic element of a flowering plant; a phyton.
phytomeron		An organic element of a flowering plant; a phyton.
phyton		One of the parts which by their repetition make up a flowering plant, each being a single joint of a stem with its leaf or leaves; a phytomer.
phytonomy		The science of the origin and growth of plants.
phytopathologist		One skilled in diseases of plants.
phytopathology		The science of diseases to which plants are liable.
phytophaga		A division of Hymenoptera; the sawflies.
phytophagic		Phytophagous.
phytophagous		Feeding on plants; herbivorous; as, a phytophagous animal.
phytophagy		The eating of plants.
phytophysiology		Vegetable physiology.
phytotomist		One versed in phytotomy.
phytotomy		The dissection of plants; vegetable anatomy.
phytozoaria		Same as Infusoria.
phytozooen		A plantlike animal.
phytozoon		A plantlike animal.
phyz		See Phiz — the face or visage.
