pi		A mass of type confusedly mixed or unsorted.	
piacaba		See Piassava — a fibrous product of two Brazilian palm trees (Attalea funifera and Leopoldinia Piassaba), -- used in making brooms, and for other purposes.	
piacle		A heinous offense which requires expiation.	
piacular		Expiatory; atoning.	
piacularity		The quality or state of being piacular; criminality; wickedness.	
piaculous		Same as Piacular.	
pial		Pertaining to the pia mater.	
pian		The yaws. See Yaws.	Portuguese pian.
pianet	Obsolete	(a) The magpie. (b) The lesser woodpecker.	
pianette		A small piano; a pianino.	
pianino		A pianette, or small piano.	
pianissimo		Very soft; -- a direction to execute a passage as softly as possible. (Abbrev. pp.)	
pianist		A performer, esp. a skilled performer, on the piano.	French pianiste, from Italian pianista.
piano		Soft; -- a direction to the performer to execute a certain passage softly, and with diminished volume of tone.	
pianoforte		A well-known musical instrument somewhat resembling the harpsichord, and consisting of a sreies of wires of graduated length, thickness, and tension, struck by hammers moved by keys.	Italian piano, from Latin planus, from Greek πλάνος.
pianograph		A form of melodiograph applied to a piano.	
piapec		A West African pie (Ptilostomus Senegalensis).	
piarist		One of a religious order who are the regular clerks of the Scuole Pie (religious schools), an institute of secondary education, founded at Rome in the last years of the 16th century.	
piassava		A fibrous product of two Brazilian palm trees (Attalea funifera and Leopoldinia Piassaba), -- used in making brooms, and for other purposes.	Portuguese piasaba.
piaster		A silver coin of Spain and various other countries. See Peso.	
piastre		See Piaster — a silver coin of Spain and various other countries. See Peso.	Italian piastra.
piation	Obsolete	The act of making atonement; expiation.	Latin piatio.
piatti		Cymbals.	
piazza		An open square in a European town, especially an Italian town; hence (Arch.), an arcaded and roofed gallery; a portico.	Italian piazza, from Latin platea, from Greek πλατεῖα.
pibcorn		A wind instrument or pipe, with a horn at each end, -- used in Wales.	
pibroch		A Highland air, suited to the particular passion which the musician would either excite or assuage; generally applied to those airs that are played on the bagpipe before the Highlanders when they go out to battle.	Scottish Gaelic pìobaireachd.
pic		A Turkish cloth measure, varying from 18 to 28 inches.	
pica		(Zoöl.) The genus that includes the magpies.	Latin pīca.
picador		A horseman armed with a lance, who in a bullfight receives the first attack of the bull, and excites him by picking him without attempting to kill him.	Spanish picador.
picamar		An oily liquid hydrocarbon extracted from the creosote of beechwood tar.	Latin pix.
picapare		The finfoot.	
picard		One of a sect of Adamites in the fifteenth century; -- so called from one Picard of Flanders.	
picaresque		Applied to that class of literature in which the principal personage is the Spanish picaro, meaning a rascal, a knave, a rogue, an adventurer.	
picariae		An extensive division of birds which includes the woodpeckers, toucans, trogons, hornbills, kingfishers, motmots, rollers, and goatsuckers.	
picarian		Of or pertaining to Picariæ. -- n.	
picaroon		One who plunders; especially, a plunderer of wrecks; a pirate; a corsair; a marauder; a sharper.	
picayune	Dialect	A small coin of the value of six and a quarter cents. See Fippenny bit.	
picayunish	Colloquial	Petty; paltry; mean; as, a picayunish business.	
piccadil		A high, stiff collar for the neck; also, a hem or band about the skirt of a garment, -- worn by men in the 17th century.	
piccadilly		A high, stiff collar for the neck; also, a hem or band about the skirt of a garment, -- worn by men in the 17th century.	
piccage		Money paid at fairs for leave to break ground for booths.	Latin piccadium.
piccalilli		A pickle of various vegetables with pungent species, -- originally made in the East Indies.	
piccolo		(Mus.) A small, shrill flute, the pitch of which is an octave higher than the ordinary flute; an octave flute.	
pice		A small copper coin of the East Indies, worth less than a cent.	Hindi पैसा.
picea		A genus of coniferous trees of the northen hemisphere, including the Norway spruce and the American black and white spruces.	
picene		A hydrocarbon (C	
piceous		Of or pertaining to pitch; resembling pitch in color or quality; pitchy.	Latin piceus.
pichey		A Brazilian armadillo (Dasypus minutus); the little armadillo.	
pichiciago		A small, burrowing, South American edentate (Chlamyphorus truncatus), allied to the armadillos.	
pici		A division of birds including the woodpeckers and wrynecks.	
piciform		Of or pertaining to Piciformes.	
piciformes		A group of birds including the woodpeckers, toucans, barbets, colies, kingfishes, hornbills, and some other related groups.	
picine		Of or pertaining to the woodpeckers (Pici), or to the Piciformes.	
pick		To peck at, as a bird with its beak; to strike at with anything pointed; to act upon with a pointed instrument; to pierce; to prick, as with a pin.	Middle English picken.
pick-fault		One who seeks out faults.	
pick-me-up	Colloquial	A stimulant, restorative, or tonic; a bracer.	
pick-up		Act of picking up, as, in various games, the fielding or hitting of a ball just after it strikes the ground.	
pickaback		On the back or shoulders; as, to ride pickback.	
pickaninny		A small child; especially, a negro or mulatto infant.	Spanish pequeño.
pickapack		Pickaback.	
pickax		A pick with a point at one end, a transverse edge or blade at the other, and a handle inserted at the middle; a hammer with a flattened end for driving wedges and a pointed end for piercing as it strikes.	
pickaxe		A pick with a point at one end, a transverse edge or blade at the other, and a handle inserted at the middle; a hammer with a flattened end for driving wedges and a pointed end for piercing as it strikes.	Old French picois.
pickback		On the back.	
picked		Pointed; sharp.	
pickedness		The state of being sharpened; pointedness.	
pickeer	Obsolete	To make a raid for booty; to maraud; also, to skirmish in advance of an army.	
pickeerer	Obsolete	One who pickeers.	
picker		One who, or that which, picks, in any sense, -- as, one who uses a pick; one who gathers; a thief; a pick; a pickax; as, a cotton picker.	
pickerel		(Zoöl.) (a) Any one of several species of freshwater fishes of the genus Esox, esp. the smaller species.	
pickering		The sauger of the St.Lawrence River.	
pickery	Scots	Petty theft.	
picket		A stake sharpened or pointed, especially one used in fortification and encampments, to mark bounds and angles; or one used for tethering horses.	French piquet.
picketee		See Picotee — a variety of carnation having petals of a light color variously dotted and spotted at the edges.	
picking		The act of choosing, plucking, or gathering.	
pickle		See Picle — a small piece of land inclosed with a hedge; a close.	Middle English pikel.
pickle-herring	Obsolete	A herring preserved in brine; a pickled herring.	
pickled		Preserved in a pickle.	
pickler		One who makes pickles.	
picklock		An instrument for picking locks.	
pickmire	English dialect	The pewit, or black-headed gull.	
picknick		See Picnic — formerly, an entertainment at which each person contributed some dish to a common table; now…	
pickpack		Pickaback.	
pickpenny		A miser; also, a sharper.	
pickpocket		One who steals purses or other articles from pockets.	
pickpurse		One who steals purses, or money from purses.	
picksy		See Pixy — an old English name for a fairy; an elf.	
pickthank		One who strives to put another under obligation; an officious person; hence, a flatterer.	
picktooth	Obsolete	A toothpick.	
pickup		Act of picking up, as, in various games, the fielding or hitting of a ball just after it strikes the ground.	
picle	Obsolete	A small piece of land inclosed with a hedge; a close.	
picnic		Formerly, an entertainment at which each person contributed some dish to a common table; now, an excursion or pleasure party in which the members partake of a collation or repast (usually in the open air…	French pique-nique.
picnicker		One who takes part in a picnic.	
picoid		Like or pertaining to the Pici.	
picoline		Any one of three isometric bases (C6H7N) related to pyridine, and obtained from bone oil, acrolein ammonia, and coal-tar naphtha, as colorless mobile liquids of strong odor; -- called also methyl pyridine.	
picot		One of many small loops, as of thread, forming an ornamental border, as on a ribbon.	
picotee		A variety of carnation having petals of a light color variously dotted and spotted at the edges.	French picoté.
picotine		A variety of carnation having petals of a light color variously dotted and spotted at the edges.	
picquet		See Piquet.	
picra		The powder of aloes with canella, formerly officinal, employed as a cathartic.	
picrate		A salt of picric acid.	
picric		Pertaining to, or designating, a strong organic acid (called picric acid), intensely bitter.	French picrique, from Greek πικρός.
picrite		A dark green igneous rock, consisting largely of chrysolite, with hornblende, augite, biotite, etc.	
picrolite		A fibrous variety of serpentine.	
picromel		A colorless viscous substance having a bitter-sweet taste.	
picrotoxin		A bitter white crystalline substance found in the cocculus indicus.	
picryl		The hypothetical radical of picric acid, analogous to phenyl.	
pictish		Of or pertaining to Picts; resembling the Picts.	
pictograph		A picture or hieroglyph representing and expressing an idea. -- Pic`to*graph"ic, a.	
pictorial		Of or pertaining to pictures; illustrated by pictures; forming pictures; representing with the clearness of a picture; as, a pictorial dictionary; a pictorial imagination. -- Pic*to"ri*al*ly, adv.	Latin pictus.
pictoric	Obsolete	Pictorial.	
pictorical	Obsolete	Pictorial.	
picts		A race of people of uncertain origin, who inhabited Scotland in early times.	
pictura		Pattern of coloration.	
picturable		Capable of being pictured, or represented by a picture.	
pictural	Obsolete	Pictorial.	
picture		A representation of anything (as a person, a landscape, a building) upon canvas, paper, or other surface, produced by means of painting, drawing, engraving, photography, etc.; a representation in colors.	
pictured		Furnished with pictures; represented by a picture or pictures; as, a pictured scene.	
picturer		One who makes pictures; a painter.	
picturesque		Forming, or fitted to form, a good or pleasing picture; representing with the clearness or ideal beauty appropriate to a picture; expressing that peculiar kind of beauty which is agreeable in a picture, natural or artificial…	
picturesquish		Somewhat picturesque.	
picturize		To adorn with pictures.	
picul		A commercial weight varying in different countries and for different commodities.	
piculet		Any species of very small woodpeckers of the genus Picumnus and allied genera.	
picus		A genus of woodpeckers, including some of the common American and European species.	
piddle		To deal in trifles; to concern one's self with trivial matters rather than with those that are important.	
piddler		One who piddles.	
piddling		Trifling; trivial; frivolous; paltry; -- applied to persons and things.	
piddock		Any species of Pholas; a pholad. See Pholas.	
pie		An article of food consisting of paste baked with something in it or under it; as, chicken pie; venison pie; mince pie; apple pie; pumpkin pie.	Old French pie, from Latin pica.
piebald		Having spots and patches of black and white, or other colors; mottled; pied.	
piece		A fragment or part of anything separated from the whole, in any manner, as by cutting, splitting, breaking, or tearing; a part; a portion; as, a piece of sugar; to break in pieces.	Middle English pece, from Old French piece.
pieceless		Not made of pieces; whole; entire.	
piecely	Obsolete	In pieces; piecemeal.	
piecemeal		Piece by piece; by little and little in succession.	Middle English pecemele.
piecemealed		Divided into pieces.	
piecener		One who supplies rolls of wool to the slubbing machine in woolen mills.	
piecer		One who pieces; a patcher.	
piecework		Work done by the piece or job; work paid for at a rate based on the amount of work done, rather than on the time employed.	
pied	English dialect	imp. & p. p. of Pi, or Pie, v.	
piedmont		Noting the region of foothills near the base of a mountain chain.	
piedmontite		A manganesian kind of epidote, from Piedmont. See Epidote.	
piedness		The state of being pied.	
piedouche		A pedestal of small size, used to support small objects, as busts, vases, and the like.	
piedstall	Obsolete	See Pedestal — (Arch.) The base or foot of a column, statue, vase, lamp, or the like; the part on which an upright work stands.	
pieman		A man who makes or sells pies.	
piend		See Peen — (a) A round-edged, or hemispherical, end to the head of a hammer or sledge, used to stretch or bend metal by indentation.	
pieno		Full; having all the instruments.	
pieplant		A plant (Rheum Rhaponticum) the leafstalks of which are acid, and are used in making pies; the garden rhubarb.	
piepoudre		An ancient court of record in England, formerly incident to every fair and market, of which the steward of him who owned or had the toll was the judge.	
piepowder		An ancient court of record in England, formerly incident to every fair and market, of which the steward of him who owned or had the toll was the judge.	
pier		(Arch.) (a) Any detached mass of masonry, whether insulated or supporting one side of an arch or lintel, as of a bridge; the piece of wall between two openings.	
pierage		Same as Wharfage.	
pierce		To thrust into, penetrate, or transfix, with a pointed instrument.	Old French percier.
pierceable		That may be pierced.	
pierced		Penetrated; entered; perforated.	
piercel		A kind of gimlet for making vents in casks; -- called also piercer.	
piercer		One who, or that which, pierces or perforates; specifically: (a) An instrument used in forming eyelets; a stiletto.	
piercing		Forcibly entering, or adapted to enter, at or by a point; perforating; penetrating; keen; -- used also figuratively; as, a piercing instrument, or thrust. -- Pier cing*ness, n.	
pierian		Of or pertaining to Pierides or Muses.	
pierid		Any butterfly of the genus Pieris and related genera. See Cabbage butterfly, under Cabbage.	
pierides		The Muses.	
pierre-perdu		Blocks of stone or concrete heaped loosely in the water to make a foundation (as for a sea wall), a mole, etc.	
piet	Scots	(a) The dipper, or watter ouzel. (b) The magpie.	
pieta		A representation of the dead Christ, attended by the Virgin Mary or by holy women and angels.	
pietism		Strict devotion; also, affectation of devotion.	
pietist		One of a class of religious reformers in Germany in the 17th century who sought to revive declining piety in the Protestant churches; -- often applied as a term of reproach to those who make a display of religious feeling.	
pietistic		Of or pertaining to the Pietists; hence, in contempt, affectedly or demonstratively religious.	
pietistical		Of or pertaining to the Pietists; hence, in contempt, affectedly or demonstratively religious.	
piety		Veneration or reverence of the Supreme Being, and love of his character; loving obedience to the will of God, and earnest devotion to his service.	
piewipe	English dialect	The lapwing, or pewit.	
piezometer		(Physics) An instrument for measuring the compressibility of liquids.	
piffara		A fife; also, a rude kind of oboe or a bagpipe with an inflated skin for reservoir.	
piffero		A fife; also, a rude kind of oboe or a bagpipe with an inflated skin for reservoir.	
piffle	Dialect	To be sequeamish or delicate; hence, to act or talk triflingly or ineffectively; to twaddle; piddle.	
pig		The young of swine, male or female; also, any swine; a hog.	Middle English pigge.
pig-eyed		Having small, deep-set eyes.	
pig-headed		Having a head like a pig; hence, figuratively: stupidity obstinate; perverse; stubborn.	
pig-jawed		Having the upper jaw projecting beyond the lower, with the upper incisors in advance of the lower; -- said of dogs.	
pig-sticking	Colloquial	Boar hunting; -- so called by Anglo-Indians.	
pigeon		(Zoöl.) Any bird of the order Columbæ, of which numerous species occur in nearly all parts of the world.	Old French pyjon, from Latin pipionem.
pigeon-breasted		Having a breast like a pigeon, -- the sternum being so prominent as to constitute a deformity; chicken-breasted.	
pigeon-hearted		Timid; easily frightened; chicken-hearted.	
pigeon-livered		Pigeon-hearted.	
pigeonfoot		The dove's-foot geranium (Geranium molle).	
pigeonhole		A small compartment in a desk or case for the keeping of letters, documents, etc.; -- so called from the resemblance of a row of them to the compartments in a dovecote.	
pigeonry		A place for pigeons; a dovecote.	
pigeontoed		Having the toes turned in.	
pigeonwing		A wing of a pigeon, or a wing like it.	
pigfish		(a) Any one of several species of salt-water grunts; -- called also hogfish.	
pigfoot		A marine fish (Scorpæna porcus), native of Europe.	
pigg		A piggin. See 1st Pig.	
piggery		A place where swine are kept.	
piggin		A small wooden pail or tub with an upright stave for a handle, -- often used as a dipper.	
piggish		Relating to, or like, a pig; greedy.	
pight	Obsolete	Pitched; fixed; determined. pight him on the pommel of his head.	
pightel	Obsolete	A small inclosure.	
pigmean		See Pygmean — of or pertaining to a pygmy; resembling a pygmy or dwarf; dwarfish; very small.	
pigment		Any material from which a dye, a paint, or the like, may be prepared; particularly, the refined and purified coloring matter ready for mixing with an appropriate vehicle.	Latin pigmentum.
pigmental		Of or pertaining to pigments; furnished with pigments.	
pigmentary		Of or pertaining to pigments; furnished with pigments.	
pigmentation		A deposition, esp. an excessive deposition, of coloring matter; as, pigmentation of the liver.	
pigmented		Colored; specifically (Biol.), filled or imbued with pigment; as, pigmented epithelial cells; pigmented granules.	
pigmentous		Pigmental.	
pigmy		See Pygmy — of or pertaining to a pygmy; resembling a pygmy or dwarf; dwarfish; very small.	
pignerate	Obsolete	to receive in pawn, as a pawnbroker does.	
pignoration		(Civil Law) The taking of cattle doing damage, by way of pledge, till satisfaction is made.	Latin pignoratio.
pignorative		Pledging, pawning.	
pignus		A pledge or pawn.	
pignut		(a) See Groundnut (d). (b) The bitter-flavored nut of a species of hickory (Carya glabra, or porcina); also, the tree itself.	
pigpen		A pen, or sty, for pigs.	
pigskin		The skin of a pig, -- used chiefly for making saddles; hence, a colloquial or slang term for a saddle.	
pigsney	Obsolete	A word of endearment for a girl or woman.	
pigsty		A pigpen.	
pigtail		A kind of twisted chewing tobacco.	
pigtailed		Having a tail like a pig's; as, the pigtailed baboon.	
pigweed		A name of several annual weeds. See Goosefoot, and Lamb's- quarters.	
pigwidgeon		A cant word for anything petty or small.	
pika		Any one of several species of rodents of the genus Lagomys, resembling small tailless rabbits.	
pike		(Mil.) A foot soldier's weapon, consisting of a long wooden shaft or staff, with a pointed steel head.	Middle French pique, from Old French pic.
pike-devant	Obsolete	A pointed beard.	
piked		Furnished with a pike; ending in a point; peaked; pointed.	
pikelet	English dialect	A light, thin cake or muffin.	
pikelin	English dialect	A light, thin cake or muffin.	
pikeman		A soldier armed with a pike.	
pikestaff		A staff with a spike in the lower end, to guard against slipping.	
piketail		See Pintail, 1.	
pikrolite		See Picrolite — a fibrous variety of serpentine.	
pilage		See Pelage — the covering, or coat, of a mammal, whether of wool, fur, or hair.	
pilaster		An upright architectural member right-angled in plan, constructionally a pier (See Pier, 1 (b)), but architecturally corresponding to a column, having capital, shaft, and base to agree with those of the columns of the same order.	Middle French pilastre, from Italian pilastro.
pilastered		Furnished with pilasters.	
pilau		See Pillau — an oriental dish consisting of rice boiled with mutton, fat, or butter.	
pilch	Obsolete	A gown or case of skin, or one trimmed or lined with fur.	
pilchard		A small European food fish (Clupea pilchardus) resembling the herring, but thicker and rounder.	
pilcher	Obsolete	A scabbard, as of a sword.	
pilcrow	Obsolete	a paragraph mark,.	
pile		A hair; hence, the fiber of wool, cotton, and the like; also, the nap when thick or heavy, as of carpeting and velvet.	French pile, from Latin pila.
pile-worn		Having the pile worn off; threadbare.	
pileate		Having the form of a cap for the head.	
pileated		Having the form of a cap for the head.	
piled	Obsolete	Having a pile or point; pointed.	
pileiform		Having the form of a pileus or cap; pileate.	
pilement	Obsolete	An accumulation; a heap.	
pilentum		An easy chariot or carriage, used by Roman ladies, and in which the vessels, etc., for sacred rites were carried.	
pileorhiza		A cap of cells which covers the growing extremity of a root; a rootcap.	
pileous		Consisting of, or covered with, hair; hairy; pilose.	
piler		One who places things in a pile.	
piles		The small, troublesome tumors or swellings about the anus and lower part of the rectum which are technically called hemorrhoids.	
pileus		(Bot.) The expanded upper portion of many of the fungi. See Mushroom.	
pileworm		The teredo.	
pilewort		A plant (Ranunculus Ficaria of Linnæus) whose tuberous roots have been used in poultices as a specific for the piles.	
pilfer		To steal in small quantities, or articles of small value; to practice petty theft.	Middle English pilfre, from Old French pelfre.
pilferer		One who pilfers; a petty thief.	
pilfering		Thieving in a small way.	
pilfery		Petty theft.	
pilgarlic		One who has lost his hair by disease; a sneaking fellow, or one who is hardly used.	
pilgrim		One who travels far, or in strange lands, to visit some holy place or shrine as a devotee; as, a pilgrim to Loretto; Canterbury pilgrims.	
pilgrimage		The journey of a pilgrim; a long journey; especially, a journey to a shrine or other sacred place.	
pilgrimize	Obsolete	To wander as a pilgrim; to go on a pilgrimage.	
pilidium		The free-swimming, hat-shaped larva of certain nemertean worms.	
pilifera		Same as Mammalia.	
piliferous		Bearing a single slender bristle, or hair.	
piliform		Resembling hairs or down.	
piligerous		Bearing hair; covered with hair or down; piliferous.	
piling		(Iron Manuf.) The process of building up, heating, and working, fagots, or piles, to form bars, etc. A series of piles; piles considered collectively; as, the piling of a bridge.	
pill		A medicine in the form of a little ball, or small round mass, to be swallowed whole.	Latin pilo.
pill-willet		The willet.	
pillage		The act of pillaging; robbery.	Old French pillage.
pillager		One who pillages.	
pillar		The general and popular term for a firm, upright, insulated support for a superstructure; a pier, column, or post; also, a column or shaft not supporting a superstructure, as one erected for a monument or an ornament.	
pillar-block		See under Pillow.	
pillared		Supported or ornamented by pillars; resembling a pillar, or pillars.	
pillaret		A little pillar.	
pillarist		See Stylite — one of a sect of anchorites in the early church, who lived on the tops of pillars for the exercise of their patience; -- called also pillarist and pillar saint.	
pillau		An Oriental dish consisting of rice boiled with mutton, fat, or butter.	
pilled	Obsolete	Stripped of hair; scant of hair; bald.	
pilled-garlic		See Pilgarlic — one who has lost his hair by disease; a sneaking fellow, or one who is hardly used.	
piller	Obsolete	One who pills or plunders.	
pillery	Obsolete	Plunder; pillage.	
pillion		A panel or cushion saddle; the under pad or cushion of saddle; esp., a pad or cushion put on behind a man's saddle, on which a woman may ride.	Scottish Gaelic pillean, from Latin pellis.
pillorize		To set in, or punish with, the pillory; to pillory.	
pillory		A frame of adjustable boards erected on a post, and having holes through which the head and hands of an offender were thrust so as to be exposed in front of it.	
pillow		Anything used to support the head of a person when reposing; especially, a sack or case filled with feathers, down, hair, or other soft material. finds the down pillow hard.	Middle English pilwe, from Old English pylwe.
pillowcase		A removable case or covering for a pillow, usually of white linen or cotton cloth.	
pillowed		Provided with a pillow or pillows; having the head resting on, or as on, a pillow.	
pillowy		Like a pillow.	
pillworm		Any myriapod of the genus Iulus and allied genera which rolls up spirally; a galleyworm.	
pillwort		Any plant of the genus Pilularia; minute aquatic cryptograms, with small pill-shaped fruit; -- sometimes called peppergrass.	
pilocarpine		An alkaloid extracted from jaborandi (Pilocarpus pennatifolius) as a white amorphous or crystalline substance which has a peculiar effect on the vasomotor system.	
pilon		A conical loaf of sugar.	
pilonce		Same as Pilon.	
piloncillo		Same as Pilon.	
pilose		Hairy; full of, or made of, hair.	Latin pilosus.
pilosity		The quality or state of being pilose; hairiness.	
pilot		Specifically, a person duly qualified, and licensed by authority, to conduct vessels into and out of a port, or in certain waters, for a fixed rate of fees.	Middle French pilot.
pilotage		The compensation made or allowed to a pilot.	
pilotism		Pilotage; skill in the duties of a pilot.	
pilotry		Pilotage; skill in the duties of a pilot.	
pilour	Obsolete	A piller; a plunderer.	
pilous		See Pilose — hairy; full of, or made of, hair.	
pilpul		Among the Jews, penetrating investigation, disputation, and drawing of conclusions, esp. in Talmudic study. -- Pil tic (#), a.	
pilser		An insect that flies into a flame.	
pilular		Of or pertaining to pills; resembling a pill or pills; as, a pilular mass.	
pilulous		Like a pill; small; insignificant.	
pilwe	Obsolete	A pillow.	
pily		Like pile or wool.	
pimaric		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid found in galipot, and isomeric with abietic acid.	
pimelic		(a) Pertaining to, or designating, a substance obtained from certain fatty substances, and subsequently shown to be a mixture of suberic and adipic acids.	
pimelite		An apple-green mineral having a greasy feel.	
piment	Obsolete	Wine flavored with spice or honey. See Pigment, 3.	
pimenta		Same as Pimento.	
pimento		Allspice; -- applied both to the tree and its fruit. See Allspice.	Spanish pimiento, from Latin pigmentum.
pimiento		The Spanish sweet pepper, the fruit of which is used as a vegetable, to stuff olives, etc.	Spanish pimentón.
pimlico		The friar bird.	
pimola		An olive stuffed with a kind of sweet red pepper, or pimiento.	
pimp		One who provides gratification for the lust of others; a procurer; a pander.	
pimpernel		A plant of the genus Anagallis, of which one species (A. arvensis) has small flowers, usually scarlet, but sometimes purple, blue, or white, which speedily close at the approach of bad weather.	
pimpillo		A West Indian name for the prickly pear (Opuntia); -- called also pimploes.	
pimpinel		The burnet saxifrage. See under Saxifrage.	
pimping	Obsolete	Little; petty; pitiful.	
pimple		(Med.) Any small acuminated elevation of the cuticle, whether going on to suppuration or not.	
pimpled		Having pimples.	
pimply		Pimpled.	
pimpship		The office, occupation, or persom of a pimp.	
pin		A piece of wood, metal, etc., generally cylindrical, used for fastening separate articles together, or as a support by which one article may be suspended from another; a peg; a bolt.	Middle English pinne, from Old English pinn.
pin-eyed		Having the stigma visible at the throad of a gamopetalous corolla, while the stamens are concealed in the tube; -- said of dimorphous flowers.	
pin-fire		Having a firing pin to explode the cartridge; as, a pin-fire rifle.	
pin-tailed		Having a tapered tail, with the middle feathers longest; -- said of birds.	
pinacoid		A plane parallel to two of the crystalline axes.	
pinacolin		A colorless oily liquid related to the ketones, and obtained by the decomposition of pinacone; hence, by extension, any one of the series of which pinacolin proper is the type.	
pinacone		A white crystalline substance related to the glycols, and made from acetone; hence, by extension, any one of a series of substances of which pinacone proper is the type.	
pinacotheca		A picture gallery.	Italian pinacoteca, from Latin pinacotheca, from Greek πινακοθήκη.
pinafore		An apron for a child to protect the front part of dress; a tier.	
pinakothek		Pinacotheca.	
pinaster		A species of pine (Pinus Pinaster) growing in Southern Europe.	
pinax		A tablet; a register; hence, a list or scheme inscribed on a tablet.	
pince-nez		Eyeglasses kept on the nose by a spring.	
pincers		See Pinchers — an instrument having two handles and two grasping jaws working on a pivot; -- used for griping things to be held fast, drawing nails, etc.	
pinch		To press hard or squeeze between the ends of the fingers, between teeth or claws, or between the jaws of an instrument; to squeeze or compress, as between any two hard bodies.	Middle English pinchen.
pinchbeck		An alloy of copper and zinc, resembling gold; a yellow metal, composed of about three ounces of zinc to a pound of copper.	
pinchcock		A clamp on a flexible pipe to regulate the flow of a fluid through the pipe.	
pinchem	English dialect	The European blue titmouse.	
pincher		One who, or that which, pinches.	
pinchers		An instrument having two handles and two grasping jaws working on a pivot; -- used for griping things to be held fast, drawing nails, etc.	
pinchfist		A closefisted person; a miser.	
pinching		Compressing; nipping; griping; niggardly; as, pinching cold; a pinching parsimony.	
pinchingly		In a pinching way.	
pinchpenny		A miserly person.	
pincoffin		A commercial preparation of garancin, yielding fine violet tints.	
pincpinc		An African wren warbler. (Drymoica textrix).	
pincushion		A small cushion, in which pins may be stuck for use.	
pindal		The peanut (Arachis hypogæa); -- so called in the West Indies.	
pindar		The peanut (Arachis hypogæa); -- so called in the West Indies.	
pindaric		Of or pertaining to Pindar, the Greek lyric poet; after the style and manner of Pindar; as, Pindaric odes. -- n.	
pindarical		Pindaric.	
pindarism		Imitation of Pindar.	
pindarist		One who imitates Pindar.	
pinder	Obsolete	One who impounds; a poundkeeper.	
pine		To grieve or mourn for.	Latin pinus.
pine-clad		Clad or crowned with pine trees; as, pine-clad hills.	
pine-crowned		Clad or crowned with pine trees; as, pine-clad hills.	
pineal		Of or pertaining to a pine cone; resembling a pine cone.	French pinéal.
pineapple		A tropical plant (Ananassa sativa); also, its fruit; -- so called from the resemblance of the latter, in shape and external appearance, to the cone of the pine tree.	Middle English pinappel.
pineaster		See Pinaster — a species of pine (Pinus Pinaster) growing in Southern Europe.	
pinedrops		A reddish herb (Pterospora andromedea) of the United States, found parasitic on the roots of pine trees.	
pinefinch		(a) A small American bird (Spinus, or Chrysomitris, spinus); -- called also pine siskin, and American siskin.	
pinenchyma		Tabular parenchyma, a form of cellular tissue in which the cells are broad and flat, as in some kinds of epidermis.	
pinery		A pine forest; a grove of pines.	
pinesap		A reddish fleshy herb of the genus Monotropa (M. hypopitys), formerly thought to be parasitic on the roots of pine trees, but more probably saprophytic.	
pinetum		A plantation of pine trees; esp., a collection of living pine trees made for ornamental or scientific purposes.	Latin pinetum.
pineweed		A low, bushy, nearly leafless herb (Hypericum Sarothra), common in sandy soil in the Eastern United States.	
piney		See Piny — abounding with pines.	
pinfeather		A feather not fully developed; esp., a rudimentary feather just emerging through the skin.	
pinfeathered		Having part, or all, of the feathers imperfectly developed.	
pinfish		(a) The sailor's choice (Diplodus, or Lagodon, rhomboides). (b) The salt-water bream (Diplodus Holbrooki).	
pinfold		A place in which stray cattle or domestic animals are confined; a pound; a penfold.	
ping		The sound made by a bullet in striking a solid object or in passing through the air.	
ping-pong		An indoor modification of lawn tennis played with small bats, or battledores, and a very light, hollow, celluloid ball, on a large table divided across the middle by a net.	
pingle	Obsolete	A small piece of inclosed ground.	
pingster		See Pinkster — whitsuntide.	
pinguefaction		A making of, or turning into, fat.	
pinguicula		See Butterwort — a genus of low herbs (Pinguicula) having simple leaves which secrete from their glandular upper surface a viscid fluid, to which insects adhere…	
pinguid	Obsolete	Fat; unctuous; greasy.	
pinguidinous	Obsolete	Containing fat; fatty.	
pinguitude		Fatness; a growing fat; obesity.	Latin pinguitudo.
pinhold		A place where a pin is fixed.	
pinic		Of or pertaining to the pine; obtained from the pine; formerly, designating an acid which is the chief constituent of common resin, - - now called abietic, or sylvic, acid.	
pining		Languishing; drooping; wasting away, as with longing.	
piningly		In a pining manner; droopingly.	
pinion		A moth of the genus Lithophane, as L. antennata, whose larva bores large holes in young peaches and apples.	French pignon.
pinioned		Having wings or pinions.	
pinionist		Any winged creature.	
pinite		A compact granular cryptocrystalline mineral of a dull grayish or greenish white color.	
pink		To pierce with small holes; to cut the edge of, as cloth or paper, in small scallops or angles.	
pink-eyed		Having small eyes.	
pink-sterned		Having a very narrow stern; -- said of a vessel.	
pinked		Pierced with small holes; worked in eyelets; scalloped on the edge.	
pinking	Colloquial	The act or method of decorating fabrics or garments with a pinking iron; also, the style of decoration; scallops made with a pinking iron.	
pinkish		Somewhat pink.	
pinkness		Quality or state of being pink.	
pinkroot		(Med.) The root of Spigelia Marilandica, used as a powerful vermifuge; also, that of S.	
pinkster		Whitsuntide.	
pinky		See 1st Pink.	Dutch pinkje.
pinna		(Bot.) (a) A leaflet of a pinnate leaf. See Illust. of Bipinnate leaf, under Bipinnate.	
pinnace		(Naut.) (a) A small vessel propelled by sails or oars, formerly employed as a tender, or for coast defence; -- called originally, spynace or spyne.	Middle French pinasse, from Spanish pinaza.
pinnacle		(Arch.) An architectural member, upright, and generally ending in a small spire, -- used to finish a buttress, to constitute a part in a proportion, as where pinnacles flank a gable or spire, and the like.	
pinnage	Obsolete	Poundage of cattle. See Pound.	
pinnate		(Bot.) Consisting of several leaflets, or separate portions, arranged on each side of a common petiole, as the leaves of a rosebush, a hickory, or an ash.	Latin pinnatus.
pinnated		(Bot.) Consisting of several leaflets, or separate portions, arranged on each side of a common petiole, as the leaves of a rosebush, a hickory, or an ash.	
pinnately		In a pinnate manner.	
pinnatifid		Divided in a pinnate manner, with the divisions not reaching to the midrib.	
pinnatilobate		Having lobes arranged in a pinnate manner.	
pinnatiped		Having the toes bordered by membranes; fin-footed, as certain birds.	
pinner		One who, or that which, pins or fastens, as with pins.	
pinnet		A pinnacle.	
pinniform		Shaped like a fin or feather.	
pinnigrada		Same as Pinnipedia.	
pinnigrade		An animal of the seal tribe, moving by short feet that serve as paddles.	
pinniped		(a) One of the Pinnipedia; a seal. (b) One of the Pinnipedes.	
pinnipedes		Same as Steganopodes.	
pinnipedia		A suborder of aquatic carnivorous mammals including the seals and walruses; -- opposed to Fissipedia.	
pinnock	English dialect	(a) The hedge sparrow. (b) The tomtit.	
pinnothere		A crab of the genus pinnotheres. See Oyster crab, under Oyster.	Latin pinoteres, from Greek πινοτήρης.
pinnula		Same as Pinnule.	
pinnulate		Having each pinna subdivided; -- said of a leaf, or of its pinnæ.	
pinnulated		Having pinnules.	
pinnule		(Bot.) One of the small divisions of a decompound frond or leaf. See Illust. of Bipinnate leaf, under Bipinnate.	
pinnywinkles	Scots	An instrument of torture, consisting of a board with holes into which the fingers were pressed, and fastened with pegs.	
pinocle		A game at cards, played with forty-eight cards, being all the cards above the eight spots in two packs.	
pinole		An aromatic powder used in Italy in the manufacture of chocolate.	
pinon		(a) The edible seed of several species of pine; also, the tree producing such seeds, as Pinus Pinea of Southern Europe, and P.	
pinpatch	English dialect	The common English periwinkle.	
pint	English dialect	A measure of capacity, equal to half a quart, or four gills, -- used in liquid and dry measures.	
pintado		Any bird of the genus Numida.	Spanish pintado.
pintail		(Zoöl.) A northern duck (Dafila acuta), native of both continents.	
pintle		(Mech.) An upright pivot pin; as: (a) The pivot pin of a hinge. (b) A hook or pin on which a rudder hangs and turns.	Middle English pintil, from Old English pintel.
pinto		Lit., painted; hence, piebald; mottled; pied.	Spanish pinto.
pintos		A mountain tribe of Mexican Indians living near Acapulco.	
pinule	Obsolete	One of the sights of an astrolabe.	
pinus		A large genus of evergreen coniferous trees, mostly found in the northern hemisphere.	
pinweed		Any plant of the genus Lechea, low North American herbs with branching stems, and very small and abundant leaves and flowers.	
pinworm		A small nematoid worm (Oxyurus vermicularis), which is parasitic chiefly in the rectum of man.	
pinxit		A word appended to the artist's name or initials on a painting, or engraved copy of a painting; as, Rubens pinxit, Rubens painted (this).	
pinxter		See Pinkster — whitsuntide.	
piny		Abounding with pines.	
pinyon		(a) The edible seed of several species of pine; also, the tree producing such seeds, as Pinus Pinea of Southern Europe, and P.	
pion		(a) The edible seed of several species of pine; also, the tree producing such seeds, as Pinus Pinea of Southern Europe, and P.	
pioned		A Shakespearean word of disputed meaning; perh., Thy banks with pioned and twilled brims.	
pioneer		(Mil.) A soldier detailed or employed to form roads, dig trenches, and make bridges, as an army advances.	Middle French pionier.
pioner	Obsolete	A pioneer.	
piony		See Peony — a plant, and its flower, of the ranunculaceous genus Pæonia.	
piot	Obsolete	The magpie.	
pious		Of or pertaining to piety; exhibiting piety; reverential; dutiful; religious; devout; godly.	Latin pius.
piously		In a pious manner.	
pip		A contagious disease of fowls, characterized by hoarseness, discharge from the nostrils and eyes, and an accumulation of mucus in the mouth, forming a "scale spots" on playing cards, dominoes, etc. Addison.	Middle English pippe.
pipa		The Surinam toad (Pipa Americana), noted for its peculiar breeding habits.	
pipage		Transportation, as of petroleum oil, by means of a pipe conduit; also, the charge for such transportation.	
pipe		A wind instrument of music, consisting of a tube or tubes of straw, reed, wood, or metal; any tube which produces musical sounds; as, a shepherd's pipe; the pipe of an organ.	Old English pipe.
pipe-line		To convey by a pipe line; to furnish with a pipe line or pipe lines.	
pipeclay		To whiten or clean with pipe clay, as a soldier's accouterments.	
piped		Formed with a pipe; having pipe or pipes; tubular.	
pipefish		Any lophobranch fish of the genus Siphostoma, or Syngnathus, and allied genera, having a long and very slender angular body, covered with bony plates.	
pipelayer		One who lays conducting pipes in the ground, as for water, gas, etc.	
pipelaying		The laying of conducting pipes underground, as for water, gas, etc.	
pipemouth		Any fish of the genus Fistularia; -- called also tobacco pipefish. See Fistularia.	
piper		See Pepper — a well-known, pungently aromatic condiment, the dried berry, either whole or powdered, of the Piper nigrum.	
piperaceous		Of or pertaining to the order of plants (Piperaceæ) of which the pepper (Piper nigrum) is the type.	
piperazin		A crystalline substance, (C2H4NH)2, formed by action of ammonia on ethylene bromide, by reduction of pyrazine, etc. It is a strong base, and is used as a remedy for gout.	
piperazine		A crystalline substance, (C2H4NH)2, formed by action of ammonia on ethylene bromide, by reduction of pyrazine, etc. It is a strong base, and is used as a remedy for gout.	
piperic		Pertaining to, or derived from, or designating, a complex organic acid found in the products of different members of the Pepper family, and extracted as a yellowish crystalline substance.	
piperidge		Same as Pepperidge.	
piperidine		An oily liquid alkaloid, C5H11N, having a hot, peppery, ammoniacal odor.	
piperine		A white crystalline compound of piperidine and piperic acid.	
piperonal		A white crystalline substance obtained by oxidation of piperic acid, and regarded as a complex aldehyde.	
piperylene		A hydrocarbon obtained by decomposition of certain piperidine derivatives.	
pipestem		The hollow stem or tube of a pipe used for smoking tobacco, etc. Took a long reed for a pipestem.	
pipestone		A kind of clay slate, carved by the Indians into tobacco pipes.	
pipette		A small glass tube, often with an enlargement or bulb in the middle, and usually graduated, -- used for transferring or delivering measured quantities.	French pipette.
pipevine		The Dutchman's pipe. See under Dutchman.	
pipewood		An ericaceous shrub (Leucothoë acuminata) of the southern United States, from the wood of which pipe bowls are made.	
pipewort		Any plant of a genus (Eriocaulon) of aquatic or marsh herbs with soft grass-like leaves.	
piping		Playing on a musical pipe.	
pipistrel		A small European bat (Vesperugo pipistrellus); -- called also flittermouse.	
pipistrelle		A small European bat (Vesperugo pipistrellus); -- called also flittermouse.	French pipistrelle, from Italian pipistrello.
pipit		Any one of numerous species of small singing birds belonging to Anthus and allied genera, of the family Motacillidæ.	
pipkin		A small earthen boiler.	
pippin		(a) An apple from a tree raised from the seed and not grafted; a seedling apple.	
pipra		Any one of numerous species of small clamatorial birds belonging to Pipra and allied genera, of the family Pipridæ.	
piprine		Of or pertaining to the pipras, or the family Pipridæ.	
pipsissewa		A low evergreen plant (Chimaphila umbellata), with narrow, wedge-lanceolate leaves, and an umbel of pretty nodding fragrant blossoms.	
pipy		Like a pipe; hollow-stemmed.	
piquancy		The quality or state of being piquant.	
piquant		Stimulating to the taste; giving zest; tart; sharp; pungent; as, a piquant anecdote. of Tongue.	Middle French piquant, from Old French piquer.
piquantly		In a piquant manner.	
pique		A cotton fabric, figured in the loom, -- used as a dress goods for women and children, and for vestings, etc. The jigger.	French piqué.
piqueer		See Pickeer — to make a raid for booty; to maraud; also, to skirmish in advance of an army.	
piqueerer		See Pickeerer — one who pickeers.	
piquet		See Picket — a stake sharpened or pointed, especially one used in fortification and encampments, to mark bounds and angles; or one used for tethering horses.	French piquet.
piracy		(Common Law) Robbery on the high seas; the taking of property from others on the open sea by open violence; without lawful authority, and with intent to steal; -- a crime answering to robbery on land.	
piragua		See Pirogue — a dugout canoe; by extension, any small boat.	
pirai		Same as Piraya.	Spanish piraya.
pirameter		A dynamometer for ascertaining the power required to draw carriages over roads.	
pirarucu		Same as Arapaima.	
pirate		A robber on the high seas; one who by open violence takes the property of another on the high seas; especially, one who makes it his business to cruise for robbery or plunder; a freebooter on the seas; also…	Old French pirate, from Latin pirata, from Greek πειρατής.
piratic		Piratical.	
piratical		Of or pertaining to a pirate; acquired by, or practicing, piracy; as, a piratical undertaking. -- Pi*rat"ic*al*ly, adv.	
piraya		A large voracious fresh-water fish (Serrasalmo piraya) of South America, having lancet-shaped teeth.	
pirie	Obsolete	See Pirry — a rough gale of wind.	
piririgua		A South American bird (Guira guira) allied to the cuckoos.	
pirl		To twist or twine, as hair in making fishing lines.	
pirn	Scots	A quill or reed on which thread or yarn is wound; a bobbin; also, the wound yarn on a weaver's shuttle; also, the reel of a fishing rod.	
pirogue		A dugout canoe; by extension, any small boat.	French pirogue, from Latin piragua.
pirouette		A whirling or turning on the toes in dancing.	French pirouette.
pirrie	Obsolete	A rough gale of wind.	
pirry	Obsolete	A rough gale of wind.	
pisasphaltum		See Pissasphalt — earth pitch; a soft, black bitumen of the consistence of tar, and of a strong smell.	
pisay		See Pisé.	
piscary		The right or privilege of fishing in another man's waters.	
piscation	Obsolete	Fishing; fishery.	Latin piscatio.
piscator		A fisherman; an angler.	
piscatorial		Of or pertaining to fishes or fishing.	Latin piscator.
piscatory		Of or pertaining to fishes or fishing.	Latin piscator.
pisces		(Astron.) (a) The twelfth sign of the zodiac, marked pisces in almanacs.	
piscicapture		Capture of fishes, as by angling.	
piscicultural		Relating to pisciculture.	
pisciculture		Fish culture. See under Fish.	
pisciculturist		One who breeds fish.	
pisciform		Having the form of a fish; resembling a fish.	
piscina		A niche near the altar in a church, containing a small basin for rinsing altar vessels.	
piscinal		Belonging to a fishpond or a piscina.	
piscine		Of or pertaining to a fish or fishes; as, piscine remains.	
piscivorous		Feeding or subsisting on fish.	
pise		A species of wall made of stiff earth or clay rammed in between molds which are carried up as the wall rises; -- called also pisé work.	
pish		An exclamation of contempt.	
pishu		The Canada lynx.	
pisiform		Resembling a pea or peas in size and shape; as, a pisiform iron ore.	
pismire		An ant, or emmet.	Middle English pissemyre.
pisolite		A variety of calcite, or calcium carbonate, consisting of aggregated globular concretions about the size of a pea; -- called also peastone, peagrit.	
pisolitic		Composed of, containing, or resembling, pisolite.	
pisophalt	Obsolete	Pissasphalt.	
piss		To discharge urine, to urinate.	Middle English pissen, from Old French pissier.
pissabed		A name locally applied to various wild plants, as dandelion, bluet, oxeye daisy, etc.	
pissasphalt		Earth pitch; a soft, black bitumen of the consistence of tar, and of a strong smell.	Latin pissasphaltus.
pist		(man.) See Piste.	
pistache		The anacardiaceous tree Pistacia vera, which yields the pistachio nut; also, the nut itself and the flavoring extract prepared from it.	
pistachio		The nut of the Pistacia vera, a tree of the order Anacardiaceæ, containing a kernel of a pale greenish color, which has a pleasant taste, resembling that of the almond, and yields an oil of agreeable taste and odor…	Italian pistacchio, from Greek πιστάκιον.
pistacia		The name of a genus of trees, including the tree which bears the pistachio, the Mediterranean mastic tree (Pistacia Lentiscus), and the species (P.	
pistacite		Epidote.	
pistareen		An old Spanish silver coin of the value of about twenty cents.	
pistazite		Same as Pistacite.	
piste		The track or tread a horseman makes upon the ground he goes over.	
pistel	Obsolete	An epistle.	
pistic		Pure; genuine.	
pistil	Obsolete	An epistle.	
pistillaceous		Growing on, or having nature of, the pistil; of or pertaining to a pistil.	
pistillate		Having a pistil or pistils; -- usually said of flowers having pistils but no stamens.	
pistillation	Obsolete	The act of pounding or breaking in a mortar; pestillation.	
pistillidium		Same as Archegonium.	
pistilliferous		Pistillate.	
pistillody		The metamorphosis of other organs into pistils.	
pistol		The smallest firearm used, intended to be fired from one hand, -- now of many patterns, and bearing a great variety of names.	
pistolade		A pistol shot.	
pistole		The name of certain gold coins of various values formerly coined in some countries of Europe.	
pistoleer		One who uses a pistol.	
pistolet		A small pistol.	
piston		A sliding piece which either is moved by, or moves against, fluid pressure.	French piston, from Italian pestone.
pit		A large cavity or hole in the ground, either natural or artificial; a cavity in the surface of a body; an indentation; specifically: (a) The shaft of a coal mine; a coal pit.	Dutch pit, from Middle Dutch pitte.
pit-hole		A pit; a pockmark.	
pita		(a) A fiber obtained from the Agave Americana and other related species, -- used for making cordage and paper.	
pitahaya		A cactaceous shrub (Cereus Pitajaya) of tropical America, which yields a delicious fruit.	
pitapat		In a flutter; with palpitation or quick succession of beats.	
pitch		A thick, black, lustrous, and sticky substance obtained by boiling down tar.	Middle English pitch.
pitch-black		Black as pitch or tar.	
pitch-dark		Dark as a pitch; pitch-black.	
pitch-faced		Having the arris defined by a line beyond which the rock is cut away, so as to give nearly true edges; -- said of squared stones that are otherwise quarry-faced.	
pitch-ore		Pitchblende.	
pitchblende		A pitch-black mineral consisting chiefly of the oxide of uranium; uraninite.	German Pechblende.
pitcher		One who pitches anything, as hay, quoits, a ball, etc.; specifically (Baseball), the player who delivers the ball to the batsman.	
pitcherful		The quantity a pitcher will hold.	
pitchfork		A fork, or farming utensil, used in pitching hay, sheaves of grain, or the like.	
pitchiness		Blackness, as of pitch; darkness.	
pitching		The act of throwing or casting; a cast; a pitch; as, wild pitching in baseball.	
pitchstone		An igneous rock of semiglassy nature, having a luster like pitch.	
pitchwork		The work of a coal miner who is paid by a share of his product.	
pitchy		Partaking of the qualities of pitch; resembling pitch.	
piteous		Evincing pity, compassion, or sympathy; compassionate; tender.	Middle English pitous, from Old French piteus.
pitfall		A pit deceitfully covered to entrap wild beasts or men; a trap of any kind.	
pitfalling		Entrapping; insnaring.	
pith		(Bot.) The soft spongy substance in the center of the stems of many plants and trees, especially those of the dicotyledonous or exogenous classes.	Old English piþa.
pithecanthropus		A hypothetical genus of primates intermediate between man and the anthropoid apes.	
pitheci		A division of mammals including the apes and monkeys.	
pithecoid		Of or pertaining to the genus Pithecia, or subfamily Pithecinæ, which includes the saki, ouakari, and other allied South American monkeys.	
pithful		Full of pith.	
pithily		In a pithy manner.	
pithiness		The quality or state of being pithy.	
pithless		Destitute of pith, or of strength; feeble.	
pithsome		Pithy; robust.	
pithy		Consisting wholly, or in part, of pith; abounding in pith; as, a pithy stem; a pithy fruit.	
pitiable		Deserving pity; wworthy of, or exciting, compassion; miserable; lamentable; piteous; as, pitiable persons; a pitiable condition; pitiable wretchedness.	
pitier		One who pities.	
pitiful		Full of pity; tender-hearted; compassionate; kind; merciful; sympathetic.	
pitiless		Destitute of pity; hard-hearted; merciless; as, a pitilessmaster; pitiless elements.	
pitman		One who works in a pit, as in mining, in sawing timber, etc.	
pitpan		A long, flat-bottomed canoe, used for the navigation of rivers and lagoons in Central America.	
pitpat		See Pitapat — in a flutter; with palpitation or quick succession of beats.	
pitta		Any one of a large group of bright-colored clamatorial birds belonging to Pitta, and allied genera of the family Pittidæ.	
pittacal		A dark blue substance obtained from wood tar.	
pittance		An allowance of food bestowed in charity; a mess of victuals; hence, a small charity gift; a dole.	Latin pietantia.
pitted		Marked with little pits, as in smallpox. See Pit, v. t., 2. 2. (Bot.) Having minute thin spots; as, pitted ducts in the vascular parts of vegetable tissue.	
pitter	Obsolete	A contrivance for removing the pits from peaches, plums, and other stone fruit.	
pitter-patter		A sound like that of alternating light beats.	
pittle-pattle		To talk unmeaningly; to chatter or prattle.	
pituitary		(a) Secreting mucus or phlegm; as, the pituitary membrane, or the mucous membrane which lines the nasal cavities.	
pituite		Mucus, phlegm.	
pituitous		Consisting of, or resembling, pituite or mucus; full of mucus; discharging mucus.	
pituitrin		A substance or extract from the pituitary body.	
pity		A feeling for the sufferings or distresses of another or others; sympathy with the grief or misery of another; compassion; fellow- feeling; commiseration.	Anglo-Norman pité.
pitying		Expressing pity; as, a pitying eye, glance, or word. -- Pit"y*ing*ly, adv.	
pityriasis		A superficial affection of the skin, characterized by irregular patches of thin scales which are shed in branlike particles.	
pityroid		Having the form of, or resembling, bran.	
piu		A little more; as, più allegro, a little more briskly.	
pivot		A fixed pin or short axis, on the end of which a wheel or other body turns.	
pivotal		Of or pertaining to a pivot or turning point; belonging to, or constituting, a pivot; of the nature of a pivot; as, the pivotalopportunity of a career; the pivotal position in a battle.	
pix		See Pyx — a box used in the British mint as a place of deposit for certain sample coins taken for a trial of the weight and fineness of metal before it is sent from the mint.	
pixie		An old English name for a fairy; an elf.	
pixy		An old English name for a fairy; an elf.	
pixy-led		Led by pixies; bewildered.	
pizzicato		A direction to violinists to pluck the string with the finger, instead of using the bow.	
pizzle		The penis; -- so called in some animals, as the bull.	
