placability		The quality or state of being placable or appeasable; placable disposition.
placable		Capable of being appeased or pacified; ready or willing to be pacified; willing to forgive or condone.
placableness		The quality of being placable.
placard		A written or printed paper, as an advertisement or a declaration, posted, or to be posted, in a public place; a poster.
placate		Same as Placard, 4 & 5.
placation		The act of placating.
place		Any portion of space regarded as measured off or distinct from all other space, or appropriated to some definite object or use; position; ground; site; spot; rarely, unbounded space.
place-kick		To make a place kick; to make (a goal) by a place kick. -- Place"-kick`er, n.
place-proud		Proud of rank or office.
placebo		(Med.) A prescription intended to humor or satisfy.
placeful	Obsolete	In the appointed place.
placeless		Having no place or office.
placeman		One who holds or occupies a place; one who has office under government.
placement		The act of placing, or the state of being placed.
placenta		(Anat.) The vascular appendage which connects the fetus with the parent, and is cast off in parturition with the afterbirth.
placental		Of or pertaining to the placenta; having, or characterized by having, a placenta; as, a placental mammal.
placentalia		A division of Mammalia including those that have a placenta, or all the orders above the marsupials.
placentary		Having reference to the placenta; as, the placentary system of classification.
placentation		(Anat.) The mode of formation of the placenta in different animals; as, the placentation of mammals.
placentiferous		Having or producing a placenta.
placentiform		Having the shape of a placenta, or circular thickened disk somewhat thinner about the middle.
placentious	Obsolete	Pleasing; amiable.
placer		One who places or sets.
placet		A vote of assent, as of the governing body of a university, of an ecclesiastical council, etc.
placid		Pleased; contented; unruffied; undisturbed; serene; peaceful; tranquil; quiet; gentle.
placidity		The quality or state of being placid; calmness; serenity.
placidly		In a placid manner.
placidness		The quality or state of being placid.
placit	Obsolete	A decree or determination; a dictum.
placitory	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to pleas or pleading, in courts of law.
placitum		A public court or assembly in the Middle Ages, over which the sovereign president when a consultation was held upon affairs of state.
plack		A small copper coin formerly current in Scotland, worth less than a cent.
placket		The opening or slit left in a petticoat or skirt for convenience in putting it on; -- called also placket hole.
placoderm		One of the Placodermi.
placodermal		Of or pertaining to the placoderms; like the placoderms.
placodermata		Same as Placodermi.
placodermi		An extinct group of fishes, supposed to be ganoids.
placoganoid		Pertaining to the Placoganoidei.
placoganoidei		A division of ganoid fishes including those that have large external bony plates and a cartilaginous skeleton.
placoid		Platelike; having irregular, platelike, bony scales, often bearing spines; pertaining to the placoids.
placoides		A group of fishes including the sharks and rays; the Elasmobranchii; -- called also Placoidei.
placoidian		One of the placoids.
placophora		A division of gastropod Mollusca, including the chitons.
plaga		A stripe of color.
plagal		Having a scale running from the dominant to its octave; -- said of certain old church modes or tunes, as opposed to those called authentic, which ran from the tonic to its octave.
plagate		Having plagæ, or irregular enlongated color spots.
plage	Obsolete	A region; country.
plagiarism		That which plagiarized.
plagiarist		One who plagiarizes; or purloins the words, writings, or ideas of another, and passes them off as his own; a literary thief; a plagiary.
plagiarize		To steal or purloin from the writings of another; to appropriate without due acknowledgement (the ideas or expressions of another).
plagiary		To commit plagiarism.
plagihedral		Having an oblique spiral arrangement of planes, as levogyrate and dextrogyrate crystals.
plagiocephalic		Having an oblique lateral deformity of the skull.
plagiocephaly		Oblique lateral deformity of the skull.
plagioclase		A general term used of any triclinic feldspar. See the Note under Feldspar.
plagionite		A sulphide of lead and antimony, of a blackish lead-gray color and metallic luster.
plagiostomatous		Same as Plagiostomous.
plagiostome		One of the Plagiostomi.
plagiostomi		An order of fishes including the sharks and rays; -- called also Plagiostomata.
plagiostomous		Of or pertaining to the Plagiostomi.
plagiotremata		Same as Lepidosauria.
plagiotropic		Having the longer axis inclined away from the vertical line.
plagium		Manstealing; kidnaping.
plagose		Fond of flogging; as, a plagose master.
plague		That which smites, wounds, or troubles; a blow; a calamity; any afflictive evil or torment; a great trail or vexation.
plagueful		Abounding, or infecting, with plagues; pestilential; as, plagueful exhalations.
plagueless		Free from plagues or the plague.
plaguer		One who plagues or annoys.
plaguily	Colloquial	In a plaguing manner; vexatiously; extremely.
plaguy	Colloquial	Vexatious; troublesome; tormenting; as, a plaguy horse.
plaice		(a) A European food fish (Pleuronectes platessa), allied to the flounder, and growing to the weight of eight or ten pounds or more.
plaid		A rectangular garment or piece of cloth, usually made of the checkered material called tartan, but sometimes of plain gray, or gray with black stripes.
plaided		Of the material of which plaids are made; tartan.
plaiding		Plaid cloth.
plain		Without elevations or depressions; flat; level; smooth; even. See Plane.
plain-dealing		Practicing plain dealing; artless. See Plain dealing, under Dealing.
plain-hearted		Frank; sincere; artless.
plain-laid		Consisting of strands twisted together in the ordinary way; as, a plain-laid rope.
plain-spoken		Speaking with plain, unreserved sincerity; also, spoken sincerely; as, plain-spoken words.
plainant	Obsolete	One who makes complaint; the plaintiff.
plaining	Poetic	Complaint.
plainly		In a plain manner; clearly.
plainness		The quality or state of being plain.
plainsman		One who lives in the plains.
plaint		Audible expression of sorrow; lamentation; complaint; hence, a mournful song; a lament.
plaintful		Containing a plaint; complaining; expressing sorrow with an audible voice.
plaintiff	Obsolete	One who commences a personal action or suit to obtain a remedy for an injury to his rights; -- opposed to Ant: defendant.
plaintive		Repining; complaining; lamenting.
plaintless		Without complaint; unrepining.
plaisance		See Pleasance — pleasure; merriment; gayety; delight; kindness.
plaise	Obsolete	See Plaice — (a) A European food fish (Pleuronectes platessa), allied to the flounder, and growing to the weight of eight or ten pounds or more.
plaister		See Plaster — (Med.) An external application of a consistency harder than ointment, prepared for use by spreading it on linen, leather, silk, or other material.
plait		A flat fold; a doubling, as of cloth; a pleat; as, a box plait.
plaited		Folded; doubled over; braided; figuratively, involved; intricate; artful.
plaiter		One who, or that which, plaits.
plan		A draught or form; properly, a representation drawn on a plane, as a map or a chart; especially, a top view, as of a machine, or the representation or delineation of a horizontal section of anything, as of a building…
planaria		Any species of turbellarian worms belonging to Planaria, and many allied genera.
planarian		One of the Planarida, or Dendrocoela; any turbellarian worm. -- Pla*na"ri*an, a.
planarida		A division of Turbellaria; the Dendrocoela.
planarioid		Like the planarians.
planary		Of or pertaining to a plane.
planch	Obsolete	A plank.
plancher	Obsolete	A floor of wood; also, a plank.
planchet		A flat piece of metal; especially, a disk of metal ready to be stamped as a coin.
planchette		A small tablet of wood supported on casters and having a pencil attached.
planching		The laying of floors in a building; also, a floor of boards or planks.
plane		Any tree of the genus Platanus.
plane-parallel		Having opposite surfaces exactly plane and parallel, as a piece of glass.
planer		One who, or that which, planes; a planing machine; esp., a machine for planing wood or metals.
planet		(Astron.) A celestial body which revolves about the sun in an orbit of a moderate degree of eccentricity.
planet-stricken		Affected by the influence of planets; blasted.
planet-struck		Affected by the influence of planets; blasted.
planetarium		An orrery. See Orrery.
planetary		Of or pertaining to the planets; as, planetary inhabitants; planetary motions; planetary year.
planeted		Belonging to planets.
planetic		Of or pertaining to planets.
planetical		Of or pertaining to planets.
planetoid		A body resembling a planet; an asteroid.
planetoidal		Pertaining to a planetoid.
planetule		A little planet.
plangency		The quality or state of being plangent; a beating sound.
plangent		Beating; dashing, as a wave.
plani-		Combining forms signifying flat, level, plane; as planifolious, planimetry, plano-concave.
planifolious		Flat-leaved.
planiform		Having a plane surface; as, a planiform, gliding, or arthrodial articulation.
planimeter		An instrument for measuring the area of any plane figure, however irregular, by passing a tracer around the bounding line; a platometer.
planimetric		Of or pertaining to planimetry.
planimetrical		Of or pertaining to planimetry.
planimetry		The mensuration of plane surfaces; -- distinguished from stereometry, or the mensuration of volumes.
planing		a. & vb. n. fr.
planipennate		Of or pertaining to Planipennia.
planipennia		A suborder of Neuroptera, including those that have broad, flat wings, as the ant-lion, lacewing, etc. Called also Planipennes.
planipetalous		Having flat petals.
planish		To make smooth or plane, as a metallic surface; to condense, toughen, and polish by light blows with a hammer.
planisher		One who, or that which, planishes.
planishing		a. & vb. n. from Planish, v. t.
planisphere		The representation of the circles of the sphere upon a plane; especially, a representation of the celestial sphere upon a plane with adjustable circles, or other appendages, for showing the position of the heavens…
planispheric		Of or pertaining to a planisphere.
plank		A broad piece of sawed timber, differing from a board only in being thicker.
plank-sheer		The course of plank laid horizontally over the timberheads of a vessel's frame.
planking		The act of laying planks; also, planks, collectively; a series of planks in place, as the wooden covering of the frame of a vessel.
plankton		All the animals and plants, taken collectively, which live at or near the surface of salt or fresh waters. --Plank*ton"ic (#), a.
planless		Having no plan.
planner		One who plans; a projector.
plano-		Combining forms signifying flat, level, plane; as planifolious, planimetry, plano-concave.
plano-concave		Plane or flat on one side, and concave on the other; as, a plano-concave lens.
plano-conical		Plane or flat on one side, and conical on the other.
plano-convex		Plane or flat on one side, and convex on the other; as, a plano-convex lens.
plano-horizontal		Having a level horizontal surface or position.
plano-orbicular		Plane or flat on one side, and spherical on the other.
plano-subulate		Smooth and awl-shaped. See Subulate.
planoblast		Any free-swimming gonophore of a hydroid; a hydroid medusa.
planogamete		One of the motile ciliated gametes, or zoögametes, found in isogamous plants, as many green algæ (Chlorophyceæ).
planometer		An instrument for gauging or testing a plane surface. See Surface gauge, under Surface.
planometry		The art or process of producing or gauging a plane surface.
planorbis		Any fresh-water air-breathing mollusk belonging to Planorbis and other allied genera, having shells of a discoidal form.
plant		A vegetable; an organized living being, generally without feeling and voluntary motion, and having, when complete, a root, stem, and leaves, though consisting sometimes only of a single leafy expansion, or a series of cellules…
plant-cane		A stalk or shoot of sugar cane of the first growth from the cutting.
plant-eating		Eating, or subsisting on, plants; as, a plant-eating beetle.
plantable		Capable of being planted; fit to be planted.
plantage		A word used once by Shakespeare to designate plants in general, or anything that is planted.
plantain		(Bot.) A treelike perennial herb (Musa paradisiaca) of tropical regions, bearing immense leaves and large clusters of the fruits called plantains.
plantal	Obsolete	Belonging to plants; as, plantal life.
plantar		Of or pertaining to the sole of the foot; as, the plantar arteries.
plantation		The act or practice of planting, or setting in the earth for growth.
planted		Fixed in place, as a projecting member wrought on a separate piece of stuff; as, a planted molding.
planter		One who, or that which, plants or sows; as, a planterof corn; a machine planter.
plantership		The occupation or position of a planter, or the management of a plantation, as in the United States or the West Indies.
planticle		A young plant, or plant in embryo.
plantigrada		A subdivision of Carnivora having plantigrade feet.
plantigrade		(a) Walking on the sole of the foot; pertaining to the plantigrades. (b) Having the foot so formed that the heel touches the ground when the leg is upright.
planting		The act or operation of setting in the ground for propagation, as seeds, trees, shrubs, etc.; the forming of plantations, as of trees; the carrying on of plantations, as of sugar, coffee, etc.
plantless		Without plants; barren of vegetation.
plantlet		A little plant.
plantocracy		Government by planters; planters, collectively.
plantule		The embryo which has begun its development in the act of germination.
planula		(Biol.) In embryonic development, a vesicle filled with fluid, formed from the morula by the divergence of its cells in such a manner as to give rise to a central space, around which the cells arrange themselves as an envelope…
planxty		An Irish or Welsh melody for the harp, sometimes of a mournful character.
plaque		Any flat, thin piece of metal, clay, ivory, or the like, used for ornament, or for painting pictures upon, as a slab, plate, dish, or the like, hung upon a wall; also, a smaller decoration worn on the person, as a brooch.
plaquette		A small plaque, esp., in modern medal engraving, a small and delicate bas-relief, whether cast or struck from a die, or of form other than circular.
plash		A small pool of standing water; a puddle.
plashet		A small pond or pool; a puddle.
plashing		The cutting or bending and intertwining the branches of small trees, as in hedges.
plashoot	Obsolete	A hedge or fence formed of branches of trees interlaced, or plashed.
plashy		Watery; abounding with puddles; splashy.
plasm		A mold or matrix in which anything is cast or formed to a particular shape.
plasma		(Min.) A variety of quartz, of a color between grass green and leek green, which is found associated with common chalcedony.
plasmatic		(Biol.) Of or pertaining to plasma; having the character of plasma; containing, or conveying, plasma.
plasmatical		(Biol.) Of or pertaining to plasma; having the character of plasma; containing, or conveying, plasma.
plasmation		The act of forming or molding.
plasmator		A former; a fashioner.
plasmature		Form; mold.
plasmic		Of, pertaining to, or connected with, plasma; plasmatic.
plasmin		A proteid body, separated by some physiologists from blood plasma.
plasmodial		Of or pertaining to, or like, a plasmodium; as, the plasmodial form of a life cycle.
plasmodium		(Biol.) A jellylike mass of free protoplasm, without any union of amoeboid cells, and endowed with life and power of motion.
plasmogen		The important living portion of protoplasm, considered a chemical substance of the highest elaboration.
plasmon		A flourlike food preparation made from skim milk, and consisting essentially of the unaltered proteid of milk.
plasson		The albuminous material composing the body of a cytode.
plaster		(Med.) An external application of a consistency harder than ointment, prepared for use by spreading it on linen, leather, silk, or other material.
plasterer		One who applies plaster or mortar.
plastering		A covering of plaster; plasterwork.
plasterly		Resembling plaster of Paris.
plasterwork		Plastering used to finish architectural constructions, exterior or interior, especially that used for the lining of rooms.
plastery		Of the nature of plaster.
plastic		Having the power to give form or fashion to a mass of matter; as, the plastic hand of the Creator.
plastical		See Plastic — having the power to give form or fashion to a mass of matter; as, the plastic hand of the Creator.
plastically		In a plastic manner.
plasticity		The quality or state of being plastic.
plastid		(Biol.) A formative particle of albuminous matter; a monad; a cytode. See the Note under Morphon.
plastide		(Biol.) A formative particle of albuminous matter; a monad; a cytode. See the Note under Morphon.
plastidozoa		Same as Protoza.
plastidule		One of the small particles or organic molecules of protoplasm.
plastin		A substance associated with nuclein in cell nuclei, and by some considered as the fundamental substance of the nucleus.
plastography		The art of forming figures in any plastic material.
plastron		A piece of leather stuffed or padded, worn by fencers to protect the breast.
plat	Obsolete	To form by interlaying interweaving; to braid; to plait. xxvii. 29.
platan		The plane tree.
platanist		The soosoo.
platanus		A genus of trees; the plane tree.
platband		A border of flowers in a garden, along a wall or a parterre; hence, a border.
plate		A flat, or nearly flat, piece of metal, the thickness of which is small in comparison with the other dimensions; a thick sheet of metal; as, a steel plate.
plate-gilled		Having flat, or leaflike, gills, as the bivalve mollusks.
plateau		A flat surface; especially, a broad, level, elevated area of land; a table-land.
plateful		Enough to fill a plate; as much as a plate will hold.
platel		A small dish.
platen		(a) The part of a printing press which presses the paper against the type and by which the impression is made.
plater		One who plates or coats articles with gold or silver; as, a silver plater.
plateresque		Resembling silver plate; -- said of certain architectural ornaments.
platetrope		One of a pair of a paired organs.
platform		Any flat or horizontal surface; especially, one that is raised above some particular level, as a framework of timber or boards horizontally joined so as to form a roof, or a raised floor, or portion of a floor; a landing; a dais…
plathelminth		One of the Platyelminthes.
plathelminthes		Same as Platyelminthes.
platin		See Platen — (a) The part of a printing press which presses the paper against the type and by which the impression is made.
platina		Platinum.
plating		The art or process of covering anything with a plate or plates, or with metal, particularly of overlaying a base or dull metal with a thin plate of precious or bright metal…
platinic		Of, pertaining to, or containing, platinum; -- used specifically to designate those compounds in which the element has a higher valence, as contrasted with the platinous compounds; as, platinic chloride (PtCl4).
platinichloric		Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid consisting of platinic chloride and hydrochloric acid, and obtained as a brownish red crystalline substance, called platinichloric, or chloroplatinic, acid.
platiniferous		Yielding platinum; as, platiniferous sand.
platiniridium		A natural alloy of platinum and iridium occurring in grayish metallic rounded or cubical grains with platinum.
platinize		To cover or combine with platinum.
platinochloric		Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid consisting of platinous chloride and hydrochloric acid, called platinochloric, or chloroplatinous, acid.
platinochloride		A double chloride of platinum and some other metal or radical; a salt of platinochloric acid.
platinocyanic		Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid compound of platinous cyanide and hydrocyanic acid.
platinocyanide		A double cyanide of platinum and some other metal or radical; a salt of platinocyanic acid.
platinode		A cathode.
platinoid		Resembling platinum.
platinotype		A permanent photographic picture or print in platinum black.
platinous		Of, pertaining to, or containing, platinum; -- used specifically to designate those compounds in which the element has a lower valence, as contrasted with the platinic compounds; as, platinous chloride (PtCl2).
platinum		A metallic element, intermediate in value between silver and gold, occurring native or alloyed with other metals, also as the platinum arsenide (sperrylite).
platitude		The quality or state of being flat, thin, or insipid; flat commonness; triteness; staleness of ideas of language.
platitudinarian		One addicted to uttering platitudes, or stale and insipid truisms.
platitudinize		To utter platitudes or truisms.
platitudinous		Abounding in platitudes; of the nature of platitudes; uttering platitudes. -- Plat`i*tu"di*nous*ness, n.
platly	Obsolete	Flatly. See Plat, a.
platness	Obsolete	Flatness.
platometer		See Planimeter — an instrument for measuring the area of any plane figure, however irregular, by passing a tracer around the bounding line; a platometer.
platonic		Of or pertaining to Plato, or his philosophy, school, or opinions.
platonical		Of or pertaining to Plato, or his philosophy, school, or opinions.
platonically		In a Platonic manner.
platonism		The doctrines or philosophy by Plato or of his followers.
platonist		One who adheres to the philosophy of Plato; a follower of Plato.
platonize		To adopt the opinion of Plato or his followers.
platonizer		One who Platonizes.
platoon		(a) Formerly, a body of men who fired together; also, a small square body of soldiers to strengthen the angles of a hollow square.
platt		See Lodge, n.
plattdeutsch		The modern dialects spoken in the north of Germany, taken collectively; modern Low German.
platten		To flatten and make into sheets or plates; as, to platten cylinder glass.
platter		One who plats or braids.
platter-faced		Having a broad, flat face.
platting		Plaited strips or bark, cane, straw, etc., used for making hats or the like.
platy		Like a plate; consisting of plates.
platy-		A combining form from Gr. platy`s broad, wide, flat; as, platypus, platycephalous.
platycephalic		Broad-headed.
platycephalous		Broad-headed.
platycnemic		Of, relating to, or characterized by, platycnemism.
platycnemism		Lateral flattening of the tibia.
platycoelian		Flat at the anterior and concave at the posterior end; -- said of the centra of the vertebræ of some extinct dinouaurs.
platyelminthes		A class of helminthes including the cestodes, or tapeworms, the trematodes, and the turbellarians.
platyhelmia		Same as Platyelminthes.
platymeter		An apparatus for measuring the capacity of condensers, or the inductive capacity of dielectrics.
platypod		An animal having broad feet, or a broad foot.
platypoda		Same as Prosobranchiata.
platyptera		A division of Pseudoneuroptera including the species which have four broad, flat wings, as the termites, or white-ants, and the stone flies (Perla).
platypus		The duck mole. See under Duck.
platyrhine		Having the nose broad; -- opposed to Ant: leptorhine. -- n. (Zoöl.) One of the Platyrhini.
platyrhini		A division of monkeys, including the American species, which have a broad nasal septum, thirty-six teeth, and usually a prehensile tail.
plaud	Obsolete	To applaud.
plaudit		A mark or expression of applause; praise bestowed.
plauditory		Applauding; commending.
plausibility		The quality of being plausible; speciousness.
plausible		Obtaining approbation; specifically pleasing; apparently right; specious; as, a plausible pretext; plausible manners; a plausible delusion.
plausibleize		To render plausible.
plausibleness		Quality of being plausible.
plausibly		In a plausible manner.
plausive		Applauding; manifesting praise.
play		To engage in sport or lively recreation; to exercise for the sake of amusement; to frolic; to spot.
playa		A beach; a strand; in the plains and deserts of Texas, New Mexico, and Arizona, a broad, level spot, on which subsequently becomes dry by evaporation.
playbill		A printed programme of a play, with the parts assigned to the actors.
playbook		A book of dramatic compositions; a book of the play.
playday		A day given to play or diversion; a holiday.
player		One who plays, or amuses himself; one without serious aims; an idler; a trifler.
playfellow		A companion in amusements or sports; a playmate.
playfere	Obsolete	A playfellow.
playful		Sportive; gamboling; frolicsome; indulging a sportive fancy; humorous; merry; as, a playful child; a playful writer. -- Play ful*ness, n.
playgame		Play of children.
playgoer		One who frequents playhouses, or attends dramatic performances.
playgoing		Frequenting playhouses; as, the playgoing public. -- n.
playground		A piece of ground used for recreation; as, the playground of a school.
playhouse		A building used for dramatic exhibitions; a theater.
playing		a. & vb. n. of Play.
playmaker		A playwright.
playmate		A companion in diversions; a playfellow.
playsome		Playful; wanton; sportive.
playte		See Pleyt — an old term for a river boat.
plaything		A thing to play with; a toy; anything that serves to amuse.
playtime		Time for play or diversion.
playwright		A maker or adapter of plays.
playwriter		A writer of plays; a dramatist; a playwright.
plaza		A public square in a city or town.
plea		(Law) That which is alleged by a party in support of his cause; in a stricter sense, an allegation of fact in a cause, as distinguished from a demurrer; in a still more limited sense, and in modern practice…
pleach		To unite by interweaving, as branches of trees; to plash; to interlock.
plead		To argue in support of a claim, or in defense against the claim of another; to urge reasons for or against a thing; to attempt to persuade one by argument or supplication; to speak by way of persuasion; as…
pleadable		Capable of being pleaded; capable of being alleged in proof, defense, or vindication; as, a right or privilege pleadable at law.
pleader		One who pleads; one who argues for or against; an advotate.
pleading		The act of advocating, defending, or supporting, a cause by arguments.
pleadingly		In a pleading manner.
pleadings		The mutual pleas and replies of the plaintiff and defendant, or written statements of the parties in support of their claims, proceeding from the declaration of the plaintiff, until issue is joined…
pleasance	Archaic	Pleasure; merriment; gayety; delight; kindness.
pleasant		Pleasing; grateful to the mind or to the senses; agreeable; as, a pleasant journey; pleasant weather.
pleasant-tongued		Of pleasing speech.
pleasantly		In a pleasant manner.
pleasantness		The state or quality of being pleasant.
pleasantry		That which denotes or promotes pleasure or good humor; cheerfulness; gayety; merriment; especially, an agreeable playfulness in conversation; a jocose or humorous remark; badinage.
please		To give pleasure to; to excite agreeable sensations or emotions in; to make glad; to gratify; to content; to satisfy.
pleased		Experiencing pleasure. -- Pleas ed*ness, n.
pleaseman	Obsolete	An officious person who courts favor servilely; a pickthank.
pleaser		One who pleases or gratifies.
pleasing	Obsolete	Giving pleasure or satisfaction; causing agreeable emotion; agreeable; delightful; as, a pleasing prospect; pleasing manners. -- Pleas ing*ness, n.
pleasurable		Capable of affording pleasure or satisfaction; gratifying; abounding in pleasantness or pleasantry.
pleasure		The gratification of the senses or of the mind; agreeable sensations or emotions; the excitement, relish, or happiness produced by the expectation or the enjoyment of something good, delightful, or satisfying…
pleasureful		Affording pleasure.
pleasureless		Devoid of pleasure.
pleasurer		A pleasure seeker.
pleasurist		A person devoted to worldly pleasure.
pleat		See Plait — a flat fold; a doubling, as of cloth; a pleat; as, a box plait.
plebe		Etym: A member of the lowest class in the military academy at West Point.
plebeian		Of or pertaining to the Roman plebs, or common people.
plebeiance	Obsolete	Plebeians, collectively.
plebeianism		The quality or state of being plebeian.
plebeianize		To render plebeian, common, or vulgar.
plebicolist		One who flatters, or courts the favor of, the common people; a demagogue.
plebification		A rendering plebeian; the act of vulgarizing.
plebiscitary		Of or pertaining to plebiscite.
plebiscite		A vote by universal male suffrage; especially, in France, a popular vote, as first sanctioned by the National Constitution of 1791.
plebiscitum		A law enacted by the common people, under the superintendence of a tribune or some subordinate plebeian magistrate, without the intervention of the senate.
plebs		The commonalty of ancient Rome who were citizens without the usual political rights; the plebeians; -- distinguished from the patricians.
plec-tognathous		Of or pertaining to the Plectognathi.
plectile	Obsolete	Woven; plaited.
plectognath		Of or pertaining to the Plectognathi. -- n.
plectognathi		An order of fishes generally having the maxillary bone united with the premaxillary, and the articular united with the dentary.
plectognathic		Of or pertaining to the Plectognathi.
plectospondyli		An extensive suborder of fresh-water physostomous fishes having the anterior vertebræ united and much modified; the Eventognathi.
plectospondylous		Of or pertaining to the Plectospondyli.
plectrum		A small instrument of ivory, wood, metal, or quill, used in playing upon the lyre and other stringed instruments.
pled	Colloquial	imp. & p. p. of Plead Spenser.
pledge		(Law) The transfer of possession of personal property from a debtor to a creditor as security for a debt or engagement; also, the contract created between the debtor and creditor by a thing being so delivered or deposited…
pledgee		The one to whom a pledge is given, or to whom property pledged is delivered.
pledgeless		Having no pledge.
pledgeor		One who pledges, or delivers anything in pledge; a pledger; -- opposed to Ant: pledgee.
pledger		One who pledges.
pledgery	Obsolete	A pledging; suretyship.
pledget		(Naut.) A string of oakum used in calking.
pledgor		One who pledges, or delivers anything in pledge; a pledger; -- opposed to Ant: pledgee.
plegepoda		Same as Infusoria.
pleiad		One of the Pleiades.
pleiades		(Myth.) The seven daughters of Atlas and the nymph Pleione, fabled to have been made by Jupiter a constellation in the sky.
pleiocene		See Pliocene — of, pertaining to, or characterizing, the most recent division of the Tertiary age.
pleiophyllous		Having several leaves; -- used especially when several leaves or leaflets appear where normally there should be only one.
pleiosaurus		Same as Pliosaurus.
pleistocene		Of or pertaining to the epoch, or the deposits, following the Tertiary, and immediately preceding man. -- n.
plenal	Obsolete	Full; complete; as, a plenal view or act.
plenarily		In a plenary manner.
plenariness		Quality or state of being plenary.
plenarty		The state of a benefice when occupied.
plenary	Obsolete	Full; entire; complete; absolute; as, a plenary license; plenary authority.
plene	Obsolete	Full; complete; plenary.
plenicorn		A ruminant having solid horns or antlers, as the deer.
plenilunary	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to the full moon.
plenilune	Obsolete	The full moon.
plenipotence		The quality or state of being plenipotent.
plenipotency		The quality or state of being plenipotent.
plenipotent		Possessing full power.
plenipotentiary		A person invested with full power to transact any business; especially, an ambassador or envoy to a foreign court, with full power to negotiate a treaty, or to transact other business.
plenish	Obsolete	To replenish.
plenishing	Scots	Household furniture; stock.
plenist		One who holds that all space is full of matter.
plenitude		The quality or state of being full or complete; fullness; completeness; abundance; as, the plenitude of space or power.
plenitudinarian		A plenist.
plenitudinary	Obsolete	Having plenitude; full; complete; thorough.
plenteous		Containing plenty; abundant; copious; plentiful; sufficient for every purpose; as, a plenteous supply.
plentevous	Obsolete	Plenteous.
plentiful		Containing plenty; copious; abundant; ample; as, a plentiful harvest; a plentiful supply of water.
plenty	Obsolete	Full or adequate supply; enough and to spare; sufficiency; specifically, abundant productiveness of the earth; ample supply for human wants; abundance; copiousness. xxvii. 28.
plenum		That state in which every part of space is supposed to be full of matter; -- opposed to vacuum.
pleochroic		Having the property of pleochroism.
pleochroism		The property possessed by some crystals, of showing different colors when viewed in the direction of different axes.
pleochromatic		Pleochroic.
pleochromatism		Pleochroism.
pleochroous		Pleochroic.
pleomorphic		Pertaining to pleomorphism; as, the pleomorphic character of bacteria.
pleomorphism		(Crystallog.) The property of crystallizing under two or more distinct fundamental forms, including dimorphism and trimorphism.
pleomorphous		Having the property of pleomorphism.
pleonasm		Redundancy of language in speaking or writing; the use of more words than are necessary to express the idea; as, I saw it with my own eyes.
pleonast		One who is addicted to pleonasm.
pleonaste		A black variety of spinel.
pleonastic		Of or pertaining to pleonasm; of the nature of pleonasm; redundant.
pleonastical		Of or pertaining to pleonasm; of the nature of pleonasm; redundant.
pleonastically		In a pleonastic manner.
pleopod		One of the abdominal legs of a crustacean. See Illust. under Crustacea.
plerome		The central column of parenchyma in a growing stem or root.
plerophory		Fullness; full persuasion.
plesance	Obsolete	Pleasance.
plesh	Obsolete	A pool; a plash.
plesimorphism		The property possessed by some substances of crystallizing in closely similar forms while unlike in chemical composition.
plesiomorphous		Nearly alike in form.
plesiosaur		One of the Plesiosauria.
plesiosauria		An extinct order of Mesozoic marine reptiles including the genera Plesiosaurus, and allied forms; -- called also Sauropterygia.
plesiosaurian		A plesiosaur.
plesiosaurus		A genus of large extinct marine reptiles, having a very long neck, a small head, and paddles for swimming.
plessimeter		See Pleximeter — a small, hard, elastic plate, as of ivory, bone, or rubber, placed in contact with body to receive the blow, in examination by mediate percussion.
plete	Obsolete	To plead.
plethora		Overfullness; especially, excessive fullness of the blood vessels; repletion; that state of the blood vessels or of the system when the blood exceeds a healthy standard in quantity; hyperæmia; -- opposed to anæmia.
plethoretic	Obsolete	Plethoric.
plethoric		Haeving a full habit of body; characterized by plethora or excess of blood; as, a plethoric constitution; -- used also metaphorically.
plethorical		Plethoric. -- Ple*thor"ic*al*ly, adv.
plethory		Plethora.
plethron		A long measure of 100 Greek, or 101 English, feet; also, a square measure of 10,000 Greek feet.
plethrum		A long measure of 100 Greek, or 101 English, feet; also, a square measure of 10,000 Greek feet.
plethysmograph		An instrument for determining and registering the variations in the size or volume of a limb, as the arm or leg, and hence the variations in the amount of blood in the limb. -- Pleth`ys*mo*graph"ic, a.
plethysmography		The study, by means of the plethysmograph, of the variations in size of a limb, and hence of its blood supply.
pleura		pl. of Pleuron — (a) One of the sides of an animal. (b) One of the lateral pieces of a somite of an insect.
pleural		Of or pertaining to the pleura or pleuræ, or to the sides of the thorax.
pleuralgia		Pain in the side or region of the ribs.
pleurapophysis		One of the ventral processes of a vertebra, or the dorsal element in each half of a hemal arch, forming, or corresponding to, a vertebral rib. -- Pleu*rap`o*phys"i*al, a.
pleurenchyma		A tissue consisting of long and slender tubular cells, of which wood is mainly composed.
pleuric		Pleural.
pleurisy		An inflammation of the pleura, usually accompanied with fever, pain, difficult respiration, and cough, and with exudation into the pleural cavity.
pleurite		Same as Pleuron.
pleuritic		(a) Of or pertaining to pleurisy; as, pleuritic symptoms. (b) Suffering from pleurisy.
pleuritical		(a) Of or pertaining to pleurisy; as, pleuritic symptoms. (b) Suffering from pleurisy.
pleuritis		Pleurisy.
pleuro-		A combining form denoting relation to a side; specif., connection with, or situation in or near, the pleura; as, pleuroperitoneum.
pleurobrachia		A genus of ctenophores having an ovate body and two long plumose tentacles.
pleurobranch		Any one of the gills of a crustacean that is attached to the side of the thorax.
pleurobranchia		Same as Pleurobranch.
pleurocarp		Any pleurocarpic moss.
pleurocarpic		Side-fruited; -- said of those true mosses in which the pedicels or the capsules are from lateral archegonia; -- opposed to Ant: acrocarpous.
pleurocarpous		Side-fruited; -- said of those true mosses in which the pedicels or the capsules are from lateral archegonia; -- opposed to Ant: acrocarpous.
pleurocentrum		One of the lateral elements in the centra of the vertebræ in some fossil batrachians.
pleuroderes		A group of fresh-water turtles in which the neck can not be retracted, but is bent to one side, for protection.
pleurodont		Having the teeth consolidated with the inner edge of the jaw, as in some lizards.
pleurodynia		A painful affection of the side, simulating pleurisy, usually due to rheumatism.
pleuron		(a) One of the sides of an animal. (b) One of the lateral pieces of a somite of an insect.
pleuronectoid		Pertaining to the Pleuronectidæ, or Flounder family.
pleuropericardial		Of or pertaining to the pleura and pericardium.
pleuroperipneumony		Pleuropneumonia.
pleuroperitoneal		Of or pertaining to the pleural and peritoneal membranes or cavities, or to the pleuroperitoneum.
pleuroperitoneum		The pleural and peritoneal membranes, or the membrane lining the body cavity and covering the surface of the inclosed viscera; the peritoneum…
pleuropneumonia		Inflammation of the pleura and lungs; a combination of pleurisy and pneumonia, esp. a kind of contagions and fatal lung plague of cattle.
pleuroptera		A group of Isectivora, including the colugo.
pleurosigma		A genus of diatoms of elongated elliptical shape, but having the sides slightly curved in the form of a letter S.
pleurosteon		The antero-lateral piece which articulates the sternum of birds.
pleurothotonus		A species of tetanus, in which the body is curved laterally.
pleurotoma		Any marine gastropod belonging to Pleurotoma, and ether allied genera of the family Pleurotmidæ.
plevin	Obsolete	A warrant or assurance.
plexiform		Like network; complicated.
pleximeter		A small, hard, elastic plate, as of ivory, bone, or rubber, placed in contact with body to receive the blow, in examination by mediate percussion.
plexure		The act or process of weaving together, or interweaving; that which is woven together.
plexus		(Anat.) A network of vessels, nerves, or fibers.
pley	Obsolete	See Play — to engage in sport or lively recreation; to exercise for the sake of amusement; to frolic; to spot.
pleyt		An old term for a river boat.
pliability		The quality or state of being pliable; flexibility; as, pliability of disposition.
pliable		Capable of being plied, turned, or bent; easy to be bent; flexible; pliant; supple; limber; yielding; as, willow is a pliable plant.
pliancy		The quality or state of being pliant in sense; as, the pliancy of a rod.
pliant		Capable of plying or bending; readily yielding to force or pressure without breaking; flexible; pliable; lithe; limber; plastic; as, a pliant thread; pliant wax.
plica		(Med.) A disease of the hair (Plica polonica), in which it becomes twisted and matted together.
plicate		Plaited; folded like a fan; as, a plicate leaf. -- Pli"cate*ly, adv.
plicated		Plaited; folded like a fan; as, a plicate leaf. -- Pli"cate*ly, adv.
plication		A folding or fold; a plait.
plicature		A fold; a doubling; a plication.
plicidentine		A form of dentine which shows sinuous lines of structure in a transverse section of the tooth.
plied		imp. & p. p. of Ply.
pliers		A kind of small pinchers with long jaws, -- used for bending or cutting metal rods or wire, for handling small objects such as the parts of a watch, etc.
pliform	Obsolete	In the form of a ply, fold, or doubling.
plight		That which is exposed to risk; that which is plighted or pledged; security; a gage; a pledge.
plighter		One who, or that which, plights.
plim	English dialect	To swell, as grain or wood with water.
plinth		(Arch.) In classical architecture, a vertically faced member immediately below the circular base of a column; also, the lowest member of a pedestal; hence, in general, the lowest member of a base; a sub-base…
pliocene		Of, pertaining to, or characterizing, the most recent division of the Tertiary age.
pliohippus		An extinct genus of horses from the Pliocene deposits.
pliosaurus		An extinct genus of marine reptiles allied to Plesiosaurus, but having a much shorter neck.
plitt		An instrument of punishment or torture resembling the knout, used in Russia.
ploc		A mixture of hair and tar for covering the bottom of a ship.
ploce		A figure in which a word is separated or repeated by way of emphasis, so as not only to signify the individual thing denoted by it, but also its peculiar attribute or quality; as,
plod		To travel slowly but steadily; to trudge.
plodder		One who plods; a drudge.
plodding		Progressing in a slow, toilsome manner; characterized by laborious diligence; as, a plodding peddler; a plodding student; a man of plodding habits. --Plod"ding*ly, adv.
plonge		To cleanse, as open drains which are entered by the tide, by stirring up the sediment when the tide ebbs.
plongee		A slope or sloping toward the front; as, the plongée of a parapet; the plongée of a shell in its course.
plop		To fall, drop, or move in any way, with a sudden splash or slap, as on the surface of water.
plot		A small extent of ground; a plat; as, a garden plot.
plot-proof		Secure against harm by plots.
plotful		Abounding with plots.
plotinian		Of pertaining to the Plotinists or their doctrines.
plotinist		A disciple of Plotinus, a celebrated Platonic philosopher of the third century, who taught that the human soul emanates from the divine Being, to whom it reunited at death.
plotter		One who plots or schemes; a contriver; a conspirator; a schemer.
plough		See Plow — a well-known implement, drawn by horses, mules, oxen, or other power, for turning up the soil to prepare it for bearing crops; also used to furrow or break up the soil for other purposes…
ploughable		Capable of being plowed; arable.
ploughbote		Wood or timber allowed to a tenant for the repair of instruments of husbandry.
ploughboy		A boy that drives or guides a team in plowing; a young rustic.
plougher		One who plows; a plowman; a cultivator.
ploughfoot		An adjustable staff formerly attached to the plow beam to determine the depth of the furrow.
ploughgang		Same as Plowgate.
ploughgate		The Scotch equivalent of the English word plowland.
ploughhead		The clevis or draught iron of a plow.
ploughman		One who plows, or who holds and guides a plow; hence, a husbandman.
ploughpoint		A detachable share at the extreme front end of the plow body.
ploughshare		The share of a plow, or that part which cuts the slice of earth or sod at the bottom of the furrow.
ploughtail		The hind part or handle of a plow.
ploughwright		One who makes or repairs plows.
plougland		Land that is plowed, or suitable for tillage.
plouter	Scots	To wade or move about with splashing; to dabble; also, to potter; trifle; idle.
plover		(Zoöl.) Any one of numerous species of limicoline birds belonging to the family Charadridæ, and especially those belonging to the subfamily Charadrinsæ.
plow		A well-known implement, drawn by horses, mules, oxen, or other power, for turning up the soil to prepare it for bearing crops; also used to furrow or break up the soil for other purposes; as, the subsoil plow; the draining plow.
plowable		Capable of being plowed; arable.
plowbote		Wood or timber allowed to a tenant for the repair of instruments of husbandry.
plowboy		A boy that drives or guides a team in plowing; a young rustic.
plower		One who plows; a plowman; a cultivator.
plowfoot		An adjustable staff formerly attached to the plow beam to determine the depth of the furrow.
plowgang		Same as Plowgate.
plowgate		The Scotch equivalent of the English word plowland.
plowhead		The clevis or draught iron of a plow.
plowland		Land that is plowed, or suitable for tillage.
plowman		One who plows, or who holds and guides a plow; hence, a husbandman.
plowpoint		A detachable share at the extreme front end of the plow body.
plowshare		The share of a plow, or that part which cuts the slice of earth or sod at the bottom of the furrow.
plowtail		The hind part or handle of a plow.
plowwright		One who makes or repairs plows.
ploy	English dialect	Sport; frolic.
ployment		The act or movement of forming a column from a line of troops on some designated subdivision; -- the opposite of deployment.
pluck		Especially, to pull with sudden force or effort, or to pull off or out from something, with a twitch; to twitch; also, to gather, to pick; as, to pluck feathers from a fowl; to pluck hair or wool from a skin; to pluck grapes.
plucked		Having courage and spirit.
plucker		One who, or that which, plucks.
pluckily		In a plucky manner.
pluckiness		The quality or state of being plucky.
pluckless		Without pluck; timid; faint-hearted.
plucky		Having pluck or courage; characterized by pluck; displaying pluck; courageous; spirited; as, a plucky race.
pluff	Scots	To throw out, as smoke, dust, etc., in puffs.
plug		Any piece of wood, metal, or other substance used to stop or fill a hole; a stopple.
plugger		One who, or that which, plugs.
plugging		The act of stopping with a plug.
plum		(Bot.) The edible drupaceous fruit of the Prunus domestica, and of several other species of Prunus; also, the tree itself, usually called plum tree.
pluma		A feather.
plumage		The entire clothing of a bird.
plumassary		A plume or collection of ornamental feathers.
plumassier		One who prepares or deals in ornamental plumes or feathers.
plumb		A little mass or weight of lead, or the like, attached to a line, and used by builders, etc., to indicate a vertical direction; a plummet; a plumb bob.
plumbage		Leadwork
plumbagin		A crystalline substance said to be found in the root of a certain plant of the Leadwort (Plumbago) family.
plumbagineous		Pertaining to natural order (Plumbagineæ) of gamopetalous herbs, of which plumbago is the type.
plumbaginous		Resembling plumbago; consisting of, or containing, plumbago; as, a plumbaginous slate.
plumbago		(Bot.) A genus of herbaceous plants with pretty salver-shaped corollas, usually blue or violet; leadwort.
plumbean		Consisting of, or resembling, lead.
plumbeous		Consisting of, or resembling, lead.
plumber		One who works in lead; esp., one who furnishes, fits, and repairs lead, iron, or glass pipes, and other apparatus for the conveyance of water, gas, or drainage in buildings.
plumbery		A place where plumbing is carried on; lead works.
plumbic		Of, pertaining to, resembling, or containing, lead; -- used specifically to designate those compounds in which it has a higher valence as contrasted with plumbous compounds; as, plumbic oxide.
plumbiferous		Producing or containing lead.
plumbing		The art of casting and working in lead, and applying it to building purposes; especially, the business of furnishing, fitting, and repairing pipes for conducting water, sewage, etc. Gwilt.
plumbism		A diseased condition, produced by the absorption of lead, common among workers in this metal or in its compounds, as among painters, typesetters, etc. It is characterized by various symptoms, as lead colic, lead line…
plumbous		Of, pertaining to, or containing, lead; -- used specifically to designate those compounds in which it has a lower valence as contrasted with plumbic compounds.
plumbum		The technical name of lead. See Lead.
plumcot		A cross between the plum and apricot.
plume		A feather; esp., a soft, downy feather, or a long, conspicuous, or handsome feather.
plumeless		Without plumes.
plumelet		A small plume.
plumery		Plumes, collectively or in general; plumage.
plumicorn		An ear tuft of feathers, as in the horned owls.
plumigerous		Feathered; having feathers.
plumiliform		Having the of a plume or feather.
plumiped		Having feet covered with feathers. -- n.
plummet		A piece of lead attached to a line, used in sounding the depth of water.
plumming		The operation of finding, by means of a mine dial, the place where to sink an air shaft, or to bring an adit to the work, or to find which way the lode inclines.
plummy	Colloquial	Of the nature of a plum; desirable; profitable; advantageous.
plumose		Having feathers or plumes.
plumosite		Same as Jamesonite.
plumosity		The quality or state of being plumose.
plumous		Having feathers or plumes.
plump		To grow plump; to swell out; as, her cheeks have plumped.
plumper		One who, or that which, plumps or swells out something else; hence, something carried in the mouth to distend the cheeks.
plumply	Colloquial	Fully; roundly; plainly; without reserve.
plumpness		The quality or state of being plump.
plumpy		Plump; fat; sleek.
plumula		(Zoöl.) A down feather.
plumulaceous		Downy; bearing down.
plumular		Relating to a plumule.
plumularia		Any hydroid belonging to Plumularia and other genera of the family Plumularidæ.
plumularian		Any Plumularia.
plumule		(Bot.) The first bud, or gemmule, of a young plant; the bud, or growing point, of the embryo, above the cotyledons.
plumulose		Having hairs branching out laterally, like the parts of a feather.
plumy		Covered or adorned with plumes, or as with plumes; feathery.
plunder		To take the goods of by force, or without right; to pillage; to spoil; to sack; to strip; to rob; as, to plunder travelers.
plunderage		The embezzlement of goods on shipboard.
plunderer		One who plunders or pillages.
plunge		To thrust into water, or into any substance that is penetrable; to immerse; to cause to penetrate or enter quickly and forcibly; to thrust; as, to plunge the body into water; to plunge a dagger into the breast.
plunger		One who, or that which, plunges; a diver.
plunk		To pluck and release quickly (a musical string); to twang.
plunket		A kind of blue color; also, anciently, a kind of cloth, generally blue.
pluperfect		More than perfect; past perfect; -- said of the tense which denotes that an action or event was completed at or before the time of another past action or event. -- n.
plural		Relating to, or containing, more than one; designating two or more; as, a plural word.
pluralism		The quality or state of being plural, or in the plural number.
pluralist		A clerk or clergyman who holds more than one ecclesiastical benefice.
plurality		The state of being plural, or consisting of more than one; a number consisting of two or more of the same kind; as, a plurality of worlds; the plurality of a verb.
pluralization		The act of pluralizing.
pluralize		To make plural by using the plural termination; to attribute plurality to; to express in the plural form.
pluralizer		A pluralist.
plurally		In a plural manner or sense.
pluri-		A combining form from L. plus, pluris, more, many; as pluriliteral.
pluries		A writ issued in the third place, after two former writs have been disregarded.
plurifarious		Of many kinds or fashions; multifarious.
plurifoliolate		Having several or many leaflets.
pluriliteral		Consisting of more letters than three. -- n.
plurilocular		Having several cells or loculi; specifically (Bot.), having several divisions containing seeds; as, the lemon and the orange are plurilocular fruits.
pluriparous		Producing several young at a birth; as, a pluriparous animal.
pluripartite		Deeply divided into several portions.
pluripresence		Presence in more places than one.
plurisy	Obsolete	Superabundance; excess; plethora.
plus		(Math.) More, required to be added; positive, as distinguished from negative; -- opposed to Ant: minus.
plush		A textile fabric with a nap or shag on one side, longer and softer than the nap of velvet.
plushy		Like plush; soft and shaggy.
plutarchy		Plutocracy; the rule of wealth.
pluteal		Of or pertaining to a pluteus.
pluteus		The free-swimming larva of sea urchins and ophiurans, having several long stiff processes inclosing calcareous rods.
pluto		The son of Saturn and Rhea, brother of Jupiter and Neptune; the dark and gloomy god of the Lower World.
plutocracy		A form of government in which the supreme power is lodged in the hands of the wealthy classes; government by the rich; also, a controlling or influential class of rich men.
plutocrat		One whose wealth gives him power or influence; one of the plutocracy.
plutocratic		Of or pertaining to plutocracy; as, plutocratic ideas.
plutology		The science which treats of wealth.
plutonian		Plutonic.
plutonic		Of or pertaining to Pluto; Plutonian; hence, pertaining to the interior of the earth; subterranean.
plutonism		The theory, early advanced in geology, that the successive rocks of the earth''s crust were formed by igneous fusion; -- opposed to the Neptunian theory.
plutonist		One who adopts the geological theory of igneous fusion; a Plutonian. See Plutonism.
plutus		The son of Jason and Ceres, and the god of wealth.
pluvial		Of or pertaining to rain; rainy.
pluviameter		See Pluviometer — an instrument for ascertaining the amount of rainfall at any place in a given time; a rain gauge.
pluviametrical		See Pluviometrical — of or pertaining to a pluviometer; determined by a pluviometer.
pluvian		The crocodile bird.
pluviograph		A self-registering rain gauge.
pluviography		The branch of meteorology treating of the automatic registration of the precipitation of rain, snow, etc.; also, the graphic presentation of precipitation data.
pluviometer		An instrument for ascertaining the amount of rainfall at any place in a given time; a rain gauge.
pluviometrical		Of or pertaining to a pluviometer; determined by a pluviometer.
pluviometry		That department of meteorology that treats of the measurement of the precipitation of rain, snow, etc.
pluvioscope		A rain gauge.
pluviose		The fifth month of the French republican calendar adopted in 1793.
pluvious		Abounding in rain; rainy; pluvial.
ply		To lay on closely, or in folds; to work upon steadily, or with repeated acts; to press upon; to urge importunately; as, to ply one with questions, with solicitations, or with drink.
plyer		One who, or that which, plies; specifically: (a) pl. A kind of balance used in raising and letting down a drawbridge.
plyght	Obsolete	See Plight — that which is exposed to risk; that which is plighted or pledged; security; a gage; a pledge.
