pneometer		A spirometer.
pneumatic		Consisting of, or resembling, air; having the properties of an elastic fluid; gaseous; opposed to dense or solid.
pneumatical		Consisting of, or resembling, air; having the properties of an elastic fluid; gaseous; opposed to dense or solid.
pneumaticity		The state of being pneumatic, or of having a cavity or cavities filled with air; as, the pneumaticity of the bones of birds.
pneumatics		That branch of science which treats of the mechanical properties of air and other elastic fluids, as of their weight, pressure, elasticity, etc. See Mechanics.
pneumato-		A combining form from Gr. wind, air, breath, respiration; as, pneumatograph, pneumatology.
pneumatocele		A distention of the scrotum by air; also, hernia of the lungs.
pneumatocyst		A cyst or sac of a siphonophore, containing air, and serving as a float, as in Physalia.
pneumatogarm		A tracing of the respiratory movements, obtained by a pneumatograph or stethograph.
pneumatograph		An instrument for recording the movements of the thorax or chest wall during respiration; -- also called stethograph.
pneumatological		Of or pertaining to pneumatology.
pneumatologist		One versed in pneumatology.
pneumatology		The doctrine of, or a treatise on, air and other elastic fluids. See Pneumatics, 1.
pneumatometer		An instrument for measuring the amount of force exerted by the lungs in respiration.
pneumatometry		See Spirometry — the act or process of measuring the chest capacity by means of a spirometer.
pneumatophore		One of the Pneumonophora.
pneumatothorax		See Pneumothorax — a condition in which air or other gas is present in the cavity of the chest; -- called also pneumatothorax.
pneumo-		A combining form from Gr. a lung; as, pneumogastric, pneumology.
pneumococcus		A form of micrococcus found in the sputum (and elsewhere) of persons suffering with pneumonia, and thought to be the cause of this disease.
pneumogastric		Of or pertaining to the lungs and the stomach. -- n.
pneumograph		Same as Pneumatograph.
pneumography		A description of the lungs.
pneumology		The science which treats of the lungs.
pneumometer		A spirometer.
pneumometry		Measurement of the capacity of the lungs for air.
pneumonia		Inflammation of the lungs.
pneumonic		(a) Of or pertaining to the lungs; pulmonic. (b) Of or pertaining to pneumonia; as, pneumonic symptoms.
pneumonitic		Of or pertaining to pneumonitis.
pneumonitis		Inflammation of the lungs; pneumonia.
pneumonometer		A spirometer; a pneumometer.
pneumonophora		The division of Siphonophora which includes the Physalia and allied genera; -- called also Pneumatophoræ.
pneumony		See Pneumonia — inflammation of the lungs.
pneumooetoka		Same as Sauropsida.
pneumootoka		Same as Sauropsida.
pneumophora		A division of holothurians having an internal gill, or respiratory tree.
pneumoskeleton		A chitinous structure which supports the gill in some invertebrates.
pneumotherapy		The treatment of disease by inhalations of compressed or rarefied air.
pneumothorax		A condition in which air or other gas is present in the cavity of the chest; -- called also pneumatothorax.
pnigalion		Nightmare.
pnyx		The place at Athens where the meetings of the people were held for making decrees, etc.
