poa		A genus of grasses, including a great number of species, as the kinds called meadow grass, Kentucky blue grass, June grass, and spear grass (which see).
poach		To cook, as eggs, by breaking them into boiling water; also, to cook with butter after breaking in a vessel.
poachard		(a) A common European duck (Aythya ferina); -- called also goldhead, poker, and fresh-water, or red-headed, widgeon.
poacher		One who poaches; one who kills or catches game or fish contrary to law.
poachiness		The state of being poachy; marshiness.
poachy		Wet and soft; easily penetrated by the feet of cattle; -- said of land
poak		Waste matter from the preparation of skins, consisting of hair, lime, oil, etc.
poake		Waste matter from the preparation of skins, consisting of hair, lime, oil, etc.
pocan		The poke (Phytolacca decandra); -- called also pocan bush.
pochard		See Poachard — (a) A common European duck (Aythya ferina); -- called also goldhead, poker, and fresh-water, or red-headed, widgeon.
pock		A pustule raised on the surface of the body in variolous and vaccine diseases.
pock-broken		Broken out, or marked, with smallpox; pock-fretten.
pock-fretten		See Pockmarked — marked by smallpox; pitted.
pock-pitted		Pockmarked; pitted.
pock-pudding		A bag pudding; a name of reproach or ridicule formerly applied by the Scotch to the English.
pockarred	Obsolete	See Pockmarked — marked by smallpox; pitted.
pocket		A bag or pouch; especially; a small bag inserted in a garment for carrying small articles, particularly money; hence, figuratively, money; wealth.
pocketbook		A small book or case for carrying papers, money, etc., in the pocket; also, a notebook for the pocket.
pocketful		As much as a pocket will hold; enough to fill a pocket; as, pocketfuls of chestnuts.
pocketknife		A knife with one or more blades, which fold into the handle so as to admit of being carried in the pocket.
pockiness		The state of being pocky.
pockmark		A mark or pit made by smallpox.
pockmarked		Marked by smallpox; pitted.
pockwood		Lignum-vitæ.
pocky		Full of pocks; affected with smallpox or other eruptive disease.
poco		A little; -- used chiefly in phrases indicating the time or movement; as, poco più allegro, a little faster; poco largo, rather slow.
pocock	Obsolete	Peacock.
pococurante		A careless person; a trifler.
pococurantism		Carelessness; apathy; indifference.
pocoson		Low, wooded grounds or swamps in Eastern Maryland and Virginia.
poculent	Obsolete	Fit for drink.
poculiform		Having the shape of a goblet or drinking cup.
pod		(Bot.) A capsule of plant, especially a legume; a dry dehiscent fruit.
podagra		Gout in the joints of the foot; -- applied also to gout in other parts of body.
podagric		Pertaining to the gout; gouty; caused by gout.
podagrical		Pertaining to the gout; gouty; caused by gout.
podagrous		Gouty; podagric.
podalgia		pain in the foot, due to gout, rheumatism, etc.
podarthrum		The foot joint; in birds, the joint between the metatarsus and the toes.
podded		Having pods.
podder		One who collects pods or pulse.
podesta		One of the chief magistrates of the Italian republics in the Middle Ages.
podetium		A stalk which bears the fructification in some lichens, as in the so-called reindeer moss.
podge	English dialect	A puddle; a plash.
podgy		Fat and short; pudgy.
podical		Anal; -- applied to certain organs of insects.
podiceps		See Grebe — one of several swimming birds or divers, of the genus Colymbus (formerly Podiceps), aud allied genera, found in the northern parts of America, Europe, and Asia.
podium		(Arch.) A low wall, serving as a foundation, a substructure, or a terrace wall.
podley		A young coalfish.
podo-		A combining form or prefix from Gr. poy`s, podo`s, foot; as, podocarp, podocephalous, podology.
podobranch		One of branchiæ attached to the bases of the legs in Crustacea.
podobranchia		Same as Podobranch.
podocarp		A stem, or footstalk, supporting the fruit.
podocephalous		Having a head of flowers on a long peduncle, or footstalk.
podogynium		Same as Basigynium
podophthalmia		The stalk-eyed Crustacea, -- an order of Crustacea having the eyes supported on movable stalks.
podophthalmic		(a) Having the eyes on movable footstalks, or pedicels. (b) Of or pertaining to the Podophthalmia.
podophthalmite		The eyestalk of a crustacean.
podophthalmous		(a) Having the eyes on movable footstalks, or pedicels. (b) Of or pertaining to the Podophthalmia.
podophyllin		A brown bitter gum extracted from the rootstalk of the May apple (Podophyllum peltatum).
podophyllous		(Zoöl.) Having thin, flat, leaflike locomotive organs.
podophyllum		(Bot.) A genus of herbs of the Barberry family, having large palmately lobed peltate leaves and solitary flower.
podoscaph		A canoe-shaped float attached to the foot, for walking on water.
podosperm		The stalk of a seed or ovule.
podostomata		An order of Bryozoa of which Rhabdopleura is the type. See Rhabdopleura.
podotheca		The scaly covering of the foot of a bird or reptile.
podrida		A miscellaneous dish of meats. See Olla-podrida.
podura		Any small leaping thysanurous insect of the genus Podura and related genera; a springtail.
podurid		Any species of Podura or allied genera. -- a.
poe		Same as Pol.
poebird		The parson bird.
poecile		Same as Poicile.
poecilitic		(a) Mottled with various colors; variegated; spotted; -- said of certain rocks.
poecilopod		One of the Poecilopoda.
poecilopoda		(a) Originally, an artificial group including many parasitic Entomostraca, together with the horseshoe crabs (Limuloidea).
poem		A metrical composition; a composition in verse written in certain measures, whether in blank verse or in rhyme, and characterized by imagination and poetic diction; -- contradistinguished from prose; as…
poematic		Pertaining to a poem, or to poetry; poetical.
poenamu		A variety of jade or nephrite, -- used in New Zealand for the manufacture of axes and weapons.
poenology		See Penology — the science or art of punishment.
poephaga		A group of herbivorous marsupials including the kangaroos and their allies. -- Po*eph"a*gous, a.
poesy		The art of composing poems; poetical skill or faculty; as, the heavenly gift of poesy.
poet		One skilled in making poetry; one who has a particular genius for metrical composition; the author of a poem; an imaginative thinker or writer.
poetaster		An inferior rhymer, or writer of verses; a dabbler in poetic art.
poetastry		The works of a poetaster.
poetess		A female poet.
poetic		Of or pertaining to poetry; suitable for poetry, or for writing poetry; as, poetic talent, theme, work, sentiments.
poetical		Of or pertaining to poetry; suitable for poetry, or for writing poetry; as, poetic talent, theme, work, sentiments.
poetically		In a poetic manner.
poetics		The principles and rules of the art of poetry.
poeticule		A poetaster.
poetize		To write as a poet; to compose verse; to idealize.
poetry		The art of apprehending and interpreting ideas by the faculty of imagination; the art of idealizing in thought and in expression.
poetship		The state or personality of a poet.
pogamoggan		An aboriginal weapon consisting of a stone or piece of antler fastened to the end of a slender wooden handle, used by American Indians from the Great Plains to the Mackenzie River.
poggy		(a) See Porgy. (b) A small whale.
pogy		The menhaden.
poh		An exclamation expressing contempt or disgust; bah !
pohagen		See Pauhaugen — the menhaden; -- called also poghaden.
poi		A national food of the Hawaiians, made by baking and pounding the kalo (or taro) root, and reducing it to a thin paste, which is allowed to ferment.
poicile		The frescoed porch or gallery in Athens where Zeno taught.
poignancy		The quality or state of being poignant; as, the poignancy of satire; the poignancy of grief.
poignant		Pricking; piercing; sharp; pungent.
poignantly		In a poignant manner.
poikilitic		See Poecilitic — (a) Mottled with various colors; variegated; spotted; -- said of certain rocks.
poikilocyte		An irregular form of corpuscle found in the blood in cases of profound anæmia, probably a degenerated red blood corpuscle.
poikilothermal		Having a varying body temperature. See Homoiothermal.
poikilothermic		Having a varying body temperature. See Homoiothermal.
poikilothermous		Poikilothermal.
poinciana		A prickly tropical shrub (Cæsalpinia, formerly Poinciana, pulcherrima), with bipinnate leaves, and racemes of showy orange-red flowers with long crimson filaments.
poind	Obsolete	To impound, as cattle.
poinder	Scots	One who distrains property.
poinsettia		A Mexican shrub (Euphorbia pulcherrima) with very large and conspicuous vermilion bracts below the yellowish flowers.
point		That which pricks or pierces; the sharp end of anything, esp. the sharp end of a piercing instrument, as a needle or a pin.
point-blank		(Mil.) (a) With all small arms, the second point in which the natural line of sight, when horizontal, cuts the trajectory.
point-device	Obsolete	Uncommonly nice and exact; precise; particular.
point-devise	Obsolete	Uncommonly nice and exact; precise; particular.
pointal		A kind of pencil or style used with the tablets of the Middle Ages.
pointed		Sharp; having a sharp point; as, a pointed rock.
pointel		See Pointal — a kind of pencil or style used with the tablets of the Middle Ages.
pointer		One who, or that which, points. Specifically: (a) The hand of a timepiece.
pointillism		A theory or practice which is a further development, on more rigorously scientific lines, of the theory and practice of Impressionism, originated by George Seurat (1859-91), and carried on by Paul Signac (1863- -) and others.
pointing		The act of designating, as a position or direction, by means of something pointed, as a finger or a rod.
pointingstock		An object of ridicule or scorn; a laughingstock.
pointless		Having no point; blunt; wanting keenness; obtuse; as, a pointless sword; a pointless remark.
pointlessly		Without point.
pointleted		Having a small, distinct point; apiculate.
pointrel		A graving tool.
pointsman		A man who has charge of railroad points or switches.
poise		Weight; gravity; that which causes a body to descend; heaviness.
poiser		The balancer of dipterous insects.
poison		Any agent which, when introduced into the animal organism, is capable of producing a morbid, noxious, or deadly effect upon it; as, morphine is a deadly poison; the poison of pestilential diseases.
poisonable		Capable of being poisoned.
poisoner		One who poisons.
poisonous		Having the qualities or effects of poison; venomous; baneful; corrupting; noxious.
poisonsome	Obsolete	Poisonous.
poitrel	Obsolete	The breastplate of the armor of a horse. See Peytrel.
poize	Obsolete	See Poise — weight; gravity; that which causes a body to descend; heaviness.
pokal		A tall drinking cup.
poke		A large North American herb of the genus Phytolacca (P. decandra), bearing dark purple juicy berries; -- called also garget, pigeon berry, pocan, and pokeweed.
pokebag	English dialect	The European long-tailed titmouse; -- called also poke-pudding.
poker		That which pokes or is used in poking, especially a metal bar or rod used in stirring a fire of coals.
pokerish	Colloquial	Infested by pokers; adapted to excite fear; as, a pokerish place.
poket	Obsolete	A pocket.
pokeweed		See Poke, the plant.
pokey		See Poky — confined; cramped.
poking	Colloquial	Drudging; servile.
poking-stick		A small stick or rod of steel, formerly used in adjusting the plaits of ruffs.
poky	English dialect	Confined; cramped.
polacca		(Naut.) A vessel with two or three masts, used in the Mediterranean.
polack		A Polander.
polacre		Same as Polacca, 1.
polander		A native or inhabitant of Poland; a Pole.
polar		Of or pertaining to one of the poles of the earth, or of a sphere; situated near, or proceeding from, one of the poles; as, polar regions; polar seas; polar winds.
polarchy		See Polyarchy — a government by many persons, of whatever order or class.
polaric		See Polar — of or pertaining to one of the poles of the earth, or of a sphere; situated near, or proceeding from, one of the poles; as, polar regions; polar seas; polar winds.
polarily		In a polary manner; with polarity.
polarimeter		An instrument for determining the amount of polarization of light, or the proportion of polarized light, in a partially polarized ray.
polarimetry		The art or process of measuring the polarization of light.
polaris		The polestar. See North star, under North.
polariscope		An instrument consisting essentially of a polarizer and an analyzer, used for polarizing light, and analyzing its properties.
polariscopic		Of or pertaining to the polariscope; obtained by the use of a polariscope; as, polariscopic observations.
polariscopy		The art or rocess of making observations with the polariscope.
polaristic		Pertaining to, or exhibiting, poles; having a polar arrangement or disposition; arising from, or dependent upon, the possession of poles or polar characteristics; as, polaristic antagonism.
polarity		(Physics) That quality or condition of a body in virtue of which it exhibits opposite, or contrasted, properties or powers, in opposite, or contrasted, parts or directions…
polarizable		Susceptible of polarization.
polarization		The act of polarizing; the state of being polarized, or of having polarity.
polarize		To communicate polarity to.
polarizer		That which polarizes; especially, the part of a polariscope which receives and polarizes the light.
polary		Tending to a pole; having a direction toward a pole.
polatouche		A flying squirrel (Sciuropterus volans) native of Northern Europe and Siberia; -- called also minene.
polder		A tract of low land reclaimed from the sea by of high embankments.
poldway		A kind of coarse bagging, -- used for coal sacks.
pole		A long, slender piece of wood; a tall, slender piece of timber; the stem of a small tree whose branches have been removed; as, specifically: (a) A carriage pole…
poleax		Anciently, a kind of battle-ax with a long handle; later, an ax or hatchet with a short handle, and a head variously patterned; -- used by soldiers, and also by sailors in boarding a vessel.
poleaxe		Anciently, a kind of battle-ax with a long handle; later, an ax or hatchet with a short handle, and a head variously patterned; -- used by soldiers, and also by sailors in boarding a vessel.
polecat		(a) A small European carnivore of the Weasel family (Putorius foetidus).
poledavy	Obsolete	A sort of coarse canvas; poldway.
poleless		Without a pole; as, a poleless chariot.
polemarch		In Athens, originally, the military commanderin-chief; but, afterward, a civil magistrate who had jurisdiction in respect of strangers and sojourners.
polemic		Of or pertaining to controversy; maintaining, or involving, controversy; controversial; disputative; as, a polemic discourse or essay; polemic theology.
polemical		Polemic; controversial; disputatious. -- Po*lem"ic*al*ly, adv.
polemicist		A polemic.
polemics		The art or practice of disputation or controversy, especially on religious subjects; that branch of theological science which pertains to the history or conduct of ecclesiastical controversy.
polemist		A polemic.
polemoniaceous		Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Polemoniaceæ), which includes Polemonium, Phlox, Gilia, and a few other genera.
polemonium		A genus of gamopetalous perennial herbs, including the Jacob's ladder and the Greek valerian.
polemoscope		An opera glass or field glass with an oblique mirror arranged for seeing objects do not lie directly before the eye; -- called also diagonal, or side, opera glass.
polemy	Obsolete	Warfare; war; hence, contention; opposition.
polenta		Pudding made of Indian meal; also, porridge made of chestnut meal.
poler	Obsolete	One who poles.
polestar		Polaris, or the north star. See North star, under North.
polewards		Toward a pole of the earth.
polewig	English dialect	The European spotted goby (Gobius minutus); -- called also pollybait.
poley	English dialect	See Poly — a whitish woolly plant (Teucrium Polium) of the order Labiatæ, found throughout the Mediterranean region.
polianite		Manganese dioxide, occurring in tetragonal crystals nearly as hard as quartz.
policate		Same as Pollicate.
police		A judicial and executive system, for the government of a city, town, or district, for the preservation of rights, order, cleanliness, health, etc., and for the enforcement of the laws and prevention of crime…
policed		Regulated by laws for the maintenance of peace and order, enforced by organized administration.
policeman		A member of a body of police; a constable.
policial		Relating to the police.
policied	Obsolete	Policed.
policy		The settled method by which the government and affairs of a nation are, or may be, administered; a system of public or official administration, as designed to promote the external or internal prosperity of a state.
poling		The act of supporting or of propelling by means of a pole or poles; as, the poling of beans; the poling of a boat.
polish		Of or pertaining to Poland or its inhabitants. -- n.
polishable		Capable of being polished.
polished		Made smooth and glossy, as by friction; hence, highly finished; refined; polite; as, polished plate; polished manners; polished verse.
polishedness		The quality of being polished.
polisher		One who, or that which, polishes; also, that which is used in polishing.
polishing		a. & n. from Polish.
polishment		The act of polishing, or the state of being polished.
polissoir		A polishing or grinding implement or instrument.
polite		Smooth and refined in behavior or manners; well bred; courteous; complaisant; obliging; civil.
politely		In a polite manner; with politeness.
politeness		High finish; smoothness; burnished elegance.
politesse		Politeness.
politic		Of or pertaining to polity, or civil government; political; as, the body politic.
political		Having, or conforming to, a settled system of administration.
politicalism		Zeal or party spirit in politics.
politically		In a political manner.
politicaster		A petty politician; a pretender in politics.
politician		One versed or experienced in the science of government; one devoted to politics; a statesman.
politicist		A political writer.
politicly		In a politic manner; sagaciously; shrewdly; artfully.
politics		The science of government; that part of ethics which has to do with the regulation and government of a nation or state, the preservation of its safety, peace, and prosperity…
politize	Obsolete	To play the politician; to dispute as politicians do.
politure	Obsolete	Polish; gloss.
polity		The form or constitution of the civil government of a nation or state; the framework or organization by which the various departments of government are combined into a systematic whole.
politzerization		The act of inflating the middle ear by blowing air up the nose during the act of swallowing; -- so called from Prof.
polive	Obsolete	A pulley.
polka		A dance of Polish origin, but now common everywhere.
poll		The head; the back part of the head.
pollack		(a) A marine gadoid food fish of Europe (Pollachius virens).
pollage	Obsolete	A head or poll tax; hence, extortion.
pollan		A lake whitefish (Coregonus pollan), native of Ireland.
pollard		A tree having its top cut off at some height above the ground, that may throw out branches.
pollax	Obsolete	A poleax.
polled		Deprived of a poll, or of something belonging to the poll. Specifically: (a) Lopped; -- said of trees having their tops cut off.
pollen		(Bot.) The fecundating dustlike cells of the anthers of flowers. See Flower, and Illust. of Filament.
pollenarious		Consisting of meal or pollen.
pollened		Covered with pollen.
polleniferous		Producing pollen; polliniferous.
pollenin		A substance found in the pollen of certain plants.
pollenize		To supply with pollen; to impregnate with pollen.
poller	Obsolete	One who polls; specifically: (a) One who polls or lops trees. (b) One who polls or cuts hair; a barber.
pollex		The first, or preaxial, digit of the fore limb, corresponding to the hallux in the hind limb; the thumb.
pollicate		Having a curved projection or spine on the inner side of a leg joint; -- said of insects.
pollicitation		A voluntary engagement, or a paper containing it; a promise.
pollinate		Pollinose.
pollinctor		One who prepared corpses for the funeral.
polling		The act of topping, lopping, or cropping, as trees or hedges.
polliniferous		Producing pollen; polleniferous.
pollinium		A coherent mass of pollen, as in the milkweed and most orchids.
pollinose		Having the surface covered with a fine yellow dust, like pollen.
polliwig		A tadpole; -- called also purwiggy and porwigle.
polliwog		A tadpole; -- called also purwiggy and porwigle.
pollock		A marine gadoid fish (Pollachius carbonarius), native both of the European and American coasts.
pollucite		A colorless transparent mineral, resembling quartz, occurring with castor or castorite on the island of Elba.
pollute		To make foul, impure, or unclean; to defile; to taint; to soil; to desecrate; -- used of physical or moral defilement.
polluted		Defiled; made unclean or impure; debauched. -- Pol*lut ed*ness, n.
polluter		One who pollutes.
polluting		Adapted or tending to pollute; causing defilement or pollution. -- Pol*lut"ing*ly, adv.
pollution		The act of polluting, or the state of being polluted (in any sense of the verb); defilement; uncleanness; impurity.
pollux		(Astron.) A fixed star of the second magnitude, in the constellation Gemini.
polly		A woman's name; also, a popular name for a parrot.
pollywog		A polliwig.
polo		A game of ball of Eastern origin, resembling hockey, with the players on horseback.
polonaise		The Polish language.
polonese		See Polonaise — the polish language.
polonium		A supposed new element, a radioactive substance discovered by M. and MMe.
polony		A kind of sausage made of meat partly cooked.
polron		See Pauldron — a piece of armor covering the shoulder at the junction of the body piece and arm piece.
polt		A blow or thump.
polt-foot		Having a distorted foot, or a clubfoot or clubfeet.
polt-footed		Having a distorted foot, or a clubfoot or clubfeet.
poltroon		An arrant coward; a dastard; a craven; a mean-spirited wretch.
poltroonery		Cowardice; want of spirit; pusillanimity.
poltroonish		Resembling a poltroon; cowardly.
polverine		Glassmaker's ashes; a kind of potash or pearlash, brought from the Levant and Syria, -- used in the manufacture of fine glass.
polwig		A polliwig.
poly		A whitish woolly plant (Teucrium Polium) of the order Labiatæ, found throughout the Mediterranean region.
poly-		A combining form or prefix from Gr. poly`s, many; as, polygon, a figure of many angles; polyatomic, having many atoms; polychord, polyconic.
poly-mountain		(a) Same as Poly, n. (b) The closely related Teucrium montanum, formerly called Polium montanum, a plant of Southern Europe.
polyacid		Capable of neutralizing, or of combining with, several molecules of a monobasic acid; having more than one hydrogen atom capable of being replaced by acid radicals; -- said of certain bases; as…
polyacoustic		Multiplying or magnifying sound. -- n.
polyacoustics		The art of multiplying or magnifying sounds.
polyacron		A solid having many summits or angular points; a polyhedron.
polyactinia		An old name for those Anthozoa which, like the actinias, have numerous simple tentacles.
polyadelphia		A Linnæan class of plants having stamens united in three or more bodies or bundles by the filaments.
polyadelphian		Belonging to the class Polyadelphia; having stamens united in three or more bundles.
polyadelphous		Belonging to the class Polyadelphia; having stamens united in three or more bundles.
polyandria		A Linnæan class of monoclinous or hermaphrodite plants, having many stamens, or any number above twenty, inserted in the receptacle.
polyandrian		Polyandrous.
polyandric		Pertaining to, or characterized by, polyandry; mating with several males.
polyandrous		Belonging to the class Polyandria; having many stamens, or any number above twenty, inserted in the receptacle.
polyandry		The possession by a woman of more than one husband at the same time; -- contrasted with Ant: monandry.
polyanthus		(a) The oxlip.
polyarchist		One who advocates polyarchy; -- opposed to monarchist.
polyarchy		A government by many persons, of whatever order or class.
polyatomic	Obsolete	(a) Having more than one atom in the molecule; consisting of several atoms.
polyautography		The act or practice of multiplying copies of one's own handwriting, or of manuscripts, by printing from stone, -- a species of lithography.
polybasic		Capable of neutralizing, or of combining with, several molecules of a monacid base; having several hydrogen atoms capable of being replaced by basic radicals; -- said of certain acids; as, sulphuric acid is polybasic.
polybasite		An iron-black ore of silver, consisting of silver, sulphur, and antimony, with some copper and arsenic.
polybranchia		A division of Nudibranchiata including those which have numerous branchiæ on the back.
polybromide		A bromide containing more than one atom of bromine in the molecule.
polycarpellary		Composed of several or numerous carpels; -- said of such fruits as the orange.
polycarpic		(a) Bearing fruit repeatedly, or year after year. (b) Having several pistils in one flower.
polycarpous		(a) Bearing fruit repeatedly, or year after year. (b) Having several pistils in one flower.
polychaeta		One of the two principal groups of Chætopoda.
polychloride		A chloride containing more than one atom of chlorine in the molecule.
polychoerany	Obsolete	A government by many chiefs, princes, or rules.
polychord		Having many strings. (a) A musical instrument of ten strings. (b) An apparatus for coupling two octave notes, capable of being attached to a keyed instrument.
polychrest	Obsolete	A medicine that serves for many uses, or that cures many diseases.
polychroism		Same as Pleochroism.
polychroite		The coloring matter of saffron; -- formerly so called because of the change of color on treatment with certain acids; -- called also crocin, and safranin.
polychromate		A salt of a polychromic acid.
polychromatic		Showing a variety, or a change, of colors.
polychrome		Esculin; -- so called in allusion to its fluorescent solutions.
polychromic		(Chem.) Pertaining to, or designating, any one of several acids (known only in their salts) which contain more than one atom of chromium.
polychromous		Of or pertaining to polychromy; many-colored; polychromatic.
polychromy		The art or practice of combining different colors, especially brilliant ones, in an artistic way.
polychronious		Enduring through a long time; chronic.
polyclinic		A clinic in which diseases of many sorts are treated; especially, an institution in which clinical instruction is given in all kinds of disease.
polyconic		Pertaining to, or based upon, many cones.
polycotyledon		A plant that has many, or more than two, cotyledons in the seed. -- Pol`y*cot`y*led"on*ous, a.
polycotyledonary		Having the villi of the placenta collected into definite patches, or cotyledons.
polycracy		Government by many rulers; polyarchy.
polycrotic		Of or pertaining to polycrotism; manifesting polycrotism; as, a polycrotic pulse; a polycrotic pulse curve.
polycrotism		That state or condition of the pulse in which the pulse curve, or sphygmogram, shows several secondary crests or elevations; -- contrasted with monocrotism and dicrotism.
polycystid		(a) One of the Polycystidea. (b) One of the Polycystina. -- a.
polycystidea		A division of Gregarinæ including those that have two or more internal divisions of the body.
polycystina		A division of Radiolaria including numerous minute marine species.
polycystine		Pertaining to the Polycystina. -- n.
polycyttaria		A division of Radiolaria.
polydactylism		The possession of more that the normal number of digits.
polydipsia		Excessive and constant thirst occasioned by disease.
polyedron		See Polyhedron — (Geom.) A body or solid contained by many sides or planes.
polyedrous		See Polyhedral — having many sides, as a solid body.
polyeidic		Passing through several distinct larval forms; -- having several distinct kinds of young.
polyeidism		The quality or state of being polyeidic.
polyembryonate		Consisting of, or having, several embryos; polyembryonic.
polyembryonic		Polyembryonate.
polyembryony		The production of two or more embryos in one seed, due either to the existence and fertilization of more than one embryonic sac or to the origination of embryos outside of the embryonic sac.
polyfoil		Same as Multifoil.
polygala		A genus of bitter herbs or shrubs having eight stamens and a two-celled ovary (as the Seneca snakeroot, the flowering wintergreen, etc.); milkwort.
polygalaceous		Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Polygalaceæ) of which Polygala is the type.
polygalic		Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, Polygala; specifically, designating an acrid glucoside (called polygalic acid, senegin, etc.), resembling, or possibly identical with, saponin.
polygamia		(a) A Linnæan class of plants, characterized by having both hermaphrodite and unisexual flowers on the same plant.
polygamian		Polygamous.
polygamist		One who practices polygamy, or maintains its lawfulness.
polygamize		To practice polygamy; to marry several wives.
polygamous		Of or pertaining to polygamy; characterized by, or involving, polygamy; having a plurality of wives; as, polygamous marriages; -- opposed to monogamous.
polygamy		The having of a plurality of wives or husbands at the same time; usually, the marriage of a man to more than one woman, or the practice of having several wives, at the same time; -- opposed to monogamy; as…
polygastrian	Obsolete	One of the Polygastrica.
polygastric		(Anat.) Having several bellies; -- applied to muscles which are made up of several bellies separated by short tendons.
polygastrica	Obsolete	The Infusoria.
polygenesis		The theory that living organisms originate in cells or embryos of different kinds, instead of coming from a single cell; -- opposed to monogenesis.
polygenetic		Having many distinct sources; originating at various places or times.
polygenic		Of or relating to polygeny; polygenetic.
polygenism		The doctrine that animals of the same species have sprung from more than one original pair.
polygenist		One who maintains that animals of the same species have sprung from more than one original pair; -- opposed to monogenist.
polygenous		Consisting of, or containing, many kinds; as, a polygenous mountain.
polygeny		The theory that living organisms originate in cells or embryos of different kinds, instead of coming from a single cell; -- opposed to monogenesis.
polyglot		Containing, or made up, of, several languages; as, a polyglot lexicon, Bible.
polyglottous		Speaking many languages; polyglot.
polygon		A plane figure having many angles, and consequently many sides; esp., one whose perimeter consists of more than four sides; any figure having many angles.
polygonaceous		Of or pertaining to a natural order of apetalous plants (Polygonaceæ), of which the knotweeds (species of Polygonum) are the type, and which includes also the docks (Rumex), the buckwheat, rhubarb, sea grape (Coccoloba)…
polygonal		Having many angles.
polygoneutic		Having two or more broods in a season.
polygonometry		The doctrine of polygons; an extension of some of the principles of trigonometry to the case of polygons.
polygonous		Polygonal.
polygonum		A genus of plants embracing a large number of species, including bistort, knotweed, smartweed, etc.
polygony		Any plant of the genus Polygonum.
polygordius		A genus of marine annelids, believed to be an ancient or ancestral type.
polygram		A figure consisting of many lines.
polygraph		An instrument for multiplying copies of a writing; a manifold writer; a copying machine.
polygraphic		Pertaining to, or employed in, polygraphy; as, a polygraphic instrument.
polygraphical		Pertaining to, or employed in, polygraphy; as, a polygraphic instrument.
polygraphy		The art of writing in various ciphers, and of deciphering the same.
polygrooved		Having many grooves; as, a polygrooved rifle or gun (referring to the rifling).
polygyn		A plant of the order Polygynia.
polygynia		A Linnæan order of plants having many styles.
polygynian		Having many styles; belonging to the order Polygynia.
polygynist		One who practices or advocates polygyny.
polygynous		Having many styles; belonging to the order Polygynia.
polygyny		The state or practice of having several wives at the same time; marriage to several wives.
polyhalite		A mineral usually occurring in fibrous masses, of a brick-red color, being tinged with iron, and consisting chiefly of the sulphates of lime, magnesia, and soda.
polyhedral		Having many sides, as a solid body.
polyhedrical		Having many sides, as a solid body.
polyhedron		(Geom.) A body or solid contained by many sides or planes.
polyhedrous		Polyhedral.
polyhistor		One versed in various learning.
polyhymnia		The Muse of lyric poetry.
polyiodide		A iodide having more than one atom of iodine in the molecule.
polylogy		Talkativeness.
polyloquent		Garrulous; loquacious.
polymastism		The condition of having more than two mammæ, or breasts.
polymathic		Pertaining to polymathy; acquainted with many branches of learning.
polymathist		One versed in many sciences; a person of various learning.
polymathy		The knowledge of many arts and sciences; variety of learning.
polymeniscous		Having numerous facets; -- said of the compound eyes of insects and crustaceans.
polymer		Any one of two or more substances related to each other by polymerism; specifically, a substance produced from another substance by chemical polymerization.
polymeric		Having the same percentage composition (that is, having the same elements united in the same proportion by weight), but different molecular weights; -- often used with with; thus, cyanic acid (CNOH), fulminic acid (C2N2O2H2)…
polymerism		(a) The state, quality, or relation of two or more polymeric substances.
polymerization		The act or process of changing to a polymeric form; the condition resulting from such change.
polymerize		To cause polymerization of; to produce polymers from; to increase the molecular weight of, without changing the atomic proportions; thus, certain acids polymerize aldehyde.
polymerous		(Bot.) Having many parts or members in each set.
polymnia		See Polyhymnia — the muse of lyric poetry.
polymnite		A stone marked with dendrites and black lines, and so disposed as to represent rivers, marshes, etc.
polymorph		A substance capable of crystallizing in several distinct forms; also, any one of these forms.
polymorphic		Polymorphous.
polymorphism		(Biol.) (a) The capability of assuming different forms; the capability of widely varying in form.
polymorphosis		The assumption of several structural forms without a corresponding difference in function; -- said of sponges, etc.
polymorphous		Having, or assuming, a variety of forms, characters, or styles; as, a polymorphous author.
polymorphy		Existence in many forms; polymorphism.
polymyodae		Same as Oscines.
polymyodous		Polymyoid.
polymyoid		Having numerous vocal muscles; of or pertaining to the Polymyodæ.
polyneme		Any one of numerous species of tropical food fishes of the family Polynemidæ.
polynemoid		Of or pertaining to the polynemes, or the family Polynemidæ.
polynesian		Of or pertaining to Polynesia (the islands of the eastern and central Pacific), or to the Polynesians.
polynesians		The race of men native in Polynesia.
polynia		The open sea supposed to surround the north pole.
polynomial		An expression composed of two or more terms, connected by the signs plus or minus; as, a2 - 2ab + b2.
polynuclear		Containing many nuclei.
polynucleolar		Having more than one nucleolus.
polyommatous		Having many eyes.
polyonomous		Having many names or titles; polyonymous.
polyonomy		The use of a variety of names for the same object.
polyonym		An object which has a variety of names.
polyonymous		Polyonomous.
polyoptron		A glass through which objects appear multiplied, but diminished in size.
polyoptrum		A glass through which objects appear multiplied, but diminished in size.
polyorama		A view of many objects; also, a sort of panorama with dissolving views.
polyp		(a) One of the feeding or nutritive zooids of a hydroid or coral. (b) One of the Anthozoa.
polyparous		Producing or bearing a great number; bringing forth many.
polypary		Same as Polypidom.
polype		See Polyp — (a) One of the feeding or nutritive zooids of a hydroid or coral. (b) One of the Anthozoa.
polypean		Of or pertaining to a polyp, or polyps.
polyperythrin		A coloring matter found in many simple Anthozoa and some hydroids.
polypetalous		Consisting of, or having, several or many separate petals; as, a polypetalous corolla, flower, or plant.
polyphagous		Eating, or subsisting on, many kinds of food; as, polyphagous animals.
polyphagy		The practice or faculty of subsisting on many kinds of food.
polypharmacy		(a) The act or practice of prescribing too many medicines. (b) A prescription made up of many medicines or ingredients.
polyphase		Having or producing two or more phases; multiphase; as, a polyphase machine, a machine producing two or more pressure waves of electro-motive force, differing in phase; a polyphase current.
polyphaser		A machine generating more than one pressure wave; a multiphaser.
polyphemus		A very large American moth (Telea polyphemus) belonging to the Silkworm family (Bombycidæ).
polyphone		A character or vocal sign representing more than one sound, as read, which is pronounced red or rèd.
polyphonic		Characterized by polyphony; as, Assyrian polyphonic characters.
polyphonism		Polyphony.
polyphonist		A proficient in the art of multiplying sounds; a ventriloquist.
polyphonous		Same as Polyphonic.
polyphony		Multiplicity of sounds, as in the reverberations of an echo.
polyphore		A receptacle which bears many ovaries.
polyphotal		Pertaining to or designating arc lamps so constructed that more than one can be used on a single circuit.
polyphote		Pertaining to or designating arc lamps so constructed that more than one can be used on a single circuit.
polyphyletic		Pertaining to, or characterized by, descent from more than one root form, or from many different root forms; polygenetic; -- opposed to Ant: monophyletic.
polyphyllous		Many-leaved; as, a polyphyllous calyx or perianth.
polypi		The Anthozoa.
polypide		One of the ordinary zooids of the Bryozoa.
polypidom		A coral, or corallum; also, one of the coral-like structure made by bryozoans and hydroids.
polypier		A polypidom.
polypifera		The Anthozoa.
polypiferous		Bearing polyps, or polypites.
polypiparous		Producing polyps.
polypite		(Zoöl.) (a) One of the feeding zooids, or polyps, of a coral, hydroid, or siphonophore; a hydranth.
polyplacophora		See Placophora — a division of gastropod Mollusca, including the chitons.
polyplastic		Assuming, or having the power of assuming, many forms; as, a polyplastic element which does not preserve its original shape.
polypode		A plant of the genus Polypodium; polypody.
polypodium		A genus of plants of the order Filices or ferns.
polypody		Any plant of the genus Polypodium.
polypoid		(Zoöl.) Like a polyp; having the nature of a polyp, but lacking the tentacles or other parts.
polypomedusae		Same as Hydrozoa.
polyporous		Having many pores.
polyporus		A genus of fungi having the under surface full of minute pores; also, any fungus of this genus.
polypous		Of the nature of a polypus; having many feet or roots, like the polypus; affected with polypus.
polypragmatic		Overbusy; officious.
polypragmatical		Overbusy; officious.
polypragmaty		The state of being overbusy.
polyprotodonta		A division of marsupials in which there are more fore incisor teeth in each jaw.
polypteroidei		A suborder of existing ganoid fishes having numerous fins along the back.
polypterus		An African genus of ganoid fishes including the bichir.
polyptoton		A figure by which a word is repeated in different forms, cases, numbers, genders, etc., as in Tennyson's line, --
polypus		(Med.) A tumor, usually with a narrow base, somewhat resembling a pear, -- found in the nose, uterus, etc., and produced by hypertrophy of some portion of the mucous membrane.
polyrhizous		Having numerous roots, or rootlets.
polyschematist		Having, or existing in, many different forms or fashions; multiform.
polyscope		(Opt.) A glass which makes a single object appear as many; a multiplying glass.
polysepalous		Having the sepals separate from each other.
polysilicic		Of or pertaining to compounds formed by the condensation of two or more molecules of silicic acid.
polyspast		A machine consisting of many pulleys; specifically, an apparatus formerly used for reducing luxations.
polyspermous		Containing many seeds; as, a polyspermous capsule or berry.
polyspermy		Fullness of sperm, or seed; the passage of more than one spermatozoön into the vitellus in the impregnation of the ovum.
polysporous		Containing many spores.
polystomata		A division of trematode worms having more two suckers.
polystome		Having many mouths.
polystyle		Having many columns; -- said of a building, especially of an interior part or court; as, a polystyle hall. -- n.
polysulphide		A sulphide having more than one atom of sulphur in the molecule; -- contrasted with monosulphide.
polysulphuret	Passing out of use	A polysulphide.
polysyllabic		Pertaining to a polysyllable; containing, or characterized by, polysyllables; consisting of more than three syllables.
polysyllabical		Pertaining to a polysyllable; containing, or characterized by, polysyllables; consisting of more than three syllables.
polysyllabicism		Polysyllabism.
polysyllabicity		Polysyllabism.
polysyllabism		The quality or state of being polysyllabic.
polysyllable		A word of many syllables, or consisting of more syllables than three; -- words of less than four syllables being called monosyllables, dissyllables, and trisyllables.
polysyndetic		Characterized by polysyndeton, or the multiplication of conjunctions. -- Pol`y*syn*det"ic*al*ly, adv.
polysyndeton		A figure by which the conjunction is often repeated, as in the sentence, Opposed to asyndeton.
polysynthesis		The act or process of combining many separate elements into a whole.
polysynthetic		Characterized by polysynthesis; agglutinative.
polysyntheticism		Polysynthesis.
polytechnic		Comprehending, or relating to, many arts and sciences; -- applied particularly to schools in which many branches of art and science are taught with especial reference to their practical application…
polytechnical		Polytechnic.
polytechnics		The science of the mechanic arts.
polythalamia		A division of Foraminifera including those having a manychambered shell.
polythalamous		Many-chambered; -- applied to shells of Foraminifera and cephalopods. See Illust. of Nautilus.
polytheism		The doctrine of, or belief in, a plurality of gods.
polytheist		One who believes in, or maintains the doctrine of, a plurality of gods.
polytheistic		Of or pertaining to polytheism; characterized by polytheism; professing or advocating polytheism; as, polytheistic worship; a polytheistic author, or nation. -- Pol`y*the*is"tic*al*ly, adv.
polytheistical		Of or pertaining to polytheism; characterized by polytheism; professing or advocating polytheism; as, polytheistic worship; a polytheistic author, or nation. -- Pol`y*the*is"tic*al*ly, adv.
polytheize		To adhere to, advocate, or inculcate, the doctrine of polytheism.
polythelism		The condition of having more than two teats, or nipples.
polytocous		(Bot.) Bearing fruit repeatedly, as most perennial plants; polycarpic.
polytomous		Subdivided into many distinct subordinate parts, which, however, not being jointed to the petiole, are not true leaflets; -- said of leaves.
polytomy		A division into many members.
polytungstate		A salt of polytungstic acid.
polytungstic		Containing several tungsten atoms or radicals; as, polytungstic acid.
polytype		A cast, or facsimile copy, of an engraved block, matter in type, etc. (see citation); as, a polytype in relief.
polyuria		A persistently excessive flow of watery urine, with low specific gravity and without the presence of either albumin or sugar.
polyvalent		Multivalent.
polyve	Obsolete	A pulley.
polyzoa		Same as Bryozoa. See Illust. under Bryozoa, and Phylactolæmata.
polyzoan		(a) Any species of Polyzoa; one of the Polyzoa. (b) A polyzoön.
polyzoarium		Same as Polyzoary.
polyzoary		The compound organism of a polyzoan.
polyzonal		Consisting of many zones or rings.
polyzooen		One of the individual zooids forming the compound organism of a polyzoan.
polyzoon		One of the individual zooids forming the compound organism of a polyzoan.
pom-pom		A Vickers-Maxim one-pounder automatic machine cannon using metallic ammunition fed from a lopped belt attached to the gun; -- popularly so called from its peculiar drumming sound in action.
pomace		The substance of apples, or of similar fruit, crushed by grinding.
pomacentroid		Pertaining to the Pomacentridæ, a family of bright-colored tropical fishes having spiny opercula; -- often called coral fishes.
pomaceous		(Bot.) (a) Like an apple or pear; producing pomes. (b) Of or pertaining to a suborder (Pomeæ) of rosaceous plants, which includes the true thorn trees, the quinces, service berries, medlars, and loquats, as well as the apples…
pomade		Perfumed ointment; esp., a fragrant unguent for the hair; pomatum; -- originally made from apples.
pomander	Obsolete	(a) A perfume to be carried with one, often in the form of a ball. (b) A box to contain such perfume, formerly carried by ladies, as at the end of a chain; -- more properly pomander box.
pomarine		Having the nostril covered with a scale.
pomatum		A perfumed unguent or composition, chiefly used in dressing the hair; pomade.
pome		(Bot.) A fruit composed of several cartilaginous or bony carpels inclosed in an adherent fleshy mass, which is partly receptacle and partly calyx, as an apple, quince, or pear.
pomegranate		(Bot.) The fruit of the tree Punica Granatum; also, the tree itself (see Balaustine), which is native in the Orient, but is successfully cultivated in many warm countries, and as a house plant in colder climates.
pomel	Obsolete	A pommel.
pomelo		A variety of shaddock, called also grape fruit.
pomely	Obsolete	Dappled.
pomeranian		Of or pertaining to Pomerania, a province of Prussia on the Baltic Sea. -- n.
pomewater		A kind of sweet, juicy apple.
pomey		A figure supposed to resemble an apple; a roundel, -- always of a green color.
pomfret		(a) One of two or more species of marine food fishes of the genus Stromateus (S. niger, S. argenteus) native of Southern Europe and Asia.
pomiculture		The culture of fruit; pomology as an art.
pomiferous		(a) Bearing pomes, or applelike fruits. (b) Bearing fruits, or excrescences, more or less resembling an apple.
pommage		See Pomage.
pomme		Having the ends terminating in rounded protuberances or single balls; -- said of a cross.
pommel		A knob or ball; an object resembling a ball in form; as: (a) The knob on the hilt of a sword.
pommelion		The cascabel, or hindmost knob, of a cannon.
pommette		Having two balls or protuberances at each end; -- said of a cross.
pomological		Of or pertaining to pomology.
pomologist		One versed in pomology; one who culticvates fruit trees.
pomology		The science of fruits; a treatise on fruits; the cultivation of fruits and fruit trees.
pomona		The goddess of fruits and fruit trees.
pomp		A procession distinguished by ostentation and splendor; a pageant.
pompadour		A crimson or pink color; also, a style of dress cut low and square in the neck; also, a mode of dressing the hair by drawing it straight back from the forehead over a roll…
pompano		Any one of several species of marine fishes of the genus Trachynotus, of which four species are found on the Atlantic coast of the United States; -- called also palometa.
pompatic	Obsolete	Pompous.
pompeian		Of, pertaining to, or characteristic of, Pompeii, an ancient city of Italy, buried by an eruption of Vesuvius in 79 a. d., and partly uncovered by modern excavations.
pompelmous		A shaddock, esp. one of large size.
pompet		The ball formerly used to ink the type.
pompholyx		(Old Chem.) Impure zinc oxide.
pompillion	Obsolete	An ointment or pomatum made of black poplar buds.
pompion		See Pumpion.
pompire	Obsolete	A pearmain.
pompoleon		See Pompelmous — a shaddock, esp. one of large size.
pompon		Any trifling ornament for a woman's dress or bonnet.
pomposity		The quality or state of being pompous; pompousness.
pomposo		Grand and dignified; in grand style.
pompous		Displaying pomp; stately; showy with grandeur; magnificent; as, a pompous procession.
pomptine		See Pontine — of or pertaining to an extensive marshy district between Rome and Naples.
pomwater		Same as Pomewater.
poncelet		A unit of power, being the power obtained from an expenditure of one hundred kilogram-meters of energy per second.
poncho		A kind of cloak worn by the Spanish Americans, having the form of a blanket, with a slit in the middle for the head to pass through.
pond	Obsolete	A body of water, naturally or artificially confined, and usually of less extent than a lake.
ponder		To weigh in the mind; to view with deliberation; to examine carefully; to consider attentively.
ponderability		The quality or state of being ponderable.
ponderable		Capable of being weighed; having appreciable weight. -- Pon"der*a*ble*ness, n.
ponderal		Estimated or ascertained by weight; -- distinguished from numeral; as, a ponderal drachma.
ponderance		Weight; gravity.
ponderary		Of or pertaining to weight; as, a ponderary system.
ponderate		To consider; to ponder.
ponderation		The act of weighing.
ponderer		One who ponders.
pondering		Deliberating. -- Pon"der*ing*ly, adv.
ponderosity		The quality or state of being ponderous; weight; gravity; heaviness, ponderousness; as, the ponderosity of gold.
ponderous		Very heavy; weighty; as, a ponderous shield; a ponderous load; the ponderous elephant.
ponderously		In a ponderous manner.
ponderousness		The quality or state of being ponderous; ponderosity.
pondfish		Any one of numerous species of American fresh-water fishes belonging to the family Centrarchidæ; -- called also pond perch, and sunfish.
pondweed		Any aquatic plant of the genus Potamogeton, of which many species are found in ponds or slow-moving rivers.
pone		A kind of johnnycake.
ponent		Western; occidental.
pongee		A fabric of undyed silk from India and China.
ponghee		A Buddhist priest of the higher orders in Burmah.
pongo		Any large ape; especially, the chimpanzee and the orang-outang.
poniard		A kind of dagger, -- usually a slender one with a triangular or square blade.
ponibility	Obsolete	The capability of being placed or located.
pons		A bridge; -- applied to several parts which connect others, but especially to the pons Varolii…
pontage		A duty or tax paid for repairing bridges.
pontee		An iron rod used by glass makers for manipulating the hot glass; -- called also, puntil, puntel, punty, and ponty.
pontic		Of or pertaining to the Pontus, Euxine, or Black Sea.
pontifex		A high priest; a pontiff.
pontiff		A high priest. Especially: (a) One of the sacred college, in ancient Rome, which had the supreme jurisdiction over all matters of religion, at the head of which was the Pontifex Maximus.
pontific		Of or pertaining to the pope; papal.
pontifical		Of or pertaining to a pontiff, or high priest; as, pontifical authority; hence, belonging to the pope; papal.
pontificality		The state and government of the pope; the papacy.
pontifically		In a pontifical manner.
pontificate		The state or dignity of a high priest; specifically, the office of the pope.
pontifice		Bridgework; structure or edifice of a bridge.
pontificial	Obsolete	Papal; pontifical.
pontifician	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to the pontiff or pope.
pontil		Same as Pontee.
pontile		Of or pertaining to the pons Varolii. See Pons.
pontine		Of or pertaining to an extensive marshy district between Rome and Naples.
pontlevis		The action of a horse in rearing repeatedly and dangerously.
ponton		See Pontoon — (Mil.) A wooden flat-bottomed boat, a metallic cylinder, or a frame covered with canvas, India rubber, etc., forming a portable float…
pontoon		(Mil.) A wooden flat-bottomed boat, a metallic cylinder, or a frame covered with canvas, India rubber, etc., forming a portable float, used in building bridges quickly for the passage of troops.
pontooning		The act, art, or process of constructing pontoon bridges.
pontvolant		A kind of light bridge, used in sieges, for surprising a post or outwork which has but a narrow moat; a flying bridge.
ponty		See Pontee — an iron rod used by glass makers for manipulating the hot glass; -- called also, puntil, puntel, punty, and ponty.
pony	Slang	Twenty-five pounds sterling.
pood		A Russian weight, equal to forty Russian pounds or about thirty-six English pounds avoirdupois.
poodle		A breed of dogs having curly hair, and often showing remarkable intelligence in the performance of tricks.
pooh		Pshaw! pish! nonsense! -- an expression of scorn, dislike, or contempt.
pooh-pooh	Colloquial	To make light of; to treat with derision or contempt, as if by saying pooh! pooh!
pookoo		A red African antelope (Kobus Vardoni) allied to the water buck.
pool		A small and rather deep collection of (usually) fresh water, as one supplied by a spring, or occurring in the course of a stream; a reservoir for water; as, the pools of Solomon.
pooler		A stick for stirring a tan vat.
pooling		The act of uniting, or an agreement to unite, an aggregation of properties belonging to different persons, with a view to common liabilities or profits.
poon		A name for several East Indian, or their wood, used for the masts and spars of vessels, as Calophyllum angustifolium, C. inophullum, and Sterculia foetida; -- called also peon.
poonac		A kind of oil cake prepared from the cocoanut. See Oil cake, under Cake.
poop		See 2d Poppy.
pooped		(a) Having a poop; furnished with a poop. (b) Struck on the poop.
pooping		The act or shock of striking a vessel's stern by a following wave or vessel.
poor		Destitute of property; wanting in material riches or goods; needy; indigent.
poor-john		A small European fish, similar to the cod, but of inferior quality.
poor-spirited		Of a mean spirit; cowardly; base. -- Poor"-spir`it*ed*ness, n.
poor-will		A bird of the Western United States (Phalænoptilus Nutalli) allied to the whip-poor-will.
poor-willie	English dialect	The bar-tailed godwit.
poorbox		A receptacle in which money given for the poor is placed.
poorhouse		A dwelling for a number of paupers maintained at public expense; an almshouse; a workhouse.
poorliness		The quality or state of being poorly; ill health.
poorly		In a poor manner or condition; without plenty, or sufficiency, or suitable provision for comfort; as, to live poorly.
poorness		The quality or state of being poor (in any of the senses of the adjective).
pop		A small, sharp, quick explosive sound or report; as, to go off with a pop.
pope		The bishop of Rome, the head of the Roman Catholic Church. See Note under Cardinal.
popedom		The place, office, or dignity of the pope; papal dignity.
popeling		A petty or deputy pope.
popelote	Obsolete	A word variously explained as or So gay a popelote, so sweet a wench.
popery		The religion of the Roman Catholic Church, comprehending doctrines and practices; -- generally used in an opprobrious sense.
popet	Obsolete	A puppet.
popgun		A child's gun; a tube and rammer for shooting pellets, with a popping noise, by compression of air.
popinjay		(Zoöl.) (a) The green woodpecker. (b) A parrot.
popish		Of or pertaining to the pope; taught or ordained by the pope; hence, of or pertaining to the Roman Catholic Church; -- often used opprobriously. -- Pop ish*ness, n.
poplar		Any tree of the genus Populus; also, the timber, which is soft, and capable of many uses.
poplexy	Obsolete	Apoplexy.
poplin		A fabric of many varieties, usually made of silk and worsted, - - used especially for women's dresses.
popliteal		Of or pertaining to the ham; in the region of the ham, or behind the knee joint; as, the popliteal space.
poplitic		Popliteal.
popovtsy		See Raskolnik — one of the separatists or dissenters from the established or Greek church in Russia.
popper	Obsolete	A utensil for popping corn, usually a wire basket with a long handle.
poppet		See Puppet — a small image in the human form; a doll.
poppied		Mingled or interspersed with poppies.
popping		a. & n. from Pop.
popple		To move quickly up and down; to bob up and down, as a cork on rough water; also, to bubble.
poppy		Any plant or species of the genus Papaver, herbs with showy polypetalous flowers and a milky juice.
poppyhead		A raised ornament frequently having the form of a final.
populace		The common people; the vulgar; the multitude, -- comprehending all persons not distinguished by rank, office, education, or profession.
populacy	Obsolete	Populace.
popular		Of or pertaining to the common people, or to the whole body of the people, as distinguished from a select portion; as, the popular voice; popular elections.
populares		The people or the people's party, in ancient Rome, as opposed to the optimates.
popularity		The quality or state of being popular; especially, the state of being esteemed by, or of being in favor with, the people at large; good will or favor proceeding from the people; as, the popularity of a law, statesman, or a book.
popularization		The act of making popular, or of introducing among the people.
popularize		To make popular; to make suitable or acceptable to the common people; to make generally known; as, to popularize philosophy.
popularizer		One who popularizes.
popularly		In a popular manner; so as to be generally favored or accepted by the people; commonly; currently; as, the story was popularity reported.
popularness		The quality or state of being popular; popularity.
populate	Obsolete	Populous.
population		The act or process of populating; multiplication of inhabitants.
populator		One who populates.
populicide		Slaughter of the people.
populin		A glycoside, related to salicin, found in the bark of certain species of the poplar (Populus), and extracted as a sweet white crystalline substance.
populism		The political doctrines advocated by the People's party.
populist		A member of the People's party. -- Pop`u*lis"tic (#), a.
populosity	Obsolete	Populousness.
populous		Abounding in people; full of inhabitants; containing many inhabitants in proportion to the extent of the country.
poraille	Obsolete	Poor people; the poor.
porbeagle		A species of shark (Lamna cornubica), about eight feet long, having a pointed nose and a crescent-shaped tail; -- called also mackerel shark.
porcate		Having grooves or furrows broader than the intervening ridges; furrowed.
porcelain	Obsolete	Purslain.
porcelainized		Baked like potter's lay; -- applied to clay shales that have been converted by heat into a substance resembling porcelain.
porcelaneous		Of or pertaining to porcelain; resembling porcelain; as, porcelaneous shells.
porcelanite		A semivitrified clay or shale, somewhat resembling jasper; -- called also porcelain jasper.
porcelanous		Porcelaneous.
porcellaneous		Of or pertaining to porcelain; resembling porcelain; as, porcelaneous shells.
porcellanous		Porcelaneous.
porch		(Arch.) A covered and inclosed entrance to a building, whether taken from the interior, and forming a sort of vestibule within the main wall, or projecting without and with a separate roof.
porcine		Of or pertaining to swine; characteristic of the hog.
porcupine		(Zoöl.) Any Old Word rodent of the genus Hystrix, having the back covered with long, sharp, erectile spines or quills, sometimes a foot long.
pore		One of the minute orifices in an animal or vegetable membrane, for transpiration, absorption, etc.
poreblind	Obsolete	Nearsighted; shortsighted; purblind.
porer		One who pores.
porgy		(a) The scup. (b) The sailor's choice, or pinfish. (c) The margate fish.
porifera		A grand division of the Invertebrata, including the sponges; -- called also Spongiæ, Spongida, and Spongiozoa.
poriferan		One of the Polifera.
poriferata		The Polifera.
poriform		Resembling a pore, or small puncture.
porime		A theorem or proposition so easy of demonstration as to be almost self-evident.
poriness		Porosity.
porism		(Geom.) A proposition affirming the possibility of finding such conditions as will render a certain determinate problem indeterminate or capable of innumerable solutions.
porismatic		Of or pertaining to a porism; poristic.
porismatical		Of or pertaining to a porism; poristic.
poristic		Of or pertaining to a porism; of the nature of a porism.
poristical		Of or pertaining to a porism; of the nature of a porism.
porite		Any coral of the genus Porites, or family Poritidæ.
porites		An important genus of reef-building corals having small twelve- rayed calicles, and a very porous coral.
pork		The flesh of swine, fresh or salted, used for food.
porket		A young hog; a pig.
porkling		A pig; a porket.
porkwood		The coarse-grained brownish yellow wood of a small tree (Pisonia obtusata) of Florida and the West Indies.
pornerastic		Lascivious; licentious.
pornographic		Of or pertaining to pornography; lascivious; licentious; as, pornographic writing.
pornography		Licentious painting or literature; especially, the painting anciently employed to decorate the walls of rooms devoted to bacchanalian orgies.
porosity		The quality or state of being porous; -- opposed to density.
porotic		A medicine supposed to promote the formation of callus.
porotype		A copy of a print, writing, etc., made by placing it upon a chemically prepared paper which is acted upon by a gas which permeates the paper of the print, writing, etc.
porous		Full of pores; having interstices in the skin or in the substance of the body; having spiracles or passages for fluids; permeable by liquids; as, a porous skin; porous wood.
porously		In a porous manner.
porousness		The quality of being porous.
porpentine	Obsolete	Porcupine.
porpesse	Obsolete	A porpoise.
porphyraceous		Porphyritic.
porphyre	Obsolete	Porphyry.
porphyrite		A rock with a porphyritic structure; as, augite porphyrite.
porphyritic		Relating to, or resembling, porphyry, that is, characterized by the presence of distinct crystals, as of feldspar, quartz, or augite, in a relatively fine-grained base, often aphanitic or cryptocrystalline.
porphyrization		The act of porphyrizing, or the state of being porphyrized.
porphyrize		To cause to resemble porphyry; to make spotted in composition, like porphyry.
porphyrogenitism		The principle of succession in royal families, especially among the Eastern Roman emperors, by which a younger son, if born after the accession of his father to the throne, was preferred to an elder son who was not so born.
porphyry		A term used somewhat loosely to designate a rock consisting of a fine-grained base (usually feldspathic) through which crystals, as of feldspar or quartz, are disseminated.
porpita		A genus of bright-colored Siphonophora found floating in the warmer parts of the ocean.
porpoise		(Zoöl.) Any small cetacean of the genus Phocæna, especially P. communis, or P. phocæna, of Europe, and the closely allied American species (P.
porporino		A composition of quicksilver, tin, and sulphur, forming a yellow powder, sometimes used by mediæval artists, for the sake of economy, instead of gold.
porpus	Obsolete	A porpoise.
porraceous		Resembling the leek in color; greenish.
porrect		Extended horizontally; stretched out.
porrection		The act of stretching forth.
porret		A scallion; a leek or small onion.
porridge		A food made by boiling some leguminous or farinaceous substance, or the meal of it, in water or in milk, making of broth or thin pudding; as, barley porridge, milk porridge, bean porridge, etc.
porringer		A porridge dish; esp., a bowl or cup from which children eat or are fed; as, a silver porringer.
port		A dark red or purple astringent wine made in Portugal.
port-royalist		One of the dwellers in the Cistercian convent of Port Royal des Champs, near Paris, when it was the home of the Jansenists in the 17th century, among them being Arnauld, Pascal, and other famous scholars.
porta		(a) The part of the liver or other organ where its vessels and nerves enter; the hilus.
portability		The quality or state of being portable; fitness to be carried.
portable		Capable of being borne or carried; easily transported; conveyed without difficulty; as, a portable bed, desk, engine.
portableness		The quality or state of being portable; portability.
portace	Obsolete	See Portass — a breviary; a prayer book.
portage		The price of carriage; porterage.
portague	Obsolete	A Portuguese gold coin formerly current, and variously estimated to be worth from three and one half to four and one half pounds sterling.
portal		A door or gate; hence, a way of entrance or exit, especially one that is grand and imposing.
portamento		In singing, or in the use of the bow, a gradual carrying or lifting of the voice or sound very smoothly from one note to another; a gliding from tone to tone.
portance	Obsolete	See Port, carriage, demeanor.
portass	Obsolete	A breviary; a prayer book.
portate		Borne not erect, but diagonally athwart an escutcheon; as, a cross portate.
portative		(Physics) Capable of holding up or carrying; as, the portative force of a magnet, of atmospheric pressure, or of capillarity.
portcluse	Obsolete	A portcullis.
portcrayon		A metallic handle with a clasp for holding a crayon.
portcullis		(Fort.) A grating of iron or of timbers pointed with iron, hung over the gateway of a fortress, to be let down to prevent the entrance of an enemy.
porte		The Ottoman court; the government of the Turkish empire, officially called the Sublime Porte, from the gate (port) of the sultan's palace at which justice was administered.
porte-cochere		A large doorway allowing vehicles to drive into or through a building.
ported	Obsolete	Having gates.
portegue	Obsolete	See Portague — a portuguese gold coin formerly current, and variously estimated to be worth from three and one half to four and one half pounds sterling.
portemonnaie		A small pocketbook or wallet for carrying money.
portend		To indicate (events, misfortunes, etc.) as in future; to foreshow; to foretoken; to bode; -- now used esp. of unpropitious signs.
portension		The act of foreshowing; foreboding.
portent		That which portends, or foretoken; esp., that which portends evil; a sign of coming calamity; an omen; a sign.
portentive		Presaging; foreshadowing.
portentous		Of the nature of a portent; containing portents; foreschadowing, esp. foreschadowing ill; ominous.
porter		A man who has charge of a door or gate; a doorkeeper; one who waits at the door to receive messages.
porterage		The work of a porter; the occupation of a carrier or of a doorkeeper.
porteress		See Portress — a female porter.
porterhouse		A house where porter is sold.
portesse	Obsolete	See Porteass.
portfire		A case of strong paper filled with a composition of niter, sulphur, and mealed powder, -- used principally to ignite the priming in proving guns, and as an incendiary material in shells.
portfolio		A portable case for holding loose papers, prints, drawings, etc.
portglave	Obsolete	A sword bearer.
portgrave	Obsolete	In old English law, the chief magistrate of a port or maritime town.; a portreeve.
portgreve	Obsolete	In old English law, the chief magistrate of a port or maritime town.; a portreeve.
porthole		An embrasure in a ship's side. See 3d Port.
porthook		One of the iron hooks to which the port hinges are attached.
porthors	Obsolete	See Portass — a breviary; a prayer book.
portico		A colonnade or covered ambulatory, especially in classical styles of architecture; usually, a colonnade at the entrance of a building.
porticoed		Furnished with a portico.
portiere		A curtain hanging across a doorway.
portigue		See Portague — a portuguese gold coin formerly current, and variously estimated to be worth from three and one half to four and one half pounds sterling.
portingal	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to Portugal; Portuguese. -- n.
portion		That which is divided off or separated, as a part from a whole; a separated part of anything.
portioner		One who portions.
portionist		A scholar at Merton College, Oxford, who has a certain academical allowance or portion; -- corrupted into postmaster.
portionless		Having no portion.
portise	Obsolete	See Portass — a breviary; a prayer book.
portlast		The portoise. See Portoise.
portliness		The quality or state of being portly; dignity of mien or of personal appearance; stateliness.
portly		Having a dignified port or mien; of a noble appearance; imposing.
portman		An inhabitant or burgess of a port, esp. of one of the Cinque Ports.
portmanteau		A bag or case, usually of leather, for carrying wearing apparel, etc., on journeys.
portmantle	Obsolete	A portmanteau.
portmote	Obsolete	In old English law, a court, or mote, held in a port town.
portoir	Obsolete	One who, or that which, bears; hence, one who, or that which, produces.
portoise		The gunwale of a ship.
portos	Obsolete	See Portass — a breviary; a prayer book.
portpane	Obsolete	A cloth for carrying bread, so as not to touch it with the hands.
portrait		The likeness of a person, painted, drawn, or engraved; commonly, a representation of the human face painted from real life.
portraitist		A portrait painter.
portraiture		A portrait; a likeness; a painted resemblance; hence, that which is copied from some example or model.
portray		To paint or draw the likeness of; as, to portray a king on horseback.
portrayal		The act or process of portraying; description; delineation.
portrayer		One who portrays.
portreeve		A port warden.
portress		A female porter.
portsale	Obsolete	Public or open sale; auction.
portuary		A breviary.
portuguese		Of or pertaining to Portugal, or its inhabitants. -- n. sing. & pl. A native or inhabitant of Portugal; people of Portugal.
portulaca		A genus of polypetalous plants; also, any plant of the genus.
portulacaceous		Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Portulacaceæ), of which Portulaca is the type, and which includes also the spring beauty (Claytonia) and other genera.
porwigle		See Polliwig — a tadpole; -- called also purwiggy and porwigle.
pory		Porous; as, pory stone.
pose		To question with a view to puzzling; to embarrass by questioning or scrutiny; to bring to a stand.
posed	Obsolete	Firm; determined; fixed.
poser		One who, or that which, puzzles; a difficult or inexplicable question or fact.
poseur		A person who poses or attitudizes, esp. mentally.
poseuse		A person who poses or attitudizes, esp. mentally.
posied		Inscribed with a posy.
posingly		So as to pose or puzzle.
posit		To dispose or set firmly or fixedly; to place or dispose in relation to other objects.
position		The state of being posited, or placed; the manner in which anything is placed; attitude; condition; as, a firm, an inclined, or an upright position.
positional		Of or pertaining to position.
positive		Having a real position, existence, or energy; existing in fact; real; actual; -- opposed to negative.
positively		In a positive manner; absolutely; really; expressly; with certainty; indubitably; peremptorily; dogmatically; -- opposed to negatively.
positiveness		The quality or state of being positive; reality; actualness; certainty; confidence; peremptoriness; dogmatism.
positivism		A system of philosophy originated by M.
positivist		A believer in positivism. -- a.
positivity		Positiveness.
positure	Obsolete	See Posture — the position of the body; the situation or disposition of the several parts of the body with respect to each other, or for a particular purpose; especially (Fine Arts)…
posnet		A little basin; a porringer; a skillet.
posologic		Pertaining to posology.
posological		Pertaining to posology.
posology		The science or doctrine of doses; dosology.
pospolite		A kind of militia in Poland, consisting of the gentry, which, in case of invasion, was summoned to the defense of the country.
poss	Obsolete	To push; to dash; to throw.
posse		See Posse comitatus.
possess		To occupy in person; to hold or actually have in one's own keeping; to have and to hold.
possession		(Law) The having, holding, or detention of property in one's power or command; actual seizin or occupancy; ownership, whether rightful or wrongful.
possessionary		Of or pertaining to possession; arising from possession.
possessioner	Obsolete	A possessor; a property holder.
possessival		Of or pertaining to the possessive case; as, a possessival termination.
possessive		Of or pertaining to possession; having or indicating possession.
possessively		In a possessive manner.
possessor		One who possesses; one who occupies, holds, owns, or controls; one who has actual participation or enjoyment, generally of that which is desirable; a proprietor.
possessory		Of or pertaining to possession, either as a fact or a right; of the nature of possession; as, a possessory interest; a possessory lord.
posset		A beverage composed of hot milk curdled by some strong infusion, as by wine, etc., -- much in favor formerly.
possibility		The quality or state of being possible; the power of happening, being, or existing.
possible		Capable of existing or occurring, or of being conceived or thought of; able to happen; capable of being done; not contrary to the nature of things; -- sometimes used to express extreme improbability; barely able to be…
possibly		In a possible manner; by possible means; especially, by extreme, remote, or improbable intervention, change, or exercise of power; by a chance; perhaps; as, possibly he may recover.
possum	Colloquial	An opossum.
post		A piece of timber, metal, or other solid substance, fixed, or to be fixed, firmly in an upright position, especially when intended as a stay or support to something else; a pillar; as, a hitching post; a fence post…
post-		A prefix signifying behind, back, after; as, postcommissure, postdot, postscript.
post-abdomen		That part of a crustacean behind the cephalothorax; -- more commonly called abdomen.
post-captain		A captain of a war vessel whose name appeared, or was in the seniority list of the British navy, as distinguished from a commander whose name was not so posted.
post-disseizin		A subsequent disseizin committed by one of lands which the disseizee had before recovered of the same disseizor; a writ founded on such subsequent disseizin, now abolished.
post-disseizor		A person who disseizes another of lands which the disseizee had before recovered of the same disseizor.
post-fine		A duty paid to the king by the cognizee in a fine of lands, when the same was fully passed; -- called also the king's silver.
post-impressionism		In the broadest sense, the theory or practice of any of several groups of recent painters, or of these groups taken collectively…
post-mortem		After death; as, post-mortem rigidity.
post-obit		A bond in which the obligor, in consideration of having received a certain sum of money, binds himself to pay a larger sum, on unusual interest, on the death of some specified individual from whom he has expectations.
post-temporal		Situated back of the temporal bone or the temporal region of the skull; -- applied especially to a bone which usually connects the supraclavicle with the skull in the pectoral arch of fishes. -- n.
post-tragus		A ridge within and behind the tragus in the ear of some animals.
post-tympanic		Situated behind the tympanum, or in the skull, behind the auditory meatus.
postable	Obsolete	Capable of being carried by, or as by, post.
postact		An act done afterward.
postage		The price established by law to be paid for the conveyance of a letter or other mailable matter by a public post.
postal		Belonging to the post office or mail service; as, postal arrangements; postal authorities.
postanal		Situated behind, or posterior to, the anus.
postaxial		Situated behind any transverse axis in the body of an animal; caudal; posterior; especially, behind, or on the caudal or posterior (that is, ulnar or fibular) side of, the axis of a vertebrate limb.
postboy		One who rides post horses; a position; a courier.
postcava		The inferior vena cava. -- Post"ca`val, a.
postclavicle		A bone in the pectoral girdle of many fishes projecting backward from the clavicle. -- Post`*cla*vic"u*lar, a.
postcommissure		A transverse commisure in the posterior part of the roof of the third ventricle of the brain; the posterior cerebral commisure.
postcommunion		(Ch. of Eng. & Prot.
postcornu		The posterior horn of each lateral ventricle of the brain.
postdate		To date after the real time; as, to postdate a contract, that is, to date it later than the time when it was in fact made.
postdiluvial		Being or happening after the flood in Noah's days.
postdiluvian		Being or happening after the flood in Noah's days.
postea		The return of the judge before whom a cause was tried, after a verdict, of what was done in the cause, which is indorsed on the nisi prius record.
postel	Obsolete	Apostle.
postencephalon		The metencephalon.
postentry		A second or subsequent, at the customhouse, of goods which had been omitted by mistake.
poster		A large bill or placard intended to be posted in public places.
posterior		Later in time; hence, later in the order of proceeding or moving; coming after; -- opposed to prior.
posteriority		The state of being later or subsequent; as, posteriority of time, or of an event; -- opposed to priority.
posteriorly		Subsequently in time; also, behind in position.
posteriors		The hinder parts, as of an animal's body.
posterity		The race that proceeds from a progenitor; offspring to the furthest generation; the aggregate number of persons who are descended from an ancestor of a generation; descendants; -- contrasted with ancestry; as…
postern		Originally, a back door or gate; a private entrance; hence, any small door or gate.
postero		- (posterior, back; as, postero-inferior, situated back and below; postero-lateral, situated back and at the side.
postexilian		After the exile; specif. (Jewish Hist.), belonging to a period subsequent to the Babylonian captivity or exile (b. c. 597 or about 586-about 537).
postexilic		After the exile; specif. (Jewish Hist.), belonging to a period subsequent to the Babylonian captivity or exile (b. c. 597 or about 586-about 537).
postexist	Obsolete	To exist after; to live subsequently.
postexistence		Subsequent existence.
postexistent		Existing or living after.
postfact		Relating to a fact that occurs after another.
postfactum		Same as Postfact.
postfix		A letter, syllable, or word, added to the end of another word; a suffix.
postfrontal		Situated behind the frontal bone or the frontal region of the skull; -- applied especially to a bone back of and below the frontal in many animals. -- n.
postfurca		One of the internal thoracic processes of the sternum of an insect.
postgeniture		The condition of being born after another in the same family; - - distinguished from primogeniture.
postglacial		(a) Formed or occurring after the last glacial epoch of the Pleistocene period, or at a locality within the area of Pleistocene glaciation after the final disappearance of the glacier from the locality.
postglenoid		Situated behind the glenoid fossa of the temporal bone.
postgraduate		Of, pertaining to, or designating, the studies pursued after graduation, esp., after receiving the bachelor's degree at a college; graduate. -- n.
posthaste		Haste or speed in traveling, like that of a post or courier.
posthetomy		Circumcision.
posthouse		A house established for the convenience of the post, where relays of horses can be obtained.
posthume	Obsolete	Posthumos.
posthumed	Obsolete	Posthumos.
posthumous		Born after the death of the father, or taken from the dead body of the mother; as, a posthumous son or daughter.
posthumously		It a posthumous manner; after one's decease.
postic	Obsolete	Backward.
posticous		(a) Posterior. (b) Situated on the outer side of a filament; -- said of an extrorse anther.
postil		Originally, an explanatory note in the margin of the Bible, so called because written after the text; hence, a marginal note; a comment.
postiler		One who writers marginal notes; one who illustrates the text of a book by notes in the margin.
postilion		One who rides and guides the first pair of horses of a coach or post chaise; also, one who rides one of the horses when one pair only is used.
postillate		To explain by marginal notes; to postil.
postillation		The act of postillating; exposition of Scripture in preaching.
postillator		One who postillates; one who expounds the Scriptures verse by verse.
postiller		See Postiler — one who writers marginal notes; one who illustrates the text of a book by notes in the margin.
posting		The act of traveling post.
postliminiar		Contrived, done, or existing subsequently.
postliminiary		Pertaining to, or involving, the right of postliminium.
postlude		A voluntary at the end of a service.
postman		A post or courier; a letter carrier.
postmark		The mark, or stamp, of a post office on a letter, giving the place and date of mailing or of arrival.
postmaster		One who has charge of a station for the accommodation of travelers; one who supplies post horses.
postmaster-general		The chief officer of the post-office department of a government.
postmastership		The office of postmaster.
postmeridian		Coming after the sun has passed the meridian; being in, or belonging to, the afternoon.
postnares		The posterior nares. See Nares.
postnatal		After birth; subsequent to birth; as, postnatal infanticide; postnatal diseases.
postnate	Archaic	Subsequent.
postnuptial		Being or happening after marriage; as, a postnuptial settlement on a wife.
postoblongata		The posterior part of the medulla oblongata.
postocular		Same as Postorbital.
postoral		Situated behind, or posterior to, the mouth.
postorbital		Situated behind the orbit; as, the postorbital scales of some fishes and reptiles. -- n.
postpaid		Having the postage prepaid, as a letter.
postpalatine		Situated behind the palate, or behind the palatine bones.
postpliocene		Of or pertaining to the period immediately following the Pliocene; Pleistocene.
postpone		To defer to a future or later time; to put off; also, to cause to be deferred or put off; to delay; to adjourn; as, to postpone the consideration of a bill to the following day, or indefinitely.
postponement		The act of postponing; a deferring, or putting off, to a future time; a temporary delay.
postponence		The act of postponing, in sense
postponer		One who postpones.
postpose	Obsolete	To postpone.
postposit	Obsolete	To postpone.
postposition		The act of placing after, or the state of being placed after.
postpositional		Of or pertaining to postposition.
postpositive		Placed after another word; as, a postpositive conjunction; a postpositive letter. -- Post*pos"i*tive*ly, adv.
postprandial		Happening, or done, after dinner; after-dinner; as, postprandial speeches.
postremogeniture		The right of the youngest born.
postremote		More remote in subsequent time or order.
postrider		One who rides over a post road to carry the mails.
postscapula		The part of the scapula behind or below the spine, or mesoscapula.
postscapular		Of or pertaining to the postscapula; infraspinous.
postscenium		The part of a theater behind the scenes; the back part of the stage of a theater.
postscribe		To make a postscript.
postscript		A paragraph added to a letter after it is concluded and signed by the writer; an addition made to a book or composition after the main body of the work has been finished, containing something omitted…
postscripted		Having a postscript; added in a postscript.
postscutellum		The hindermost dorsal piece of a thoracic somite of an insect; the plate behind the scutellum.
postsphenoid		Of or pertaining to the posterior part of the sphenoid bone.
posttertiary		Following, or more recent than, the Tertiary; Quaternary.
postulant		One who makes a request or demand; hence, a candidate.
postulate		Something demanded or asserted; especially, a position or supposition assumed without proof, or one which is considered as self-evident; a truth to which assent may be demanded or challenged, without argument or evidence.
postulated		Assumed without proof; as, a postulated inference.
postulation		The act of postulating, or that which is postulated; assumption; solicitation; suit; cause.
postulatory		Of the nature of a postulate.
postulatum		A postulate.
postumous		See Posthumous — born after the death of the father, or taken from the dead body of the mother; as, a posthumous son or daughter.
postural		Of or pertaining to posture.
posture		The position of the body; the situation or disposition of the several parts of the body with respect to each other, or for a particular purpose; especially (Fine Arts)…
posturer		One who postures.
postzygapophysis		A posterior zygapophysis.
posy		A brief poetical sentiment; hence, any brief sentiment, motto, or legend; especially, one inscribed on a ring.
pot		A metallic or earthen vessel, appropriated to any of a great variety of uses, as for boiling meat or vegetables, for holding liquids, for plants, etc.; as, a quart pot; a flower pot; a bean pot.
pot-au-feu		A dish of broth, meat, and vegetables prepared by boiling in a pot, -- a dish esp. common among the French.
pot-bellied		Having a protuberant belly, like the bottom of a pot.
pot-belly		A protuberant belly.
pot-sure	Obsolete	Made confident by drink.
pot-valiant		Having the courage given by drink.
pot-walloper		A voter in certain boroughs of England, where, before the passage of the reform bill of 1832, the qualification for suffrage was to have boiled (walloped) his own pot in the parish for six months.
potable		Fit to be drunk; drinkable. -- n.
potableness		The quality of being drinkable.
potage		See Pottage — a kind of food made by boiling vegetables or meat, or both together, in water, until soft; a thick soup or porridge.
potager	Obsolete	A porringer.
potagro		See Potargo — a kind of sauce or pickle.
potale		The refuse from a grain distillery, used to fatten swine.
potamian		A river tortoise; one of a group of tortoises (Potamites, or Trionychoidea) having a soft shell, webbed feet, and a sharp beak.
potamography		An account or description of rivers; potamology.
potamology		A scientific account or discussion of rivers; a treatise on rivers; potamography.
potamospongiae		The fresh-water sponges. See Spongilla.
potance		The stud in which the bearing for the lower pivot of the verge is made.
potargo		A kind of sauce or pickle.
potash		(a) The hydroxide of potassium hydrate, a hard white brittle substance, KOH, having strong caustic and alkaline properties; -- hence called also caustic potash.
potassa	Obsolete	(a) Potassium oxide. (b) Potassium hydroxide, commonly called caustic potash.
potassamide		A yellowish brown substance obtained by heating potassium in ammonia.
potassic		Pertaining to, or containing, potassium.
potassium		An Alkali element, occurring abundantly but always combined, as in the chloride, sulphate, carbonate, or silicate, in the minerals sylvite, kainite, orthoclase, muscovite, etc. Atomic weight 39.0.
potassoxyl		The radical KO, derived from, and supposed to exist in, potassium hydroxide and other compounds.
potation		Drink; beverage.
potato		(a) A plant (Solanum tuberosum) of the Nightshade family, and its esculent farinaceous tuber, of which there are numerous varieties used for food.
potator		A drinker.
potatory		Of or pertaining to drinking.
potboiler		A term applied derisively to any literary or artistic work, and esp. a painting, done simply for money and the means of living.
potboy		A boy who carries pots of ale, beer, etc.; a menial in a public house.
potch	Obsolete	To thrust; to push. See Poach, to cook.
potcher		One who, or that which, potches.
potecary	Obsolete	An apothecary.
poteen		Whisky; especially, whisky illicitly distilled by the Irish peasantry.
potelot		Molybdenum sulphide.
potence		Potency; capacity.
potency		The quality or state of being potent; physical or moral power; inherent strength; energy; ability to effect a purpose; capability; efficacy; influence.
potent		Producing great physical effects; forcible; powerful' efficacious; as, a potent medicine.
potentacy	Obsolete	Sovereignty.
potentate		One who is potent; one who possesses great power or sway; a prince, sovereign, or monarch.
potential		Existing in possibility, not in actuality.
potentiality		The quality or state of being potential; possibility, not actuality; inherent capability or disposition, not actually exhibited.
potentially		In a potential manner; possibly, not positively.
potentiate		To render active or potent.
potentiometer		An instrument for measuring or comparing electrial potentials or electro-motive forces.
potentize		To render the latent power of (anything) available.
potently		With great force or energy; powerfully; efficaciously.
potentness		The quality or state of being potent; powerfulness; potency; efficacy.
potestate	Obsolete	A chief ruler; a potentate.
potestative	Obsolete	Authoritative.
potgun	Obsolete	A pot-shaped cannon; a mortar.
pothecary	Obsolete	An apothecary.
potheen		See Poteen — whisky; especially, whisky illicitly distilled by the Irish peasantry.
pother		Bustle; confusion; tumult; flutter; bother.
pothole		A circular hole formed in the rocky beds of rivers by the grinding action of stones or gravel whirled round by the water in what was at first a natural depression of the rock.
pothook		A written character curved like a pothook; (pl.) a scrawled writing.
pothouse		An alehouse.
potiche		A vase with a separate cover, the body usually rounded or polygonal in plan with nearly vertical sides, a neck of smaller size, and a rounded shoulder.
potichomania		The art or process of coating the inside of glass vessels with engravings or paintings, so as to give them the appearance of painted ware.
potichomanie		The art or process of coating the inside of glass vessels with engravings or paintings, so as to give them the appearance of painted ware.
potion	Obsolete	A draught; a dose; usually, a draught or dose of a liquid medicine.
potlatch		Among the Kwakiutl, Chimmesyan, and other Indians of the northwestern coast of North America, a ceremonial distribution by a man of gifts to his own and neighboring tribesmen, often, formerly, to his own impoverishment.
potlid		The lid or cover of a pot.
potluck		Whatever may chance to be in the pot, or may be provided for a meal.
potman		A servant in a public house; a potboy.
potoo		A large South American goatsucker (Nyctibius grandis).
potoroo		Any small kangaroo belonging to Hypsiprymnus, Bettongia, and allied genera, native of Australia and Tasmania.
potpie		A meat pie which is boiled instead of being baked.
potpourri		A medley or mixture. Specifically: (a) A ragout composed of different sorts of meats, vegetables, etc., cooked together.
potshard	Obsolete	A potsherd.
potshare	Obsolete	A potsherd.
potsherd		A piece or fragment of a broken pot.
potstone		A variety of steatite sometimes manufactured into culinary vessels.
potsure	Obsolete	Made confident by drink.
pott		A size of paper. See under Paper.
pottage		A kind of food made by boiling vegetables or meat, or both together, in water, until soft; a thick soup or porridge.
pottain	Obsolete	Old pot metal.
potteen		See Poteen — whisky; especially, whisky illicitly distilled by the Irish peasantry.
potter		One whose occupation is to make earthen vessels.
pottern		Of or pertaining to potters.
pottery		The vessels or ware made by potters; earthenware, glazed and baked.
potting		The act of placing in a pot; as, the potting of plants; the potting of meats for preservation.
pottle		A liquid measure of four pints.
potto		(a) A nocturnal mammal (Perodictius potto) of the Lemur family, found in West Africa.
potulent	Obsolete	Fit to drink; potable.
pouch		A small bag; usually, a leathern bag; as, a pouch for money; a shot pouch; a mail pouch, etc.
pouch-mouthed		Having a pouch mouth; blobber-lipped.
pouch-shell		A small British and American pond snail (Bulinus hypnorum).
pouched		(a) Having a marsupial pouch; as, the pouched badger, or the wombat. (b) Having external cheek pouches; as, the pouched gopher.
pouchong		A superior kind of souchong tea.
poudre	Obsolete	Dust; powder.
poudrette		A manure made from night soil, dried and mixed with charcoal, gypsum, etc.
pouf		(a) A soft cushion, esp. one circular in shape and not, like a pilow, of bag form, or thin at the edges.
pouffe		(a) A soft cushion, esp. one circular in shape and not, like a pilow, of bag form, or thin at the edges.
poulaine		A long pointed shoe. See Cracowes.
poulard		A pullet from which the ovaries have been removed to produce fattening; hence, a fat pullet.
pouldavis	Obsolete	Same as Poledavy.
pouldron		See Pauldron — a piece of armor covering the shoulder at the junction of the body piece and arm piece.
poulp		Same as Octopus.
poulpe		Same as Octopus.
poult		A young chicken, partridge, grouse, or the like.
poulter	Obsolete	A poulterer.
poulterer		One who deals in poultry.
poultice		A soft composition, as of bread, bran, or a mucilaginous substance, to be applied to sores, inflamed parts of the body, etc.; a cataplasm.
poultive	Obsolete	A poultice.
poultry		Domestic fowls reared for the table, or for their eggs or feathers, such as cocks and hens, capons, turkeys, ducks, and geese.
pounce		A fine powder, as of sandarac, or cuttlefish bone, -- formerly used to prevent ink from spreading on manuscript.
pounced		Furnished with claws or talons; as, the pounced young of the eagle.
pouncing	Obsolete	Decorative perforation of cloth.
pound		To strike repeatedly with some heavy instrument; to beat.
pound-breach		The breaking of a public pound for releasing impounded animals.
pound-keeper		The keeper of a pound.
poundage		A sum deducted from a pound, or a certain sum paid for each pound; a commission.
poundal		A unit of force based upon the pound, foot, and second, being the force which, acting on a pound avoirdupois for one second, causes it to acquire by the of that time a velocity of one foot per second.
poundcake		A kind of rich, sweet cake; -- so called from the ingredients being used by pounds, or in equal quantities.
pounder		One who, or that which, pounds, as a stamp in an ore mill.
pounding		The act of beating, bruising, or breaking up; a beating.
poundkeeper		The keeper of a pound.
poundrate		A rate or proportion estimated at a certain amount for each pound; poundage.
poup	Obsolete	See Powp — see Poop, v. i.
poupeton	Obsolete	A puppet, or little baby.
pour		To cause to flow in a stream, as a liquid or anything flowing like a liquid, either out of a vessel or into it; as, to pour water from a pail; to pour wine into a decanter; to pour oil upon the waters; to pour out sand or dust.
pourer		One who pours.
pourlieu		See Purlieu — originally, the ground near a royal forest, which, having been unlawfully added to the forest, was afterwards severed from it…
pourparler		A consultation preliminary to a treaty.
pourparty		A division; a divided share.
pourpoint		A quilted military doublet or gambeson worn in the 14th and 15th centuries; also, a name for the doublet of the 16th and 17th centuries worn by civilians.
pourpresture		See Purpresture — wrongful encroachment upon another's property; esp., any encroachment upon, or inclosure of, that which should be common or public, as highways, rivers, harbors, forts, etc.
poursuivant		See Pursuivant — (Heralds' College) A functionary of lower rank than a herald, but discharging similar duties; -- called also pursuivant at arms; an attendant of the heralds.
pourtray		See Portray — to paint or draw the likeness of; as, to portray a king on horseback.
pourveyance		See Purveyance — the act or process of providing or procuring; providence; foresight; preparation; management.
pousse	Obsolete	Pulse; pease.
pousse-cafe		A drink served after coffee at dinner, usually one of several liqueurs, or cordials, of different specific gravities poured so as to remain separate in layers; hence, such a drink of cordials served at any time.
poussette		A movement, or part of a figure, in the contradance.
pout	Scots	The young of some birds, as grouse; a young fowl.
pouter		One who, or that which, pouts.
pouting		Childish sullenness.
poutingly		In a pouting, or a sullen, manner.
povert	Obsolete	Poverty.
poverty		The quality or state of being poor or indigent; want or scarcity of means of subsistence; indigence; need.
powan		A small British lake whitefish (Coregonus clupeoides, or C. ferus); -- called also gwyniad and lake herring.
powder		The fine particles to which any dry substance is reduced by pounding, grinding, or triturating, or into which it falls by decay; dust.
powder-posted		Affected with dry rot; reduced to dust by rot. See Dry rot, under Dry.
powdered		Reduced to a powder; sprinkled with, or as with, powder.
powderflask		A flask in which gunpowder is carried, having a charging tube at the end.
powderhorn		A horn in which gunpowder is carried.
powdering	Obsolete	a. & n. from Powder, v. t.
powdermill		A mill in which gunpowder is made.
powdery		Easily crumbling to pieces; friable; loose; as, a powdery spar.
powdike	English dialect	A dike a marsh or fen.
powdry		See Powdery — easily crumbling to pieces; friable; loose; as, a powdery spar.
powen		A small British lake whitefish (Coregonus clupeoides, or C. ferus); -- called also gwyniad and lake herring.
power		Same as Poor, the fish.
powerable		Capable of being effected or accomplished by the application of power; possible.
powerful		Full of power; capable of producing great effects of any kind; potent; mighty; efficacious; intense; as, a powerful man or beast; a powerful engine; a powerful argument; a powerful light; a powerful vessel.
powerless		Destitute of power, force, or energy; weak; impotent; not able to produce any effect. -- Pow er*less*ness, n.
powldron		Same as Pauldron.
powp	Obsolete	See Poop, v. i.
powter		See Pouter — one who, or that which, pouts.
powwow		A priest, or conjurer, among the North American Indians.
pox		Strictly, a disease by pustules or eruptions of any kind, but chiefly or wholly restricted to three or four diseases, -- the smallpox, the chicken pox, and the vaccine and the venereal diseases.
poy		A ropedancer's balancing pole.
poynado	Obsolete	A poniard.
poynd		See Poind, Poinder.
poynder		See Poind, Poinder.
poyntel		Paving or flooring made of small squares or lozenges set diagonally.
poyou		A South American armadillo (Dasypus sexcinctus).
poze		See 5th Pose.
pozzolana		Volcanic ashes from Pozzuoli, in Italy, used in the manufacture of a kind of mortar which hardens under water.
pozzuolana		Volcanic ashes from Pozzuoli, in Italy, used in the manufacture of a kind of mortar which hardens under water.
