praam		A flat-bottomed boat or lighter, -- used in Holland and the Baltic, and sometimes armed in case of war.
practic	Obsolete	Artful; deceitful; skillful.
practicability		The quality or state of being practicable; practicableness; feasibility.
practicable		That may be practiced or performed; capable of being done or accomplished with available means or resources; feasible; as, a practicable method; a practicable aim; a practicable good.
practical		Capable of being turned to use or account; useful, in distinction from ideal or theoretical; as, practical chemistry.
practicality		The quality or state of being practical; practicalness.
practicalize		To render practical.
practically		In a practical way; not theoretically; really; as, to look at things practically; practically worthless.
practicalness		Same as Practicality.
practice		Frequently repeated or customary action; habitual performance; a succession of acts of a similar kind; usage; habit; custom; as, the practice of rising early; the practice of making regular entries of accounts…
practiced		Experienced; expert; skilled; as, a practiced marksman.
practicer		One who practices, or puts in practice; one who customarily performs certain acts.
practician		One who is acquainted with, or skilled in, anything by practice; a practitioner.
practick	Obsolete	Practice.
practico		A guide.
practisant	Obsolete	An agent or confederate in treachery.
practise		See Practice — frequently repeated or customary action; habitual performance; a succession of acts of a similar kind; usage; habit; custom; as, the practice of rising early…
practisour	Obsolete	A practitioner.
practitioner		One who is engaged in the actual use or exercise of any art or profession, particularly that of law or medicine.
practive	Obsolete	Doing; active.
prad	Colloquial	A horse.
prae-		A prefix. See Pre-.
praecava		The superior vena cava. -- Præ"ca`val, a.
praecipe		(a) A writ commanding something to be done, or requiring a reason for neglecting it.
praecoces		A division of birds including those whose young are able to run about when first hatched.
praecocial		Of or pertaining to the Præcoces.
praecognita		This previously known, or which should be known in order to understand something else.
praecommissure		A transverse commissure in the anterior part of the third ventricle of the brain; the anterior cerebral commissure.
praecoracoid		See Precoracoid — the anterior part of the coracoid (often closely united with the clavicle) in the shoulder girdle of many reptiles and amphibians.
praecordia		The front part of the thoracic region; the epigastrium.
praecordial		Same as Precordial.
praecornu		The anterior horn of each lateral ventricle of the brain.
praedial		See Predial — consisting of land or farms; landed; as, predial estate; that is, real estate.
praefloration		Same as Prefloration.
praefoliation		Same as Prefoliation.
praemaxilla		See Premaxilla — a bone on either side of the middle line between the nose and mouth, forming the anterior part of each half of the upper jawbone; the intermaxilla.
praemolar		See Premolar — situated in front of the molar teeth. --n.
praemorse		Same as Premorse.
praemunire		(a) The offense of introducing foreign authority into England, the penalties for which were originally intended to depress the civil power of the pope in the kingdom.
praemunitory		See Premunitory — of or pertaining to a premunire; as, a premunitory process.
praenares		The anterior nares. See Nares.
praenasal		Same as Prenasal.
praenomen		The first name of a person, by which individuals of the same family were distinguished, answering to our Christian name, as Caius, Lucius, Marcus, etc.
praenominical	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to a prænomen.
praeoperculum		Same as Preoperculum. -- Præ`o*per"cu*lar, a.
praeoral		Same as Preoral, Prepubis, Prescapula, etc.
praepubis		Same as Preoral, Prepubis, Prescapula, etc.
praescapula		Same as Preoral, Prepubis, Prescapula, etc.
praescutum		Same as Preoral, Prepubis, Prescapula, etc.
praesternum		Same as Preoral, Prepubis, Prescapula, etc.
praeter-		A prefix. See Preter-.
praeterist		See Preterist — one whose chief interest is in the past; one who regards the past with most pleasure or favor.
praetermit		See Pretermit — to pass by; to omit; to disregard.
praetexta		A white robe with a purple border, worn by a Roman boy before he was entitled to wear the toga virilis, or until about the completion of his fourteenth year, and by girls until their marriage.
praetor		See Pretor.
praetores		A division of butterflies including the satyrs.
praetorian		See Pretorian — of or pertaining to a pretor or magistrate; judicial; exercised by, or belonging to, a pretor; as, pretorian power or authority.
praetorium		See Pretorium — the general's tent in a Roman camp; hence, a council of war, because held in the general's tent.
praezygapophysis		Same as Prezygapophysis.
pragmatic		Of or pertaining to business or to affairs; of the nature of business; practical; material; businesslike in habit or manner.
pragmatical		Of or pertaining to business or to affairs; of the nature of business; practical; material; businesslike in habit or manner.
pragmatically		In a pragmatical manner.
pragmaticalness		The quality or state of being pragmatical.
pragmatism		The quality or state of being pragmatic; in literature, the pragmatic, or philosophical, method.
pragmatist		One who is pragmatic.
pragmatize		To consider, represent, or embody (something unreal) as fact; to materialize.
prairial		The ninth month of the French Republican calendar, which dated from September 22, 1792.
prairie		An extensive tract of level or rolling land, destitute of trees, covered with coarse grass, and usually characterized by a deep, fertile soil.
praisable		Fit to be praised; praise-worthy; laudable; commendable.
praisably		In a praisable manner.
praise		To commend; to applaud; to express approbation of; to laud; -- applied to a person or his acts.
praise-meeting	Dialect	A religious service mainly in song.
praiseful	Obsolete	Praiseworthy.
praiseless		Without praise or approbation.
praisement	Obsolete	Appraisement.
praiser		One who praises.
praiseworthily		In a praiseworthy manner.
praiseworthiness		The quality or state of being praiseworthy.
praiseworthy		Worthy of praise or applause; commendable; as, praiseworthy action; he was praiseworthy.
prakrit		Any one of the popular dialects descended from, or akin to, Sanskrit; -- in distinction from the Sanskrit, which was used as a literary and learned language when no longer spoken by the people.
prakritic		Pertaining to Prakrit.
praline		A confection made of nut kernels, usually of almonds, roasted in boiling sugar until brown and crisp.
pralltriller		A melodic embellishment consisting of the quick alternation of a principal tone with an auxiliary tone above it, usually the next of the scale; --called also the inverted mordente.
pram		See Praam — a flat-bottomed boat or lighter, -- used in Holland and the Baltic, and sometimes armed in case of war.
prame		See Praam — a flat-bottomed boat or lighter, -- used in Holland and the Baltic, and sometimes armed in case of war.
prance		To spring or bound, as a horse in high mettle.
prancer		A horse which prances.
prandial		Of or pertaining to a repast, especially to dinner.
prangos		A genus of umbelliferous plants, one species of which (P. pabularia), found in Thibet, Cashmere, Afghanistan, etc., has been used as fodder for cattle.
prank	Obsolete	To adorn in a showy manner; to dress or equip ostentatiously; - - often followed by up; as, to prank up the body.
pranker		One who dresses showily; a prinker.
prankish		Full of pranks; frolicsome.
prase		A variety of cryptocrystalline of a leek-green color.
praseo-		A combining form signifying green; as, praseocobalt, a green variety of cobalt.
praseodymium		An elementary substance, one of the constituents of didymium; - - so called from the green color of its salts.
praseolite		A variety of altered iolite of a green color and greasy luster.
prasinous		Grass-green; clear, lively green, without any mixture.
prasoid		Resembling prase.
prate		To talk much and to little purpose; to be loquacious; to speak foolishly; to babble.
prateful		Talkative.
prater		One who prates.
pratic		See Pratique — (Com.) Primarily, liberty of converse; intercourse; hence, a certificate, given after compliance with quarantine regulations, permitting a ship to land passengers and crew…
pratincole		Any bird of the Old World genus Glareola, or family Glareolidæ, allied to the plovers.
pratingly		With idle talk; with loquacity.
pratique		(Com.) Primarily, liberty of converse; intercourse; hence, a certificate, given after compliance with quarantine regulations, permitting a ship to land passengers and crew; -- a term used particularly in the south of Europe.
prattle		To talk much and idly; to prate; hence, to talk lightly and artlessly, like a child; to utter child's talk.
prattlement		Prattle.
prattler		One who prattles.
pravity		Deterioration; degeneracy; corruption; especially, moral crookedness; moral perversion; perverseness; depravity; as, the pravity of human nature.
prawn		Any one of numerous species of large shrimplike Crustacea having slender legs and long antennæ.
praxinoscope		An instrument, similar to the phenakistoscope, for presenting to view, or projecting upon a screen, images the natural motions of real objects.
praxis		Use; practice; especially, exercise or discipline for a specific purpose or object.
pray		To address earnest request to; to supplicate; to entreat; to implore; to beseech.
prayer		One who prays; a supplicant.
prayerful		Given to prayer; praying much or often; devotional. -- Prayer ful*ness, n.
prayerless		Not using prayer; habitually neglecting prayer to God; without prayer. -- Prayer less*ness, n.
praying		a. & n. from Pray, v.
prayingly		With supplication to God.
pre-		A prefix denoting priority (of time, place, or rank); as, precede, to go before; precursor, a forerunner; prefix, to fix or place before; preëminent eminent before or above others.
pre-raphaelite		Popularly, any modern artist thought to be a would-be restorer of early ideas or methods, as one of the German painters often called Nazarenes, or one who paints and draws with extreme minuteness of detail.
preaccusation		Previous accusation.
preach		To proclaim or publish tidings; specifically, to proclaim the gospel; to discourse publicly on a religious subject, or from a text of Scripture; to deliver a sermon.
preacher		One who preaches; one who discourses publicly on religious subjects.
preachership		The office of a preacher.
preachify	Colloquial	To discourse in the manner of a preacher.
preaching		The act of delivering a religious discourse; the art of sermonizing; also, a sermon; a public religious discourse; serious, earnest advice.
preachman	Obsolete	A preacher; -- so called in contempt.
preachment		A religious harangue; a sermon; -- used derogatively.
preacquaint		To acquaint previously or beforehand.
preacquaintance		Previous acquaintance or knowledge.
preact		To act beforehand; to perform previously.
preaction		Previous action.
preadamic		Prior to Adam.
preadamite		An inhabitant of the earth before Adam.
preadamitic		Existing or occurring before Adam; preadamic; as, preadamitic periods.
preadjustment		Previous adjustment.
preadministration		Previous administration.
preadmission		Lit., previous admission; specif. (Engin.), admission, as of steam, to the engine cylinder before the back stroke is completed, thus increasing the cushioning.
preadmonish		To admonish previously.
preadmonition		Previous warning or admonition; forewarning.
preadvertise		To advertise beforehand; to preannounce publicly.
preamble		A introductory portion; an introduction or preface, as to a book, document, etc.; specifically, the introductory part of a statute, which states the reasons and intent of the law.
preambulary		Of or pertaining to a preamble; introductory; contained or provided for in a preamble.
preambulate		To walk before.
preambulation		A walking or going before; precedence.
preambulatory		Preceding; going before; introductory.
preambulous		See Perambulatory.
preannounce		To announce beforehand.
preantenultimate		Being or indicating the fourth syllable from the end of a word, or that before the antepenult.
preaortic		In front, or on the ventral side, of the aorta.
preappoint		To appoint previously, or beforehand.
preappointment		Previous appointment.
preapprehension		An apprehension or opinion formed before examination or knowledge.
prearm		To forearm.
prearrange		To arrange beforehand.
prease	Obsolete	To press; to crowd. -- n.
preassurance		Previous assurance.
preataxic		Occurring before the symptom ataxia has developed; -- applied to the early symptoms of locomotor ataxia.
preaudience		Precedence of rank at the bar among lawyers.
preaxial		Situated in front of any transverse axis in the body of an animal; anterior; cephalic; esp., in front, or on the anterior, or cephalic (that is, radial or tibial) side of the axis of a limb.
prebend		A payment or stipend; esp., the stipend or maintenance granted to a prebendary out of the estate of a cathedral or collegiate, church with which he is connected.
prebendal		Of or pertaining to a prebend; holding a prebend; as, a prebendal priest or stall.
prebendary		A clergyman attached to a collegiate or cathedral church who enjoys a prebend in consideration of his officiating at stated times in the church.
prebendaryship		The office of a prebendary.
prebendate	Obsolete	To invest with the office of prebendary; to present to a prebend.
prebendship	Obsolete	A prebendaryship.
prebronchial		Situated in front of the bronchus; -- applied especially to an air sac on either side of the esophagus of birds.
precalculate		To calculate or determine beforehand; to prearrange.
precant		One who prays.
precarious		Depending on the will or pleasure of another; held by courtesy; liable to be changed or lost at the pleasure of another; as, precarious privileges.
precation		The act of praying; supplication; entreaty.
precative		Suppliant; beseeching.
precatory		Suppliant; beseeching.
precaution		Previous caution or care; caution previously employed to prevent mischief or secure good; as, his life was saved by precaution.
precautional		Precautionary.
precautionary		Of or pertaining to precaution, or precautions; as, precautionary signals.
precautious		Taking or using precaution; precautionary. -- Pre*cau *tious*ness, n.
precedaneous	Obsolete	Preceding; antecedent; previous.
precede		To go before in order of time; to occur first with relation to anything.
precedence		The act or state of preceding or going before in order of time; priority; as, one event has precedence of another.
precedency		The act or state of preceding or going before in order of time; priority; as, one event has precedence of another.
precedent		Going before; anterior; preceding; antecedent; as, precedent services.
precedented		Having a precedent; authorized or sanctioned by an example of a like kind.
precedential		Of the nature of a precedent; having force as an example for imitation; as, precedential transactions.
precedently		Beforehand; antecedently.
preceding		Going before; -- opposed to following.
precel	Obsolete	To surpass; to excel; to exceed.
precellence	Obsolete	Excellence; superiority.
precellency	Obsolete	Excellence; superiority.
precellent	Obsolete	Excellent; surpassing.
precentor		A leader of a choir; a directing singer. Specifically: (a) The leader of the choir in a cathedral; -- called also the chanter or master of the choir.
precentorship		The office of a precentor.
precept		Any commandment, instruction, or order intended as an authoritative rule of action; esp., a command respecting moral conduct; an injunction; a rule.
preceptial	Obsolete	Preceptive. would give preceptial medicine to rage.
preception		A precept.
preceptive		Containing or giving precepts; of the nature of precepts; didactic; as, the preceptive parts of the Scriptures.
preceptor		One who gives commands, or makes rules; specifically, the master or principal of a school; a teacher; an instructor.
preceptorial		Of or pertaining to a preceptor.
preceptory		Preceptive.
preceptress		A woman who is the principal of a school; a female teacher.
precession		The act of going before, or forward.
precessional		Of or pertaining to pression; as, the precessional movement of the equinoxes.
precessor	Obsolete	A predecessor.
precieuse		An affected woman of polite society, esp. one of the literary women of the French salons of the 17th century.
precinct		The limit or exterior line encompassing a place; a boundary; a confine; limit of jurisdiction or authority; -- often in the plural; as, the precincts of a state.
preciosity	Obsolete	Preciousness; something precious.
precious		Of great price; costly; as, a precious stone.
preciously		In a precious manner; expensively; extremely; dearly.
preciousness		The quality or state of being precious; costliness; dearness.
precipe		See Præcipe, and Precept.
precipice		A headlong steep; a very steep, perpendicular, or overhanging place; an abrupt declivity; a cliff.
precipient		Commanding; directing.
precipitability		The quality or state of being precipitable.
precipitable		Capable of being precipitated, or cast to the bottom, as a substance in solution.
precipitance		The quality or state of being precipitant, or precipitate; headlong hurry; excessive or rash haste in resolving, forming an opinion, or executing a purpose; precipitation; as, the precipitancy of youth.
precipitancy		The quality or state of being precipitant, or precipitate; headlong hurry; excessive or rash haste in resolving, forming an opinion, or executing a purpose; precipitation; as, the precipitancy of youth.
precipitant		Falling or rushing headlong; rushing swiftly, violently, or recklessly; moving precipitately.
precipitantly		With rash or foolish haste; in headlong manner.
precipitantness		The quality or state of being precipitant; precipitation.
precipitate		Overhasty; rash; as, the king was too precipitate in declaring war.
precipitately		In a precipitate manner; headlong; hastily; rashly.
precipitation		The act of precipitating, or the state of being precipitated, or thrown headlong.
precipitator		One who precipitates, or urges on with vehemence or rashness.
precipitious	Obsolete	Precipitous. -- Prec`i*pi"tious*ly, adv.
precipitous		Steep, like a precipice; as, a precipitous cliff or mountain.
precis		A concise or abridged statement or view; an abstract; a summary.
precise		Having determinate limitations; exactly or sharply defined or stated; definite; exact; nice; not vague or equivocal; as, precise rules of morality.
precisian		An overprecise person; one rigidly or ceremoniously exact in the observance of rules; a formalist; -- formerly applied to the English Puritans.
precisianism		The quality or state of being a precisian; the practice of a precisian.
precisianist		A precisian.
precision		The quality or state of being precise; exact limitation; exactness; accuracy; strict conformity to a rule or a standard; definiteness.
precisive		Cutting off; (Logic) exactly limiting by cutting off all that is not absolutely relative to the purpose; as, precisive censure; precisive abstraction.
preclude		To put a barrier before; hence, to shut out; to hinder; to stop; to impede.
preclusion		The act of precluding, or the state of being precluded; a shutting out.
preclusive		Shutting out; precluding, or tending to preclude; hindering. -- Pre*clu"sive*ly, adv.
precoce	Obsolete	Precocious.
precoces		Same as Præcoces.
precocious		Ripe or mature before the proper or natural time; early or prematurely ripe or developed; as, precocious trees.
precociously		In a precocious manner.
precociousness		The quality or state of being precocious; untimely ripeness; premature development, especially of the mental powers; forwardness.
precocity		The quality or state of being precocious; untimely ripeness; premature development, especially of the mental powers; forwardness.
precoetanean	Obsolete	One contemporary with, but older than, another.
precogitate		To cogitate beforehand.
precogitation		Previous cogitation.
precognition		Previous cognition.
precognizable		Cognizable beforehand.
precognosce		To examine beforehand, as witnesses or evidence.
precollection		A collection previously made.
precompose		To compose beforehand.
preconceit		An opinion or notion formed beforehand; a preconception.
preconceive		To conceive, or form an opinion of, beforehand; to form a previous notion or idea of.
preconception		The act of preconceiving; conception or opinion previously formed.
preconcert		To concert or arrange beforehand; to settle by previous agreement.
preconcerted		Previously arranged; agreed upon beforehand. -- Pre`con*cert ed*ness, n.
preconcertion		The act of preconcerting; preconcert.
precondemn		To condemn beforehand. -- Pre*con`dem*na"tion, n.
precondition		A previous or antecedent condition; a preliminary condition.
preconform		To conform by way anticipation.
preconformity		Anticipative or antecedent conformity.
preconizate	Obsolete	To proclaim; to publish; also, to summon; to call.
preconization		A publishing by proclamation; a public proclamation.
preconize		To approve by preconization.
preconquer		To conquer in anticipation.
preconscious		Of or pertaining to a state before consciousness.
preconsent		A previous consent.
preconsign		To consign beforehand; to make a previous consignment of.
preconsolidated		Consolidated beforehand.
preconstitute		To constitute or establish beforehand.
precontract		To contract, engage, or stipulate previously.
precontrive		To contrive or plan beforehand.
precoracoid		The anterior part of the coracoid (often closely united with the clavicle) in the shoulder girdle of many reptiles and amphibians.
precordial		Situated in front of the heart; of or pertaining to the præcordia.
precrural		Situated in front of the leg or thigh; as, the precrural glands of the horse.
precurrer	Obsolete	A precursor.
precurse	Obsolete	A forerunning.
precursive		Preceding; introductory; precursory.
precursor		One who, or that which, precedes an event, and indicates its approach; a forerunner; a harbinger.
precursorship		The position or condition of a precursor.
precursory	Obsolete	Preceding as a precursor or harbinger; indicating something to follow; as, precursory symptoms of a fever.
predacean		A carnivorous animal.
predaceous		Living by prey; predatory.
predal		Of or pertaining to prey; plundering; predatory.
predate		To date anticipation; to affix to (a document) an earlier than the actual date; to antedate; as, a predated deed or letter.
predation		The act of pillaging.
predatorily		In a predatory manner.
predatory		Characterized by plundering; practicing rapine; plundering; pillaging; as, a predatory excursion; a predatory party.
prede	Obsolete	To prey; to plunder.
predecay		Premature decay.
predecease		To die sooner than.
predecessive		Going before; preceding.
predecessor		One who precedes; one who has preceded another in any state, position, office, etc.; one whom another follows or comes after, in any office or position.
predeclare		To declare or announce beforehand; to preannounce.
prededication		A dedication made previously or beforehand.
predefine		To define beforehand.
predeliberation		Previous deliberation.
predelineation		Previous delineation.
predella		The step, or raised secondary part, of an altar; a superaltar; hence, in Italian painting, a band or frieze of several pictures running along the front of a superaltar, or forming a border or frame at the foot of an altarpiece.
predesign		To design or purpose beforehand; to predetermine.
predesignate		A term used by Sir William Hamilton to define propositions having their quantity indicated by a verbal sign; as, all, none, etc.; -- contrasted with preindesignate, defining propositions of which the quantity is not so indicated.
predestinarian		Of or pertaining to predestination; as, the predestinarian controversy.
predestinarianism		The system or doctrine of the predestinarians.
predestinary	Obsolete	Predestinarian.
predestinate		Predestinated; foreordained; fated.
predestination		(Theol.) The purpose of Good from eternity respecting all events; especially, the preordination of men to everlasting happiness or misery.
predestinative		Determining beforehand; predestinating.
predestinator		One who predestinates, or foreordains.
predestine		To decree beforehand; to foreordain; to predestinate.
predestiny	Obsolete	Predestination.
predeterminable		Capable of being determined beforehand.
predeterminate		Determined beforehand; as, the predeterminate counsel of God.
predetermination		The act of previous determination; a purpose formed beforehand; as, the predetermination of God's will.
predetermine		To doom by previous decree; to foredoom.
predial		Consisting of land or farms; landed; as, predial estate; that is, real estate.
prediastolic		Preceding the diastole of the heart; as, a prediastolic friction sound.
predicability		The quality or state of being predicable, or affirmable of something, or attributed to something.
predicable		Capable of being predicated or affirmed of something; affirmable; attributable.
predicament		A class or kind described by any definite marks; hence, condition; particular situation or state; especially, an unfortunate or trying position or condition.
predicamental		Of or pertaining to a predicament.
predicant		Predicating; affirming; declaring; proclaiming; hence; preaching.
predicate		To assert to belong to something; to affirm (one thing of another); as, to predicate whiteness of snow.
predication		The act of predicating, or of affirming one thing of another; affirmation; assertion.
predicative		Expressing affirmation or predication; affirming; predicating, as, a predicative term. -- Pred"i*ca*tive*ly, adv.
predicatory		Affirmative; positive.
predicrotic		A term applied to the pulse wave sometimes seen in a pulse curve or sphygmogram, between the apex of the curve and the dicrotic wave.
predict	Obsolete	To tell or declare beforehand; to foretell; to prophesy; to presage; as, to predict misfortune; to predict the return of a comet.
predictable		That may be predicted.
prediction		The act of foretelling; also, that which is foretold; prophecy.
predictional		Prophetic; prognostic.
predictive		Foretelling; prophetic; foreboding. -- Pre*dict"ive*ly, adv.
predictor		One who predicts; a foreteller.
predictory		Predictive.
predigest		To subject (food) to predigestion or artificial digestion.
predigestion		(Med.) Artificial digestion of food for use in illness or impaired digestion.
predilect		To elect or choose beforehand.
predilection		A previous liking; a prepossession of mind in favor of something; predisposition to choose or like; partiality.
prediscover		To discover beforehand.
prediscovery		A previous discovery.
predisponency		The state of being predisposed; predisposition.
predisponent		Disposing beforehand; predisposing. -- n.
predispose		To dispose or incline beforehand; to give a predisposition or bias to; as, to predispose the mind to friendship.
predisposition		The act of predisposing, or the state of being predisposed; previous inclination, tendency, or propensity; predilection; -- applied to the mind; as, a predisposition to anger.
predominance		The quality or state of being predominant; superiority; ascendency; prevalence; predomination.
predominancy		Predominance.
predominant		Having the ascendency over others; superior in strength, influence, or authority; prevailing; as, a predominant color; predominant excellence.
predominantly		In a predominant manner.
predominate		To be superior in number, strength, influence, or authority; to have controlling power or influence; to prevail; to rule; to have the mastery; as, love predominated in her heart. rays may predominate over the rest.
predomination		The act or state of predominating; ascendency; predominance.
predoom		To foredoom.
predorsal		Situated in front of the back; immediately in front, or on the ventral side the dorsal part of the vertebral column.
predy		Cleared and ready for engagement, as a ship.
preedy	English dialect	With ease.
preelect		To elect beforehand.
preelection		Election beforehand.
preeminence		The quality or state of being preëminent; superiority in prominence or in excellence; distinction above others in quality, rank, etc.; rarely, in a bad sense, superiority or notoriety in evil; as, preëminence in honor.
preeminent		Eminent above others; prominent among those who are eminent; superior in excellence; surpassing, or taking precedence of, others; rarely, surpassing others in evil, or in bad qualities; as, preëminent in guilt.
preeminently		In a preëminent degree.
preemploy		To employ beforehand.
preempt		To settle upon (public land) with a right of preemption, as under the laws of the United States; to take by preëmption.
preemption		The act or right of purchasing before others. Specifically: (a) The privilege or prerogative formerly enjoyed by the king of buying provisions for his household in preference to others.
preemptioner		One who holds a prior to purchase certain public land.
preemptive		Of or pertaining to preëmption; having power to preëmpt; preëmpting.
preemptor		One who preëmpts; esp., one who preëmpts public land.
preemptory		Pertaining to preëmption.
preen		A forked tool used by clothiers in dressing cloth.
preengage		To engage by previous contract; to bind or attach previously; to preoccupy.
preengagement		Prior engagement, obligation, or attachment, as by contract, promise, or affection.
preerect		To erect beforehand.
prees	Obsolete	Press; throng.
preestablish		To establish beforehand.
preestablishment		Settlement beforehand.
preeternity		Infinite previous duration.
preexamination		Previous examination.
preexamine		To examine beforehand.
preexist		To exist previously; to exist before something else.
preexistence		Existence in a former state, or previous to something else.
preexistency	Obsolete	Preëxistence.
preexistent		Existing previously; preceding existence; as, a preëxistent state.
preexistentism		The theory of a preëxistence of souls before their association with human bodies.
preexistimation	Obsolete	Previous esteem or estimation.
preexpectation		Previous expectation.
preface		Something spoken as introductory to a discourse, or written as introductory to a book or essay; a proem; an introduction, or series of preliminary remarks.
prefacer		The writer of a preface.
prefatorial		Prefatory.
prefatorily		In a prefatory manner; by way of preface.
prefatory		Pertaining to, or of the nature of, a preface; introductory to a book, essay, or discourse; as, prefatory remarks.
prefect		A Roman officer who controlled or superintended a particular command, charge, department, etc.; as, the prefect of the aqueducts; the prefect of a camp, of a fleet, of the city guard, of provisions; the pretorian prefect…
prefectorial		Of or pertaining to a prefect.
prefectship		The office or jurisdiction of a prefect.
prefecture		The office, position, or jurisdiction of a prefect; also, his official residence.
prefecundation		A term collectively applied to the changes or conditions preceding fecundation, especially to the changes which the ovum undergoes before fecundation.
prefecundatory		Of or pertaining to prefecundation.
prefer		To carry or bring (something) forward, or before one; hence, to bring for consideration, acceptance, judgment, etc.; to offer; to present; to proffer; to address; -- said especially of a request, prayer, petition, claim, charge…
preferability		The quality or state of being preferable; preferableness.
preferable		Worthy to be preferred or chosen before something else; more desirable; as, a preferable scheme.
preferableness		The quality or state of being preferable.
preferably		In preference; by choice.
preference		The act of Preferring, or the state of being preferred; the setting of one thing before another; precedence; higher estimation; predilection; choice; also, the power or opportunity of choosing; as, to give him his preference.
preferential		Giving, indicating, or having a preference or precedence; as, a preferential claim; preferential shares.
preferment		The act of choosing, or the state of being chosen; preference.
preferrer		One who prefers.
prefidence	Obsolete	The quality or state of being prefident.
prefident	Obsolete	Trusting beforehand; hence, overconfident.
prefigurate		To prefigure.
prefiguration		The act of prefiguring, or the state of being prefigured.
prefigurative		Showing by prefiguration.
prefigure		To show, suggest, or announce, by antecedent types and similitudes; to foreshadow.
prefigurement		The act of prefiguring; prefiguration; also, that which is prefigured.
prefine	Obsolete	To limit beforehand.
prefinite	Obsolete	Prearranged.
prefinition	Obsolete	Previous limitation.
prefix		To put or fix before, or at the beginning of, another thing; as, to prefix a syllable to a word, or a condition to an agreement.
prefixion		The act of prefixing.
prefloration		Æstivation.
prefoliation		Vernation.
preform		To form beforehand, or for special ends.
preformation		An old theory of the preëxistence of germs.
preformative		A formative letter at the beginning of a word.
prefrontal		Situated in front of the frontal bone, or the frontal region of the skull; ectethmoid, as a certain bone in the nasal capsule of many animals, and certain scales of reptiles and fishes. -- n.
prefulgency		Superior brightness or effulgency.
pregage	Obsolete	To preëngage.
preglacial		Prior to the glacial or drift period.
pregnable		Capable of being entered, taken, or captured; expugnable; as, a pregnable fort.
pregnance	Obsolete	Pregnancy.
pregnancy		The condition of being pregnant; the state of being with young.
pregnant		Being with young, as a female; having conceived; great with young; breeding; teeming; gravid; preparing to bring forth.
pregnantly	Obsolete	In a pregnant manner; fruitfully; significantly.
pregravate	Obsolete	To bear down; to depress.
pregravitate		To descend by gravity; to sink.
pregustant		Tasting beforehand; having a foretaste.
pregustation		The act of tasting beforehand; foretaste.
prehallux		An extra first toe, or rudiment of a toe, on the preaxial side of the hallux.
prehend	Obsolete	To lay hold of; to seize.
prehensi-ble		Capable of being seized.
prehensile		Adapted to seize or grasp; seizing; grasping; as, the prehensile tail of a monkey.
prehension		The act of taking hold, seizing, or grasping, as with the hand or other member.
prehensory		Adapted to seize or grasp; prehensile.
prehistoric		Of or pertaining to a period before written history begins; as, the prehistoric ages; prehistoric man.
prehnite		A pale green mineral occurring in crystalline aggregates having a botryoidal or mammillary structure, and rarely in distinct crystals.
prehnitic		Pertaining to, or designating, a tetrabasic acid of benzene obtained as a white crystalline substance; -- probably so called from the resemblance of the wartlike crystals to the mammillæ on the surface of prehnite.
preignition		Ignition in an internal-combustion engine while the inlet valve is open or before compression is completed.
preindesignate		Having no sign expressive of quantity; indefinite. See Predesignate.
preindispose		To render indisposed beforehand.
preinstruct		To instruct previously or beforehand.
preintimation		Previous intimation; a suggestion beforehand.
prejudge		To judge before hearing, or before full and sufficient examination; to decide or sentence by anticipation; to condemn beforehand.
prejudgment		The act of prejudging; decision before sufficient examination.
prejudicacy	Obsolete	Prejudice; prepossession.
prejudical		Of or pertaining to the determination of some matter not previously decided; as, a prejudical inquiry or action at law.
prejudicant		Influenced by prejudice; biased.
prejudicate		Formed before due examination.
prejudicately		With prejudice.
prejudication		The act of prejudicating, or of judging without due examination of facts and evidence; prejudgment.
prejudicative		Forming a judgment without due examination; prejudging.
prejudice		An opinion or judgment formed without due examination; prejudgment; a leaning toward one side of a question from other considerations than those belonging to it; an unreasonable predilection for, or objection against, anything…
prejudicial		Tending to obstruct or impair; hurtful; injurious; disadvantageous; detrimental.
preknowledge		Prior knowledge.
prelacy		The office or dignity of a prelate; church government by prelates.
prelal	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to printing; typographical.
prelate	Obsolete	A clergyman of a superior order, as an archbishop or a bishop, having authority over the lower clergy; a dignitary of the church.
prelateity	Obsolete	Prelacy.
prelateship		The office of a prelate.
prelatess		A woman who is a prelate; the wife of a prelate.
prelatial		Prelatical.
prelatic		Of or pertaining to prelates or prelacy; as, prelatical authority.
prelatical		Of or pertaining to prelates or prelacy; as, prelatical authority.
prelatically		In a prelatical manner; with reference to prelates.
prelation		The setting of one above another; preference.
prelatism		Prelacy; episcopacy.
prelatist		One who supports of advocates prelacy, or the government of the church by prelates; hence, a high-churchman.
prelatize		To bring under the influence of prelacy.
prelatry	Obsolete	Prelaty; prelacy.
prelature		The state or dignity of a prelate; prelacy.
prelatureship		The state or dignity of a prelate; prelacy.
prelaty	Obsolete	Prelacy.
prelect		To read publicly, as a lecture or discourse.
prelection		A lecture or discourse read in public or to a select company.
prelector		A reader of lectures or discourses; a lecturer.
prelibation		A. tasting beforehand, or by anticipation; a foretaste; as, a prelibation of heavenly bliss.
preliminarily		In a preliminary manner.
preliminary		Introductory; previous; preceding the main discourse or business; prefatory; as, preliminary observations to a discourse or book; preliminary articles to a treaty; preliminary measures; preliminary examinations.
prelimit		To limit previously.
prelook	Obsolete	To look forward.
prelude		An introductory performance, preceding and preparing for the principal matter; a preliminary part, movement, strain, etc.; especially (Mus.), a strain introducing the theme or chief subject; a movement introductory to a fugue…
preluder		One who, or that which, preludes; one who plays a prelude.
preludial		Of or pertaining to a prelude; of the nature of a prelude; introductory.
preludious		Preludial.
prelumbar		Situated immediately in front of the loins;- applied to the dorsal part of the abdomen.
prelusive		Of the nature of a prelude; introductory; indicating that something of a like kind is to follow. -- Pre*lu"sive*ly, adv.
prelusorily		In a prelusory way.
prelusory		Introductory; prelusive.
premature		Mature or ripe before the proper time; as, the premature fruits of a hotbed.
prematurity		The quality or state of being premature; early, or untimely, ripeness; as, the prematurity of genius.
premaxilla		A bone on either side of the middle line between the nose and mouth, forming the anterior part of each half of the upper jawbone; the intermaxilla.
premaxillary		Situated in front of the maxillary bones; pertaining to the premaxillæ; intermaxillary. -- n.
premediate		To advocate.
premeditate	Archaic	To think on, and revolve in the mind, beforehand; to contrive and design previously; as, to premeditate robbery.
premeditately		With premeditation.
premeditation		The act of meditating or contriving beforehand; previous deliberation; forethought.
premerit	Obsolete	To merit or deserve beforehand.
premial		Serving to reward; rewarding.
premiant		Serving to reward; rewarding.
premices	Obsolete	First fruits.
premier		First; chief; principal; as, the premier place; premier minister.
premiere		First; chief; as, a première danseuse. -- n. fem.; pl. -mières (F. pre*myâr").
premiership		The office of the premier.
premillennial		, Previous to the millennium.
premious		Rich in gifts.
premise		A proposition antecedently supposed or proved; something previously stated or assumed as the basis of further argument; a condition; a supposition.
premiss		Premise.
premit	Obsolete	To premise.
premium		A reward or recompense; a prize to be won by being before another, or others, in a competition; reward or prize to be adjudged; a bounty; as, a premium for good behavior or scholarship, for discoveries…
premolar		Situated in front of the molar teeth. --n.
premonish		To forewarn; to admonish beforehand.
premonishment		Previous warning or admonition; forewarning.
premonition		Previous warning, notice, or information; forewarning; as, a premonition of danger.
premonitor		One who, or that which, gives premonition.
premonitory		Giving previous warning or notice; as, premonitory symptoms of disease. -- Pre*mon"i*to*ri*ly, adv.
premonstrant		A Premonstratensian.
premonstrate		To show beforehand; to foreshow.
premonstratensian		One of a religious order of regular canons founded by St. Norbert at Prémontré, in France, in 1119.
premonstration		A showing beforehand; foreshowing.
premonstrator		One who, or that which, premonstrates.
premorse		Terminated abruptly, or as it bitten off.
premosaic		Relating to the time before Moses; as, premosaic history.
premotion		Previous motion or excitement to action.
premunire		See Præmunire.
premunite	Obsolete	To fortify beforehand; to guard against objection.
premunition	Obsolete	The act of fortifying or guarding against objections.
premunitory		Of or pertaining to a premunire; as, a premunitory process.
prenasal		Situated in front of the nose, or in front of the nasal chambers.
prenatal		Being or happening before birth.
prender		The power or right of taking a thing before it is offered.
prenomen		See Prænomen.
prenominal		Serving as a prefix in a compound name.
prenominate		Forenamed; named beforehand.
prenomination		The act of prenominating; privilege of being named first.
prenostic	Obsolete	A prognostic; an omen.
prenote		To note or designate beforehand.
prenotion		A notice or notion which precedes something else in time; previous notion or thought; foreknowledge.
prensation	Obsolete	The act of seizing with violence.
prentice	Obsolete	An apprentice.
prenticehood	Obsolete	Apprenticehood.
prenticeship	Obsolete	Apprenticeship.
prenunciation	Obsolete	The act of announcing or proclaiming beforehand.
prenuncious	Obsolete	Announcing beforehand; presaging.
preoblongata		The anterior part of the medulla oblongata.
preobtain		To obtain beforehand.
preoccupancy		The act or right of taking possession before another; as, the preoccupancy of wild land.
preoccupate	Obsolete	To anticipate; to take before.
preoccupation		The act of preoccupying, or taking possession of beforehand; the state of being preoccupied; prepossession.
preoccupy		To take possession of before another; as, to preoccupy a country not before held.
preocular		Placed just in front of the eyes, as the antennæ of certain insects. -- n.
preominate	Obsolete	To ominate beforehand; to portend.
preopercular		Situated in front of the operculum; pertaining to the preoperculum. -- n.
preoperculum		The anterior opercular bone in fishes.
preopinion		Opinion previously formed; prepossession; prejudice.
preoption		Right of first choice.
preoral		Situated in front of, or anterior to, the mouth; as, preoral bands.
preorbital		a. (Anat.) Situated in front or the orbit.
preordain		To ordain or appoint beforehand: to predetermine: to foreordain.
preorder		To order to arrange beforehand; to foreordain.
preordinance		Antecedent decree or determination.
preordinate		Preordained.
preordination		The act of foreordaining: previous determination.
preparable		Capable of being prepared.
preparation		The act of preparing or fitting beforehand for a particular purpose, use, service, or condition; previous arrangement or adaptation; a making ready; as, the preparation of land for a crop of wheat…
preparative		Tending to prepare or make ready; having the power of preparing, qualifying, or fitting; preparatory.
preparatively		By way of preparation.
preparator		One who prepares beforehand, as subjects for dissection, specimens for preservation in collections, etc. Agassiz.
preparatory		Preparing the way for anything by previous measures of adaptation; antecedent and adapted to what follows; introductory; preparative; as, a preparatory school; a preparatory condition.
prepare		To fit, adapt, or qualify for a particular purpose or condition; to make ready; to put into a state for use or application; as, to prepare ground for seed; to prepare a lesson.
prepared		Made fit or suitable; adapted; ready; as, prepared food; prepared questions. -- Pre*par ed*ness, n.
preparer		One who, or that which, prepares, fits, or makes ready.
prepay		To pay in advance, or beforehand; as, to prepay postage.
prepayment		Payment in advance.
prepenial		Situated in front of, or anterior to, the penis.
prepense	Obsolete	To weigh or consider beforehand; to premeditate.
prepensely		In a premeditated manner.
prepollence		The quality or state of being prepollent; superiority of power; predominance; prevalence.
prepollency		The quality or state of being prepollent; superiority of power; predominance; prevalence.
prepollent		Having superior influence or power; prevailing; predominant.
preponder	Obsolete	To preponderate
preponderance		The quality or state of being preponderant; superiority or excess of weight, influence, or power, etc.; an outweighing.
preponderancy		The quality or state of being preponderant; superiority or excess of weight, influence, or power, etc.; an outweighing.
preponderant		Preponderating; outweighing; overbalancing; -- used literally and figuratively; as, a preponderant weight; of preponderant importance. -- Pre*pon"der*ant*ly, adv.
preponderate		To overpower by stronger or moral power.
preponderatingly		In a preponderating manner; preponderantly.
preponderation		The act or state of preponderating; preponderance; as, a preponderation of reasons.
prepose	Obsolete	To place or set before; to prefix.
preposition		(Gram.) A word employed to connect a noun or a pronoun, in an adjectival or adverbial sense, with some other word…
prepositional		Of or pertaining to a preposition; of the nature of a preposition.
prepositive		Put before; prefixed; as, a prepositive particle. -- n.
prepositor		A scholar appointed to inspect other scholars; a monitor.
prepositure		The office or dignity of a provost; a provostship.
prepossess		To preoccupy, as ground or land; to take previous possession of.
prepossessing		Tending to invite favor; attracting confidence, favor, esteem, or love; attractive; as, a prepossessing manner. -- Pre`pos*sess"ing*ly, adv.
prepossession		Preoccupation; prior possession.
prepossessor		One who possesses, or occupies, previously.
preposterous		Contrary to nature or reason; not adapted to the end; utterly and glaringly foolish; unreasonably absurd; perverted.
prepostor		See Prepositor — a scholar appointed to inspect other scholars; a monitor.
prepotency		(Biol.) The capacity, on the part of one of the parents, as compared with the other, to transmit more than his or her own share of characteristics to their offspring.
prepotent		Very powerful; superior in force, influence, or authority; predominant.
preprovide		To provide beforehand.
prepubic		Situated in front of, or anterior to, the pubis; pertaining to the prepubis.
prepubis		A bone or cartilage, of some animals, situated in the middle line in front of the pubic bones.
prepuce		The foreskin.
preputial		Of or pertaining to the prepuce.
preraphaelism		The doctrine or practice of a school of modern painters who profess to be followers of the painters before Raphael.
preraphaelite		Of or pertaining to the style called preraphaelitism; as, a preraphaelite figure; a preraphaelite landscape.
preraphaelitism		The doctrine or practice of a school of modern painters who profess to be followers of the painters before Raphael.
preregnant		One who reigns before another; a sovereign predecessor.
preremote		More remote in previous time or prior order.
prerequire		To require beforehand.
prerequisite		Previously required; necessary as a preliminary to any proposed effect or end; as, prerequisite conditions of success.
preresolve		To resolve beforehand; to predetermine.
prerogative		An exclusive or peculiar privilege; prior and indefeasible right; fundamental and essential possession; -- used generally of an official and hereditary right which may be asserted without question…
prerogatived		Endowed with a prerogative, or exclusive privilege.
prerogatively		By prerogative.
presage		Something which foreshows or portends a future event; a prognostic; an omen; an augury.
presageful		Full of presages; ominous.
presagement		That which is presaged, or foretold.
presager		One who, or that which, presages; a foreteller; a foreboder.
presagious	Obsolete	Foreboding; ominous.
presbyope		One who has presbyopia; a farsighted person.
presbyopia		A defect of vision consequent upon advancing age.
presbyopic		Affected by presbyopia; also, remedying presbyopia; farsighted.
presbyopy		See Presbyopia — a defect of vision consequent upon advancing age.
presbyte		Same as Presbyope.
presbyter		An elder in the early Christian church. See 2d Citation under Bishop, n., 1.
presbyteral		Of or pertaining to a presbyter or presbytery; presbyterial.
presbyterate		A presbytery; also, presbytership.
presbyteress		A female presbyter.
presbyterial		Presbyterian.
presbyterian		Of or pertaining to a presbyter, or to ecclesiastical government by presbyters; relating to those who uphold church government by presbyters; also, to the doctrine, discipline, and worship of a communion so governed.
presbyterianism		That form of church government which invests presbyters with all spiritual power, and admits no prelates over them; also, the faith and polity of the Presbyterian churches, taken collectively.
presbyterium		Same as Presbytery, 4.
presbytership		The office or station of a presbyter; presbyterate.
presbytery		A body of elders in the early Christian church.
presbytia		Presbyopia.
presbytic		Same as Presbyopic.
presbytism		Presbyopia.
prescapula		The part of the scapula in front of, or above, the spine, or mesoscapula.
prescapular		(Anat.) Of or pertaining to the prescapula; supraspinous.
prescience		Knowledge of events before they take place; foresight.
prescient		Having knowledge of coming events; foreseeing; conscious beforehand.
presciently		With presciense or foresight.
prescind		(Metaph.) To consider by a separate act of attention or analysis.
prescindent		Cutting off; abstracting.
prescious		Foreknowing; having foreknowledge; as, prescious of ills.
prescribe		To lay down authoritatively as a guide, direction, or rule of action; to impose as a peremptory order; to dictate; to appoint; to direct.
prescriber		One who prescribes.
prescript		Directed; prescribed.
prescriptibility		, The quality or state of being prescriptible.
prescriptible		Depending on, or derived from, prescription; proper to be prescribed.
prescription		The act of prescribing, directing, or dictating; direction; precept; also, that which is prescribed.
prescriptive		Consisting in, or acquired by, immemorial or long-continued use and enjoyment; as, a prescriptive right of title; pleading the continuance and authority of long custom.
prescriptively		By prescription.
prescutum		The first of the four pieces composing the dorsal part, or tergum, of a thoracic segment of an insect.
preseance	Obsolete	Priority of place in sitting.
preselect		To select beforehand.
presence		The state of being present, or of being within sight or call, or at hand; -- opposed to absence.
presensation	Obsolete	Previous sensation, notion, or idea.
presension	Obsolete	Previous perception.
present		Being at hand, within reach or call, within certain contemplated limits; -- opposed to absent.
presentable		Capable or admitting of being presented; suitable to be exhibited, represented, or offered; fit to be brought forward or set forth; hence, fitted to be introduced to another, or to go into society; as…
presentaneous	Obsolete	Ready; quick; immediate in effect; as, presentaneous poison.
presentation		The act of presenting, or the state of being presented; a setting forth; an offering; bestowal.
presentative		(Eccl.) Having the right of presentation, or offering a clergyman to the bishop for institution; as, advowsons are presentative, collative, or donative.
presentee		One to whom something is presented; also, one who is presented; specifically (Eccl.), one presented to benefice.
presenter		One who presents.
presential	Obsolete	Implying actual presence; present, immediate.
presentiality	Obsolete	State of being actually present.
presentiate	Obsolete	To make present.
presentient		Feeling or perceiving beforehand.
presentific	Obsolete	Making present. -- Pres`en*tif"ic*ly, adv.
presentifical	Obsolete	Presentific.
presentiment		Previous sentiment, conception, or opinion; previous apprehension; especially, an antecedent impression or conviction of something unpleasant, distressing, or calamitous, about to happen; anticipation of evil; foreboding.
presentimental		Of nature of a presentiment; foreboding.
presention	Obsolete	See Presension — previous perception.
presentive		Bringing a conception or notion directly before the mind; presenting an object to the memory of imagination; -- distinguished from symbolic.
presently		At once; without delay; forthwith; also, less definitely, soon; shortly; before long; after a little while; by and by.
presentment		The act of presenting, or the state of being presented; presentation.
presentness	Obsolete	The quality or state of being present; presence.
presentoir		An ornamental tray, dish, or the like, used as a salver.
preservable		Capable of being preserved; admitting of preservation.
preservation		The act or process of preserving, or keeping safe; the state of being preserved, or kept from injury, destruction, or decay; security; safety; as, preservation of life, fruit, game, etc.; a picture in good preservation.
preservative		Having the power or quality of preserving; tending to preserve, or to keep from injury, decay, etc. That which preserves, or has the power of preserving; a presevative agent.
preservatory		A room, or apparatus, in which perishable things, as fruit, vegetables, etc., can be preserved without decay.
preserve		To keep or save from injury or destruction; to guard or defend from evil, harm, danger, etc.; to protect.
preserver		One who, or that which, preserves, saves, or defends, from destruction, injury, or decay; esp., one who saves the life or character of another.
preshow		To foreshow.
preside		To be set, or to sit, in the place of authority; to occupy the place of president, chairman, moderator, director, etc.; to direct, control, and regulate, as chief officer; as, to preside at a public meeting…
presidence	Obsolete	See Presidency — the function or condition of one who presides; superintendence; control and care.
presidency		The function or condition of one who presides; superintendence; control and care.
president		One who is elected or appointed to preside; a presiding officer, as of a legislative body.
presidential		Presiding or watching over.
presidentship		The office and dignity of president; presidency.
presider		One who presides.
presidial		Of or pertaining to a garrison; having a garrison.
presidiary	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to a garrison; having a garrison.
presiding		a. & n. from Preside.
presidio		A place of defense; a fortress; a garrison; a fortress; a garrison or guardhouse.
presignification		The act of signifying or showing beforehand.
presignify		To intimate or signify beforehand; to presage.
presphenoid		Situated in front of the sphenoid bone; of or pertaining to the anterior part of the sphenoid bone (i. e., the presphenoid bone).
presphenoidal		Of or pertaining to the presphenoid bone; presphenoid.
prespinal		Prevertebral.
press		An East Indian insectivore (Tupaia ferruginea).
pressboard		A kind of highly sized rag paper or board, sometimes containing a small admixture of wood pulp; -- so called because used originally, as now, in presses for pressing and finishing knit underwear.
presser		One who, or that which, presses.
pressgang		See Press gang, under Press.
pressing		Urgent; exacting; importunate; as, a pressing necessity. -- Press"ing*ly, adv.
pression		The act of pressing; pressure.
pressiroster		One of a tribe of wading birds (Pressirostres) including those which have a compressed beak, as the plovers.
pressirostral		Of or pertaining to the pressirosters.
pressitant	Obsolete	Gravitating; heavy.
pressive		Pressing; urgent; also, oppressive; as, pressive taxation.
pressly	Obsolete	Closely; concisely.
pressman		One who manages, or attends to, a press, esp. a printing press.
pressor		Causing, or giving rise to, pressure or to an increase of pressure; as, pressor nerve fibers, stimulation of which excites the vasomotor center…
presspack		To pack, or prepare for packing, by means of a press.
pressurage		The juice of the grape extracted by the press; also, a fee paid for the use of a wine press.
pressure		The act of pressing, or the condition of being pressed; compression; a squeezing; a crushing; as, a pressure of the hand.
presswork		The art of printing from the surface of type, plates, or engravings in relief, by means of a press; the work so done.
prest	Obsolete	Ready; prompt; prepared.
prestable	Scots	Payable.
prestation		A payment of money; a toll or duty; also, the rendering of a service.
prester	Obsolete	A meteor or exhalation formerly supposed to be thrown from the clouds with such violence that by collision it is set on fire.
presternum		The anterior segment of the sternum; the manubrium. -- Pre*ster"nal, a.
prestidigital		Nimble-fingered; having fingers fit for prestidigitation, or juggling.
prestidigitation		Legerdemain; sleight of hand; juggling.
prestidigitator		One skilled in legerdemain or sleight of hand; a juggler.
prestige		Weight or influence derived from past success; expectation of future achievements founded on those already accomplished; force or charm derived from acknowledged character or reputation.
prestigiation	Obsolete	Legerdemain; prestidigitation.
prestigiator	Obsolete	A juggler; prestidigitator.
prestigiatory	Obsolete	Consisting of impostures; juggling.
prestigious	Obsolete	Practicing tricks; juggling.
prestimony		A fund for the support of a priest, without the title of a benefice.
prestissimo		Very quickly; with great rapidity.
presto		Quickly; immediately; in haste; suddenly.
prestriction	Obsolete	Obstruction, dimness, or defect of sight.
presultor		A leader in the dance.
presumable		Such as may be presumed or supposed to be true; that seems entitled to belief without direct evidence.
presumably		In a presumable manner; by, or according to, presumption.
presume		To assume or take beforehand; esp., to do or undertake without leave or authority previously obtained.
presumedly		By presumption.
presumer		One who presumes; also, an arrogant person.
presumingly		Confidently; arrogantly.
presumption		The act of presuming, or believing upon probable evidence; the act of assuming or taking for granted; belief upon incomplete proof.
presumptive		Based on presumption or probability; grounded on probable evidence; probable; as, presumptive proof.
presumptively		By presumption, or supposition grounded or probability; presumably.
presumptuous		Full of presumption; presuming; overconfident or venturesome; audacious; rash; taking liberties unduly; arrogant; insolent; as, a presumptuous commander; presumptuous conduct.
presumptuously		In a presumptuous manner; arrogantly.
presumptuousness		The quality or state of being presumptuous.
presupposal		Presupposition.
presuppose		To suppose beforehand; to imply as antecedent; to take for granted; to assume; as, creation presupposes a creator.
presupposition		The act of presupposing; an antecedent implication; presumption.
presurmise		A surmise previously formed.
presystolic		Preceding the systole or contraction of the heart; as, the presystolic friction sound.
pretemporal		Situated in front of the temporal bone.
pretence		The act of laying claim; the claim laid; assumption; pretension.
pretenceful		See Pretense, Pretenseful, Pretenseless.
pretenceless		See Pretense, Pretenseful, Pretenseless.
pretend		To hold before, or put forward, as a cloak or disguise for something else; to exhibit as a veil for something hidden.
pretendant		A pretender; a claimant.
pretended		Making a false appearance; unreal; false; as, pretended friend. -- Pre*tend"ed*ly, adv.
pretendence	Obsolete	The act of pretending; pretense.
pretender		One who lays claim, or asserts a title (to something); a claimant. Specifically, The pretender (Eng. Hist.), the son or the grandson of James II., the heir of the royal family of Stuart…
pretendership		The character, right, or claim of a pretender.
pretendingly		As by right or title; arrogantly; presumptuously.
pretense		The act of laying claim; the claim laid; assumption; pretension.
pretensed	Obsolete	Pretended; feigned. -- Pre*tens"ed*ly, adv.
pretenseful		Abounding in pretenses.
pretenseless		Not having or making pretenses.
pretension		The act of pretending, or laying claim; the act of asserting right or title.
pretentative		Fitted for trial beforehand; experimental.
pretentious		Full of pretension; disposed to lay claim to more than is one's; presuming; assuming. -- Pre*ten tious*ness, n.
preter-		A prefix signifying past, by, beyond, more than; as, preter- mission, a permitting to go by; preternatural, beyond or more than is natural.
preterhuman		More than human.
preterient		Passed through; antecedent; previous; as, preterient states.
preterimperfect		Old name of the tense also called imperfect.
preterist		One whose chief interest is in the past; one who regards the past with most pleasure or favor.
preterit		(Gram.) Past; -- applied to a tense which expresses an action or state as past.
preterite		Same as Preterit.
preteriteness		Same as Preteritness.
preterition		The act of passing, or going past; the state of being past.
preteritive		Used only or chiefly in the preterit or past tenses, as certain verbs.
preteritness		The quality or state of being past.
preterlapsed		Past; as, preterlapsed ages.
preterlegal		Exceeding the limits of law.
pretermission		The act of passing by or omitting; omission.
pretermit		To pass by; to omit; to disregard.
preternatural		Beyond of different from what is natural, or according to the regular course of things, but not clearly supernatural or miraculous; strange; inexplicable; extraordinary; uncommon; irregular; abnormal; as…
preternaturalism		The state of being preternatural; a preternatural condition.
preternaturality		Preternaturalness.
preternaturally		In a preternatural manner or degree.
preternaturalness		The quality or state of being preternatural.
preterperfect		Old name of the tense also called preterit.
preterpluperfect		Old name of the tense also called pluperfect.
pretertiary		Earlier than Tertiary.
pretervection		The act of carrying past or beyond.
pretex	Obsolete	To frame; to devise; to disguise or excuse; hence, to pretend; to declare falsely.
pretext		Ostensible reason or motive assigned or assumed as a color or cover for the real reason or motive; pretense; disguise.
pretexture	Obsolete	A pretext.
pretibial		Situated in front of the tibia.
pretorial		Pretorian.
pretorian		Of or pertaining to a pretor or magistrate; judicial; exercised by, or belonging to, a pretor; as, pretorian power or authority.
pretorium		The general's tent in a Roman camp; hence, a council of war, because held in the general's tent.
pretorship		The office or dignity of a pretor.
pretorture		To torture beforehand.
prettily		In a pretty manner.
prettiness		The quality or state of being pretty; -- used sometimes in a disparaging sense.
pretty		Pleasing by delicacy or grace; attracting, but not striking or impressing; of a pleasing and attractive form a color; having slight or diminutive beauty; neat or elegant without elevation or grandeur; pleasingly, but not grandly…
pretty-spoken	Colloquial	Spoken or speaking prettily.
prettyish		Somewhat pretty.
prettyism		Affectation of a pretty style, manner, etc. Ed.
pretypify		To prefigure; to exhibit previously in a type.
pretzel		A kind of German biscuit or cake in the form of a twisted ring, salted on the outside.
prevail		To overcome; to gain the victory or superiority; to gain the advantage; to have the upper hand, or the mastery; to succeed; -- sometimes with over or against.
prevailing		Having superior force or influence; efficacious; persuasive.
prevailingly		So as to prevail.
prevailment	Obsolete	Prevalence; superior influence; efficacy.
prevalence		The quality or condition of being prevalent; superior strength, force, or influence; general existence, reception, or practice; wide extension; as, the prevalence of virtue, of a fashion, or of a disease…
prevalency		See Prevalence — the quality or condition of being prevalent; superior strength, force, or influence; general existence, reception, or practice; wide extension; as, the prevalence of virtue, of a fashion…
prevalent		Gaining advantage or superiority; having superior force, influence, or efficacy; prevailing; predominant; successful; victorious.
prevalently		In a prevalent manner.
prevaricate		To shift or turn from one side to the other, from the direct course, or from truth; to speak with equivocation; to shuffle; to quibble; as, he prevaricates in his statement.
prevarication		The act of prevaricating, shuffling, or quibbling, to evade the truth or the disclosure of truth; a deviation from the truth and fair dealing.
prevaricator		One who prevaricates.
preve	Obsolete	To prove.
prevenance		A going before; anticipation in sequence or order.
prevenancy	Obsolete	The act of anticipating another's wishes, desires, etc., in the way of favor or courtesy; hence, civility; obligingness.
prevene	Obsolete	To come before; to anticipate; hence, to hinder; to prevent.
prevenience		The act of going before; anticipation.
prevenient		Going before; preceding; hence, preventive.
prevent	Obsolete	To go before; to precede; hence, to go before as a guide; to direct.
preventability		The quality or state of being preventable.
preventable		Capable of being prevented or hindered; as, preventable diseases.
preventative		That which prevents; -- incorrectly used instead of preventive.
preventer		One who prevents or obstructs; a hinderer; that which hinders; as, a preventer of evils or of disease.
preventingly		So as to prevent or hinder.
prevention		The act of preventing or hindering; obstruction of action, access, or approach; thwarting.
preventional	Obsolete	Tending to prevent.
preventive		Tending to defeat or hinder; obviating; preventing the access of; as, a medicine preventive of disease.
preventively		In a preventive manner.
prevertebral		Situated immediately in front, or on the ventral side, of the vertebral column; prespinal.
previous		Going before in time; being or happening before something else; antecedent; prior; as, previous arrangements; a previous illness.
previously		Beforehand; antecedently; as, a plan previously formed.
previousness		The quality or state of being previous; priority or antecedence in time.
previse		To inform beforehand; to warn.
prevision		Foresight; foreknowledge; prescience.
prevoyant		Foreseeing; prescient.
prewarn		To warn beforehand; to forewarn.
prey		Anything, as goods, etc., taken or got by violence; anything taken by force from an enemy in war; spoil; booty; plunder.
preyer		One who, or that which, preys; a plunderer; a waster; a devourer.
preyful	Obsolete	Disposed to take prey.
prezygapophysis		An anterior zygapophysis.
prial		A corruption of pair royal. See under Pair, n.
prian		A fine, white, somewhat friable clay; also, the ore contained in a mixture of clay and pebbles.
priapean		A species of hexameter verse so constructed as to be divisible into two portions of three feet each, having generally a trochee in the first and the fourth foot, and an amphimacer in the third…
priapism		More or less permanent erection and rigidity of the penis, with or without sexual desire.
priapulacea		A suborder of Gephyræa, having a cylindrical body with a terminal anal opening, and usually with one or two caudal gills.
pricasour	Obsolete	A hard rider.
price		The sum or amount of money at which a thing is valued, or the value which a seller sets on his goods in market; that for which something is bought or sold, or offered for sale; equivalent in money or other means of exchange…
priced		Rated in price; valued; as, high-priced goods; low-priced labor.
priceite		A hydrous borate of lime, from Oregon.
priceless		Too valuable to admit of being appraised; of inestimable worth; invaluable.
prick		That which pricks, penetrates, or punctures; a sharp and slender thing; a pointed instrument; a goad; a spur, etc.; a point; a skewer.
prick-eared		Having erect, pointed ears; -- said of certain dogs.
pricker		One who, or that which, pricks; a pointed instrument; a sharp point; a prickle.
pricket		A buck in his second year. See Note under 3d Buck.
pricking		The act of piercing or puncturing with a sharp point. xii. 18.
pricking-up		The first coating of plaster in work of three coats upon laths.
prickle		A little prick; a small, sharp point; a fine, sharp process or projection, as from the skin of an animal, the bark of a plant, etc.; a spine.
prickleback		The stickleback.
pricklefish		The stickleback.
prickliness		The quality of being prickly, or of having many prickles.
prickling	Obsolete	Prickly.
pricklouse		A tailor; -- so called in contempt.
prickly		Full of sharp points or prickles; armed or covered with prickles; as, a prickly shrub.
prickmadam		A name given to several species of stonecrop, used as ingredients of vermifuge medicines.
prickpunch		A pointed steel punch, to prick a mark on metal.
prickshaft	Obsolete	An arrow.
pricksong	Obsolete	Music written, or noted, with dots or points; -- so called from the points or dots with which it is noted down.
prickwood		A shrub (Euonymus Europæus); -- so named from the use of its wood for goads, skewers, and shoe pegs.
pricky		Stiff and sharp; prickly.
pride		A small European lamprey (Petromyzon branchialis); -- called also prid, and sandpiper.
prideful		Full of pride; haughty.
prideless		Without pride.
pridian		Of or pertaining to the day before, or yesterday.
pridingly	Obsolete	Proudly.
prie	Obsolete	The plant privet.
pried		imp. & p. p. of Pry.
priedieu		A kneeling desk for prayers.
prier		One who pries; one who inquires narrowly and searches, or is inquisitive.
priest		(Christian Church) A presbyter elder; a minister; specifically: (a) (R.
priest-ridden		Controlled or oppressed by priests; as, a priest-ridden people.
priestcap		A form of redan, so named from its shape; -- called also swallowtail.
priestcraft		Priestly policy; the policy of a priesthood; esp., in an ill sense, fraud or imposition in religious concerns; management by priests to gain wealth and power by working upon the religious motives or credulity of others.
priestery		Priests, collectively; the priesthood; -- so called in contempt.
priestess		A woman who officiated in sacred rites among pagans.
priesthood		The office or character of a priest; the priestly function.
priesting	Obsolete	The office of a priest.
priestism		The influence, doctrines, principles, etc., of priests or the priesthood.
priestless		Without a priest.
priestlike		Priestly.
priestliness		The quality or state of being priestly.
priestly		Of or pertaining to a priest or the priesthood; sacerdotal; befitting or becoming a priest; as, the priestly office; a priestly farewell.
prieve	Obsolete	To prove.
prig	English dialect	To haggle about the price of a commodity; to bargain hard.
priggery		Priggism.
priggish		Like a prig; conceited; pragmatical. -- Prig gish-ness, n.
priggism		The quality or state of being priggish; the manners of a prig.
prighte		imp. of Prick — that which pricks, penetrates, or punctures; a sharp and slender thing; a pointed instrument; a goad; a spur, etc.; a point; a skewer.
prill		(Mining) (a) A nugget of virgin metal. (b) Ore selected for excellence.
prillion		Tin extracted from the slag.
prim		The privet.
primacy		The state or condition of being prime or first, as in time, place, rank, etc., hence, excellency; supremacy.
primage		A charge in addition to the freight; originally, a gratuity to the captain for his particular care of the goods (sometimes called hat money), but now belonging to the owners or freighters of the vessel…
primal		First; primary; original; chief.
primality	Obsolete	The quality or state of being primal.
primarily		In a primary manner; in the first place; in the first place; in the first intention; originally.
primariness		The quality or state of being primary, or first in time, in act, or in intention.
primary		First in order of time or development or in intention; primitive; fundamental; original.
primate		The chief ecclesiastic in a national church; one who presides over other bishops in a province; an archbishop.
primates		The highest order of mammals.
primateship		The office, dignity, or position of a primate; primacy.
primatial		Primatical.
primatical		Of or pertaining to a primate.
prime		First in order of time; original; primeval; primitive; primary.
primely		In a prime manner; excellently.
primeness		The quality or state of being first.
primer		Originally, a small prayer book for church service, containing the little office of the Virgin Mary; also, a work of elementary religious instruction.
primero		A game at cards, now unknown.
primerole	Obsolete	See Primrose — (a) An early flowering plant of the genus Primula (P. vulgaris) closely allied to the cowslip.
primeval		Belonging to the first ages; pristine; original; primitive; primary; as, the primeval innocence of man.
primevally		In a primeval manner; in or from the earliest times; originally.
primevous	Obsolete	Primeval.
primigenial		First born, or first of all; original; primary. See Primogenial.
primigenious		First formed or generated; original; primigenial.
primigenous		First formed or generated; original; primigenial.
primine		The outermost of the two integuments of an ovule.
priming		The powder or other combustible used to communicate fire to a charge of gunpowder, as in a firearm.
primipara		A woman who bears a child for the first time.
primiparous		Belonging to a first birth; bearing young for the first time.
primipilar		Of or pertaining to the captain of the vanguard of a Roman army.
primitia		The first fruit; the first year's whole profit of an ecclesiastical preferment.
primitial	Obsolete	Being of the first production; primitive; original.
primitive		Of or pertaining to the beginning or origin, or to early times; original; primordial; primeval; first; as, primitive innocence; the primitive church.
primitively		Primarily; not derivatively.
primitiveness		The quality or state of being primitive; conformity to primitive style or practice.
primity	Obsolete	Quality of being first; primitiveness.
primly		In a prim or precise manner.
primness		The quality or state of being prim; affected formality or niceness; preciseness; stiffness.
primo		First; chief.
primogenial		First born, made, or generated; original; primary; elemental; as, primogenial light.
primogenitive	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to primogeniture.
primogenitor		The first ancestor; a forefather.
primogeniture		The state of being the firstborn of the same parents; seniority by birth among children of the same family.
primogenitureship		The state or privileges of the firstborn.
primordial		First in order; primary; original; of earliest origin; as, primordial condition.
primordialism		Devotion to, or persistence in, conditions of the primordial state.
primordially		At the beginning; under the first order of things; originally.
primordian		A name given to several kinds of plums; as, red primordian, amber primordian, etc.
primordiate		Primordial.
primp	English dialect	To be formal or affected in dress or manners; -- often with up.
primrose	Obsolete	(a) An early flowering plant of the genus Primula (P. vulgaris) closely allied to the cowslip.
primula		The genus of plants including the primrose (Primula vera).
primulaceous		Of or pertaining to an order of herbaceous plants (Primulaceæ), of which the primrose is the type, and the pimpernel, the cyclamen, and the water violet are other examples.
primus		One of the bishops of the Episcopal Church of Scotland, who presides at the meetings of the bishops, and has certain privileges but no metropolitan authority.
primy	Obsolete	Being in its prime.
prince		The one of highest rank; one holding the highest place and authority; a sovereign; a monarch; -- originally applied to either sex, but now rarely applied to a female.
princedom		The jurisdiction, sovereignty, rank, or estate of a prince.
princehood	Obsolete	Princeliness.
princekin		A petty prince; a princeling.
princeless		Without a prince.
princelet		A petty prince.
princelike		Princely.
princeliness		The quality of being princely; the state, manner, or dignity of a prince.
princeling		A petty prince; a young prince.
princely		Of or relating to a prince; regal; royal; of highest rank or authority; as, princely birth, character, fortune, etc.
princess		A female prince; a woman having sovereign power, or the rank of a prince.
princesse		A term applied to a lady's long, close-fitting dress made with waist and skirt in one.
princesslike		Like a princess.
princewood		The wood of two small tropical American trees (Hamelia ventricosa, and Cordia gerascanthoides).
princified		Imitative of a prince.
principal		Highest in rank, authority, character, importance, or degree; most considerable or important; chief; main; as, the principal officers of a Government; the principal men of a state; the principal productions of a country…
principality		Sovereignty; supreme power; hence, superiority; predominance; high, or the highest, station.
principally		In a principal manner; primarily; above all; chiefly; mainly.
principalness		The quality of being principal.
principate	Obsolete	Principality; supreme rule.
principia		First principles; fundamental beginnings; elements; as. Newton's Principia.
principial	Obsolete	Elementary.
principiant		Relating to principles or beginnings.
principiate	Obsolete	To begin; to initiate.
principiation	Archaic	Analysis into primary or elemental parts.
principle		A source, or origin; that from which anything proceeds; fundamental substance or energy; primordial substance; ultimate element, or cause.
princock	Obsolete	A coxcomb; a pert boy.
princox	Obsolete	A coxcomb; a pert boy.
prink		To dress or adjust one's self for show; to prank.
prinker		One who prinks.
prinpriddle	English dialect	The longtailed titmouse.
print		To fix or impress, as a stamp, mark, character, idea, etc., into or upon something.
printa-ble		Worthy to be published.
printer		One who prints; especially, one who prints books, newspapers, engravings, etc., a compositor; a typesetter; a pressman.
printery		A place where cloth is printed; print works; also, a printing office.
printing		The act, art, or practice of impressing letters, characters, or figures on paper, cloth, or other material; the business of a printer, including typesetting and presswork, with their adjuncts; typography; also…
printless		Making no imprint.
printshop		A shop where prints are sold.
prior		Preceding in the order of time; former; antecedent; anterior; previous; as, a prior discovery; prior obligation; -- used elliptically in cases like the following: he lived alone prior to his marriage.
priorate		The dignity, office, or government, of a prior.
prioress		A lady superior of a priory of nuns, and next in dignity to an abbess.
priority		The quality or state of being prior or antecedent in time, or of preceding something else; as, priority of application.
priorly		Previously.
priorship		The state or office of prior; priorate.
priory		A religious house presided over by a prior or prioress; -- sometimes an offshoot of, an subordinate to, an abbey, and called also cell, and obedience.
pris	Obsolete	See Price, and 1st Prize.
prisage		(a) A right belonging to the crown of England, of taking two tuns of wine from every ship importing twenty tuns or more, -- one before and one behind the mast.
priscillianist		A follower of Priscillian, bishop of Avila in Spain, in the fourth century, who mixed various elements of Gnosticism and Manicheism with Christianity.
prise	Obsolete	An enterprise.
priser	Obsolete	See 1st Prizer.
prism		(Geom.) A solid whose bases or ends are any similar, equal, and parallel plane figures, and whose sides are parallelograms.
prismatic		Resembling, or pertaining to, a prism; as, a prismatic form or cleavage.
prismatical		Resembling, or pertaining to, a prism; as, a prismatic form or cleavage.
prismatically		In the form on manner of a prism; by means of a prism.
prismatoidal		Having a prismlike form.
prismoid		A body that approaches to the form of a prism.
prismoidal		Having the form of a prismoid; as, prismoidal solids.
prismy		Pertaining to a prism.
prison		A place where persons are confined, or restrained of personal liberty; hence, a place or state o Bring my soul out of prison, that I may praise thy name.
prisoner		A person under arrest, or in custody, whether in prison or not; a person held in involuntary restraint; a captive; as, a prisoner at the bar of a court.
prisonment	Obsolete	Imprisonment.
pristinate	Obsolete	Pristine; primitive.
pristine		Belonging to the earliest period or state; original; primitive; primeval; as, the pristine state of innocence; the pristine manners of a people; pristine vigor.
pritch	English dialect	A sharp-pointed instrument; also, an eelspear.
pritchel		A tool employed by blacksmiths for punching or enlarging the nail holes in a horseshoe.
prithee		A corruption of pray thee; as, I prithee; generally used without I.
prittle-prattle	Colloquial	Empty talk; trifling loquacity; prattle; -- used in contempt or ridicule.
privacy		The state of being in retirement from the company or observation of others; seclusion.
privado	Obsolete	A private friend; a confidential friend; a confidant.
privatdocent		In the universities of Germany and some other European countries, a licensed teacher or lecturer having no share in the university government and dependent upon fees for remuneration.
private		Belonging to, or concerning, an individual person, company, or interest; peculiar to one's self; unconnected with others; personal; one's own; not public; not general; separate; as, a man's private opinion; private property…
privateer		An armed private vessel which bears the commission of the sovereign power to cruise against the enemy.
privateering		Cruising in a privateer.
privateersman		An officer or seaman of a privateer.
privately		In a private manner; not openly; without the presence of others.
privateness		Seclusion from company or society; retirement; privacy; secrecy.
privation		The act of depriving, or taking away; hence, the depriving of rank or office; degradation in rank; deprivation.
privative		Causing privation; depriving.
privatively		In a privative manner; by the absence of something; negatively.
privativeness		The state of being privative.
privet		An ornamental European shrub (Ligustrum vulgare), much used in hedges; -- called also prim.
privilege		A peculiar benefit, advantage, or favor; a right or immunity not enjoyed by others or by all; special enjoyment of a good, or exemption from an evil or burden; a prerogative; advantage; franchise.
privileged		Invested with a privilege; enjoying a peculiar right, advantage, or immunity.
privily		In a privy manner; privately; secretly.
privity		Privacy; secrecy; confidence.
privy		Of or pertaining to some person exclusively; assigned to private uses; not public; private; as, the privy purse.
prizable		Valuable.
prize		That which is taken from another; something captured; a thing seized by force, stratagem, or superior power.
prizeman		The winner of a prize.
prizer	Obsolete	One who estimates or sets the value of a thing; an appraiser.
prizing		The application of a lever to move any weighty body, as a cask, anchor, cannon, car, etc. See Prize, n., 5.
pro		A Latin preposition signifying for, before, forth.
pro-		A prefix signifying before, in front, forth, for, in behalf of, in place of, according to; as, propose, to place before; proceed, to go before or forward; project, to throw forward; prologue, part spoken before (the main piece)…
proa		A sailing canoe of the Ladrone Islands and Malay Archipelago, having its lee side flat and its weather side like that of an ordinary boat.
proach	Obsolete	See Approach — to come or go near, in place or time; to draw nigh; to advance nearer.
proant	Obsolete	Provender or food.
proatlas		A vertebral rudiment in front of the atlas in some reptiles.
probabiliorism		The doctrine of the probabiliorists.
probabiliorist		One who holds, in opposition to the probabilists, that a man is bound to do that which is most probably right.
probabilism		The doctrine of the probabilists.
probabilist		One who maintains that certainty is impossible, and that probability alone is to govern our faith and actions.
probability		The quality or state of being probable; appearance of reality or truth; reasonable ground of presumption; likelihood.
probable		Having more evidence for than against; supported by evidence which inclines the mind to believe, but leaves some room for doubt; likely.
probably		In a probable manner; in likelihood.
probacy	Obsolete	Proof; trial.
probal	Obsolete	Approved; probable.
probality	Obsolete	Probability.
probang		A slender elastic rod, as of whalebone, with a sponge on the end, for removing obstructions from the esophagus, etc.
probate		(Law) (a) Official proof; especially, the proof before a competent officer or tribunal that an instrument offered, purporting to be the last will and testament of a person deceased, is indeed his lawful act…
probation		Any proceeding designed to ascertain truth, to determine character, qualification, etc.; examination; trial; as, to engage a person on probation.
probational		Probationary.
probationary		Of or pertaining to probation; serving for trial.
probationer		One who is undergoing probation; one who is on trial; a novice.
probationership		The state of being a probationer; novitiate.
probationship		A state of probation.
probative		Serving for trial or proof; probationary; as, probative judgments; probative evidence.
probator		An examiner; an approver.
probatory		Serving for trial; probationary.
probe		To examine, as a wound, an ulcer, or some cavity of the body, with a probe.
probe-pointed		Having a blunt or button-shaped extremity; -- said of cutting instruments.
probeagle		See Porbeagle — a species of shark (Lamna cornubica), about eight feet long, having a pointed nose and a crescent-shaped tail; -- called also mackerel shark.
probity		Tried virtue or integrity; approved moral excellence; honesty; rectitude; uprightness. -- Probity, Integrity.
problem		A question proposed for solution; a matter stated for examination or proof; hence, a matter difficult of solution or settlement; a doubtful case; a question involving doubt.
problematic		Having the nature of a problem; not shown in fact; questionable; uncertain; unsettled; doubtful. -- Prob`lem*at"ic*al*ly, adv.
problematical		Having the nature of a problem; not shown in fact; questionable; uncertain; unsettled; doubtful. -- Prob`lem*at"ic*al*ly, adv.
problematist		One who proposes problems.
problematize		To propose problems.
proboscidate		Having a proboscis; proboscidial.
proboscidea		An order of large mammal
proboscidean		Proboscidian.
proboscidial		Proboscidate.
proboscidian		Pertaining to the Proboscidea. -- n.
proboscidifera		(Zoöl.) An extensive division of pectinibranchiate gastropods, including those that have a long retractile proboscis, with the mouth at the end, as the cones, whelks, tritons, and cowries.
proboscidiform		Having the form or uses of a proboscis; as, a proboscidiform mouth.
proboscis		(Zoöl.) A hollow organ or tube attached to the head, or connected with the mouth, of various animals, and generally used in taking food or drink; a snout; a trunk.
procacious		Pert; petulant; forward; saucy.
procacity		Forwardness; pertness; petulance.
procambium		The young tissue of a fibrovascular bundle before its component cells have begun to be differentiated.
procatarctic	Obsolete	Beginning; predisposing; exciting; initial.
procatarxis		The kindling of a disease into action; also, the procatarctic cause.
procedendo		(a) A writ by which a cause which has been removed on insufficient grounds from an inferior to a superior court by certiorari, or otherwise, is sent down again to the same court, to be proceeded in there.
procedure		The act or manner of proceeding or moving forward; progress; process; operation; conduct.
proceed		To move, pass, or go forward or onward; to advance; to continue or renew motion begun; as, to proceed on a journey.
proceeder		One who proceeds.
proceeding		The act of one who proceeds, or who prosecutes a design or transaction; progress or movement from one thing to another; a measure or step taken in a course of business; a transaction; as, an illegal proceeding…
proceeds		That which comes forth or results; effect; yield; issue; product; sum accruing from a sale, etc.
proceleusmatic		Inciting; animating; encouraging.
procellarian		One of a family of oceanic birds (Procellaridæ) including the petrels, fulmars, and shearwaters.
procephalic		Pertaining to, or forming, the front of the head.
proception	Obsolete	Preoccupation.
procere	Obsolete	Of high stature; tall.
procerebrum		The prosencephalon.
proceres		An order of large birds; the Ratitæ; -- called also Proceri.
procerite		The segment next to the flagellum of the antennæ of Crustacea.
procerity		Height of stature; tallness.
process		The act of proceeding; continued forward movement; procedure; progress; advance.
procession		The act of proceeding, moving on, advancing, or issuing; regular, orderly, or ceremonious progress; continuous course.
processional		Of or pertaining to a procession; consisting in a procession.
processionalist		One who goes or marches in a procession.
processionary		Pertaining to a procession; consisting in processions; as, processionary service.
processioner		One who takes part in a procession.
processioning		A proceeding prescribed by statute for ascertaining and fixing the boundaries of land.
processive		Proceeding; advancing.
prochein		Next; nearest.
prochordal		Situated in front of the notochord; -- applied especially to parts of the cartilaginous rudiments in the base of the skull.
prochronism		The dating of an event before the time it happened; an antedating; -- opposed to Ant: metachronism.
prochronize		To antedate.
procidence		A falling down; a prolapsus.
procidentia		A falling down; a prolapsus.
prociduous		Falling from its proper place.
procinct	Obsolete	A state of complete readiness for action.
proclaim		To make known by public announcement; to give wide publicity to; to publish abroad; to promulgate; to declare; as, to proclaim war or peace.
proclaimer		One who proclaims.
proclamation		The act of proclaiming; official or general notice; publication.
proclitic		Leaning forward; -- said of certain monosyllabic words which are so closely attached to the following word as not to have a separate accent.
proclive		Having a tendency by nature; prone; proclivous.
proclivity		Inclination; propensity; proneness; tendency.
proclivous		Inclined; tending by nature.
procoele		A lateral cavity of the prosencephalon; a lateral ventricle of the brain.
procoelia		Same as Procoele.
procoelian		Concave in front; as, procoelian vertebræ, which have the anterior end of the centra concave and the posterior convex.
procoelous		Same as Procoelian.
proconsul		An officer who discharged the duties of a consul without being himself consul; a governor of, or a military commander in, a province.
proconsular		Of or pertaining of a proconsul; as, proconsular powers.
proconsulary		Of or pertaining of a proconsul; as, proconsular powers.
proconsulate		The office jurisdiction of a proconsul, or the term of his office.
proconsulship		Proconsulate.
procrastinate		To put off till to-morrow, or from day to day; to defer; to postpone; to delay; as, to procrastinate repentance.
procrastination		The act or habit of procrastinating, or putting off to a future time; delay; dilatoriness.
procrastinator		One who procrastinates, or defers the performance of anything.
procrastinatory		Of or pertaining to procrastination; dilatory.
procrastine	Obsolete	To procrastinate.
procreant		Generating; producing; productive; fruitful; assisting in procreation.
procreate		To generate and produce; to beget; to engender.
procreation		The act of begetting; generation and production of young.
procreative		Having the power to beget; generative.
procreativeness		The power of generating.
procreator		One who begets; a father or sire; a generator.
procris		Any species of small moths of the genus Procris.
procrustean		Of or pertaining to Procrustes, or the mode of torture practiced by him; producing conformity by violent means; as, the Procrustean treatment; a Procrustean limit.
procrusteanize		To stretch or contract according to some rule or standard.
procrustes		A celebrated legendary highwayman of Attica, who tied his victims upon an iron bed, and, as the case required, either stretched or cut of their legs to adapt them to its length; -- whence the metaphorical phrase…
procrustesian		See Procrustean — of or pertaining to Procrustes, or the mode of torture practiced by him; producing conformity by violent means; as, the Procrustean treatment; a Procrustean limit.
proctitis		Inflammation of the rectum.
proctocele		Inversion and prolapse of the mucous coat of the rectum, from relaxation of the sphincter, with more or less swelling; prolapsus ani.
proctodaeum		See Mesenteron — all that part of the alimentary canal which is developed from the primitive enteron and is lined with hypoblast.
proctor	Obsolete	One who is employed to manage to affairs of another. Specifically: (a) A person appointed to collect alms for those who could not go out to beg for themselves, as lepers, the bedridden, etc.; hence a beggar.
proctorage		Management by a proctor, or as by a proctor; hence, control; superintendence; -- in contempt.
proctorial		Of or pertaining to a proctor, esp. an academic proctor; magisterial.
proctorical		Proctorial.
proctorship		The office or dignity of a proctor; also, the term of his office.
proctotomy		An incision into the rectum, as for the division of a stricture.
proctucha		(a) A division of Turbellaria including those that have an intestine terminating posteriorly.
procumbent		Lying down, or on the face; prone.
procurable		Capable of being procured; obtainable.
procuracy		The office or act of a proctor or procurator; management for another.
procuration		The act of procuring; procurement.
procurator		(Law) One who manages another's affairs, either generally or in a special matter; an agent; a proctor.
procuratorial		Of or pertaining to a procurator, or proctor; made by a proctor.
procuratorship		The office or term of a procurator.
procuratory		Tending to, or authorizing, procuration.
procure		To bring into possession; to cause to accrue to, or to come into possession of; to acquire or provide for one's self or for another; to gain; to get; to obtain by any means, as by purchase or loan.
procurement		The act of procuring or obtaining; obtainment; attainment.
procurer		One who procures, or obtains; one who, or that which, brings on, or causes to be done, esp. by corrupt means.
procuress		A female procurer, or pander.
procyon		(Astron.) a star of the first magnitude in the constellation Canis Minor, or the Little Dog.
prod		A pointed instrument for pricking or puncturing, as a goad, an awl, a skewer, etc.
prodd		A crossbow. See Prod, 3.
prodigal		Given to extravagant expenditure; expending money or other things without necessity; recklessly or viciously profuse; lavish; wasteful; not frugal or economical; as, a prodigal man; the prodigal son; prodigal giving…
prodigality		Extravagance in expenditure, particularly of money; excessive liberality; profusion; waste; -- opposed to frugality, economy, and parsimony.
prodigalize		To act as a prodigal; to spend liberally.
prodigally		In a prodigal manner; with profusion of expense; extravagantly; wasteful; profusely; lavishly; as, an estate prodigally dissipated.
prodigate		To squander.
prodigence		Waste; profusion; prodigality.
prodigious		Extraordinary in bulk, extent, quantity, or degree; very great; vast; huge; immense; as, a prodigious mountain; a prodigious creature; a prodigious blunder. -- Huge; enormous; monstrous; portentous; marvelous; amazing…
prodigiously		Enormously; wonderfully; astonishingly; as, prodigiously great.
prodigiousness		The quality or state of being prodigious; the state of having qualities that excite wonder or astonishment; enormousness; vastness.
prodigy		Something extraordinary, or out of the usual course of nature, from which omens are drawn; a portent; as, eclipses and meteors were anciently deemed prodigies.
prodition	Obsolete	Disclosure; treachery; treason.
proditor	Obsolete	A traitor.
proditorious	Obsolete	Treacherous; perfidious; traitorous.
proditory	Obsolete	Treacherous.
prodromal		Of or pertaining to prodromes; as, the prodromal stage of a disease.
prodrome		A forerunner; a precursor.
prodromous		Precursory.
prodromus		A preliminary course or publication; -- used esp. in the titles of elementary works.
produce		To bring forward; to lead forth; to offer to view or notice; to exhibit; to show; as, to produce a witness or evidence in court.
producement	Obsolete	Production.
producent	Obsolete	One who produces, or offers to notice.
producer		One who produces, brings forth, or generates.
producibility		The quality or state of being producible.
producible		Capable of being produced, brought forward, brought forth, generated, made, or extended. -- Pro*du"ci*ble*ness, n.
product		Anything that is produced, whether as the result of generation, growth, labor, or thought, or by the operation of involuntary causes; as, the products of the season, or of the farm; the products of manufactures…
productibility		The state of being productible; producibility.
productible		Capable of being produced; producible.
productile		Capable of being extended or prolonged; extensible; ductile.
production		The act or process or producing, bringing forth, or exhibiting to view; as, the production of commodities, of a witness.
productive		Having the quality or power of producing; yielding or furnishing results; as, productive soil; productive enterprises; productive labor, that which increases the number or amount of products.
productivity		The quality or state of being productive; productiveness.
productress		A female producer.
productus		An extinct genus of brachiopods, very characteristic of the Carboniferous rocks.
proeguminal		Serving to predispose; predisposing; as, a proeguminal cause of disease.
proem	Obsolete	Preface; introduction; preliminary observations; prelude.
proembryo		(a) The series of cells formed in the ovule of a flowering plant after fertilization, but before the formation of the embryo.
proemial		Introductory; prefatory; preliminary.
proemptosis		The addition of a day to the lunar calendar. See Metemptosis.
proface	Obsolete	Much good may it do you! -- a familiar salutation or welcome.
profanate	Obsolete	To profane.
profanation		The act of violating sacred things, or of treating them with contempt or irreverence; irreverent or too familiar treatment or use of what is sacred; desecration; as, the profanation of the Sabbath; the profanation of a sanctuary…
profane		Not sacred or holy; not possessing peculiar sanctity; unconsecrated; hence, relating to matters other than sacred; secular; -- opposed to sacred, religious, or inspired; as, a profane place.
profanely		In a profane manner.
profaneness		The quality or state of being profane; especially, the use of profane language.
profaner		One who treats sacred things with irreverence, or defiles what is holy; one who uses profane language.
profanity		The quality or state of being profane; profaneness; irreverence; esp., the use of profane language; blasphemy.
profection	Obsolete	A setting out; a going forward; advance; progression.
profectitious		Proceeding from, as from a parent; derived, as from an ancestor.
profert		The exhibition or production of a record or paper in open court, or an allegation that it is in court.
profess		To make open declaration of, as of one's knowledge, belief, action, etc.; to avow or acknowledge; to confess publicly; to own or admit freely.
professed		Openly declared, avowed, acknowledged, or claimed; as, a professed foe; a professed tyrant; a professed Christian.
professedly		By profession.
profession		The act of professing or claiming; open declaration; public avowal or acknowledgment; as, professions of friendship; a profession of faith.
professional		Of or pertaining to a profession, or calling; conforming to the rules or standards of a profession; following a profession; as, professional knowledge; professional conduct.
professionalism		The following of a profession, sport, etc., as an occupation; - - opposed to Ant: amateurism.
professionalist		professional person.
professionally		In a professional manner or capacity; by profession or calling; in the exercise of one's profession; one employed professionally.
professor		One who professed, or makes open declaration of, his sentiments or opinions; especially, one who makes a public avowal of his belief in the Scriptures and his faith in Christ, and thus unites himself to the visible church.
professorial		Of or pertaining to a professor; as, the professional chair; professional interest.
professorialism		The character, manners, or habits of a professor.
professoriat		See Professoriate — the body of professors, or the professorial staff, in a university or college.
professoriate		The body of professors, or the professorial staff, in a university or college.
professorship		The office or position of a professor, or public teacher.
professory		Of or pertaining to a professor; professorial.
proffer		To offer for acceptance; to propose to give; to make a tender of; as, to proffer a gift; to proffer services; to proffer friendship.
profferer		One who proffers something.
proficience		The quality of state of being proficient; advance in the acquisition of any art, science, or knowledge; progression in knowledge; improvement; adeptness; as, to acquire proficiency in music.
proficiency		The quality of state of being proficient; advance in the acquisition of any art, science, or knowledge; progression in knowledge; improvement; adeptness; as, to acquire proficiency in music.
proficient		One who has made considerable advances in any business, art, science, or branch of learning; an expert; an adept; as, proficient in a trade; a proficient in mathematics, music…
proficiently		In a proficient manner.
proficuous	Obsolete	Profitable; advantageous; useful.
profile		An outline, or contour; as, the profile of an apple.
profiling		In the construction of fieldworks, the erection at proper intervals of wooden profiles, to show to the workmen the sectional form of the parapets at those points.
profilist		One who takes profiles.
profit		Acquisition beyond expenditure; excess of value received for producing, keeping, or selling, over cost; hence, pecuniary gain in any transaction or occupation; emolument; as, a profit on the sale of goods.
profitable		Yielding or bringing profit or gain; gainful; lucrative; useful; helpful; advantageous; beneficial; as, a profitable trade; profitable business; a profitable study or profession.
profiting		Gain; advantage; profit.
profitless		Without profit; unprofitable.
profligacy		The quality of state of being profligate; a profligate or very vicious course of life; a state of being abandoned in moral principle and in vice; dissoluteness.
profligate	Obsolete	Overthrown; beaten; conquered.
profligately		In a profligate manner.
profligateness		The quality of being profligate; an abandoned course of life; profligacy.
profligation	Obsolete	Defeat; rout; overthrow.
profluence		Quality of being profluent; course.
profluent		Flowing forward,
profound		Descending far below the surface; opening or reaching to a great depth; deep.
profoundly		In a profound manner.
profoundness		The quality or state of being profound; profundity; depth.
profulgent	Obsolete	Shining forth; brilliant; effulgent.
profundity		The quality or state of being profound; depth of place, knowledge, feeling, etc.
profuse		Pouring forth with fullness or exuberance; bountiful; exceedingly liberal; giving without stint; as, a profuse government; profuse hospitality.
profusely		In a profuse manner.
profuseness		Extravagance; profusion.
profusion		The act of one who is profuse; a lavishing or pouring out without sting.
profusive	Obsolete	Profuse; lavish; prodigal.
prog	Low	To wander about and beg; to seek food or other supplies by low arts; to seek for advantage by mean shift or tricks.
progenerate		To beget; to generate; to produce; to procreate; as, to progenerate a race.
progeneration		The act of begetting; propagation.
progenitor		An ancestor in the direct line; a forefather.
progenitorship		The state of being a progenitor.
progenitress		A female progenitor.
progeniture		A begetting, or birth.
progeny		Descendants of the human kind, or offspring of other animals; children; offspring; race, lineage.
proglottid		Proglottis.
proglottis		One of the free, or nearly free, segments of a tapeworm.
prognathi		A comprehensive group of mankind, including those that have prognathous jaws.
prognathic		Prognathous.
prognathism		Projection of the jaws. -- Prog"na*thy, n.
prognathous		Having the jaws projecting beyond the upper part of the face; - - opposed to orthognathous.
progne		(a) A swallow. (b) A genus of swallows including the purple martin. See Martin.
prognosis		The act or art of foretelling the course and termination of a disease; also, the outlook afforded by this act of judgment; as, the prognosis of hydrophobia is bad.
prognostic		Indicating something future by signs or symptoms; foreshowing; aiding in prognosis; as, the prognostic symptoms of a disease; prognostic signs.
prognosticable		Capable of being prognosticated or foretold.
prognosticate		To indicate as future; to foretell from signs or symptoms; to prophesy; to foreshow; to predict; as, to prognosticate evil.
prognostication		The act of foreshowing or foretelling something future by present signs; prediction.
prognosticator		One who prognosticates; a foreknower or foreteller of a future course or event by present signs.
program		Same as Programme.
programma		(Gr. Antiq.) Any law, which, after it had passed the Athenian senate, was fixed on a tablet for public inspection previously to its being proposed to the general assembly of the people.
programme		That which is written or printed as a public notice or advertisement; a scheme; a prospectus; especially, a brief outline or explanation of the order to be pursued, or the subjects embraced, in any public exercise, performance…
progress		A moving or going forward; a proceeding onward; an advance; specifically: (a) In actual space, as the progress of a ship, carriage, etc. (b) In the growth of an animal or plant; increase.
progression		The act of moving forward; a proceeding in a course; motion onward.
progressional		Of or pertaining to progression; tending to, or capable of, progress.
progressionist		One who holds to a belief in the progression of society toward perfection.
progressist		One who makes, or holds to, progress; a progressionist.
progressive		Moving forward; proceeding onward; advancing; evincing progress; increasing; as, progressive motion or course; -- opposed to retrograde.
progue	Obsolete	To prog.
prohibit		To forbid by authority; to interdict; as, God prohibited Adam from eating of the fruit of a certain tree; we prohibit a person from doing a thing, and also the doing of the thing; as, the law prohibits men from stealing…
prohibiter		One who prohibits or forbids; a forbidder; an interdicter.
prohibition		The act of prohibiting; a declaration or injunction forbidding some action; interdict.
prohibitionist		One who favors prohibitory duties on foreign goods in commerce; a protectionist.
prohibitive		That prohibits; prohibitory; as, a tax whose effect is prohibitive.
prohibitory		Tending to prohibit, forbid, or exclude; implying prohibition; forbidding; as, a prohibitory law; a prohibitory price.
proin	Obsolete	To lop; to trim; to prune; to adorn.
project		That which is projected or designed; something intended or devised; a scheme; a design; a plan.
projectile		Projecting or impelling forward; as, a projectile force.
projection		The act of throwing or shooting forward.
projectment	Obsolete	Design; contrivance; projection.
projector		One who projects a scheme or design; hence, one who forms fanciful or chimerical schemes.
projecture		A jutting out beyond a surface.
projet		A plan proposed; a draft of a proposed measure; a project.
proke	Obsolete	To poke; to thrust.
prolapse		The falling down of a part through the orifice with which it is naturally connected, especially of the uterus or the rectum.
prolapsion	Obsolete	Prolapse.
prolapsus		Prolapse.
prolate	Obsolete	Stretched out; extended; especially, elongated in the direction of a line joining the poles; as, a prolate spheroid; -- opposed to oblate.
prolation		(Mus.) A mediæval method of determining of the proportionate duration of semibreves and minims.
prolatum		A prolate spheroid. See Ellipsoid of revolution, under Ellipsoid.
proleg		One of the fleshy legs found on the abdominal segments of the larvæ of Lepidoptera, sawflies, and some other insects.
prolegate		The deputy or substitute for a legate.
prolegomenary		Of the nature of a prolegomenon; preliminary; introductory; prefatory.
prolegomenon		A preliminary remark or observation; an introductory discourse prefixed to a book or treatise.
prolepsis		(Rhet.) (a) A figure by which objections are anticipated or prevented.
proleptic		Of or pertaining to prolepsis; anticipative.
proleptical		Of or pertaining to prolepsis; anticipative.
proleptically		In a proleptical manner.
proleptics		The art and science of predicting in medicine.
proletaire		One of the common people; a low person; also, the common people as a class or estate in a country.
proletaneous		Having a numerous offspring.
proletarian		Of or pertaining to the proletaries; belonging to the commonalty; hence, mean; vile; vulgar. -- n.
proletariat		The indigent class in the State; the body of proletarians.
proletariate		The lower classes; beggars.
proletary		A citizen of the lowest class, who served the state, not with property, but only by having children; hence, a common person.
prolicide		The crime of destroying one's offspring, either in the womb or after birth.
proliferate		(Biol.) To produce or form cells; especially, to produce cells rapidly.
proliferation		(Biol.) The continuous development of cells in tissue formation; cell formation.
proliferous		(Bot.) Bearing offspring; -- applied to a flower from within which another is produced, or to a branch or frond from which another rises, or to a plant which is reproduced by buds or gemmæ.
prolific		Having the quality of generating; producing young or fruit; generative; fruitful; productive; -- applied to plants producing fruit, animals producing young, etc.…
prolificacy		Prolificness.
prolifical		Producing young or fruit abundantly; fruitful; prolific. -- Pro*lif"ic*al*ly, adv.
prolificate		To make prolific; to fertilize; to impregnate.
prolification		(Bot.) Reproduction by the growth of a plant, or part of a plant, directly from an older one, or by gemmæ.
prolificness		The quality or state of being prolific; fruitfulness; prolificacy.
prolix		Extending to a great length; unnecessarily long; minute in narration or argument; excessively particular in detail; -- rarely used except with reference to discourse written or spoken; as, a prolix oration; a prolix poem…
prolixious	Obsolete	Dilatory; tedious; superfluous.
prolixity		The quality or state of being prolix; great length; minute detail; as, prolixity in discourses and writings.
prolixly		In a prolix manner.
prolixness		Prolixity.
proll	Obsolete	To search or prowl after; to rob; to plunder.
proller	Obsolete	Prowler; thief.
prolocutor		One who speaks for another.
prolocutorship		The office of a prolocutor.
prolog		Prologue.
prologize		To deliver a Prologue.
prologizer		One who prologizes.
prologue		The preface or introduction to a discourse, poem, or performance; as, the prologue of Chaucer's esp., a discourse or poem spoken before a dramatic performance
prolong		To lengthen in time; to extend the duration of; to draw out; to continue; as, to prolong one's days.
prolongable		Capable of being prolonged; as, life is prolongable by care.
prolongate		To prolong; to extend in space or in time.
prolongation		The act of lengthening in space or in time; extension; protraction.
prolonge		A rope with a hook and a toggle, sometimes used to drag a gun carriage or to lash it to the limber, and for various other purposes.
prolonger		One who, or that which, causes an extension in time or space.
prolongment		Prolongation.
prolusion		A trial before the principal performance; a prelude; hence, an introductory essay or exercise.
promanation	Obsolete	The act of flowing forth; emanation; efflux.
promenade		A walk for pleasure, display, or exercise.
promenader		One who promenades.
promerit	Obsolete	To oblige; to confer a favor on.
promerops		Any one of several species of very brilliant birds belonging to Promerops, Epimarchus, and allied genera, closely related to the paradise birds, and mostly native of New Guinea.
promethea		A large American bombycid moth (Callosamia promethea).
promethean		Having a life-giving quality; inspiring. (a) An apparatus for automatic ignition.
prometheus		The son of Iapetus (one of the Titans) and Clymene, fabled by the poets to have surpassed all mankind in knowledge, and to have formed men of clay to whom he gave life by means of fire stolen from heaven.
prominence		The quality or state of being prominent; a standing out from something; conspicuousness.
prominency		The quality or state of being prominent; a standing out from something; conspicuousness.
prominent		Standing out, or projecting, beyond the line surface of something; jutting; protuberant; in high relief; as, a prominent figure on a vase.
prominently		In a prominent manner.
promiscuity		Promiscuousness; confusion.
promiscuous		Consisting of individuals united in a body or mass without order; mingled; confused; undistinguished; as, a promiscuous crowd or mass.
promiscuously		In a promiscuous manner.
promiscuousness		The quality or state of being promiscuous.
promise		In general, a declaration, written or verbal, made by one person to another, which binds the person who makes it to do, or to forbear to do, a specified act…
promisee		The person to whom a promise is made.
promiser		One who promises.
promising		Making a promise or promises; affording hope or assurance; as, promising person; a promising day. -- Prom"is*ing*ly, adv.
promisor		One who engages or undertakes; a promiser.
promissive		Making a promise; implying a promise; promising.
promissorily		In a promissory manner.
promissory		Containing a promise or binding declaration of something to be done or forborne.
promont		Promontory.
promontory		(Phys. Geog.) A high point of land or rock projecting into the sea beyond the line of coast; a headland; a high cape.
promorphological		Relating to promorphology; as, a promorphological conception.
promorphologist		One versed in the science of promorphology.
promorphology		Crystallography of organic forms; -- a division of morphology created by Haeckel.
promote		To contribute to the growth, enlargement, or prosperity of (any process or thing that is in course); to forward; to further; to encourage; to advance; to excite; as, to promote learning; to promote disorder…
promoter		One who, or that which, forwards, advances, or promotes; an encourager; as, a promoter of charity or philosophy.
promotion		The act of promoting, advancing, or encouraging; the act of exalting in rank or honor; also, the condition of being advanced, encouraged, or exalted in honor; preferment.
promotive		Tending to advance, promote, or encourage.
promove	Obsolete	To move forward; to advance; to promote.
promover	Obsolete	A promoter.
prompt		Ready and quick to act as occasion demands; meeting requirements readily; not slow, dilatory, or hesitating in decision or action; responding on the instant; immediate; as, prompt in obedience or compliance; -- said of persons.
prompt-book		The book used by a prompter of a theater.
prompt-note		A memorandum of a sale, and time when payment is due, given to the purchaser at a sale of goods.
prompter		One who, or that which, prompts; one who admonishes or incites to action.
promptitude		The quality of being prompt; quickness of decision and action when occasion demands; alacrity; as, promptitude in obedience.
promptly		In a prompt manner.
promptness		Promptitude; readiness; quickness of decision or action.
promptuary		Of or pertaining to preparation.
prompture		Suggestion; incitement; prompting.
promulgate		To make known by open declaration, as laws, decrees, or tidings; to publish; as, to promulgate the secrets of a council.
promulgation		The act of promulgating; publication; open declaration; as, the promulgation of the gospel.
promulgator		One who promulgates or publishes.
promulge		To promulgate; to publish or teach.
promulger		One who promulges or publishes what was before unknown.
promuscis		The proboscis of hemipterous insects. See Illust. under Hemiptera.
pronaos		The porch or vestibule of a temple.
pronate		Somewhat prone; inclined; as, pronate trees.
pronation		(a) The act of turning the palm or palmar surface of the forefoot downward.
pronator		A muscle which produces pronation.
prone		Bending forward; inclined; not erect.
pronely		In a prone manner or position.
proneness		The quality or state of being prone, or of bending downward; as, the proneness of beasts is opposed to the erectness of man.
pronephric		Of or pertaining to the pronephros.
pronephron		The head kidney. See under Head.
pronephros		The head kidney. See under Head.
prong		A sharp-pointed instrument.
prong-hoe		A hoe with prongs to break the earth.
prongbuck		(a) The springbuck. (b) The pronghorn.
pronged		Having prongs or projections like the tines of a fork; as, a three-pronged fork.
pronghorn		An American antelope (Antilocapra Americana), native of the plain near the Rocky Mountains.
pronity		Proneness; propensity.
pronominal		Belonging to, or partaking of the nature of, a pronoun.
pronominalize		To give the effect of a pronoun to; as, to pronominalize the substantives person, people, etc. Early.
pronominally		In a pronominal manner
prononce		Strongly marked; decided, as in manners, etc.
pronotary		See Prothonotary — a chief notary or clerk.
pronotum		The dorsal plate of the prothorax in insects. See Illust. of Coleoptera.
pronoun		A word used instead of a noun or name, to avoid the repetition of it.
pronounce		To utter articulately; to speak out or distinctly; to utter, as words or syllables; to speak with the proper sound and accent as, adults rarely learn to pronounce a foreign language correctly.
pronounceable		Capable of being pronounced.
pronounced		Strongly marked; unequivocal; decided.
pronouncement		The act of pronouncing; a declaration; a formal announcement.
pronouncer		One who pronounces, utters, or declares; also, a pronouncing book.
pronouncing		Pertaining to, or indicating, pronunciation; as, a pronouncing dictionary.
pronubial		Presiding over marriage.
pronucleus		One of the two bodies or nuclei (called male and female pronuclei) which unite to form the first segmentation nucleus of an impregnated ovum.
pronuncial		Of or pertaining to pronunciation; pronunciative.
pronunciamento		A proclamation or manifesto; a formal announcement or declaration.
pronunciamiento		See Pronunciamento — a proclamation or manifesto; a formal announcement or declaration.
pronunciation		The act of uttering with articulation; the act of giving the proper sound and accent; utterance; as, the pronunciation of syllables of words; distinct or indistinct pronunciation.
pronunciative	Obsolete	Uttering confidently; dogmatical.
pronunciator		One who pronounces; a pronouncer.
pronunciatory		Of or pertaining to pronunciation; that pronounces.
prooestracum		The anterior prolongation of the guard of the phragmocone of belemnites and allied fossil cephalopods, whether horny or calcareous.
prooetic		In front of the auditory capsule; -- applied especially to a bone, or center of ossification, in the periotic capsule. -- n.
proof		Any effort, process, or operation designed to establish or discover a fact or truth; an act of testing; a test; a trial.
proof-arm		To arm with proof armor; to arm securely; as, to proof-arm herself.
proof-proof		Proof against proofs; obstinate in the wrong.
proofless		Wanting sufficient evidence to induce belief; not proved.
proostracum		The anterior prolongation of the guard of the phragmocone of belemnites and allied fossil cephalopods, whether horny or calcareous.
prootic		In front of the auditory capsule; -- applied especially to a bone, or center of ossification, in the periotic capsule. -- n.
prop		A shell, used as a die. See Props.
propaedeutic		Of, pertaining to, or conveying, preliminary instruction; introductory to any art or science; instructing beforehand.
propaedeutical		Of, pertaining to, or conveying, preliminary instruction; introductory to any art or science; instructing beforehand.
propaedeutics		The preliminary learning connected with any art or science; preparatory instruction.
propagable		Capable of being propagated, or of being continued or multiplied by natural generation or production.
propaganda		Hence, any organization or plan for spreading a particular doctrine or a system of principles.
propagandism		The art or practice of propagating tenets or principles; zeal in propagating one's opinions.
propagandist		A person who devotes himself to the spread of any system of principles.
propagate		To cause to continue or multiply by generation, or successive production; -- applied to animals and plants; as, to propagate a breed of horses or sheep; to propagate a species of fruit tree.
propagation		The act of propagating; continuance or multiplication of the kind by generation or successive production; as, the propagation of animals or plants.
propagative		Producing by propagation, or by a process of growth.
propagator		One who propagates; one who continues or multiplies.
propagulum		A runner terminated by a germinating bud.
propane		A heavy gaseous hydrocarbon, C3H8, of the paraffin series, occurring naturally dissolved in crude petroleum, and also made artificially; -- called also propyl hydride.
propargyl		Same as Propinyl.
proparoxytone		A word which has the acute accent on the antepenult.
proped		Same as Proleg.
propel		To drive forward; to urge or press onward by force; to move, or cause to move; as, the wind or steam propels ships; balls are propelled by gunpowder.
propeller		One who, or that which, propels.
propend		To lean toward a thing; to be favorably inclined or disposed; to incline; to tend.
propendency		Attentive deliberation.
propendent		Inclining forward or toward.
propene		Same as Propylene.
propense		Leaning toward, in a moral sense; inclined; disposed; prone; as, women propense to holiness.
propension		The quality or state of being propense; propensity.
propensity		The quality or state of being propense; natural inclination; disposition to do good or evil; bias; bent; tendency. -- Disposition; bias; inclination; proclivity; proneness; bent; tendency.
propenyl		A hypothetical hydrocarbon radical, C3H5, isomeric with allyl and glyceryl, and regarded as the essential residue of glycerin.
propepsin		See Persinogen.
propeptone		A product of gastric digestion intermediate between albumin and peptone, identical with hemialbumose.
proper		Belonging to one; one's own; individual..
properate	Obsolete	To hasten, or press forward.
properation	Obsolete	The act of hastening; haste.
properispome		Properispomenon.
properispomenon		A word which has the circumflex accent on the penult.
properly		In a proper manner; suitably; fitly; strictly; rightly; as, a word properly applied; a dress properly adjusted.
properness		The quality of being proper.
propertied		Possessing property; holding real estate, or other investments of money.
property		That which is proper to anything; a peculiar quality of a thing; that which is inherent in a subject, or naturally essential to it; an attribute; as, sweetness is a property of sugar.
prophane	Obsolete	See Profane — not sacred or holy; not possessing peculiar sanctity; unconsecrated; hence, relating to matters other than sacred; secular; -- opposed to sacred, religious, or inspired; as, a profane place.
prophasis		Foreknowledge of a disease; prognosis.
prophecy		A declaration of something to come; a foretelling; a prediction; esp., an inspired foretelling.
prophesier		A prophet.
prophesy		To utter predictions; to make declaration of events to come.
prophet		One who prophesies, or foretells events; a predicter; a foreteller.
prophetess		A female prophet.
prophetic		Containing, or pertaining to, prophecy; foretelling events; as, prophetic writings; prophetic dreams; -- used with of before the thing foretold.
prophetical		Containing, or pertaining to, prophecy; foretelling events; as, prophetic writings; prophetic dreams; -- used with of before the thing foretold.
propheticality		Propheticalness.
prophetically		In a prophetical manner; by way of prediction.
propheticalness		The quality or state of being prophetical; power or capacity to foretell.
prophetize		To give predictions; to foreshow events; to prophesy.
prophoric		Enunciative.
prophragma		An internal dorsal chitinous process between the first two divisions of the thorax of insects.
prophylactic		A medicine which preserves or defends against disease; a preventive.
prophylactical		Defending or preserving from disease; preventive.
prophylaxis		The art of preserving from, or of preventing, disease; the observance of the rules necessary for the preservation of health; preservative or preventive treatment.
propice	Obsolete	Fit; propitious.
propidene		The unsymmetrical hypothetical hydrocarbon radical, CH3.CH2.CH, analogous to ethylidene, and regarded as the type of certain derivatives of propane; -- called also propylidene.
propination	Obsolete	The act of pledging, or drinking first, and then offering the cup to another.
propine	Obs or scot	A gift; esp., drink money.
propinquity		Nearness in place; neighborhood; proximity.
propinyl		A hydrocarbon radical regarded as an essential residue of propine and allied compounds.
propiolate		A salt of propiolic acid.
propiolic		Pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid (called also propargylic acid) of the acetylene or tetrolic series, analogous to propionic acid, and obtained as a white crystalline substance.C3H2O2, CH.C.COOH
propionate		A salt of propionic acid.
propione		The ketone of propionic acid, obtained as a colorless fragrant liquid.
propionic		Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an organic acid which is produced in the distillation of wood, in the fermentation of various organic substances, as glycerin, calcium lactate, etc.…
propionyl		The hypothetical radical C3H5O, regarded as the essential residue of propionic acid and certain related compounds.
propithecus		A genus including the long-tailed, or diadem, indris. See Indris.
propitiable		Capable of being propitiated.
propitiate		To appease to render favorable; to make propitious; to conciliate.
propitiation		The act of appeasing the wrath and conciliating the favor of an offended person; the act of making propitious.
propitiator		One who propitiates or appeases.
propitiatorily		By way of propitiation.
propitiatory		Having the power to make propitious; pertaining to, or employed in, propitiation; expiatory; as, a propitiatory sacrifice.
propitious		Convenient; auspicious; favorable; kind; as, a propitious season; a propitious breeze.
proplasm		A mold; a matrix.
proplastic		Forming a mold.
proplastics		The art of making molds for castings.
propleg		Same as Proleg.
propodial		Of or pertaining to the propodialia, or the parts of the limbs to which they belong.
propodiale		The bone of either the upper arm or the thing, the propodialia being the humerus and femur.
propodite		The sixth joint of a typical leg of a crustacean; usually, the penultimate joint.
propodium		(a) The anterior portion of the foot of a mollusk. (b) The segment which forms the posterior part of the thorax of a hymenopterous insect.
propolis		Same as Bee glue, under Bee.
propone		To propose; to bring forward.
proponent		Making proposals; proposing.
proportion		The relation or adaptation of one portion to another, or to the whole, as respect magnitude, quantity, or degree; comparative relation; ratio; as, the proportion of the parts of a building, or of the body.
proportionable		Capable of being proportioned, or made proportional; also, proportional; proportionate. -- Pro*por"tion*a*ble*ness, n.
proportionably		Proportionally.
proportional		Having a due proportion, or comparative relation; being in suitable proportion or degree; as, the parts of an edifice are proportional.
proportionality		The state of being in proportion.
proportionally		In proportion; in due degree; adapted relatively; as, all parts of the building are proportionally large.
proportionate		Adjusted to something else according to a proportion; proportional.
proportionately		In a proportionate manner; with due proportion; proportionally.
proportionateness		The quality or state of being proportionate.
proportionless		Without proportion; unsymmetrical.
proportionment		The act or process of dividing out proportionally.
proposal		That which is proposed, or propounded for consideration or acceptance; a scheme or design; terms or conditions proposed; offer; as, to make proposals for a treaty of peace; to offer proposals for erecting a building…
propose		To offer for consideration, discussion, acceptance, or adoption; as, to propose terms of peace; to propose a question for discussion; to propose an alliance; to propose a person for office.
proposer		One who proposes or offers anything for consideration or adoption.
proposition		The act of setting or placing before; the act of offering.
propositional		Pertaining to, or in the nature of, a proposition; considered as a proposition; as, a propositional sense.
propound		To offer for consideration; to exhibit; to propose; as, to propound a question; to propound an argument.
propounder		One who propounds, proposes, or offers for consideration.
propretor		A magistrate who, having been pretor at home, was appointed to the government of a province.
proprietary		A proprietor or owner; one who has exclusive title to a thing; one who possesses, or holds the title to, a thing in his own right.
proprietor		One who has the legal right or exclusive title to anything, whether in possession or not; an owner; as, the proprietor of farm or of a mill.
proprietorial		Of or pertaining to ownership; proprietary; as, proprietorial rights.
proprietorship		The state of being proprietor; ownership.
proprietress		A female proprietor.
propriety		The quality or state of being proper; suitableness to an acknowledged or correct standard or rule; consonance with established principles, rules, or customs; fitness; appropriateness; as, propriety of behavior, language, manners…
proproctor		A assistant proctor.
props		A game of chance, in which four sea shells, each called a prop, are used instead of dice.
propterygium		The anterior of three principal cartilages in the fins of some fishes. -- Prop`ter*yg"i*al, a.
propugn	Obsolete	To contend for; to defend; to vindicate.
propugnacle	Obsolete	A fortress.
propugnation	Obsolete	Means of defense; defense.
propugner		A defender; a vindicator. of Tongue.
propulsation	Obsolete	The act of driving away or repelling; a keeping at a distance.
propulse	Obsolete	To repel; to drive off or away.
propulsion		The act driving forward or away; the act or process of propelling; as, steam propulsion.
propulsive		Tending, or having power, to propel; driving on; urging.
propulsory		Propulsive.
propyl		The hypothetical radical C3H7, regarded as the essential residue of propane and related compounds.
propylaeum		Any court or vestibule before a building or leading into any inclosure.
propylene		A colorless gaseous hydrocarbon (C3H6) of the ethylene series, having a garlic odor.
propylic		Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, propyl; as, propylic alcohol.
propylidene		See Propidene — the unsymmetrical hypothetical hydrocarbon radical, CH3.CH2.CH, analogous to ethylidene, and regarded as the type of certain derivatives of propane; -- called also propylidene.
propylon		The porch, vestibule, or entrance of an edifice.
proratable		Capable of being prorated, or divided proportionately.
prorate		To divide or distribute proportionally; to assess pro rata.
prore	Poetic	The prow or fore part of a ship.
prorector		An officer who presides over the academic senate of a German university.
prorectorate		The office of prorector.
prorenal		Pronephric.
proreption		A creeping on.
prorhinal		Situated in front of the nasal chambers.
prorogate		To prorogue.
prorogation		The act of proroguing; the ending of the session of Parliament, and postponing of its business, by the command of the sovereign.
prorogue		To end the session of a parliament by an order of the sovereign, thus deferring its business.
proruption		The act or state of bursting forth; a bursting out.
prosaic		Of or pertaining to prose; resembling prose; in the form of prose; unpoetical; writing or using prose; as, a prosaic composition.
prosaical		Of or pertaining to prose; resembling prose; in the form of prose; unpoetical; writing or using prose; as, a prosaic composition.
prosaicism		The quality or state of being prosaic; a prosaic manner or style.
prosaism		That which is in the form of prose writing; a prosaic manner.
prosaist		A writer of prose; an unpoetical writer.
prosal		Of or pertaining to prose; prosaic.
proscenium		(Modern Theater) The part of the stage in front of the curtain; sometimes, the curtain and its framework. proscenium arch, the framework around the front of the stage.
proscolex		An early larval form of a trematode worm; a redia. See Redia.
proscribe		To doom to destruction; to put out of the protection of law; to outlaw; to exile; as, Sylla and Marius proscribed each other's adherents.
proscriber		One who, or that which, proscribes, denounces, or prohibits.
proscript		A proscription; a prohibition; an interdict.
proscription		The act of proscribing; a dooming to death or exile; outlawry; specifically, among the ancient Romans, the public offer of a reward for the head of a political enemy; as, under the triumvirate…
proscriptional		Proscriptive.
proscriptionist		One who proscribes.
proscriptive		Of or pertaining to proscription; consisting in, or of the nature of, proscription; proscribing.
prose		The ordinary language of men in speaking or writing; language not cast in poetical measure or rhythm; -- contradistinguished from verse, or metrical composition.
prosector		One who makes dissections for anatomical illustration; usually, the assistant of a professional anatomist.
prosecutable		Capable of being prosecuted; liable to prosecution.
prosecute		To follow or pursue with a view to reach, execute, or accomplish; to endeavor to obtain or complete; to carry on; to continue; as, to prosecute a scheme, hope, or claim.
prosecution		The act or process of prosecuting, or of endeavoring to gain or accomplish something; pursuit by efforts of body or mind; as, the prosecution of a scheme, plan, design, or undertaking; the prosecution of war.
prosecutor		One who prosecutes or carries on any purpose, plan, or business.
prosecutrix		A female prosecutor.
proselyte		A new convert especially a convert to some religion or religious sect, or to some particular opinion, system, or party; thus, a Gentile converted to Judaism, or a pagan converted to Christianity, is a proselyte.
proselytism		The act or practice of proselyting; the making of converts to a religion or a religious sect, or to any opinion, system, or party.
proselytize		To convert to some religion, system, opinion, or the like; to bring, or cause to come, over; to proselyte.
proselytizer		One who proselytes.
proseman		A writer of prose.
proseminary		A seminary which prepares pupils for a higher institution.
prosemination	Obsolete	Propagation by seed.
prosencephalic		Of or pertaining to the prosencephalon.
prosencephalon		(a) The anterior segment of the brain, including the cerebrum and olfactory lobes; the forebrain.
prosenchyma		A general term applied to the tissues formed of elongated cells, especially those with pointed or oblique extremities, as the principal cells of ordinary wood.
proser		One who talks or writes tediously.
prosiliency		The act of leaping forth or forward; projection.
prosily		In a prosy manner.
prosimetrical		Consisting both of prose and verse.
prosimiae		Same as Lemuroidea.
prosiness		The quality or state of being prosy; tediousness; tiresomeness.
prosing		Writing prose; speaking or writing in a tedious or prosy manner.
prosingly		Prosily.
prosiphon		A minute tube found in the protocon
prosit		Lit., may it do (you) good; -- a salutation used in well wishing, esp. among Germans, as in drinking healths.
proslavery		Favoring slavery. -- n.
prosobranch		One of the Prosobranchiata.
prosobranchiata		The highest division, or subclass, of gastropod mollusks, including those that have the gills situated anteriorly, or forward of the heart, and the sexes separate.
prosocoele		The entire cavity of the prosencephalon.
prosocoelia		Same as Prosocoele.
prosodiacal		Prosodical.
prosodiacally		Prosodically.
prosodial		Prosodical.
prosodian		A prosodist.
prosodical		Of or pertaining to prosody; according to the rules of prosody. -- Pro*sod"ic*al*ly, adv.
prosodist		One skilled in prosody.
prosody		That part of grammar which treats of the quantity of syllables, of accent, and of the laws of versification or metrical composition.
prosoma		The anterior of the body of an animal, as of a cephalopod; the thorax of an arthropod.
prosopalgia		Facial neuralgia.
prosopocephala		Same as Scaphopoda.
prosopolepsy		Respect of persons; especially, a premature opinion or prejudice against a person, formed from his external appearance.
prosopopoeia		A figure by which things are represented as persons, or by which things inanimate are spoken of as animated beings; also, a figure by which an absent person is introduced as speaking…
prosopulmonata		A division of pulmonate mollusks having the breathing organ situated on the neck, as in the common snail.
prospect		That which is embraced by eye in vision; the region which the eye overlooks at one time; view; scene; outlook.
prospection		The act of looking forward, or of providing for future wants; foresight.
prospective		Looking forward in time; acting with foresight; -- opposed to retrospective.
prospectively		In a prospective manner.
prospectiveness		Quality of being prospective.
prospectless		Having no prospect.
prospector		One who prospects; especially, one who explores a region for minerals and precious metals.
prospectus		A summary, plan, or scheme of something proposed, affording a prospect of its nature; especially, an exposition of the scheme of an unpublished literary work.
prosper		To favor; to render successful. of Common Prayer.
prosperity		The state of being prosperous; advance or gain in anything good or desirable; successful progress in any business or enterprise; attainment of the object desired; good fortune; success; as, commercial prosperity…
prosperous		Tending to prosperity; favoring; favorable; helpful.
prosphysis		A growing together of parts; specifically, a morbid adhesion of the eyelids to each other or to the eyeball.
prospicience		The act of looking forward.
prostate		Standing before; -- applied to a gland which is found in the males of most mammals, and is situated at the neck of the bladder where this joins the urethra. -- n.
prostatic		Of or pertaining to the prostate gland.
prostatitis		Inflammation of the prostate.
prosternation	Obsolete	Dejection; depression.
prosternum		The ventral plate of the prothorax of an insect.
prosthesis		(Surg.) The addition to the human body of some artificial part, to replace one that is wanting, as a log or an eye; -- called also prothesis.
prosthetic		Of or pertaining to prosthesis; prefixed, as a letter or letters to a word.
prostibulous	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to prostitutes or prostitution; meretricious.
prostitute		To offer, as a woman, to a lewd use; to give up to lewdness for hire. xix. 29.
prostitution		The act or practice of prostituting or offering the body to an indiscriminate intercourse with men; common lewdness of a woman.
prostitutor		One who prostitutes; one who submits himself, of or offers another, to vile purposes.
prostomium		That portion of the head of an annelid situated in front of the mouth. -- Pro*sto"mi*al, a.
prostrate		Lying at length, or with the body extended on the ground or other surface; stretched out; as, to sleep prostrate Elyot.
prostration		The act of prostrating, throwing down, or laying fiat; as, the prostration of the body.
prostyle		Having columns in front. -- n.
prosy		Of or pertaining to prose; like prose.
prosylogism		A syllogism preliminary or logically essential to another syllogism; the conclusion of such a syllogism, which becomes a premise of the following syllogism.
protactic		Giving a previous narrative or explanation, as of the plot or personages of a play; introductory. = 32,500 yrs.) Also called brevium, Uranium X2 and UX2.
protagon		A nitrogenous phosphorized principle found in brain tissue.
protagonist		One who takes the leading part in a drama; hence, one who takes lead in some great scene, enterprise, conflict, or the like.
protamin		An amorphous nitrogenous substance found in the spermatic fluid of salmon.
protandric		Having male sexual organs while young, and female organs later in life. -- Pro*tan"trism, n.
protandrous		Proterandrous.
protasis		(Gram.) The introductory or subordinate member of a sentence, generally of a conditional sentence; -- opposed to apodosis.
protatic		Of or pertaining to the protasis of an ancient play; introductory.
proteaceous		Of or pertaining to the Proteaceæ, an order of apetalous evergreen shrubs, mostly natives of the Cape of Good Hope or of Australia.
protean		Of or pertaining to Proteus; characteristic of Proteus.
proteanly		In a protean manner.
protect		To cover or shield from danger or injury; to defend; to guard; to preserve in safety; as, a father protects his children.
protectingly		By way of protection; in a protective manner.
protection		The act of protecting, or the state of being protected; preservation from loss, injury, or annoyance; defense; shelter; as, the weak need protection.
protectionism		The doctrine or policy of protectionists. See Protection, 4.
protectionist		One who favors protection. See Protection, 4.
protective		Affording protection; sheltering; defensive.
protectiveness		The quality or state of being protective.
protector		One who, or that which, defends or shields from injury, evil, oppression, etc.; a defender; a guardian; a patron.
protectoral		Of or pertaining to a protector; protectorial; as, protectoral power.
protectorate		Government by a protector; -- applied especially to the government of England by Oliver Cromwell.
protectorial		Same as Protectoral.
protectorless		Having no protector; unprotected.
protectorship		, The office of a protector or regent; protectorate.
protectress		A woman who protects.
protectrix		A woman who protects.
protege		One under the care and protection of another.
protegee		One under the care and protection of another.
proteid		One of a class of amorphous nitrogenous principles, containing, as a rule, a small amount of sulphur; an albuminoid, as blood fibrin, casein of milk…
proteidea		An order of aquatic amphibians having prominent external gills and four legs.
proteiform		Changeable in form; resembling a Proteus, or an amoeba.
protein		A body now known as alkali albumin, but originally considered to be the basis of all albuminous substances, whence its name.
proteinaceous		Of or related to protein; albuminous; proteid.
proteinous		Proteinaceuos.
proteles		A South Africa genus of Carnivora, allied to the hyenas, but smaller and having weaker jaws and teeth.
protend	Obsolete	To hold out; to stretch forth.
protense	Obsolete	Extension.
protension		A drawing out; extension.
protensive		Drawn out; extended.
proteolysis		The digestion or dissolving of proteid matter by proteolytic ferments.
proteolytic		Converting proteid or albuminous matter into soluble and diffusible products, as peptones.
proteose		One of a class of soluble products formed in the digestion of proteids with gastric and pancreatic juice, and also by the hydrolytic action of boiling dilute acids on proteids.
proterandrous		Having the stamens come to maturity before the pistil; -- opposed to proterogynous.
proterandry		The condition of being proterandrous.
proteranthous		Having flowers appearing before the leaves; -- said of certain plants.
proteroglypha		A suborder of serpents including those that have permanently erect grooved poison fangs, with ordinary teeth behind them in the jaws.
proterogynous		Having the pistil come to maturity before the stamens; protogynous; -- opposed to proterandrous.
proterosaurus		An extinct genus of reptiles of the Permian period.
protervity	Obsolete	Peevishness; petulance.
protest		To affirm in a public or formal manner; to bear witness; to declare solemnly; to avow.
protestancy		Protestantism.
protestant		One who protests; -- originally applied to those who adhered to Luther, and protested against, or made a solemn declaration of dissent from, a decree of the Emperor Charles V. and the Diet of Spires, in 1529…
protestantical	Obsolete	Protestant.
protestantism		The quality or state of being protestant, especially against the Roman Catholic Church; the principles or religion of the Protestants.
protestantly		Like a Protestant; in conformity with Protestantism.
protestation		The act of making a protest; a public avowal; a solemn declaration, especially of dissent.
protestator		One who makes protestation; a protester.
protester		One who protests; one who utters a solemn declaration.
protestingly		By way of protesting.
proteus		(Zoöl.) (a) A genus of aquatic eel-shaped amphibians found in caves in Austria.
prothalamion		A song in celebration of a marriage.
prothalamium		A song in celebration of a marriage.
prothallium		Same as Prothallus.
prothallus		The minute primary growth from the spore of ferns and other Pteridophyta, which bears the true sexual organs; the oöphoric generation of ferns, etc.
prothesis		(Eccl.) A credence table; -- so called by the Eastern or Greek Church.
prothetic		Of or pertaining to prothesis; as, a prothetic apparatus.
prothonotary		A chief notary or clerk.
prothonotaryship		Office of a prothonotary.
prothoracic		Of or pertaining to the prothorax.
prothorax		The first or anterior segment of the thorax in insects. See Illusts. of Butterfly and Coleoptera.
prothyalosome		Same as Prothyalosoma.
protist		One of the Protista.
protista		A provisional group in which are placed a number of low microscopic organisms of doubtful nature.
protiston		One of the Protista.
proto-		A combining form prefix signifying first, primary, primordial; as, protomartyr, the first martyr; protomorphic, primitive in form; protoplast, a primordial organism; prototype, protozoan.
proto-doric		Pertaining to, or designating, architecture, in which the beginnings of the Doric style are supposed to be found.
protocanonical		Of or pertaining to the first canon, or that which contains the authorized collection of the books of Scripture; -- opposed to deutero-canonical.
protocatechuic		Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an organic acid which is obtained as a white crystalline substance from catechin, asafetida, oil of cloves, etc., and by distillation itself yields pyrocatechin.
protocercal		Having a caudal fin extending around the end of the vertebral column, like that which is first formed in the embryo of fishes; diphycercal.
protococcus		A genus of minute unicellular algæ including the red snow plant (Protococcus nivalis).
protocol		The original copy of any writing, as of a deed, treaty, dispatch, or other instrument.
protocolist		One who draughts protocols.
protoconch		The embryonic shell, or first chamber, of ammonites and other cephalopods.
protogine		A kind of granite or gneiss containing a silvery talcose mineral.
protogynous		Same as Proterogynous.
protohippus		A genus of fossil horses from the Lower Pliocene.
protomartyr		The first martyr; the first who suffers, or is sacrificed, in any cause; -- applied esp. to Stephen, the first Christian martyr.
protomerite		The second segment of one of the Gregarinæ.
protometals		A finer form of metals, indicated by enhanced lines in their spark spectra (which are also observed in the spectra of some stars), obtained at the highest available laboratory temperatures (Lockyer); as protocalcium…
protomorphic		Having the most primitive character; in the earliest form; as, a protomorphic layer of tissue.
protonema		The primary growth from the spore of a moss, usually consisting of branching confervoid filaments, on any part of which stem and leaf buds may be developed.
protonotary		A chief notary or clerk.
protooerganism		An organism whose nature is so difficult to determine that it might be referred to either the animal or the vegetable kingdom.
protoorganism		An organism whose nature is so difficult to determine that it might be referred to either the animal or the vegetable kingdom.
protopapas		A protopope.
protophyte		Any unicellular plant, or plant forming only a plasmodium, having reproduction only by fission, gemmation, or cell division.
protophytology		Paleobotany.
protopine		An alkaloid found in opium in small quantities, and extracted as a white crystalline substance.
protoplasm		The viscid and more or less granular material of vegetable and animal cells, possessed of vital properties by which the processes of nutrition, secretion, and growth go forward; the so-called the original cell substance…
protoplasmatic		Protoplasmic.
protoplasmic		Of or pertaining to the first formation of living bodies.
protoplast		The thing first formed; that of which there are subsequent copies or reproductions; the original.
protoplasta		A division of fresh-water rhizopods including those that have a soft body and delicate branched pseudopodia.
protoplastic		First-formed.
protopodite		The basal portion, or two proximal and more or less consolidated segments, of an appendage of a crustacean.
protopope		One of the clergy of first rank in the lower order of secular clergy; an archpriest; -- called also protopapas.
protopterus		See Komtok — an african freshwater fish (Protopterus annectens), belonging to the Dipnoi.
protosalt	Obsolete	A salt derived from a protoxide base.
protosilicate		A silicate formed with the lowest proportion of silicic acid, or having but one atom of silicon in the molecule.
protosomite		One of the primitive segments, or metameres, of an animal.
protosulphide		That one of a series of sulphides of any element which has the lowest proportion of sulphur; a sulphide with but one atom of sulphur in the molecule.
protosulphuret	Obsolete	A protosulphide.
prototheria		Same as Monotremata.
prototracheata		Same as Malacopoda.
prototype		An original or model after which anything is copied; the pattern of anything to be engraved, or otherwise copied, cast, or the like; a primary form; exemplar; archetype.
protovertebra		One of the primitive masses, or segments, into which the mesoblast of the vertebrate embryo breaks up on either side of the anterior part of the notochord; a mesoblastic, or protovertebral, somite.
protovertebral		Of or pertaining to the protovertebræ.
protoxide		That one of a series of oxides having the lowest proportion of oxygen.
protoxidize		To combine with oxygen, as any elementary substance, in such proportion as to form a protoxide.
protozoa		The lowest of the grand divisions of the animal kingdom.
protozoan		Of or pertaining to the Protozoa. -- n.
protozoic		(Geol.) Containing remains of the earliest discovered life of the globe, which included mollusks, radiates and protozoans.
protozooen		(a) One of the Protozoa. (b) A single zooid of a compound protozoan.
protozooenite		One of the primary, or first-formed, segments of an embryonic arthropod.
protozoon		(a) One of the Protozoa. (b) A single zooid of a compound protozoan.
protozoonite		One of the primary, or first-formed, segments of an embryonic arthropod.
protracheata		Same as Malacopoda.
protract		To draw out or lengthen in time or (rarely) in space; to continue; to prolong; as, to protract an argument; to protract a war.
protracted		Prolonged; continued.
protracter		A protractor.
protractile		Capable of being protracted, or protruded; protrusile.
protraction		A drawing out, or continuing; the act of delaying the termination of a thing; prolongation; continuance; delay; as, the protraction of a debate.
protractive		Drawing out or lengthening in time; prolonging; continuing; delaying.
protractor		One who, or that which, protracts, or causes protraction.
protreptical	Obsolete	Adapted to persuade; hortatory; persuasive.
protrudable		That may be protruded; protrusile.
protrude		To thrust forward; to drive or force along.
protrusile		Capable of being protruded or thrust out; protractile; protrusive.
protrusion		The act of protruding or thrusting forward, or beyond the usual limit.
protrusive		Thrusting or impelling forward; as, protrusive motion.
protrusively		In a protrusive manner.
protuberance		That which is protuberant swelled or pushed beyond the surrounding or adjacent surface; a swelling or tumor on the body; a prominence; a bunch or knob; an elevation.
protuberancy		The quality or state of being protuberant; protuberance; prominence.
protuberant		Prominent, or excessively prominent; bulging beyond the surrounding or adjacent surface; swelling; as, a protuberant joint; a protuberant eye. -- Pro*tu"ber*ant*ly, adv.
protuberate		To swell, or be prominent, beyond the adjacent surface; to bulge out.
protuberation		The act of swelling beyond the surrounding surface.
protuberous		Protuberant.
protureter		The duct of a pronephros.
protyle		The hypothetical homogeneous cosmic material of the original universe, supposed to have been differentiated into what are recognized as distinct chemical elements.
proud		Feeling or manifesting pride, in a good or bad sense; as: (a) Possessing or showing too great self-esteem; overrating one's excellences; hence, arrogant; haughty; lordly; presumptuous.
proudish		Somewhat proud.
proudling		A proud or haughty person.
proudly		In a proud manner; with lofty airs or mien; haughtily; arrogantly; boastfully.
proudness		The quality of being proud; pride.
proustite		A sulphide of arsenic and silver of a beautiful cochineal-red color, occurring in rhombohedral crystals, and also massive; ruby silver.
provable		Capable of being proved; demonstrable. -- Prov a*bly, adv.
provand	Obsolete	Provender or food.
provant	Obsolete	To supply with provender or provisions; to provide for.
prove		To try or to ascertain by an experiment, or by a test or standard; to test; as, to prove the strength of gunpowder or of ordnance; to prove the contents of a vessel by a standard measure.
provect	Obsolete	Carried forward; advanced.
provection		A carrying forward, as of a final letter, to a following word; as, for example, a nickname for an ekename.
proveditor		One employed to procure supplies, as for an army, a steamer, etc.; a purveyor; one who provides for another.
provedore		A proveditor; a purveyor.
provenance		Origin; source; provenience.
provencal		Of or pertaining to Provence or its inhabitants.
provencial		Of or pertaining to Provence in France.
provend	Obsolete	See Provand — provender or food.
provender		Dry food for domestic animals, as hay, straw, corn, oats, or a mixture of ground grain; feed.
provenience		Origin; source; place where found or produced; provenance; -- used esp. in the fine arts and in archæology; as, the provenience of a patera.
provenient	Rare	Forthcoming; issuing.
provent	Obsolete	See Provand — provender or food.
proventricle		Proventriculus.
proventriulus		The glandular stomach of birds, situated just above the crop.
prover		One who, or that which, proves.
proverb		An old and common saying; a phrase which is often repeated; especially, a sentence which briefly and forcibly expresses some practical truth, or the result of experience and observation; a maxim; a saw; an adage.
proverbial		Mentioned or comprised in a proverb; used as a proverb; hence, commonly known; as, a proverbial expression; his meanness was proverbial.
proverbialism		A proverbial phrase.
proverbialist		One who makes much use of proverbs in speech or writing; one who composes, collects, or studies proverbs.
proverbialize		To turn into a proverb; to speak in proverbs.
proverbially		In a proverbial manner; by way of proverb; hence, commonly; universally; as, it is proverbially said; the bee is proverbially busy.
provexity	Obsolete	Great advance in age.
provide		To look out for in advance; to procure beforehand; to get, collect, or make ready for future use; to prepare.
provided		On condition; by stipulation; with the understanding; if; -- usually followed by that; as, provided that nothing in this act shall prejudice the rights of any person whatever.
providence		The act of providing or preparing for future use or application; a making ready; preparation.
provident		Foreseeing wants and making provision to supply them; prudent in preparing for future exigencies; cautious; economical; -- sometimes followed by of; as, aprovident man; an animal provident of the future.
providential		Effected by, or referable to, divine direction or superintendence; as, the providential contrivance of thing; a providential escape. -- Prov"i*den"tial*ly, adv.
providently		In a provident manner.
providentness		The quality or state of being provident; carefulness; prudence; economy.
provider		One who provides, furnishes, or supplies; one who procures what is wanted.
providore		One who makes provision; a purveyor.
province		(Roman Hist.) A country or region, more or less remote from the city of Rome, brought under the Roman government; a conquered country beyond the limits of Italy.
provincial		Of or pertaining to province; constituting a province; as, a provincial government; a provincial dialect.
provincialism		A word, or a manner of speaking, peculiar to a province or a district remote from the mother country or from the metropolis; a provincial characteristic; hence, narrowness; illiberality.
provincialist		One who lives in a province; a provincial.
provinciality		The quality or state of being provincial; peculiarity of language characteristic of a province.
provincialize		To render provincial.
provincially		In a provincial manner.
provinciate	Obsolete	To convert into a province or provinces.
provine	Obsolete	To lay a stock or branch of a vine in the ground for propagation.
provision		The act of providing, or making previous preparation.
provisional		Of the nature of a provision; serving as a provision for the time being; -- used of partial or temporary arrangements; as, a provisional government; a provisional treaty.
provisionally		By way of provision for the time being; temporarily.
provisionary		Provisional.
proviso		An article or clause in any statute, agreement, contract, grant, or other writing, by which a condition is introduced, usually beginning with the word provided; a conditional stipulation that affects an agreement, contract, law…
provisor		(Eng. Hist.) One who procures or receives a papal provision. See Provision, 6.
provisorily		In a provisory manner; conditionally; subject to a proviso; as, to admit a doctrine provisorily.
provisorship		The office or position of a provisor.
provisory		Of the nature of a proviso; containing a proviso or condition; conditional; as, a provisory clause.
provocation		The act of provoking, or causing vexation or, anger.
provocative		Serving or tending to provoke, excite, or stimulate; exciting.
provocativeness		Quality of being provocative.
provocatory		Provocative.
provokable		That may be provoked.
provoke		To call forth; to call into being or action; esp., to incense to action, a faculty or passion, as love, hate, or ambition; hence, commonly, to incite, as a person, to action by a challenge, by taunts, or by defiance…
provokement		The act that which, provokes; one who excites anger or other passion, or incites to action; as, a provoker of sedition.
provoking		Having the power or quality of exciting resentment; tending to awaken passion or vexation; as, provoking words or treatment. -- Pro*vok"ing*ly, adv.
provost		A person who is appointed to superintend, or preside over, something; the chief magistrate in some cities and towns; as, the provost of Edinburgh or of Glasgow, answering to the mayor of other cities; the provost of a college…
provostship		The office of a provost.
prow	Archaic	The fore part of a vessel; the bow; the stem; hence, the vessel itself.
prowess		Distinguished bravery; valor; especially, military bravery and skill; gallantry; intrepidity; fearlessness.
prowl		To rove over, through, or about in a stealthy manner; esp., to search in, as for prey or booty.
prowler		One that prowls.
prowling		Accustomed to prowl, or engaged in roving stealthily, as for prey. -- Prowl"ing*ly, adv.
proxene		An officer who had the charge of showing hospitality to those who came from a friendly city or state.
proxenet		A negotiator; a factor.
proxenetism		The action of a go-between or broker in negotiating immoral bargains between the sexes; procuring.
proximad		Toward a proximal part; on the proximal side of; proximally.
proximal		Toward or nearest, as to a body, or center of motion of dependence; proximate.
proximally		On or toward a proximal part; proximad.
proximate		Nearest; next immediately preceding or following.
proximately		In a proximate manner, position, or degree; immediately.
proxime	Obsolete	Next; immediately preceding or following.
proximious	Obsolete	Proximate.
proximity		The quality or state of being next in time, place, causation, influence, etc.; immediate nearness, either in place, blood, or alliance.
proximo		In the next month after the present; -- often contracted to prox.; as, on the 3d proximo.
proxy		The agency for another who acts through the agent; authority to act for another, esp. to vote in a legislative or corporate capacity.
proxyship		The office or agency of a proxy.
pruce	Obsolete	Prussian leather.
prude		A woman of affected modesty, reserve, or coyness; one who is overscrupulous or sensitive; one who affects extraordinary prudence in conduct and speech.
prudence		The quality or state of being prudent; wisdom in the way of caution and provision; discretion; carefulness; hence, also, economy; frugality.
prudency	Obsolete	Prudence.
prudent		Sagacious in adapting means to ends; circumspect in action, or in determining any line of conduct; practically wise; judicious; careful; discreet; sensible; -- opposed to rash; as, a prudent man…
prudential		Proceeding from, or dictated or characterized by, prudence; prudent; discreet; sometimes, selfish or pecuniary as distinguished from higher motives or influences; as, prudential motives.
prudentialist		One who is governed by, or acts from, prudential motives.
prudentiality		The quality or state of being prudential.
prudentially		In a prudential manner; prudently.
prudently		In a prudent manner.
prudery		The quality or state of being prudish; excessive or affected scrupulousness in speech or conduct; stiffness; coyness.
prudhomme		A trustworthy citizen; a skilled workman. See Citation under 3d Commune, 1.
prudish		Like a prude; very formal, precise, or reserved; affectedly severe in virtue; as, a prudish woman; prudish manners.
prudishly		In a prudish manner.
pruinate		Same as Pruinose.
pruinose		Frosty; covered with fine scales, hairs, dust, bloom, or the like, so as to give the appearance of frost.
pruinous		Frosty; pruinose.
prune		To lop or cut off the superfluous parts, branches, or shoots of; to clear of useless material; to shape or smooth by trimming; to trim: as, to prune trees; to prune an essay.
prunella		(a) Angina, or angina pectoris. (b) Thrush.
prunelle		A kind of small and very acid French plum; -- applied especially to the stoned and dried fruit.
prunello		A smooth woolen stuff, generally black, used for making shoes; a kind of lasting; -- formerly used also for clergymen's gowns.
pruner		One who prunes, or removes, what is superfluous.
pruniferous		Bearing plums.
pruning		The act of trimming, or removing what is superfluous.
prunus		A genus of trees with perigynous rosaceous flowers, and a single two-ovuled carpel which usually becomes a drupe in ripening.
prurience		The quality or state of being prurient.
pruriency		The quality or state of being prurient.
prurient		Uneasy with desire; itching; especially, having a lascivious curiosity or propensity; lustful. -- Pru"ri*ent*ly, adv.
pruriginous		Tending to, or caused by, prurigo; affected by, or of the nature of, prurigo.
prurigo		A papular disease of the skin, of which intense itching is the chief symptom, the eruption scarcely differing from the healthy cuticle in color.
pruritus		Itching.
prussian		Of or pertaining to Prussia. -- n.
prussiate		A salt of prussic acid; a cyanide.
prussic		designating the acid now called hydrocyanic acid, but formerly called prussic acid, because Prussian blue is derived from it or its compounds.
prutenic		Prussian; -- applied to certain astronomical tables published in the sixteenth century, founded on the principles of Copernicus, a Prussian.
pry	Dialect	A lever; also, leverage.
pryan		See Prian — a fine, white, somewhat friable clay; also, the ore contained in a mixture of clay and pebbles.
prying		Inspecting closely or impertinently.
pryingly		In a prying manner.
prytaneum		A public building in certain Greek cities; especially, a public hall in Athens regarded as the home of the community, in which official hospitality was extended to distinguished citizens and strangers.
prytanis		A member of one of the ten sections into which the Athenian senate of five hundred was divided, and to each of which belonged the presidency of the senate for about one tenth of the year.
prytany		The period during which the presidency of the senate belonged to the prytanes of the section.
prythee		See Prithee — a corruption of pray thee; as, I prithee; generally used without I.
