psalm		A sacred song; a poetical composition for use in the praise or worship of God.	
psalmist		A writer or composer of sacred songs; -- a title particularly applied to David and the other authors of the Scriptural psalms.	
psalmistry		The use of psalms in devotion; psalmody.	
psalmodic		Relating to psalmody.	
psalmodical		Relating to psalmody.	
psalmodist		One who sings sacred songs; a psalmist.	
psalmodize		To practice psalmody.	
psalmody		The act, practice, or art of singing psalms or sacred songs; also, psalms collectively, or a collection of psalms.	
psalmograph		A writer of psalms; a psalmographer.	
psalmographer		A writer of psalms, or sacred songs and hymns.	
psalmographist		A writer of psalms, or sacred songs and hymns.	
psalmography		The act or practice of writing psalms, or sacred songs.	
psalter		The Book of Psalms; -- often applied to a book containing the Psalms separately printed.	
psalterial		Of or pertaining to the psalterium.	
psalterium		(a) The third stomach of ruminants. See Manyplies. (b) The lyra of the brain.	
psaltery		A stringed instrument of music used by the Hebrews, the form of which is not known.	
psammite		A species of micaceous sandstone. -- Psam*mit"ic, a.	
psarolite		A silicified stem of tree fern, found in abundance in the Triassic sandstone.	
psellism		Indistinct pronunciation; stammering.	
psephism		A proposition adopted by a majority of votes; especially, one adopted by vote of the Athenian people; a statute.	Greek ψήφισμα.
pseudaesthesia		False or imaginary feeling or sense perception such as occurs in hypochondriasis, or such as is referred to an organ that has been removed, as an amputated foot.	
pseudembryo		(a) A false embryo. (b) An asexual form from which the true embryo is produced by budding.	
pseudepigraphic		Of or pertaining to pseudepigraphy.	
pseudepigraphous		Inscribed with a false name.	
pseudepigraphy		The ascription of false names of authors to works.	
pseudhaemal		Pertaining to the vascular system of annelids.	
pseudo-		A combining form or prefix signifying false, counterfeit, pretended, spurious; as, pseudo-apostle, a false apostle; pseudo- clergy, false or spurious clergy; pseudo-episcopacy, pseudo-form, pseudo-martyr, pseudo-philosopher.	
pseudo-bulb		An aërial corm, or thickened stem, as of some epiphytic orchidaceous plants.	
pseudo-china		The false china root, a plant of the genus Smilax (S.	
pseudo-cone		One of the soft gelatinous cones found in the compound eyes of certain insects, taking the place of the crystalline cones of others.	
pseudo-cumene		A hydrocarbon of the aromatic series, metameric with mesitylene and cumene, found in coal tar, and obtained as a colorless liquid.	
pseudo-dipteral		Falsely or imperfectly dipteral, as a temple with the inner range of columns surrounding the cella omitted, so that the space between the cella wall and the columns is very great…	
pseudo-galena		False galena, or blende. See Blende (a).	
pseudo-heart		Any contractile vessel of invertebrates which is not of the nature of a real heart, especially one of those pertaining to the excretory system.	
pseudo-hyperthophic		Falsely hypertrophic; as, pseudo-hypertrophic paralysis, a variety of paralysis in which the muscles are apparently enlarged, but are really degenerated and replaced by fat.	
pseudo-metallic		Falsely or imperfectly metallic; -- said of a kind of luster, as in minerals.	
pseudo-monocotyledonous		Having two coalescent cotyledons, as the live oak and the horse-chestnut.	
pseudo-peripteral		Falsely or imperfectly peripteral, as a temple having the columns at the sides attached to the walls, and an ambulatory only at the ends or only at one end. -- n.	
pseudo-romantic		Falsely romantic.	
pseudo-symmetric		Exhibiting pseudo-symmetry.	
pseudo-symmetry		A kind of symmetry characteristic of certain crystals which from twinning, or other causes, come to resemble forms of a system other than that to which they belong, as the apparently hexagonal prisms of aragonite.	
pseudobacteria		Microscopic organic particles, molecular granules, powdered inorganic substances, etc., which in form, size, and grouping resemble bacteria.	
pseudoblepsis		False or depraved sight; imaginary vision of objects.	
pseudobranch		Same as Pseudobranchia.	
pseudobranchia		A rudimentary branchia, or gill. -- Pseu`do*bran"chi*al, a.	
pseudocarp		That portion of an anthocarpous fruit which is not derived from the ovary, as the soft part of a strawberry or of a fig.	
pseudocoele		Same as Pseudocoelia.	
pseudocoelia		The fifth ventricle in the mammalian brain. See Ventricle.	
pseudodox		Not true in opinion or doctrine; false. -- n.	
pseudofilaria		One of the two elongated vibratile young formed by fission of the embryo during the development of certain Gregarinæ.	
pseudograph		A false writing; a spurious document; a forgery.	
pseudography		False writing; forgery.	
pseudohalter		One of the rudimentary front wings of certain insects (Stylops).	
pseudologist		One who utters falsehoods; a liar.	
pseudology		Falsehood of speech.	
pseudomorph		An irregular or deceptive form.	
pseudomorphism		The state of having, or the property of taking, a crystalline form unlike that which belongs to the species.	
pseudomorphous		Not having the true form.	
pseudonavicella		Same as Pseudonavicula.	
pseudonavicula		One of the minute spindle-shaped embryos of Gregarinæ and some other Protozoa.	
pseudoneuroptera		division of insects (Zoöl.) reticulated wings, as in the Neuroptera, but having an active pupa state.	
pseudoneuropterous		Of or pertaining to the Pseudoneuroptera.	
pseudonym		A fictitious name assumed for the time, as by an author; a pen name.	
pseudonymity		The using of fictitious names, as by authors.	
pseudonymous		Bearing a false or fictitious name; as, a pseudonymous work. -- Pseu*don y*mous*ness, n.	
pseudopod		(Biol.) Any protoplasmic filament or irregular process projecting from any unicellular organism, or from any animal or plant call.	
pseudopodial		Of or pertaining to a pseudopod, or to pseudopodia. See Illust. of Heliozoa.	
pseudopodium		Same as Pseudopod.	
pseudopupa		A stage intermediate between the larva and pupa of bees and certain other hymenopterous insects.	
pseudorhabdite		One of the peculiar rodlike corpuscles found in the integument of certain Turbellaria.	
pseudoscope		An instrument which exhibits objects with their proper relief reversed; -- an effect opposite to that produced by the stereoscope.	
pseudoscopic		Of, pertaining to, or formed by, a pseudoscope; having its parts appearing with the relief reversed; as, a pseudoscopic image.	
pseudoscorpiones		An order of Arachnoidea having the palpi terminated by large claws, as in the scorpions, but destitute of a caudal sting; the false scorpions.	
pseudosphere		The surface of constant negative curvature generated by the revolution of a tractrix.	
pseudospore		A peculiar reproductive cell found in some fungi.	
pseudostella		Any starlike meteor or phenomenon.	
pseudostoma		A group of cells resembling a stoma, but without any true aperture among them.	
pseudotetramera		A division of beetles having the fifth tarsal joint minute and obscure, so that there appear to be but four joints. -- Pseu`do*te*tram"er*al, a.	
pseudotinea		The bee moth, or wax moth (Galleria).	
pseudoturbinal		See under Turbinal.	
pseudovary		The organ in which pseudova are produced; -- called also pseudovarium.	
pseudovum		An egglike germ produced by the agamic females of some insects and other animals, and by the larvæ of certain insects.	
pshaw		Pish! pooch! -- an exclamation used as an expression of contempt, disdain, dislike, etc. To express disgust or contemptuous disapprobation…	
psilanthropic		Pertaining to, or embodying, psilanthropy.	
psilanthropism		Psilanthropy.	
psilanthropist		One who believes that Christ was a mere man.	
psilanthropy		The doctrine of the merely human existence of Christ.	
psilology		Love of empty of empty talk or noise.	
psilomelane		A hydrous oxide of manganese, occurring in smooth, botryoidal forms, and massive, and having an iron-black or steel-gray color.	
psilopaedes		birds whose young at first have down on the pterylæ only; -- called also Gymnopædes.	
psilopaedic		Having down upon the pterylæ only; -- said of the young of certain birds.	
psilosopher		A superficial or narrow pretender to philosophy; a sham philosopher.	
psitta-co-fulvine		A yellow pigment found in the feathers of certain parrots.	
psittaceous		Of or pertaining to the parrots, or the Psittaci. -- n.	
psittaci		The order of birds which comprises the parrots.	
psittacid		Of or pertaining to the parrots, or the Psittaci. -- n.	
psoas		An internal muscle arising from the lumbar vertebræ and inserted into the femur.	
psora		A cutaneous disease; especially, the itch.	
psoriasis	Obsolete	(a) The state of being affected with psora. (b) A cutaneous disease, characterized by imbricated silvery scales, affecting only the superficial layers of the skin.	Greek ψωρίασις.
psoric		Of or pertaining to psora.	
psorosperm		A minute parasite, usually the young of Gregarinæ, in the pseudonavicula stage.	
psychagogic		Attractive; persuasive.	
psychagogue		A necromancer.	
psychal		Of or pertaining to the soul; psychical.	
psychanalysis		A method or process of psychotherapeutic analysis based on the work of Dr. Sigmund Freud (1856- --) of Vienna.	
psyche		(Class Myth.) A lovely maiden, daughter of a king and mistress of Eros, or Cupid.	Latin psyche, from Greek ψυχή.
psychian		Any small moth of the genus Psyche and allied genera (family Psychidæ).	
psychiatria		The application of the healing art to mental diseases.	
psychiatric		Of or pertaining to psychiatria.	
psychiatry		The application of the healing art to mental diseases.	
psychic		Of or pertaining to the human soul, or to the living principle in man.	Greek ψυχικός.
psychical		Of or pertaining to the human soul, or to the living principle in man.	
psychics		Psychology.	
psychism		The doctrine of Quesne, that there is a fluid universally diffused, end equally animating all living beings, the difference in their actions being due to the difference of the individual organizations.	
psycho-		A combining form from Gr. the soul, the mind, the understanding; as, psychology.	Greek ψυχή.
psycho-motor		Of or pertaining to movement produced by action of the mind or will.	
psychoanalysis		= Psychanalysis, Psychanalytic.	
psychoanalytic		= Psychanalysis, Psychanalytic.	
psychogenesis		Genesis through an internal force, as opposed to natural selection.	
psychography		A description of the phenomena of mind.	
psychologic		Of or pertaining to psychology. See Note under Psychic. -- Psy`cho*log"ic*al*ly, adv.	
psychological		Of or pertaining to psychology. See Note under Psychic. -- Psy`cho*log"ic*al*ly, adv.	
psychologist		One who is versed in, devoted to, psychology.	
psychologue		A psychologist.	
psychology		The science of the human soul; specifically, the systematic or scientific knowledge of the powers and functions of the human soul, so far as they are known by consciousness; a treatise on the human soul.	French psychologie, from Latin psychologia.
psychomachy		A conflict of the soul with the body.	
psychomancy		Necromancy.	
psychometry		The art of measuring the duration of mental processes, or of determining the time relations of mental phenomena. -- Psy`cho*met"ric, a.	
psychopannychism		The doctrine that the soul falls asleep at death, and does not wake until the resurrection of the body. -- Psy`cho*pan"ny*chism, n.	
psychopathy		Mental disease. See Psychosis,	
psychophysical		Of or pertaining to psychophysics; involving the action or mutual relations of the psychical and physical in man.	
psychophysics		The science of the connection between nerve action and consciousness; the science which treats of the relations of the psychical and physical in their conjoint operation in man…	
psychopomp		A leader or guide of souls.	Greek ψυχοπομπός.
psychosis		Any vital action or activity.	
psychotherapeutics		The treatment of disease by acting on the mind, as by suggestion; mind cure; psychotherapy.	
psychotherapy		Psychotherapeutics.	
psychozoic		Designating, or applied to the Era of man; as, the psychozoic era.	
psychrometer		An instrument for measuring the tension of the aqueous vapor in the atmosphere, being essentially a wet and dry bulb hygrometer.	
psychrometrical		Of or pertaining to the psychrometer or psychrometry.	
psychrometry		Hygrometry.	
psylla		Any leaping plant louse of the genus Psylla, or family Psyllidæ.	
