ptarmigan		Any grouse of the genus Lagopus, of which numerous species are known.
ptenoglossa		A division of gastropod mollusks having the teeth of the radula arranged in long transverse rows, somewhat like the barbs of a feather.
ptenoglossate		Of or pertaining to the Ptenoglossa.
pteranodon		A genus of American Cretaceous pterodactyls destitute of teeth.
pteranodontia		A group of pterodactyls destitute of teeth, as in the genus Pteranodon.
pterichthys		A genus of Devonian fossil fishes with winglike appendages.
pteridologist		One who is versed in pteridology.
pteridology		That department of botany which treats of ferns.
pteridomania		A madness, craze, or strong fancy, for ferns.
pteridophyta		A class of flowerless plants, embracing ferns, horsetails, club mosses, quillworts, and other like plants.
pterobranchia		An order of marine Bryozoa, having a bilobed lophophore and an axial cord.
pteroceras		A genus of large marine gastropods having the outer border of the lip divided into lobes; -- called also scorpion shell.
pterocletes		A division of birds including the sand grouse.
pterodactyl		An extinct flying reptile; one of the Pterosauria. See Illustration in Appendix.
pterodactyli		Same as Pterosauria.
pteroglossal		Having the tongue finely notched along the sides, so as to have a featherlike appearance, as the toucans.
pteron		The region of the skull, in the temporal fossa back of the orbit, where the great wing of the sphenoid, the temporal, the parietal, and the frontal hones approach each other.
pteropappi		Same as Odontotormæ.
pterophore		Any moth of the genus Pterophorus and allied genera; a plume moth. See Plume moth, under Plume.
pteropod		One of the Pteropoda.
pteropoda		A class of Mollusca in which the anterior lobes of the foot are developed in the form of broad, thin, winglike organs, with which they swim at near the surface of the sea.
pteropodous		Of or pertaining to the Pteropoda.
pterosaur		A pterodactyl.
pterosauria		An extinct order of flying reptiles of the Mesozoic age; the pterodactyls; -- called also Pterodactyli, and Ornithosauria.
pterosaurian		Of or pertaining to the Pterosauria.
pterostigma		A thickened opaque spot on the wings of certain insects.
pterotic		Of or pertaining to, or designating, a bone between the proötic and epiotic in the dorsal and outer part of the periotic capsule of many fishes. -- n.
pterygium		A superficial growth of vascular tissue radiating in a fanlike manner from the cornea over the surface of the eye.
pterygoid		(a) Like a bird's wing in form; as, a pterygoid bone. (b) Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the pterygoid bones, pterygoid processes, or the whole sphenoid bone. -- n.
pterygomaxillary		Of or pertaining to the inner pterygoid plate, or pterygoid bone, and the lower jaw.
pterygopalatine		Of or pertaining to the pterygoid processes and the palatine bones.
pterygopodium		A specially modified part of the ventral fin in male elasmobranchs, which serves as a copulatory organ, or clasper.
pterygoquadrate		Of, pertaining to, or representing the pterygoid and quadrate bones or cartilages.
pteryla		One of the definite areas of the skin of a bird on which feathers grow; -- contrasted with apteria.
pterylography		The study or description of the arrangement of feathers, or of the pterylæ, of birds.
pterylosis		The arrangement of feathers in definite areas.
ptilocerque		The pentail.
ptilopaedes		Same as Dasypædes.
ptilopaedic		Having nearly the whole surface of the skin covered with down; dasypædic; -- said of the young of certain birds.
ptilopteri		An order of birds including only the penguins.
ptilosis		Same as Pterylosis.
ptisan		A decoction of barley with other ingredients; a farinaceous drink.
ptolemaic		Of or pertaining to Ptolemy, the geographer and astronomer.
ptolemaist		One who accepts the astronomical system of Ptolemy.
ptomaine		One of a class of animal bases or alkaloids formed in the putrefaction of various kinds of albuminous matter, and closely related to the vegetable alkaloids; a cadaveric poison.
ptosis		Drooping of the upper eyelid, produced by paralysis of its levator muscle.
ptyalin		An unorganized amylolytic ferment, on enzyme, present in human mixed saliva and in the saliva of some animals.
ptyalism		Salivation, or an excessive flow of saliva.
ptyalogogue		A ptysmagogue.
ptysmagogue		A medicine that promotes the discharge of saliva.
ptyxis		The way in which a leaf is sometimes folded in the bud.
