pubble	Obsolete	Puffed out, pursy; pudgy; fat.
puberal		Of or pertaining to puberty.
puberty		The earliest age at which persons are capable of begetting or bearing children, usually considered, in temperate climates, to be about fourteen years in males and twelve in females.
puberulent		Very minutely downy.
pubes		(Anat.) (a) The hair which appears upon the lower part of the hypogastric region at the age of puberty.
pubescence		The quality or state of being pubescent, or of having arrived at puberty.
pubescency		Pubescence.
pubescent		Covered with pubescence, or fine short hairs, as certain insects, and the leaves of some plants.
pubic		Of or pertaining to the pubes; in the region of the pubes; as, the pubic bone; the pubic region, or the lower part of the hypogastric region.
pubis		The ventral and anterior of the three principal bones composing either half of the pelvis; sharebone; pubic bone.
public		Of or pertaining to the people; belonging to the people; relating to, or affecting, a nation, state, or community; -- opposed to private; as, the public treasury.
public-hearted		Public-spirited.
public-minded		Public-spirited. -- Pub"lic-mind`ed*ness, n.
public-spirited		Having, or exercising, a disposition to advance the interest of the community or public; as, public-spirited men.
publican		The keeper of an inn or public house; one licensed to retail beer, spirits, or wine.
publication		The act of publishing or making known; notification to the people at large, either by words, writing, or printing; proclamation; divulgation; promulgation; as, the publication of the law at Mount Sinai…
publicist		A writer on the laws of nature and nations; one who is versed in the science of public right, the principles of government, etc. The Whig leaders, however…
publicity		The quality or state of being public, or open to the knowledge of a community; notoriety; publicness.
publicly		With exposure to popular view or notice; without concealment; openly; as, property publicly offered for sale; an opinion publicly avowed; a declaration publicly made.
publicness		The quality or state of being public, or open to the view or notice of people at large; publicity; notoriety; as, the publicness of a sale.
publish		To make public; to make known to mankind, or to people in general; to divulge, as a private transaction; to promulgate or proclaim, as a law or an edict.
publishable		Capable of being published; suitable for publication.
publisher		One who publishes; as, a publisher of a book or magazine.
publishment		The act or process of making publicly known; publication.
puccoon		Any one of several plants yielding a red pigment which is used by the North American Indians, as the bloodroot and two species of Lithospermum (L. hirtum, and L. canescens); also, the pigment itself.
puce		Of a dark brown or brownish purple color.
pucel	Obsolete	See Pucelle — a maid; a virgin.
pucelage		Virginity.
pucelle	Obsolete	A maid; a virgin.
puceron		Any plant louse, or aphis.
pucherite		Vanadate of bismuth, occurring in minute reddish brown crystals.
puck		(Mediæval Myth.) A celebrated fairy, -- called also Robin Goodfellow, Friar Rush, Pug, etc. Shak.
pucka		Good of its kind; -- variously used as implying substantial, real, fixed, sure, etc., and specif., of buildings, made of brick and mortar.
puckball		A puffball.
pucker		To gather into small folds or wrinkles; to contract into ridges and furrows; to corrugate; -- often with up; as, to pucker up the mouth.
puckerer		One who, or that which, puckers.
puckery		Producing, or tending to produce, a pucker; as, a puckery taste.
puckfist		A puffball.
puckish		Resembling Puck; merry; mischievous.
pucras		See Koklass — any pheasant of the genus Pucrasia.
pud	Colloquial	Same as Pood.
puddening		(a) A quantity of rope-yarn, or the like, placed, as a fender, on the bow of a boat.
pudder		To make a tumult or bustle; to splash; to make a pother or fuss; to potter; to meddle.
pudding		A species of food of a soft or moderately hard consistence, variously made, but often a compound of flour or meal, with milk and eggs, etc. And solid pudding against empty praise.
puddle		A small quantity of dirty standing water; a muddy plash; a small pool.
puddle-ball		The lump of pasty wrought iron as taken from the puddling furnace to be hammered or rolled.
puddle-bar		An iron bar made at a single heat from a puddle-ball hammering and rolling.
puddler		One who converts cast iron into wrought iron by the process of puddling.
puddling		(Hydraul.
puddly		Consisting of, or resembling, puddles; muddy; foul.
puddock	English dialect	A small inclosure.
pudency		Modesty; shamefacedness.
pudenda		The external organs of generation.
pudendal		Of or pertaining to the pudenda, or pudendum.
pudendum		The external organs of generation, especially of the female; the vulva.
pudgy		Short and fat or sturdy; dumpy; podgy; as, a short, pudgy little man; a pudgy little hand.
pudic		Of or pertaining to the external organs of generation.
pudicity		Modesty; chastity.
pudu		A very small deer (Pudua humilis), native of the Chilian Andes.
pue		To make a low whistling sound; to chirp, as birds.
pueblo		A communistic building erected by certain Indian tribes of Arizona and New Mexico.
puefellow	Obsolete	A pewfellow.
puer		The dung of dogs, used as an alkaline steep in tanning.
puerile		Boyish; childish; trifling; silly.
puerilely		In a puerile manner; childishly.
puerileness		The quality of being puerile; puerility.
puerility		The quality of being puerile; childishness; puerileness.
puerperal		Of or pertaining to childbirth; as, a puerperal fever.
puerperous		Bearing children.
puet		The pewit.
puff		A sudden and single emission of breath from the mouth; hence, any sudden or short blast of wind; a slight gust; a whiff.
puff-leg		Any one of numerous species of beautiful humming birds of the genus Eriocnemis having large tufts of downy feathers on the legs.
puff-legged		Having a conspicuous tuft of feathers on the legs.
puffball		A kind of ball-shaped fungus (Lycoperdon giganteum, and other species of the same genus) full of dustlike spores when ripe; -- called also bullfist, bullfice, puckfist, puff, and puffin.
puffer		One who puffs; one who praises with noisy or extravagant commendation.
puffery		The act of puffing; bestowment of extravagant commendation.
puffin		(Zoöl.) An arctic sea bird Fratercula arctica) allied to the auks, and having a short, thick, swollen beak, whence the name; -- called also bottle nose, cockandy, coulterneb, marrot, mormon, pope, and sea parrot.
puffiness		The quality or state of being puffy.
puffing		a. & n. from Puff, v. i. & t.
puffingly		In a puffing manner; with vehement breathing or shortness of breath; with exaggerated praise.
puffy		Swelled with air, or any soft matter; tumid with a soft substance; bloated; fleshy; as, a puffy tumor.
pug		To mix and stir when wet, as clay for bricks, pottery, etc.
pug-faced		Having a face like a monkey or a pug; monkey-faced.
puggaree		Same as Puggry.
pugger	Obsolete	To pucker.
puggered	Obsolete	Puckered.
pugging		The act or process of working and tempering clay to make it plastic and of uniform consistency, as for bricks, for pottery, etc.
puggree		A light scarf wound around a hat or helmet to protect the head from the sun.
puggry		A light scarf wound around a hat or helmet to protect the head from the sun.
pugh		Pshaw! pish! -- a word used in contempt or disdain.
pugil	Obsolete	As much as is taken up between the thumb and two first fingers.
pugilism		The practice of boxing, or fighting with the fist.
pugilist		One who fights with his fists; esp., a professional prize fighter; a boxer.
pugilistic		Of or pertaining to pugillism.
pugnacious		Disposed to fight; inclined to fighting; quarrelsome; fighting. --Pug*na cious*ness, n.
pugnacity		Inclination or readiness to fight; quarrelsomeness.
puh		The same as Pugh.
puisne		(Law) Younger or inferior in rank; junior; associate; as, a chief justice and three puisne justices of the Court of Common Pleas; the puisne barons of the Court of Exchequer.
puisny		Puisne; younger; inferior; petty; unskilled.
puissance		Power; strength; might; force; potency.
puissant		Powerful; strong; mighty; forcible; as, a puissant prince or empire.
puissantly		In a puissant manner; powerfully; with great strength.
puissantness		The state or quality of being puissant; puissance; power.
puit	Obsolete	A well; a small stream; a fountain; a spring.
puke		To eject the contests of the stomach; to vomit; to spew.
puker		One who pukes, vomits.
pukka		Same as Pucka.
pulas		The East Indian leguminous tree Butea frondosa. See Gum Butea, under Gum.
pulchritude		That quality of appearance which pleases the eye; beauty; comeliness; grace; loveliness.
pule		To cry like a chicken.
puler		One who pules; one who whines or complains; a weak person.
pulex		A genus of parasitic insects including the fleas. See Flea.
pulicene		Pertaining to, or abounding in, fleas; pulicose.
pulicose		Abounding with fleas.
pulicous		Abounding with fleas.
puling		A cry, as of a chicken,; a whining or whimpering.
pulingly		With whining or complaint.
pulkha		A Laplander's traveling sledge. See Sledge.
pull		To draw, or attempt to draw, toward one; to draw forcibly.
pullail	Obsolete	Poultry.
pullback		That which holds back, or causes to recede; a drawback; a hindrance.
pulldevil		A number of fishhooks rigidly fastened back to be pulled through the water to catch fish.
pulled		Plucked; pilled; moulting.
pullen	Obsolete	Poultry.
puller		One who, or that which, pulls.
pullet	Obsolete	A young hen, or female of the domestic fowl.
pulley		A wheel with a broad rim, or grooved rim, for transmitting power from, or imparting power to, the different parts of machinery, or for changing the direction of motion, by means of a belt, cord, rope, or chain.
pullicate		A kind of checked cotton or silk handkerchief.
pullulate		To germinate; to bud; to multiply abundantly.
pullulation		A germinating, or budding.
pullus		A chick; a young bird in the downy stage.
pulmobranchiata		Same as Pulmonibranchiata, -ate.
pulmobranchiate		Same as Pulmonibranchiata, -ate.
pulmocutaneous		Of or pertaining to the lungs and the akin; as, the pulmocutaneous arteries of the frog.
pulmogasteropoda		Same as Pulmonata.
pulmograde		Swimming by the expansion and contraction, or lunglike movement, of the body, or of the disk, as do the medusæ.
pulmometer		A spirometer.
pulmometry		The determination of the capacity of the lungs.
pulmonarian		Any arachnid that breathes by lunglike organs, as the spiders and scorpions.
pulmonary		Of or pertaining to the lungs; affecting the lungs; pulmonic.
pulmonata		An extensive division, or sub-class, of hermaphrodite gastropods, in which the mantle cavity is modified into an air- breathing organ, as in Helix, or land snails, Limax, or garden slugs, and many pond snails…
pulmonate		(a) Having breathing organs that act as lungs. (b) Pertaining to the Pulmonata. -- n.
pulmonated		same as Pulmonate (a).
pulmonibranchiata		Same as Pulmonata.
pulmonibranchiate		Same as Pulmonate.
pulmonic		Relating to, or affecting the lungs; pulmonary. -- n.
pulmonifera		Same as Pulmonata.
pulmoniferous		Having lungs; pulmonate.
pulmotor		An apparatus for producing artificial respiration by pumping oxygen or air or a mixture of the two into and out of the lungs, as of a person who has been asphyxiated by drowning, breathing poisonous gases, or the like…
pulp		A moist, slightly cohering mass, consisting of soft, undissolved animal or vegetable matter.
pulpatoon	Obsolete	A kind of delicate confectionery or cake, perhaps made from the pulp of fruit.
pulpiness		the quality or state of being pulpy.
pulpit		An elevated place, or inclosed stage, in a church, in which the clergyman stands while preaching.
pulpited		Placed in a pulpit.
pulpiteer		One who speaks in a pulpit; a preacher; -- so called in contempt.
pulpiter	Obsolete	A preacher.
pulpitical		Of or pertaining to the pulpit; suited to the pulpit. -- Pul*pit"ic*al*ly, adv.
pulpitish		Of or pertaining to the pulpit; like preaching.
pulpitry		The teaching of the pulpit; preaching.
pulpous		Containing pulp; pulpy. -- Pulp"ous*ness, n.
pulpy		Like pulp; consisting of pulp; soft; fleshy; succulent; as, the pulpy covering of a nut; the pulpy substance of a peach or a cherry.
pulque		An intoxicating Mexican drink. See Agave.
pulsate		To throb, as a pulse; to beat, as the heart.
pulsatile		Capable of being struck or beaten; played by beating or by percussion; as, a tambourine is a pulsatile musical instrument.
pulsatilla		A genus of ranunculaceous herbs including the pasque flower.
pulsation		(Physiol.) A beating or throbbing, especially of the heart or of an artery, or in an inflamed part; a beat of the pulse.
pulsative		Beating; throbbing.
pulsator		(Mech.) That which beats or throbs in working.
pulsatory		Capable of pulsating; throbbing.
pulse		Leguminous plants, or their seeds, as beans, pease, etc. If all the world Should, in a pet of temperance, feed on pulse.
pulseless		Having no pulsation; lifeless.
pulselessness		The state of being pulseless.
pulsific		Exciting the pulse; causing pulsation.
pulsimeter		A sphygmograph.
pulsion		The act of driving forward; propulsion; -- opposed to Ant: suction or Ant: traction.
pulsive		Tending to compel; compulsory.
pulsometer		A device, with valves, for raising water by steam, partly by atmospheric pressure, and partly by the direct action of the steam on the water, without the intervention of a piston; -- also called vacuum pump.
pultaceous		Macerated; softened; nearly fluid.
pultesse	Obsolete	Poultry.
pultise	Obsolete	Poultry.
pulu		A vegetable substance consisting of soft, elastic, yellowish brown chaff, gathered in the Hawaiian Islands from the young fronds of free ferns of the genus Cibotium, chiefly C.
pulverable		Capable of being reduced to fine powder.
pulveraceous		Having a finely powdered surface; pulverulent.
pulverate		To beat or reduce to powder or dust; to pulverize.
pulverine		Ashes of barilla.
pulverizable		Admitting of being pulverized; pulverable.
pulverization		The action of reducing to dust or powder.
pulverize		To reduce of fine powder or dust, as by beating, grinding, or the like; as, friable substances may be pulverized by grinding or beating, but to pulverize malleable bodies other methods must be pursued.
pulverizer		One who, or that which, pulverizes.
pulverous		Consisting of dust or powder; like powder.
pulverulence		The state of being pulverulent; abundance of dust or powder; dustiness.
pulverulent		Consisting of, or reducible to, fine powder; covered with dust or powder; powdery; dusty.
pulvil	Obsolete	A sweet-scented powder; pulvillio.
pulvillio		A kind of perfume in the form of a powder, formerly much used, -- often in little bags.
pulvillo		A kind of perfume in the form of a powder, formerly much used, -- often in little bags.
pulvillus		One of the minute cushions on the feet of certain insects.
pulvinar		A prominence on the posterior part of the thalamus of the human brain.
pulvinate		(Arch.) Curved convexly or swelled; as, a pulvinated frieze.
pulvinated		(Arch.) Curved convexly or swelled; as, a pulvinated frieze.
pulvinic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained by the decomposition of vulpinic acid, as a white crystalline substance.
pulvinulus		Same as Pulvillus.
puma		A large American carnivore (Felis concolor), found from Canada to Patagonia, especially among the mountains.
pume		A stint.
pumicate		To make smooth with pumice.
pumice		A very light porous volcanic scoria, usually of a gray color, the pores of which are capillary and parallel, giving it a fibrous structure.
pumiced		Affected with a kind of chronic laminitis in which there is a growth of soft spongy horn between the coffin bone and the hoof wall.
pumiceous		Of or pertaining to pumice; resembling pumice.
pumiciform		Resembling, or having the structure of, pumice.
pummace		Same as Pomace.
pummel		Same as Pommel.
pump		A low shoe with a thin sole.
pumpage		That which is raised by pumps, or the work done by pumps.
pumper		One who pumps; the instrument or machine used in pumping.
pumpernickel		A sort of bread, made of unbolted rye, which forms the chief food of the Westphalian peasants.
pumpet		A pompet.
pumping		a. & n. from pump.
pumpion		See Pumpkin — a well-known trailing plant (Cucurbita pepo) and its fruit, -- used for cooking and for feeding stock; a pompion.
pumpkin		A well-known trailing plant (Cucurbita pepo) and its fruit, -- used for cooking and for feeding stock; a pompion.
pumy	Obsolete	Large and rounded.
pun	Obsolete	To pound.
puna		A cold arid table-land, as in the Andes of Peru.
punch		A beverage composed of wine or distilled liquor, water (or milk), sugar, and the juice of lemon, with spice or mint; -- specifically named from the kind of spirit used; as rum punch, claret punch, champagne punch…
puncheon		A figured stamp, die, or punch, used by goldsmiths, cutlers, etc.
puncher		One who, or that which, punches.
punchin		See Puncheon — a figured stamp, die, or punch, used by goldsmiths, cutlers, etc.
punchinello		A punch; a buffoon; originally, in a puppet show, a character represented as fat, short, and humpbacked.
punchy		Short and thick, or fat.
punctated		Pointed; ending in a point or points.
punctator		One who marks with points. specifically, one who writes Hebrew with points; -- applied to a Masorite.
puncticular	Obsolete	Comprised in, or like, a point; exact.
punctiform		Having the form of a point.
punctilio		A nice point of exactness in conduct, ceremony, or proceeding; particularity or exactness in forms; as, the punctilios of a public ceremony.
punctilious		Attentive to punctilio; very nice or exact in the forms of behavior, etiquette, or mutual intercourse; precise; exact in the smallest particulars. ious*ly, adv. -- Punc*til"ious*ness, n.
punction		A puncturing, or pricking; a puncture.
punctist		A punctator.
puncto		A nice point of form or ceremony.
punctual		Consisting in a point; limited to a point; unextended.
punctualist		One who is very exact in observing forms and ceremonies.
punctuality		The quality or state of being punctual; especially, adherence to the exact time of an engagement; exactness.
punctually		In a punctual manner; promptly; exactly.
punctualness		Punctuality; exactness.
punctuate		To mark with points; to separate into sentences, clauses, etc., by points or stops which mark the proper pauses in expressing the meaning.
punctuation		The act or art of punctuating or pointing a writing or discourse; the art or mode of dividing literary composition into sentences, and members of a sentence, by means of points, so as to elucidate the author's meaning.
punctuative		Of or belonging to points of division; relating to punctuation.
punctuator		One who punctuates, as in writing; specifically, a punctator.
punctuist		A punctator.
punctulate		Marked with small spots.
punctulated		Marked with small spots.
punctum		A point.
puncturation		The act or process of puncturing. See Acupuncture.
puncture		The act of puncturing; perforating with something pointed.
punctured		Having the surface covered with minute indentations or dots.
pundit		A learned man; a teacher; esp., a Brahman versed in the Sanskrit language, and in the science, laws, and religion of the Hindoos; in Cashmere, any clerk or native official.
pundle	Obsolete	A short and fat woman; a squab.
punese		A bedbug.
pung		A kind of plain sleigh drawn by one horse; originally, a rude oblong box on runners.
pungence		Pungency.
pungency		The quality or state of being pungent or piercing; keenness; sharpness; piquancy; as, the pungency of ammonia.
pungent		Causing a sharp sensation, as of the taste, smell, or feelings; pricking; biting; acrid; as, a pungent spice.
pungently		In a pungent manner; sharply.
pungled		Shriveled or shrunken; -- said especially of grain which has lost its juices from the ravages of insects, such as the wheat midge, or Trips (Thrips cerealium).
pungy		A small sloop or shallop, or a large boat with sails.
punic		Of or pertaining to the ancient Carthaginians.
punice	Obsolete	See Punese — a bedbug.
puniceous		Of a bright red or purple color.
punicial		Of a bright red or purple color.
puniness		The quality or state of being puny; littleness; pettiness; feebleness.
punish		To impose a penalty upon; to afflict with pain, loss, or suffering for a crime or fault, either with or without a view to the offender's amendment; to cause to suffer in retribution; to chasten; as, to punish traitors with death…
punishable		Deserving of, or liable to, punishment; capable of being punished by law or right; -- said of person or offenses.
punisher		One who inflicts punishment.
punishment		Any pain, suffering, or loss inflicted on a person because of a crime or offense.
punition		Punishment.
punitive		Of or pertaining to punishment; involving, awarding, or inflicting punishment; as, punitive law or justice.
punitory		Punishing; tending to punishment; punitive.
punk		Wood so decayed as to be dry, crumbly, and useful for tinder; touchwood.
punka		A machine for fanning a room, usually a movable fanlike frame covered with canvas, and suspended from the ceiling.
punkie		A minute biting fly of the genus Ceratopogon or allied genus of the family Chironomidæ, found in swarms in various densely wooded or mountaneous regions.
punkin	Colloquial	A pumpkin.
punkling	Obsolete	A young strumpet.
punner		A punster.
punnet		A broad, shallow basket, for displaying fruit or flowers.
punnology		The art or practice of punning; paronomasia.
punster		One who puns, or is skilled in, or given to, punning; a quibbler; a low wit.
punt		To play at basset, baccara, faro. or omber; to gamble.
punt-out		A punt made from the goal line by a player of the side which has made a touchdown to one of his own side for a fair catch, from which an attempt to kick a goal may be made.
puntel		See Pontee — an iron rod used by glass makers for manipulating the hot glass; -- called also, puntil, puntel, punty, and ponty.
puntello		One of the points sometimes drilled as guides for cutting away superfluous stone.
punter		One who punts; specifically, one who plays against the banker or dealer, as in baccara and faro.
puntil		See Pontee — an iron rod used by glass makers for manipulating the hot glass; -- called also, puntil, puntel, punty, and ponty.
punto		A point or hit.
punty		See Pontee — an iron rod used by glass makers for manipulating the hot glass; -- called also, puntil, puntel, punty, and ponty.
puny		Imperfectly developed in size or vigor; small and feeble; inferior; petty.
puoy		Same as Poy, n., 3.
pup		(a) A young dog; a puppy. (b) a young seal.
pupa		(Zoöl.) Any insect in that stage of its metamorphosis which usually immediately precedes the adult, or imago, stage.
pupal		Of or pertaining to a pupa, or the condition of a pupa.
pupate		To become a pupa.
pupation		the act of becoming a pupa.
pupelo	Dialect	Cider brandy.
pupigerous		Bearing or containing a pupa; -- said of dipterous larvæ which do not molt when the pupa is formed within them.
pupil		The aperture in the iris; the sight, apple, or black of the eye. See the Note under Eye, and Iris.
pupilage		The state of being a pupil.
pupillarity		The period before puberty, or from birth to fourteen in males, and twelve in females.
pupillary		(Anat.) Of or pertaining to the pupil of the eye.
pupillometer		An instrument for measuring the size of the pupil of the pupil of the eye.
pupipara		A division of Diptera in which the young are born in a stage like the pupa.
pupiparous		(a) Bearing, or containing, a pupa; -- said of the matured larvæ, or larval skins, of certain Diptera.
pupivora		A group of parasitic Hymenoptera, including the ichneumon flies, which destroy the larvæ and pupæ of insects.
pupivorous		Feeding on the pupæ of insects.
puplican	Obsolete	Publican.
puppet		A small image in the human form; a doll.
puppetish		Resembling a puppet in appearance or action; of the nature of a puppet.
puppetman		A master of a puppet show.
puppetry		Action or appearance resembling that of a puppet, or puppet show; hence, mere form or show; affectation.
puppy		(Zoöl.) The young of a canine animal, esp. of the common dog; a whelp.
puppyhood		The time or state of being a puppy; the time of being young and undisciplined.
puppyish		Like a puppy.
puppyism		Extreme meanness, affectation, conceit, or impudence.
pur		To utter a low, murmuring, continued sound, as a cat does when pleased.
purana		One of a class of sacred Hindoo poetical works in the Sanskrit language which treat of the creation, destruction, and renovation of worlds, the genealogy and achievements of gods and heroes, the reigns of the Manus…
puranic		Pertaining to the Puranas.
purblind		Nearsighted, or dim-sighted; seeing obscurely; as, a purblind eye; a purblind mole.
purcelane	Obsolete	Purslane.
purchasable		Capable of being bought, purchased, or obtained for a consideration; hence, venal; corrupt.
purchase		To pursue and obtain; to acquire by seeking; to gain, obtain, or acquire.
purchaser		One who purchases; one who acquires property for a consideration, generally of money; a buyer; a vendee.
purdah		A curtain or screen; also, a cotton fabric in blue and white stripes, used for curtains.
pure		Separate from all heterogeneous or extraneous matter; free from mixture or combination; clean; mere; simple; unmixed; as, pure water; pure clay; pure air; pure compassion.
pured	Obsolete	Purified; refined.
puree		A dish made by boiling any article of food to a pulp and rubbing it through a sieve; as, a purée of fish, or of potatoes; especially, a soup the thickening of which is so treated.
purely		In a pure manner (in any sense of the adjective).
pureness		The state of being pure (in any sense of the adjective).
purfile	Obsolete	A sort of ancient trimming of tinsel and thread for women's gowns; -- called also bobbinwork.
purfle		To decorate with a wrought or flowered border; to embroider; to ornament with metallic threads; as, to purfle with blue and white.
purfled		Ornamented; decorated; esp., embroidered on the edges.
purflew		A hem, border., or trimming, as of embroidered work.
purfling		Ornamentation on the border of a thing; specifically, the inlaid border of a musical instrument, as a violin.
purgament	Obsolete	That which is excreted; excretion.
purgation		The act of purging; the act of clearing, cleansing, or putifying, by separating and carrying off impurities, or whatever is superfluous; the evacuation of the bowels.
purgative		Having the power or quality of purging; cathartic. -- n. (Med.) A purging medicine; a cathartic.
purgatively		In a purgative manner.
purgatorial		Of or pertaining to purgatory; expiatory.
purgatorian		Of or pertaining to purgatory; expiatory.
purgatory		Tending to cleanse; cleansing; expiatory.
purge		To cleanse, clear, or purify by separating and carrying off whatever is impure, heterogeneous, foreign, or superfluous.
purger		One who, or that which, purges or cleanses; especially, a cathartic medicine.
purgery		The part of a sugarhouse where the molasses is drained off from the sugar.
purging		That purges; cleansing.
puri		See Euxanthin — a yellow pigment imported from India and China.
purification		The act of purifying; the act or operation of separating and removing from anything that which is impure or noxious, or heterogeneous or foreign to it; as, the purification of liquors, or of metals.
purificative		Having power to purify; tending to cleanse.
purificator		One who, or that which, purifies; a purifier.
purificatory		Serving or tending to purify; purificative.
purifier		One who, or that which, purifies or cleanses; a cleanser; a refiner.
puriform		In the form of pus.
purify		To make pure or clear from material defilement, admixture, or imperfection; to free from extraneous or noxious matter; as, to purify liquors or metals; to purify the blood; to purify the air.
purim		A Jewish festival, called also the Feast of Lots, instituted to commemorate the deliverance of the Jews from the machinations of Haman.
purism		Rigid purity; the quality of being affectedly pure or nice, especially in the choice of language; over-solicitude as to purity.
purist		One who aims at excessive purity or nicety, esp. in the choice of language.
puristic		Of or pertaining to purists or purism.
puristical		Of or pertaining to purists or purism.
puritan		(Eccl. Hist.) One who, in the time of Queen Elizabeth and the first two Stuarts, opposed traditional and formal usages, and advocated simpler forms of faith and worship than those established by law; -- originally…
puritanic		Of or pertaining to the Puritans, or to their doctrines and practice.
puritanical		Of or pertaining to the Puritans, or to their doctrines and practice.
puritanically		In a puritanical manner.
puritanism		The doctrines, notions, or practice of Puritans.
puritanize		To agree with, or teach, the doctrines of Puritans; to conform to the practice of Puritans.
purity		The condition of being pure. Specifically: (a) freedom from foreign admixture or deleterious matter; as, the purity of water, of wine, of drugs, of metals.
purl		To decorate with fringe or embroidery.
purlieu		Originally, the ground near a royal forest, which, having been unlawfully added to the forest, was afterwards severed from it, and disafforested so as to remit to the former owners their rights.
purlin		In root construction, a horizontal member supported on the principals and supporting the common rafters.
purline		In root construction, a horizontal member supported on the principals and supporting the common rafters.
purling		The motion of a small stream running among obstructions; also, the murmur it makes in so doing.
purloin		To take or carry away for one's self; hence, to steal; to take by theft; to filch.
purloiner		One who purloins.
purparty		A share, part, or portion of an estate allotted to a coparcener.
purple		A color formed by, or resembling that formed by, a combination of the primary colors red and blue.
purpleheart		A strong, durable, and elastic wood of a purplish color, obtained from several tropical American leguminous trees of the genus Copaifera (C. pubiflora, bracteata, and officinalis).
purplewood		Same as Purpleheart.
purplish		Somewhat purple.
purport		Design or tendency; meaning; import; tenor.
purportless		Without purport or meaning.
purpose		That which a person sets before himself as an object to be reached or accomplished; the end or aim to which the view is directed in any plan, measure, or exertion; view; aim; design; intention; plan.
purposedly		In a purposed manner; according to purpose or design; purposely.
purposeful		Important; material. -- Pur"pose*ful*ly, adv.
purposeless		Having no purpose or result; objectless.
purposely		With purpose or design; intentionally; with predetermination; designedly.
purposer		One who forms a purpose; one who intends.
purposive		Having or indicating purpose or design.
purpresture		Wrongful encroachment upon another's property; esp., any encroachment upon, or inclosure of, that which should be common or public, as highways, rivers, harbors, forts, etc.
purprise		A close or inclosure; the compass of a manor.
purpura		(Med.) A disease characterized by livid spots on the skin from extravasated blood, with loss of muscular strength, pain in the limbs, and mental dejection; the purples.
purpurate		Of or pertaining to purpura.
purpure		Purple, -- represented in engraving by diagonal lines declining from the right top to the left base of the escutcheon (or from sinister chief to dexter base).
purpureal		Of a purple color; purple.
purpureo-		A combining form signifying of a purple or purple-red color.
purpuric		(Chem.) Pertaining to or designating, a nitrogenous acid contained in uric acid.
purpurin		A dyestuff resembling alizarin, found in madder root, and extracted as an orange or red crystalline substance.
purpuriparous		Producing, or connected with, a purple-colored secretion; as, the purpuriparous gland of certain gastropods.
purpurogenous		Having the power to produce a purple color; as, the purpurogenous membrane, or choroidal epithelium, of the eye.
purr		To murmur as a cat. See Pur.
purre	English dialect	The dunlin.
purree		A yellow coloring matter. See Euxanthin.
purrock		See Puddock, and Parrock.
purse		A small bag or pouch, the opening of which is made to draw together closely, used to carry money in; by extension, any receptacle for money carried on the person; a wallet; a pocketbook; a portemonnaie.
purse-proud		Affected with purse pride; puffed up with the possession of riches.
purseful		All that is, or can be, contained in a purse; enough to fill a purse.
purser		(Naut.) A commissioned officer in the navy who had charge of the provisions, clothing, and public moneys on shipboard; -- now called paymaster.
pursership		The office of purser.
purset		A purse or purse net.
pursiness		State of being pursy.
pursiveness	Obsolete	Pursiness.
purslain		Same as Purslane.
purslane		An annual plant (Portulaca oleracea), with fleshy, succulent, obovate leaves, sometimes used as a pot herb and for salads, garnishing, and pickling.
pursuable		Capable of being, or fit to be, pursued, followed, or prosecuted.
pursual		The act of pursuit.
pursuance		The act of pursuing or prosecuting; a following out or after.
pursuant		Acting in consequence or in prosecution (of anything); hence, agreeable; conformable; following; according; -- with to or of.
pursuantly		Agreeably; conformably.
pursue		To follow with a view to overtake; to follow eagerly, or with haste; to chase; as, to pursue a hare.
pursuer		One who pursues or chases; one who follows in haste, with a view to overtake.
pursuit		The act of following or going after; esp., a following with haste, either for sport or in hostility; chase; prosecution; as, the pursuit of game; the pursuit of an enemy.
pursuivant		(Heralds' College) A functionary of lower rank than a herald, but discharging similar duties; -- called also pursuivant at arms; an attendant of the heralds.
pursy		Fat and short-breathed; fat, short, and thick; swelled with pampering; as, pursy insolence.
purtenance	Obsolete	That which pertains or belongs to something; esp., the heard, liver, and lungs of an animal.
purulence		The quality or state of being purulent; the generation of pus; also, the pus itself.
purulency		The quality or state of being purulent; the generation of pus; also, the pus itself.
purulent		Consisting of pus, or matter; partaking of the nature of pus; attended with suppuration; as, purulent inflammation.
purulently		In a purulent manner.
purveance	Obsolete	Purveyance.
purveiaunce	Obsolete	Purveyance.
purvey		To furnish or provide, as with a convenience, provisions, or the like.
purveyance		The act or process of providing or procuring; providence; foresight; preparation; management.
purveyor		One who provides victuals, or whose business is to make provision for the table; a victualer; a caterer.
purview		(a) (Law) The body of a statute, or that part which begins with as distinguished from the preamble.
pus		The yellowish white opaque creamy matter produced by the process of suppuration.
pusane		A piece of armor for the breast; often, an addition to, or reënforcement of. the breastplate; -- called also pesane.
puseyism		The principles of Dr. Pusey and others at Oxford, England, as exhibited in various publications, esp. in a series which appeared from 1833 to 1841, designated tractarianism.
puseyistic		Of or pertaining to Puseyism.
puseyite		Of or pertaining to Puseyism.
push		To press against with force; to drive or impel by pressure; to endeavor to drive by steady pressure, without striking; -- opposed to draw.
pusher		One who, or that which, pushes.
pushing		Pressing forward in business; enterprising; driving; energetic; also, forward; officious, intrusive. -- Push"ing*ly, adv.
pushpin		A child's game played with pins.
pusil	Obsolete	Very small; little; petty.
pusillanimity		The quality of being pusillanimous; weakness of spirit; cowardliness.
pusillanimous		Destitute of a manly or courageous strength and firmness of mind; of weak spirit; mean-spirited; spiritless; cowardly; -- said of persons, as, a pussillanimous prince.
pusillanimously		With pusillanimity.
pusley	Colloquial	Purslane.
puss		A cat; -- a fondling appellation.
pussy		A pet name for a cat; also, an endearing name for a girl.
pustulant		Producing pustules. -- n.
pustular		Of or pertaining to pustules; as, pustular prominences; pustular eruptions.
pustulate		To form into pustules, or blisters.
pustulated		Covered with pustulelike prominences; pustular; pustulous; as, a pustulate leaf; a pustulate shell or coral.
pustulation		The act of producing pustules; the state of being pustulated.
pustule		A vesicle or an elevation of the cuticle with an inflamed base, containing pus.
pustulous		Resembling, or covered with, pustules; pustulate; pustular.
put		To move in any direction; to impel; to thrust; to push; -- nearly obsolete, except with adverbs, as with by (to put by = to thrust aside; to divert); or with forth (to put forth = to thrust out).
put-off		A shift for evasion or delay; an evasion; an excuse.
put-up	Colloquial	Arranged; plotted; -- in a bad sense; as, a put-up job.
putage		Prostitution or fornication on the part of a woman.
putamen		The shell of a nut; the stone of a drupe fruit. See Endocarp.
putanism		Habitual lewdness or prostitution of a woman; harlotry.
putative		Commonly thought or deemed; supposed; reputed; as, the putative father of a child.
putchuck		Same as Pachak.
puteal		An inclosure surrounding a well to prevent persons from falling into it; a well curb.
puteli		Same as Patela.
putid		Rotten; fetid; stinking; base; worthless.
putidity		The quality or state of being putrid.
putidness		The quality or state of being putrid.
putlog		One of the short pieces of timber on which the planks forming the floor of a scaffold are laid, -- one end resting on the ledger of the scaffold, and the other in a hole left in the wall temporarily for the purpose.
putour	Obsolete	A keeper of a brothel; a procurer.
putredinous		Proceeding from putrefaction, or partaking of the putrefactive process; having an offensive smell; stinking; rotten.
putrefaction		The act or the process of putrefying; the offensive decay of albuminous or other matter.
putrefactive		Of or pertaining to putrefaction; as, the putrefactive smell or process.
putrefy		To render putrid; to cause to decay offensively; to cause to be decomposed; to cause to rot.
putresce		To become putrescent or putrid; to putrefy.
putrescence		The state of being putrescent; putrescent matter.
putrescent		Becoming putrid or rotten.
putrescible		Capable of putrefaction; liable to become putrid; as, putrescible substances.
putrescin		A nontoxic diamine, C4H12N2, formed in the putrefaction of the flesh of mammals and some other animals.
putrid		Tending to decomposition or decay; decomposed; rotten; -- said of animal or vegetable matter; as, putrid flesh.
putridity		The quality of being putrid; putrefaction; rottenness.
putridness		Putridity.
putrifacted	Obsolete	Putrefied.
putrification		Putrefaction.
putrify		To putrefy.
putrilage		That which is undergoing putrefaction; the products of putrefaction.
putt		A stroke made on the putting green to play the ball into a hole.
puttee		Same as Putty, a kind of gaiter.
putter		One who puts or plates.
putter-on		An instigator.
puttier		One who putties; a glazier.
putting		The throwing of a heavy stone, shot, etc., with the hand raised or extended from the shoulder; -- originally, a Scottish game.
puttock	English dialect	(a) The European kite. (b) The buzzard. (c) The marsh harrier. See Futtock.
putty		A kind of thick paste or cement compounded of whiting, or soft carbonate of lime, and linseed oil, when applied beaten or kneaded to the consistence of dough, -- used in fastening glass in sashes, stopping crevices…
putty-faced		White-faced; -- used contemptuously.
puttyroot		An American orchidaceous plant (Aplectrum hyemale) which flowers in early summer.
puy		See Poy — a ropedancer's balancing pole.
puzzel	Obsolete	A harlot; a drab; a hussy.
puzzle		Something which perplexes or embarrasses; especially, a toy or a problem contrived for testing ingenuity; also, something exhibiting marvelous skill in making.
puzzle-headed		Having the head full of confused notions.
puzzledom		The domain of puzzles; puzzles, collectively.
puzzlement		The state of being puzzled; perplexity.
puzzler		One who, or that which, puzzles or perplexes.
puzzlingly		In a puzzling manner.
puzzolan		See Pozzuolana — volcanic ashes from Pozzuoli, in Italy, used in the manufacture of a kind of mortar which hardens under water.
puzzolana		See Pozzuolana — volcanic ashes from Pozzuoli, in Italy, used in the manufacture of a kind of mortar which hardens under water.
