pyaemia		A form of blood poisoning produced by the absorption into the blood of morbid matters usually originating in a wound or local inflammation.	
pyaemic		Of or pertaining to pyæmia; of the nature of pyæmia.	
pycnaspidean		Having the posterior side of the tarsus covered with small irregular scales; -- said of certain birds.	
pycnidium		In certain fungi, a flask-shaped cavity from the surface of the inner walls of which spores are produced.	
pycnite		A massive subcolumnar variety of topaz.	
pycnodont		Any fossil fish belonging to the Pycnodontini.	
pycnodontini		An extinct order of ganoid fishes.	
pycnogonid		One of the Pycnogonida.	
pycnogonida		A class of marine arthropods in which the body is small and thin, and the eight legs usually very long; -- called also Pantopoda.	
pycnometer		A specific gravity bottle; a standard flask for measuring and comparing the densities of liquids.	
pycnostyle		See under Intercolumniation. -n.	
pye		See 2d Pie (b).	
pyebald		See Piebald — having spots and patches of black and white, or other colors; mottled; pied.	
pyelitis		Inflammation of the pelvis of the kidney.	
pyemia		See PyÆmia.	
pyet	English dialect	A magpie; a piet.	
pygal		Situated in the region of the rump, or posterior end of the backbone; -- applied especially to the posterior median plates in the carapace of chelonians.	
pygarg		(Zoöl.) A quadruped, probably the addax, an antelope having a white rump.	
pygargus		(Zoöl.) A quadruped, probably the addax, an antelope having a white rump.	
pygidium		The caudal plate of trilobites, crustacean, and certain insects. See Illust. of Limulus and Trilobite.	Latin pygidium, from Greek πυγή.
pygmean		Of or pertaining to a pygmy; resembling a pygmy or dwarf; dwarfish; very small.	
pygmy		Of or pertaining to a pygmy; resembling a pygmy or dwarf; dwarfish; very small.	Greek Πυγμαῖος.
pygobranchia		A division of opisthobranchiate mollusks having the branchiæ in a wreath or group around the anal opening, as in the genus Doris.	
pygopod		(Zoöl.) Any species of serpentiform lizards of the family Pygopodidæ, which have rudimentary hind legs near the anal cleft, but lack fore legs.	
pygopodes		A division of swimming birds which includes the grebes, divers, auks, etc., in which the legs are placed far back.	
pygopodous		Of or pertaining to the Pygopodes.	
pygostyle		The plate of bone which forms the posterior end of the vertebral column in most birds; the plowshare bone; the vomer.	
pyin		An albuminoid constituent of pus, related to mucin, possibly a mixture of substances rather than a single body.	
pyjama		In India and Persia, thin loose trowsers or drawers; in Europe and America, drawers worn at night, or a kind of nightdress with legs.	
pyjamas		A garment, similar to the Oriental pyjama (which see), adopted among Europeans, Americans, and other Occidentals, for wear in the dressing room and during sleep; also, a suit of drawers and blouse for such wear.	Hindi पैजामा, from Persian پايجامه.
pykar		An ancient English fishing boat.	
pyla		The passage between the iter and optocoele in the brain.	
pylagore		a deputy of a State at the Amphictyonic council.	
pylangium		The first and undivided part of the aortic trunk in the amphibian heart. -- Py*lan"gi*al, a.	
pylon		(a) A low tower, having a truncated pyramidal form, and flanking an ancient Egyptian gateway.	Greek πυλών.
pyloric		Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the pylorus; as, the pyloric end of the stomach.	
pylorus		(a) The opening from the stomach into the intestine. (b) A posterior division of the stomach in some invertebrates.	
pyne	Obsolete	See Pine — to grieve or mourn for.	
pynoun	Obsolete	A pennant.	
pyocyanin		A blue coloring matter found in the pus from old sores, supposed to be formed through the agency of a species of bacterium (Bacillus pyocyaneus).C13H10N2O	
pyogenic		Producing or generating pus.	
pyoid		Of or pertaining to pus; of the nature of, or like, pus.	
pyopneumothorax		Accumulation of air, or other gas, and of pus, in the pleural cavity.	
pyot		The magpie. See Piet.	
pyoxanthose		A greenish yellow crystalline coloring matter found with pyocyanin in pus.	
pyr-		Combining forms designating fire or heat; specifically (Chem.), used to imply an actual or theoretical derivative by the action of heat; as in pyrophosphoric, pyrosulphuric, pyrotartaric, pyrotungstic, etc.	
pyracanth		The evergreen thorn (Cratægus Pyracantha), a shrub native of Europe.	
pyral		Of or pertaining to a pyre.	
pyralid		Any moth of the family Pyralidæ.	
pyramid		A solid body standing on a triangular, square, or polygonal base, and terminating in a point at the top; especially, a structure or edifice of this shape.	French pyramide, from Old French piramide, from Latin pyramis, from Greek πυραμίς.
pyramidal		Of or pertaining to a pyramid; in the form of a a pyramid; pyramidical; as, pyramidal cleavage.	
pyramidally		Like a pyramid.	
pyramidic		Of or pertaining to a pyramid; having the form of a pyramid; pyramidal. -- Pyr`a*mid ic*al*ness, n.	
pyramidical		Of or pertaining to a pyramid; having the form of a pyramid; pyramidal. -- Pyr`a*mid ic*al*ness, n.	
pyramidion		The small pyramid which crowns or completes an obelisk.	
pyramidoid		A solid resembling a pyramid; -- called also pyramoid.	
pyramis		A pyramid.	
pyramoid		See Pyramidoid — a solid resembling a pyramid; -- called also pyramoid.	
pyrargyrite		Ruby silver; dark red silver ore.	
pyrazin		A feebly basic solid, C4H4N2, obtained by distilling piperazine with zinc dust, and in other ways.	
pyrazine		A feebly basic solid, C4H4N2, obtained by distilling piperazine with zinc dust, and in other ways.	
pyre		A funeral pile; a combustible heap on which the dead are burned; hence, any pile to be burnt.	Latin pyra, from Greek πυρά.
pyrena		A nutlet resembling a seed, or the kernel of a drupe.	
pyrene		One of the less volatile hydrocarbons of coal tar, obtained as a white crystalline substance, C16H10.	Greek πυρήν.
pyrenean		Of or pertaining to the Pyrenees, a range of mountains separating France and Spain. -- n.	
pyrenoid		A transparent body found in the chromatophores of certain Infusoria.	
pyrethrin		A substance resembling, and isomeric with, ordinary camphor, and extracted from the essential oil of feverfew; -- called also Pyrethrum camphor.	
pyrethrine		An alkaloid extracted from the root of the pellitory of Spain (Anacyclus pyrethrum).	
pyretic		Of or pertaining to fever; febrile.	Latin pyreticus, from Greek πυρετικός.
pyretology		A discourse or treatise on fevers; the doctrine of fevers.	
pyrexia		The febrile condition.	Greek πυρεξία.
pyrexial		Of or pertaining to fever; feverish.	
pyrexical		Of or pertaining to fever; feverish.	
pyrgom		A variety of pyroxene; -- called also fassaite.	
pyrheliometer		An instrument for measuring the direct heating effect of the sun's rays.	
pyridic		Related to, or formed from, pyridin or its homologues; as, the pyridic bases.	
pyridine		A nitrogenous base, C5H5N, obtained from the distillation of bone oil or coal tar, and by the decomposition of certain alkaloids, as a colorless liquid with a peculiar pungent odor.	
pyridyl		A hypothetical radical, C5H4N, regarded as the essential residue of pyridine, and analogous to phenyl.	
pyriform		Having the form of a pear; pear-shaped.	Latin pyriformis.
pyritaceous		Of or pertaining to pyrites. See Pyritic.	
pyrite		A common mineral of a pale brass-yellow color and brilliant metallic luster, crystallizing in the isometric system; iron pyrites; iron disulphide.	
pyrites		A name given to a number of metallic minerals, sulphides of iron, copper, cobalt, nickel, and tin, of a white or yellowish color.	
pyritic		Of or pertaining to pyrites; consisting of, or resembling, pyrites.	
pyritical		Of or pertaining to pyrites; consisting of, or resembling, pyrites.	
pyritiferous		Containing or producing pyrites.	
pyritize		To convert into pyrites.	
pyritohedral		Like pyrites in hemihedral form.	
pyritohedron		The pentagonal dodecahedron, a common form of pyrite.	
pyritoid		Pyritohedron.	
pyritology		The science of blowpipe analysis.	
pyritous		Pyritic.	
pyro	Colloquial	Abbreviation of pyrogallic acid.	
pyro-		Combining forms designating fire or heat; specifically (Chem.), used to imply an actual or theoretical derivative by the action of heat; as in pyrophosphoric, pyrosulphuric, pyrotartaric, pyrotungstic, etc.	Latin pyr, from Greek πῦρ.
pyroacetic		Pertaining to, and designating, a substance (acetone) obtained by the distillation of the acetates.	
pyroacid		An acid obtained by sybjecting another acid to the action of heat.	
pyroantimonate		A salt of pyroantimonic acid.	
pyroantimonic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of antimony analogous to pyrophosphoric acid.	
pyroarsenate		A salt of pyroarsenic acid.	
pyroarsenic		Pertaining to or designating, an acid of arsenic analogous to pyrophosphoric acid.	
pyroborate		A salt of pyroboric acid.	
pyroboric		Pertaining to derived from, or designating, an acid, H2B4O7 (called also tetraboric acid), which is the acid ingredient of ordinary borax, and is obtained by heating boric acid.	
pyrocatechin		A white crystalline substance, C6H4(OH)2, of the phenol series, found in various plants; -- so called because first obtained by distillation of gum catechu.	
pyrochlore		A niobate of calcium, cerium, and other bases, occurring usually in octahedrons of a yellowish or brownish color and resinous luster; -- so called from its becoming grass-green on being subjected to heat under the blowpipe.	
pyrocitric		Pertaining to, or designating, any one of three acids obtained by the distillation of citric acid, and called respectively citraconic, itaconic, and mesaconic acid.	
pyrocoll		A yellow crystalline substance allied to pyrrol, obtained by the distillation of gelatin.	
pyroelectric		Pertaining to, or dependent on, pyroelectricity; receiving electric polarity when heated.	
pyroelectricity		Electricity developed by means of heat; the science which treats of electricity thus developed.	
pyrogallate		A salt of pyrogallic acid; an ether of pyrogallol.	
pyrogallic		Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid called pyrogallol.	
pyrogallol		A phenol metameric with phloroglucin, obtained by the distillation of gallic acid as a poisonous white crystalline substance having acid properties, and hence called also pyrogallic acid.	
pyrogen		(Physiol. Chem.) A poison separable from decomposed meat infusions, and supposed to be formed from albuminous matter through the agency of bacteria.	
pyrogenic		Producing heat; -- said of substances, as septic poisons, which elevate the temperature of the body and cause fever.	
pyrogenous		Produced by fire; igneous.	
pyrognostic		Of or pertaining to characters developed by the use of heat; pertaining to the characters of minerals when examined before the blowpipe; as, the pyrognostic characters of galena.	
pyrognostics		The characters of a mineral observed by the use of the blowpipe, as the degree of fusibility, flame coloration, etc.	
pyrograph		A production of pyrography.	
pyrography		A process of printing, ornamenting, or carving, by burning with heated instruments.	
pyrogravure		Pyrography; also, a design or picture made by pyrography.	
pyrolator		A fire worshiper.	
pyrolatry		The worship of fire.	
pyroligneous		Pertaining to, or designating, the acid liquid obtained in the distillation of wood, consisting essentially of impure acetic acid.	
pyrolignic		Pertaining to, or designating, the acid liquid obtained in the distillation of wood, consisting essentially of impure acetic acid.	
pyrolignite		A crude acetate produced by treating pyroligneous acid with a metal or basic compound; as, pyrolignite of iron (iron liquor).	
pyrolignous		Same as Pyroligneous.	
pyrolithic		Same as Pyrouric, or Cyanuric.	
pyrologist		One who is versed in, or makes a study of, pyrology.	
pyrology		That branch of physical science which treats of the properties, phenomena, or effects of heat; also, a treatise on heat.	
pyrolusite		Manganese dioxide, a mineral of an iron-black or dark steel- gray color and metallic luster, usually soft.	
pyromagnetic		Acting by the agency of heat and magnetism; as, a pyromagnetic machine for producing electric currents.	
pyromalate	Obsolete	A salt of pyromalic acid.	
pyromalic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid now called maleic acid.	
pyromancy		Divination by means of fire.	
pyromania		An insane disposition to incendiarism.	
pyromantic		Of or pertaining to pyromancy.	
pyrometer		(Physics) An instrument used for measuring the expansion of solid bodies by heat.	
pyrometric		Pertaining to, or obtained by, the pyrometer; as, pyrometrical instruments; pyrometrical measurements.	
pyrometrical		Pertaining to, or obtained by, the pyrometer; as, pyrometrical instruments; pyrometrical measurements.	
pyrometry		The art of measuring degrees of heat, or the expansion of bodies by heat.	
pyromorphite		Native lead phosphate with lead chloride, occurring in bright green and brown hexagonal crystals and also massive; -- so called because a fused globule crystallizes in cooling.	
pyromorphous		Having the property of crystallizing by the agency of fire.	
pyromucate		A salt of pyromucic acid.	
pyromucic		Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid obtained as a white crystalline substance by the distillation of mucic acid, or by the oxidation of furfurol.	
pyrone		An unsaturated cyclic compound, C5H4O2, of which two varieties are known, a and g. g-pyrone is the parent substance of several natural yellow dyestuffs.	
pyronomics		The science of heat.	
pyrope		A variety of garnet, of a poppy or blood-red color, frequently with a tinge of orange.	Latin pyropus, from Greek πυρωπός.
pyrophane		A mineral which is opaque in its natural state, but is said to change its color and become transparent by heat.	
pyrophanous		Rendered transparent by heat.	
pyrophone		A musical instrument in which the tones are produced by flames of hydrogen, or illuminating gas, burning in tubes of different sizes and lengths.	
pyrophoric		Light-producing; of or pertaining to pyrophorus.	
pyrophorous		Light-producing; of or pertaining to pyrophorus.	
pyrophorus		Any one of several substances or mixtures which phosphoresce or ignite spontaneously on exposure to air, as a heated mixture of alum, potash, and charcoal, or a mixture of charcoal and finely divided lead.	
pyrophosphate		A salt of pyrophosphoric acid.	
pyrophosphoric		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, H4P2O7, which is obtained as a white crystalline substance.	
pyrophyllite		A mineral, usually of a white or greenish color and pearly luster, consisting chiefly of the hydrous silicate of alumina.	
pyroscope		An instrument for measuring the intensity of heat radiating from a fire, or the cooling influence of bodies.	
pyrosis		See Water brash, under Brash.	Greek πύρωσις.
pyrosmalite		A mineral, usually of a pale brown or of a gray or grayish green color, consisting chiefly of the hydrous silicate of iron and manganese; -- so called from the odor given off before the blowpipe.	
pyrosome		Any compound ascidian of the genus Pyrosoma.	
pyrosulphate		A salt of pyrosulphuric acid.	
pyrosulphuric		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid called also disulphuric acid) obtained by distillation of certain sulphates, as a colorless, thick, oily liquid, H2S2O7 resembling sulphuric acid.	
pyrotartaric		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained as a white crystalline substance by the distillation of tartaric acid.	
pyrotartrate		A salt of pyrotartaric acid.	
pyrotechnian		A pyrotechnist.	
pyrotechnic		Of or pertaining to fireworks, or the art of forming them.	Latin pyrotechnica.
pyrotechnical		Of or pertaining to fireworks, or the art of forming them.	
pyrotechnician		A pyrotechnist.	
pyrotechnics		The art of making fireworks; the manufacture and use of fireworks; pyrotechny.	
pyrotechnist		One skilled in pyrotechny; one who manufactures fireworks.	
pyrotechny	Obsolete	The use and application of fire in science and the arts.	
pyrothonide		A kind of empyreumatic oil produced by the combustion of textures of hemp, linen, or cotton in a copper vessel, -- formerly used as a remedial agent.	
pyrotic		Caustic. See Caustic. -- n. (Med.) A caustic medicine.	
pyrotritartaric		Designating an acid which is more commonly called uric acid.	
pyrotungstic		Polytungstic. See Metatungstic.	
pyroueric		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid now called cyanuric acid. See Cyanuric.	
pyrouric		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid now called cyanuric acid. See Cyanuric.	
pyrovanadic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of vanadium, analogous to pyrophosphoric acid.	
pyroxanthin		A yellow crystalline hydrocardon extracted from crude wood spirit; -- called also eblanin.	
pyroxene		A common mineral occurring in monoclinic crystals, with a prismatic angle of nearly 90º, and also in massive forms which are often laminated.	French pyroxène.
pyroxenic		Containing pyroxene; composed chiefly of pyroxene.	
pyroxenite		A rock consisting essentially of pyroxene.	
pyroxyle		See Pyroxylic, -yl.	
pyroxylic		Derived from wood by distillation; -- formerly used in designating crude wood spirit.	
pyroxylin		A substance resembling gun cotton in composition and properties, but distinct in that it is more highly nitrified and is soluble in alcohol, ether, etc.; -- called also pyroxyle.	
pyrrhic		Of or pertaining to an ancient Greek martial dance.	Latin pyrrhichius, from Greek πυρρίχιος.
pyrrhicist		One two danced the pyrrhic.	
pyrrhonean		Of or pertaining to pyrrhonism.	
pyrrhonic		Of or pertaining to pyrrhonism.	
pyrrhonism		Skepticism; universal doubt.	
pyrrhonist		A follower of Pyrrho; a skeptic.	
pyrrhotine		A bronze-colored mineral, of metallic luster.	
pyrrhotite		A bronze-colored mineral, of metallic luster.	
pyrrol		A nitrogenous base found in coal tar, bone oil, and other distillates of organic substances, and also produced synthetically as a colorless liquid, C4H5N, having on odor like that of chloroform.	
pyrroline		A nitrogenous base, C4H7N, obtained as a colorless liquid by the reduction of pyrrol.	
pyrula		A genus of large marine gastropods. having a pear-shaped shell.	
pyruric		Same as Pyroüric.	
pyrus		A genus of rosaceous trees and shrubs having pomes for fruit.	
pyruvic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid (called also pyroracemic acid) obtained, as a liquid having a pungent odor, by the distillation of racemic acid.	
pyruvil		A complex nitrogenous compound obtained by heating together pyruvic acid and urea.	
pythagorean		Of or pertaining to Pythagoras (a Greek philosopher, born about 582 b. c.), or his philosophy.	
pythagoreanism		The doctrines of Pythagoras or the Pythagoreans.	
pythagoric		See Pythagorean, a.	
pythagorical		See Pythagorean, a.	
pythagorism		The doctrines taught by Pythagoras.	
pythagorize		To speculate after the manner of Pythagoras.	
pythiad		The period intervening between one celebration of the Pythian games and the next.	Greek Πυθίας.
pythian		Of or pertaining to Delphi, to the temple of Apollo, or to the priestess of Apollo, who delivered oracles at Delphi.	
pythocenic		Producing decomposition, as diseases which are supposed to be accompanied or caused by decomposition.	
python		(Zoöl.) Any species of very large snakes of the genus Python, and allied genera, of the family Pythonidæ.	Greek Πύθων.
pythoness		(Gr. Antiq.) The priestess who gave oracular answers at Delphi in Greece.	
pythonic		Prophetic; oracular; pretending to foretell events.	
pythonism		The art of predicting events after the manner of the priestess of Apollo at Delphi; equivocal prophesying.	
pythonist		A conjurer; a diviner.	
pythonomorpha		Same as Mosasauria.	
pyuria		A morbid condition in which pus is discharged in the urine.	
pyx		A box used in the British mint as a place of deposit for certain sample coins taken for a trial of the weight and fineness of metal before it is sent from the mint.	Latin pyxis, from Greek πυξίς.
pyxidate		Having a pyxidium.	
pyxidium		(a) A pod which divides circularly into an upper and lower half, of which the former acts as a kind of lid, as in the pimpernel and purslane.	
pyxie		Same as Pixy.	
pyxis		A box; a pyx.	Latin pyxis, from Greek πυξίς.
