qua		In so far as; in the capacity or character of; as. It is with Shelley's biographers qua biographers that we have to deal.
qua-bird		The American night heron. See under Night.
quab		An unfledged bird; hence, something immature or unfinished.
quacha		The quagga.
quack		To utter a sound like the cry of a duck.
quackery		The acts, arts, or boastful pretensions of a quack; false pretensions to any art; empiricism.
quackish		Like a quack; boasting; characterized by quackery.
quackism		Quackery.
quackle	English dialect	To suffocate; to choke.
quacksalver	Obsolete	One who boasts of his skill in medicines and salves, or of the efficacy of his prescriptions; a charlatan; a quack; a mountebank.
quad	Obsolete	Evil; bad; baffling; as, a quade wind.
quade	Obsolete	Evil; bad; baffling; as, a quade wind.
quadra		(a) The plinth, or lowest member, of any pedestal, podium, water table, or the like.
quadrable		That may be sqyared, or reduced to an equivalent square; -- said of a surface when the area limited by a curve can be exactly found, and expressed in a finite number of algebraic terms.
quadragenarious		Consisting of forty; forty years old.
quadragene		An indulgence of forty days, corresponding to the forty days of ancient canonical penance.
quadragesima		The forty days of fast preceding Easter; Lent.
quadragesimal		Belonging to Lent; used in Lent; Lenten.
quadragesimals		Offerings formerly made to the mother church of a diocese on Mid-Lent Sunday.
quadrangle		(Geom.) A plane figure having four angles, and consequently four sides; any figure having four angles.
quadrangular		Having four angles, and consequently four sides; tetragonal. -- Quad*ran"gu*lar*ly, adv.
quadrant		(Geom.) The quarter of a circle, or of the circumference of a circle, an arc of 90º, or one subtending a right angle at the center.
quadrantal		Of or pertaining to a quadrant; also, included in the fourth part of a circle; as, quadrantal space.
quadrat		(Print.) A block of type metal lower than the letters, -- used in spacing and in blank lines.
quadrate		Having four equal sides, the opposite sides parallel, and four right angles; square.
quadratic		Of or pertaining to a square, or to squares; resembling a quadrate, or square; square.
quadratics		That branch of algebra which treats of quadratic equations.
quadratojugal		(a) Of or pertaining to the quadrate and jugal bones. (b) Of or pertaining to the quadratojugal bone. -- n.
quadratrix		A curve made use of in the quadrature of other curves; as the quadratrix, of Dinostratus, or of Tschirnhausen.
quadrature		(Math.) The act of squaring; the finding of a square having the same area as some given curvilinear figure; as, the quadrature of a circle…
quadrel	English dialect	A square piece of turf or peat.
quadrennial		Comprising four years; as, a quadrennial period.
quadrennially		Once in four years.
quadrennium		A space or period of four years.
quadri-		A combining form meaning four, four times, fourfold; as, quadricapsular, having four capsules.
quadri-syllabical		Having four syllables; of or pertaining to quadrisyllables; as, a quadrisyllabic word.
quadribasic		Same as Tetrabasic.
quadrible		Quadrable.
quadric		Of or pertaining to the second degree. (a) (Alg.) A quantic of the second degree.
quadricapsular		Having four capsules.
quadriceps		The great extensor muscle of the knee, divided above into four parts which unite in a single tendon at the knee.
quadricipital		Of or pertaining to the quadriceps.
quadricorn		Any quadricornous animal.
quadricornous		Having four horns, or hornlike organs; as, a quadricornous beetle.
quadricostate		Having four ribs.
quadridentate		Having four teeth; as, a quadridentate leaf.
quadriennial		Same as Quadrennial.
quadrifarious		Arranged in four rows or ranks; as, quadrifarious leaves.
quadrifid		Divided, or deeply cleft, into four parts; as, a quadrifid perianth; a quadrifid leaf.
quadrifoil		Four-leaved; having the leaves in whorls of four.
quadrifoliate		Four-leaved; having the leaves in whorls of four.
quadrifurcated		Having four forks, or branches.
quadriga		A car or chariot drawn by four horses abreast.
quadrigeminal		Fourfold; having four similar parts, or two pairs of similar parts.
quadrigeminous		Fourfold; having four similar parts, or two pairs of similar parts.
quadrigenarious		Consisting of four hundred.
quadrijugate		Same as Quadrijugous.
quadrijugous		Pinnate, with four pairs of leaflets; as, a quadrijugous leaf.
quadrilateral		Having four sides, and consequently four angles; quadrangular.
quadrilateralness		The property of being quadrilateral.
quadriliteral		Consisting of four letters.
quadrille		A dance having five figures, in common time, four couples of dancers being in each set.
quadrillion		According to the French notation, which is followed also upon the Continent and in the United States, a unit with fifteen ciphers annexed; according to the English notation…
quadrilobate		Having four lobes; as, a quadrilobate leaf.
quadrilobed		Having four lobes; as, a quadrilobate leaf.
quadrilocular		Having four cells, or cavities; as, a quadrilocular heart.
quadrin	Obsolete	A small piece of money, in value about a farthing, or a half cent.
quadrinodal		Possessing four nodes; as, quadrinodal curves.
quadrinomial		A polynomial of four terms connected by the signs plus or minus.
quadrinomical		Quadrinomial.
quadrinominal		Quadrinomial.
quadripartite		Divided into four parts.
quadripartitely		In four parts.
quadripartition		A division or distribution by four, or into four parts; also, a taking the fourth part of any quantity or number.
quadripennate		Having four wings; -- said of insects.
quadriphyllous		Having four leaves; quadrifoliate.
quadrireme		A galley with four banks of oars or rowers.
quadrisection		A subdivision into four parts.
quadrisulcate		Having four hoofs; as, a quadrisulcate foot; a quadrisulcate animal.
quadrisyllabic		Having four syllables; of or pertaining to quadrisyllables; as, a quadrisyllabic word.
quadrisyllable		A word consisting of four syllables.
quadrivalence		The quality or state of being quadrivalent; tetravalence.
quadrivalent		Having a valence of four; capable of combining with, being replaced by, or compared with, four monad atoms; tetravalent; -- said of certain atoms and radicals; thus, carbon and silicon are quadrivalent elements.
quadrivalve		Dehiscent into four similar parts; four-valved; as, a quadrivalve pericarp.
quadrivalvular		Having four valves; quadrivalve.
quadrivial		Having four ways meeting in a point.
quadrivium		The four arithmetic, music, geometry, and astronomy; -- so called by the schoolmen.
quadroon		The offspring of a mulatto and a white person; a person quarter-blooded.
quadroxide		A tetroxide.
quadrumana		A division of the Primates comprising the apes and monkeys; -- so called because the hind foot is usually prehensile, and the great toe opposable somewhat like a thumb.
quadrumane		One of the Quadrumana.
quadrumanous		Having four hands; of or pertaining to the Quadrumana.
quadruped		Having four feet.
quadrupedal		Having four feet; of or pertaining to a quadruped.
quadruplane		An aëroplane with four superposed main supporting surfaces.
quadruple		Fourfold; as, to make quadruple restitution; a quadruple alliance.
quadruplet		pl. Four children born in the same labor.
quadruplex		Fourfold; folded or doubled twice.
quadruplicate		To make fourfold; to double twice; to quadruple.
quadruplication		The act of making fourfold; a taking four times the simple sum or amount.
quadruply		To a fourfold quantity; so as to be, or cause to be, quadruple; as, to be quadruply recompensed.
quaere		Inquire; question; see; -- used to signify doubt or to suggest investigation.
quaestor		Same as Questor.
quaff		To drink with relish; to drink copiously of; to swallow in large draughts.
quaffer		One who quaffs, or drinks largely.
quag		A quagmire.
quagga		A South African wild ass (Equus, or Hippotigris, quagga).
quaggy		Of the nature of a quagmire; yielding or trembling under the foot, as soft, wet earth; spongy; boggy.
quagmire		Soft, wet, miry land, which shakes or yields under the feet. -- Morass; marsh; bog; swamp; fen; slough.
quahaug		An American market clam (Venus mercenaria).
quahog		An American market clam (Venus mercenaria).
quaich	Scots	A small shallow cup or drinking vessel.
quaigh	Scots	A small shallow cup or drinking vessel.
quail		(Zoöl.) Any gallinaceous bird belonging to Coturnix and several allied genera of the Old World, especially the common European quail (C. communis), the rain quail (C.
quaily		The upland plover.
quaint		Curious and fanciful; affected; odd; whimsical; antique; archaic; singular; unusual; as, quaint architecture; a quaint expression.
quaintise	Obsolete	Craft; subtlety; cunning.
quaintly		In a quaint manner.
quaintness		The quality of being quaint.
quair	Obsolete	A quire; a book. (of Scotland).
quake		To be agitated with quick, short motions continually repeated; to shake with fear, cold, etc.; to shudder; to tremble.
quaker		One who quakes.
quakeress		A woman who is a member of the Society of Friends.
quakerish		Like or pertaining to a Quaker; Quakerlike.
quakerism		The peculiar character, manners, tenets, etc., of the Quakers.
quakerlike		Like a Quaker.
quakerly		Resembling Quakers; Quakerlike; Quakerish.
quakery	Obsolete	Quakerism.
quaketail		A wagtail.
quakiness		The state of being quaky; liability to quake.
quaking		a. & n. from Quake, v.
quakingly		In a quaking manner; fearfully.
quaky		Shaky, or tremulous; quaking.
qualifiable		Capable of being qualified; abatable; modifiable.
qualification		The act of qualifying, or the condition of being qualified.
qualificative		That which qualifies, modifies, or restricts; a qualifying term or statement.
qualificator		An officer whose business it is to examine and prepare causes for trial in the ecclesiastical courts.
qualified		Modified; limited; as, a qualified statement.
qualifiedly		In the way of qualification; with modification or qualification.
qualifiedness		The state of being qualified.
qualifier		, One who, or that which, qualifies; that which modifies, reduces, tempers or restrains.
qualify		To make such as is required; to give added or requisite qualities to; to fit, as for a place, office, occupation, or character; to furnish with the knowledge, skill, or other accomplishment necessary for a purpose…
qualitative		Relating to quality; having the character of quality. -- Qual"i*ta*tive*ly, adv.
qualitied	Obsolete	Furnished with qualities; endowed.
quality		The condition of being of such and such a sort as distinguished from others; nature or character relatively considered, as of goods; character; sort; rank.
qualm		A sudden attack of illness, faintness, or pain; an agony.
qualmish		Sick at the stomach; affected with nausea or sickly languor; inclined to vomit.
quamash		See Camass — a blue-flowered liliaceous plant (Camassia esculenta) of northwestern America, the bulbs of which are collected for food by the Indians.
quamoclit		Formerly, a genus of plants including the cypress vine (Quamoclit vulgaris, now called Ipomoea Quamoclit).
quandary	Obsolete	A state of difficulty or perplexity; doubt; uncertainty.
quandong		The edible drupaceous fruit of an Australian tree (Fusanus acuminatus) of the Sandalwood family; -- called also quandang.
quandy	Dialect	The old squaw.
quannet		A flat file having the handle at one side, so as to be used like a plane.
quant		A punting pole with a broad flange near the end to prevent it from sinking into the mud; a setting pole.
quantic		A homogeneous algebraic function of two or more variables, in general containing only positive integral powers of the variables, and called quadric, cubic, quartic, etc., according as it is of the second, third, fourth, fifth…
quantification		Modification by a reference to quantity; the introduction of the element of quantity.
quantify		To modify or qualify with respect to quantity; to fix or express the quantity of; to rate.
quantitative		Relating to quantity. -- Quan"ti*ta*tive*ly, adv.
quantitive		Estimable according to quantity; quantitative.
quantitively		So as to be measurable by quantity; quantitatively.
quantity		The attribute of being so much, and not more or less; the property of being measurable, or capable of increase and decrease, multiplication and division; greatness; and more concretely, that which answers the question…
quantivalence	Archaic	Valence.
quantivalent	Archaic	Of or pertaining to quantivalence.
quantum		Quantity; amount.
quap	Obsolete	To quaver. See Quob.
quaquaversal		Turning or dipping in any or every direction.
quar	English dialect	A quarry.
quarantine		A space of forty days; -- used of Lent.
quarl		A medusa, or jellyfish.
quarrel		(Arch.) Any small square or quadrangular member; as: (a) A square of glass, esp. when set diagonally.
quarrelet		A little quarrel. See 1st Quarrel,
quarreling		Engaged in a quarrel; apt or disposed to quarrel; as, quarreling factions; a quarreling mood. -- Quar"rel*ing*ly, adv.
quarrellous	Obsolete	Quarrelsome.
quarrelsome		Apt or disposed to quarrel; given to brawls and contention; easily irritated or provoked to contest; irascible; choleric.
quarried		Provided with prey.
quarrier		A worker in a stone quarry.
quarry		(a) A part of the entrails of the beast taken, given to the hounds. (b) A heap of game killed.
quarry-faced		Having a face left as it comes from the quarry and not smoothed with the chisel or point; -- said of stones.
quarry-man		A man who is engaged in quarrying stones; a quarrier.
quart		A measure of capacity, both in dry and in liquid measure; the fourth part of a gallon; the eighth part of a peck; two pints.
quartan		Of or pertaining to the fourth; occurring every fourth day, reckoning inclusively; as, a quartan ague, or fever.
quartane		Butane, each molecule of which has four carbon atoms.
quartation		The act, process, or result (in the process of parting) of alloying a button of nearly pure gold with enough silver to reduce the fineness so as to allow acids to attack and remove all metals except the gold…
quarte		Same as 2d Carte.
quartene		Same as Butylene.
quartenylic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the acrylic acid series, metameric with crotonic acid, and obtained as a colorless liquid; -- so called from having four carbon atoms in the molecule.
quarter		One of four equal parts into which anything is divided, or is regarded as divided; a fourth part or portion; as, a quarter of a dollar, of a pound, of a yard, of an hour, etc. Hence…
quarter-deck		That part of the upper deck abaft the mainmast, including the poop deck when there is one.
quarter-saw		To saw (a log) into quarters; specif., to saw into quarters and then into boards, as by cutting alternately from each face of a quarter, to secure lumber that will warp relatively little or show the grain advantageously.
quarterage		A quarterly allowance.
quartered		Divided into four equal parts or quarters; separated into four parts or regions.
quarterfoil		An ornamental foliation having four lobes, or foils.
quarterhung		Having trunnions the axes of which lie below the bore; -- said of a cannon.
quartering		(Naut.) Coming from a point well abaft the beam, but not directly astern; -- said of waves or any moving object.
quarterly		Containing, or consisting of, a fourth part; as, quarterly seasons.
quartermaster		(Mil.) An officer whose duty is to provide quarters, provisions, storage, clothing, fuel, stationery, and transportation for a regiment or other body of troops, and superintend the supplies.
quartern		A quarter. Specifically: (a) The fourth part of a pint; a gill. (b) The fourth part of a peck, or of a stone (14 ibs.).
quarteron		A quarter; esp., a quarter of a pound, or a quarter of a hundred.
quarteroon		A quadroon.
quarterpace		A platform of a staircase where the stair turns at a right angle only.
quarterstaff		A long and stout staff formerly used as a weapon of defense and offense; -- so called because in holding it one hand was placed in the middle, and the other between the middle and the end.
quartet		(Mus.) (a) A composition in four parts, each performed by a single voice or instrument.
quartette		(Mus.) (a) A composition in four parts, each performed by a single voice or instrument.
quartic		Of the fourth degree. (a) (Alg.) A quantic of the fourth degree. See Quantic.
quartile		Same as Quadrate.
quartine		A supposed fourth integument of an ovule, counting from the outside.
quarto		Having four leaves to the sheet; of the form or size of a quarto.
quartridge	Obsolete	Quarterage.
quartz		A form of silica, or silicon dioxide (SiO2), occurring in hexagonal crystals, which are commonly colorless and transparent, but sometimes also yellow, brown, purple, green, and of other colors…
quartziferous		Consisting chiefly of quartz; containing quartz.
quartzite		Massive quartz occurring as a rock; a metamorphosed sandstone; -- called also quartz rock.
quartzoid		A form of crystal common with quartz, consisting of two six- sided pyramids, base to base.
quartzose		Containing, or resembling, quartz; partaking of the nature or qualities of quartz.
quartzous		Quarzose.
quartzy		Quartzose.
quas		A kind of beer.
quaschi		The brown coati. See Coati.
quash		To beat down, or beat in pieces; to dash forcibly; to crush.
quashee		A negro of the West Indies.
quasi		As if; as though; as it were; in a manner sense or degree; having some resemblance to; qualified; -- used as an adjective, or a prefix with a noun or an adjective; as, a quasi contract, an implied contract…
quasimodo		The first Sunday after Easter; Low Sunday.
quasje		The brown coati. See Coati.
quass		A thin, sour beer, made by pouring warm water on rye or barley meal and letting it ferment, -- much used by the Russians.
quassation		The act of shaking, or the state of being shaken.
quassia		The wood of several tropical American trees of the order Simarubeæ, as Quassia amara, Picræna excelsa, and Simaruba amara.
quassin		The bitter principle of quassia, extracted as a white crystalline substance; -- formerly called quassite.
quat	Obsolete	(a) A pustule. (b) An annoying, worthless person.
quata		The coaita.
quatch	Obsolete	Squat; flat.
quater-cousin		A cousin within the first four degrees of kindred.
quaternary		(Geol.) Later than, or subsequent to, the Tertiary; Post-tertiary; as, the Quaternary age, or Age of man.
quaternate		Composed of, or arranged in, sets of four; quaternary; as, quaternate leaves.
quaternion	Poetic	The number four.
quaternity		The union of four in one, as of four persons; -- analogous to the theological term trinity.
quateron		See 2d Quarteron.
quatorzain		A poem of fourteen lines; a sonnet.
quatorze		The four aces, kings, queens, knaves, or tens, in the game of piquet; -- so called because quatorze counts as fourteen points.
quatrain		A stanza of four lines rhyming alternately.
quatre		A card, die. or domino, having four spots, or pips
quatrefeuille		Same as Quarterfoil.
quatrefoil		Same as Quarterfoil.
quattrocento		The fifteenth century, when applied to Italian art or literature; as, the sculpture of the quattrocento; quattrocento style. --Quat`tro*cen"tist (#), n.
quatuor		A quartet; -- applied chiefly to instrumental compositions.
quave	Obsolete	See Quaver — especially, to shake the voice; to utter or form sound with rapid or tremulous vibrations, as in singing; also, to trill on a musical instrument To utter with quavers.
quavemire	Obsolete	See Quagmire — soft, wet, miry land, which shakes or yields under the feet. -- Morass; marsh; bog; swamp; fen; slough.
quaver		Especially, to shake the voice; to utter or form sound with rapid or tremulous vibrations, as in singing; also, to trill on a musical instrument To utter with quavers.
quaverer		One who quavers; a warbler.
quay		A mole, bank, or wharf, formed toward the sea, or at the side of a harbor, river, or other navigable water, for convenience in loading and unloading vessels.
quayage		Wharfage.
quayd	Obsolete	p. p. of Quail — (Zoöl.) Any gallinaceous bird belonging to Coturnix and several allied genera of the Old World, especially the common European quail (C. communis), the rain quail (C.
que	Obsolete	A half farthing.
queach	Obsolete	A thick, bushy plot; a thicket.
queachy		Yielding or trembling under the feet, as moist or boggy ground; shaking; moving.
quean		A low woman; a wench; a slut.
queasily		In a queasy manner.
queasiness		The state of being queasy; nausea; qualmishness; squeamishness.
queasy		Sick at the stomach; affected with nausea; inclined to vomit; qualmish.
quebracho		A Chilian apocynaceous tree (Aspidosperma Quebracho); also, its bark, which is used as a febrifuge, and for dyspnoea of the lung, or bronchial diseases; -- called also white quebracho, to distinguish it from the red quebracho…
quebrith	Obsolete	Sulphur.
quech		A word occurring in a corrupt passage of Bacon's Essays, and probably meaning, to stir, to move.
queck		A word occurring in a corrupt passage of Bacon's Essays, and probably meaning, to stir, to move.
queen		A woman who is the sovereign of a kingdom; a female monarch; as, Elizabeth, queen of England; Mary, queen of Scots.
queen-post		One of two suspending posts in a roof truss, or other framed truss of similar form.
queencraft		Craft or skill in policy on the part of a queen.
queendom		The dominion, condition, or character of a queen.
queenfish		A California sciænoid food fish (Seriphys politus).
queenhood		The state, personality, or character of a queen; queenliness.
queening		Any one of several kinds of apples, as summer queening, scarlet queening, and early queening.
queenliness		The quality of being queenly; the; characteristic of a queen; stateliness; eminence among women in attractions or power.
queenly		Like, becoming, or suitable to, a queen.
queenship		The state, rank, or dignity of a queen.
queer		At variance with what is usual or normal; differing in some odd way from what is ordinary; odd; singular; strange; whimsical; as, a queer story or act.
queerish		Rather queer; somewhat singular.
queerly		In a queer or odd manner.
queerness		The quality or state of being queer.
queest		The European ringdove (Columba palumbus); the cushat. See Ringdove.
quegh		A drinking vessel. See Quaich.
queint	Obsolete	See Quaint. imp. & p. p. of Quench.
queintise	Obsolete	See Quaintise — craft; subtlety; cunning.
quell		To overpower; to subdue; to put down.
queller		One who quells; one who overpowers or subdues.
quellio	Obsolete	A ruff for the neck.
quelquechose		A trifle; a kickshaw.
queme	Obsolete	To please.
quemeful	Obsolete	Kindly; merciful.
quench		To extinguish; to overwhelm; to make an end of; -- said of flame and fire, of things burning, and figuratively of sensations and emotions; as, to quench flame; to quench a candle; to quench thirst, love, hate…
quenchable		Capable of being quenched.
quencher		One who, or that which, quenches.
quenchless		Incapable of being quenched; inextinguishable; as, quenchless fire or fury. -- Inextinguishable; unquenchable. -- Quench less*ness, n.
quenelle		A kind of delicate forcemeat, commonly poached and used as a dish by itself or for garnishing.
quercitannic		Pertaining to, or designating, a tannic acid found in oak bark and extracted as a yellowish brown amorphous substance.
quercite		A white crystalline substance, C6H7(OH)5, found in acorns, the fruit of the oak (Quercus).
quercitin		A yellow crystalline substance, occurring quite widely distributed in the vegetable kingdom, as is apple-tree bark, horse- chestnut leaves, etc., but originally obtained by the decomposition of quercitrin.
quercitrin		A glucoside extracted from the bark of the oak (Quercus) as a bitter citron-yellow crystalline substance, used as a pigment and called quercitron.
quercitron		The yellow inner bark of the Quercus tinctoria, the American black oak, yellow oak, dyer's oak, or quercitron oak, a large forest tree growing from Maine to eastern Texas.
quercus		A genus of trees constituted by the oak. See Oak.
querele	Obsolete	A complaint to a court. See Audita Querela.
querent	Obsolete	A complainant; a plaintiff.
querimonious		Complaining; querulous; apt to complain. -- Quer`i*mo ni*ous*ness, n.
querimony	Obsolete	A complaint or complaining.
querist		One who inquires, or asks questions.
querken	English dialect	To stifle or choke.
querl	Dialect	To twirl; to turn or wind round; to coil; as, to querl a cord, thread, or rope.
quern		A mill for grinding grain, the upper stone of which was turned by hand; -- used before the invention of windmills and watermills.
querpo		The inner or body garments taken together. See Cuerpo.
querquedule		(a) A teal. (b) The pintail duck.
querry	Obsolete	A groom; an equerry.
querulential		Querulous.
querulous		Apt to find fault; habitually complaining; disposed to murmur; as, a querulous man or people.
query		A question in the mind; a doubt; as, I have a query about his sincerity.
quesal		The long-tailed, or resplendent, trogon (Pharomachus mocinno, formerly Trogon resplendens), native of Southern Mexico and Central America.
quest		The act of seeking, or looking after anything; attempt to find or obtain; search; pursuit; as, to rove in quest of game, of a lost child, of property, etc. Upon an hard adventure yet in quest.
questant	Obsolete	One who undertakes a quest; a seeker.
quester	Obsolete	One who seeks; a seeker.
question		The act of asking; interrogation; inquiry; as, to examine by question and answer.
questionability		The state or condition of being questionable.
questionable		Admitting of being questioned; inviting, or seeming to invite, inquiry.
questionableness		The quality or state of being questionable, doubtful, or suspicious.
questionably		In a questionable manner.
questionary		Inquiring; asking questions; testing.
questioner		One who asks questions; an inquirer.
questionist		(Eng. Univ.) A candidate for honors or degrees who is near the time of his examination.
questionless		Unquestioning; incurious.
questionnaire		= Questionary, above.
questman	Obsolete	One legally empowered to make quest of certain matters, esp. of abuses of weights and measures.
questmonger	Obsolete	One who lays informations, and encourages petty lawsuits.
questor		An officer who had the management of the public treasure; a receiver of taxes, tribute, etc.; treasurer of state.
questorship		The office, or the term of office, of a questor.
questrist	Obsolete	A seeker; a pursuer.
questuary	Obsolete	Studious of profit.
quet	English dialect	The common guillemot.
queue		(a) A tail-like appendage of hair; a pigtail. (b) A line of persons waiting anywhere.
quey	Scots	A heifer.
quib		A quip; a gibe.
quibble		A shift or turn from the point in question; a trifling or evasive distinction; an evasion; a cavil.
quibbler		One who quibbles; a caviler; also, a punster.
quibblingly		Triflingly; evasively.
quica		A small South American opossum (Didelphys quica), native of Guiana and Brazil.
quice		See Queest — the european ringdove (Columba palumbus); the cushat. See Ringdove.
quich	Obsolete	To stir.
quichuan		Designating, or pertaining to, a linguistic stock of South American Indians, including the majority of the civilized tribes of the ancient Peruvian Empire with some wild tribes never subjugated by the Incas.
quick		Alive; living; animate; -- opposed to dead or inanimate.
quick-scented		Acute of smell.
quick-sighted		Having quick sight or acute discernment; quick to see or to discern.
quick-witted		Having ready wit Shak.
quick-wittedness		Readiness of wit.
quickbeam		See Quicken tree.
quicken		To make alive; to vivify; to revive or resuscitate, as from death or an inanimate state; hence, to excite; to, stimulate; to incite.
quickener		One who, or that which, quickens.
quickening		The act or process of making or of becoming quick.
quickens		Quitch grass.
quickhatch		The wolverine.
quicklime		Calcium oxide; unslacked lime; -- so called because when wet it develops great heat.
quickly		Speedily; with haste or celerity; soon; without delay; quick.
quickness		Activity; briskness; especially, rapidity of motion; speed; celerity; as, quickness of wit.
quicksand		Sand easily moved or readily yielding to pressure; especially, a deep mass of loose or moving sand mixed with water, sometimes found at the mouth of a river or along some coasts, and very dangerous…
quickset		A living plant set to grow, esp. when set for a hedge; specifically, the hawthorn.
quicksilver		The metal mercury; -- so called from its resemblance to liquid silver.
quicksilvered		Overlaid with quicksilver, or with an amalgam of quicksilver and tinfoil.
quicksilvering		The mercury and foil on the back of a looking-glass.
quickstep		A lively, spirited march; also, a lively style of dancing.
quickwork		(a) All the submerged section of a vessel's planking. (b) The planking between the spirketing and the clamps.
quid		A portion suitable to be chewed; a cud; as, a quid of tobacco.
quidam		Somebody; one unknown.
quiddany		A confection of quinces, in consistency between a sirup and marmalade.
quiddative		Constituting, or containing, the essence of a thing; quidditative.
quiddit	Obsolete	A subtilty; an equivocation.
quidditative		Quiddative.
quiddity		The essence, nature, or distinctive peculiarity, of a thing; that which answers the question, Quid est or, What is it The quiddity or characteristic difference of poetry as distinguished from prose.
quiddle		To spend time in trifling employments, or to attend to useful subjects in an indifferent or superficial manner; to dawdle.
quiddler		One who wastes his energy about trifles.
quidnunc		One who is curious to know everything that passes; one who knows, or pretends to know, all that is going on.
quiesce		To be silent, as a letter; to have no sound.
quiescence		The state or quality of being quiescent.
quiescency		The state or quality of being quiescent.
quiescent		Being in a state of repose; at rest; still; not moving; as, a quiescent body or fluid.
quiescently		In a quiescent manner.
quiet		In a state of rest or calm; without stir, motion, or agitation; still; as, a quiet sea; quiet air.
quietage	Obsolete	Quietness.
quieter		One who, or that which, quiets.
quietism		Peace or tranquillity of mind; calmness; indifference; apathy; dispassion; indisturbance; inaction.
quietist		One of a sect of mystics originated in the seventeenth century by Molinos, a Spanish priest living in Rome.
quietistic		Of or pertaining to the Quietists, or to Quietism.
quietly		In a quiet state or manner; without motion; in a state of rest; as, to lie or sit quietly.
quietness		The quality or state of being quiet; freedom from noise, agitation, disturbance, or excitement; stillness; tranquillity; calmness.
quietsome	Obsolete	Calm; still.
quietude		Rest; repose; quiet; tranquillity.
quietus		Final discharge or acquittance, as from debt or obligation; that which silences claims; (Fig.) rest; death.
quill		One of the large feathers of a bird's wing, or one of the rectrices of the tail; also, the stock of such a feather.
quillback		An American fresh-water fish (Ictiobus, or Carpiodes, cyprinus); -- called also carp sucker, sailfish, spearfish, and skimback.
quilled		Furnished with quills; also, shaped like quills.
quillet		Subtilty; nicety; quibble.
quilling		(a) A band of linen, muslin, or the like, fluted, folded, or plaited so as somewhat to resemble a row of quills.
quillwort		Any plant or species of the genus Isoetes, cryptogamous plants with a cluster of elongated four-tubed rushlike leaves, rising from a corm, and containing spores in their enlarged and excavated bases.
quilt		Anything that is quilted; esp., a quilted bed cover, or a skirt worn by women; any cover or garment made by putting wool, cotton, etc., between two cloths and stitching them together; also, any outer bed cover.
quilter		One who, or that which, quilts.
quilting		A quilting bee. See Bee, 2.
quin	English dialect	A European scallop (Pecten opercularis), used as food.
quinaldine		A colorless liquid of a slightly pungent odor, C9H6N.CH3, first obtained as a condensation product of aldehyde and aniline, and regarded as a derivative of quinoline; -- called also methyl quinoline.
quinary		Consisting of five; arranged by fives.
quinate		Growing in sets of five; -- said especially of leaves composed of five leaflets set at the end of a common petiole.
quinazol		A complex nitrogenous base related to cinnoline.
quince		The fruit of a shrub (Cydonia vulgaris) belonging to the same tribe as the apple.
quincewort		The squinancy.
quinch	Obsolete	To stir; to wince.
quincuncial		Having the form of a quincunx.
quincuncially		In the manner or order of a quincunx.
quincunx		An arrangement of things by fives in a square or a rectangle, one being placed at each corner and one in the middle; especially, such an arrangement of trees repeated indefinitely…
quindecagon		A plane figure with fifteen angles, and consequently fifteen sides.
quindecemvir		One of a sacerdotal college of fifteen men whose chief duty was to take care of the Sibylline books.
quindecemvirate		The body or office of the quindecemviri.
quindecone		An unsaturated hydrocarbon, C15H26, of the valylene series, produced artificially as an oily liquid.
quindecylic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the fatty acid series, containing fifteen atoms of carbon; called also pentadecylic acid.
quindem	Obsolete	A fifteenth part.
quindism	Obsolete	A fifteenth.
quinhydrone		A green crystalline substance formed by the union of quinone with hydroquinone, or as an intermediate product in the oxidation of hydroquinone or the reduction of quinone.
quinia		Quinine.
quinible	Obsolete	An interval of a fifth; also, a part sung with such intervals.
quinic		Pertaining to, derived from, or connected with, quinine and related compounds; specifically, designating a nonnitrogenous acid obtained from cinchona bark, coffee, beans, etc., as a white crystalline substance.
quinicine		An uncrystallizable alkaloid obtained by the action of heat from quinine, with which it is isomeric.
quinidine		An alkaloid isomeric with, and resembling, quinine, found in certain species of cinchona, from which it is extracted as a bitter white crystalline substance; conchinine.
quinine		An alkaloid extracted from the bark of several species of cinchona (esp. Cinchona Calisaya) as a bitter white crystalline substance, C20H24N2O2.
quininic		Pertaining to, or designating, a nitrogenous acid obtained as a yellow crystalline substance by the oxidation of quinine.
quininism		See Cinchonism — a condition produced by the excessive or long-continued use of quinine, and marked by deafness, roaring in the ears, vertigo, etc.
quinism		See Cinchonism — a condition produced by the excessive or long-continued use of quinine, and marked by deafness, roaring in the ears, vertigo, etc.
quinizarin		A yellow crystalline substance produced artificially.
quinizine		any one of a series of nitrogenous bases, certain of which are used as antipyretics.
quinnat		The California salmon (Oncorhynchus choicha); -- called also chouicha, king salmon, chinnook salmon, and Sacramento salmon.
quinoa		The seeds of a kind of goosewort (Chenopodium Quinoa), used in Chili and Peru for making porridge or cakes; also, food thus made.
quinogen		A hypothetical radical of quinine and related alkaloids.
quinoidine		A brownish resinous substance obtained as a by-product in the treatment of cinchona bark.
quinoline		A nitrogenous base, C9H7N obtained as a pungent colorless liquid by the distillation of alkaloids, bones, coal tar, etc. It the nucleus of many organic bodies, especially of certain alkaloids and related substances; hence…
quinologist		One who is versed in quinology.
quinology		The science which treats of the cultivation of the cinchona, and of its use in medicine.
quinone		A crystalline substance, C6H4O2 (called also benzoketone), first obtained by the oxidation of quinic acid and regarded as a double ketone; also, by extension, any one of the series of which quinone proper is the type.
quinovic		Pertaining to, or designating, a crystalline acid obtained from some varieties of cinchona bark.
quinovin		An amorphous bitter glucoside derived from cinchona and other barks.
quinoxaline		Any one of a series of complex nitrogenous bases obtained by the union of certain aniline derivatives with glyoxal or with certain ketones.
quinoxyl		The hypothetical radical of certain quinone derivatives related to rhodizonic acid.
quinoyl		A radical of which quinone is the hydride, analogous to phenyl.
quinquagesima		Fiftieth.
quinquangular		Having five angles or corners.
quinquarticular	Obsolete	Relating to the five articles or points; as, the quinquarticular controversy between Arminians and Calvinists.
quinque-		A combining form meaning five, five times, fivefold; as, quinquefid, five-cleft; quinquedentate, five-toothed.
quinqueangled		Having five angles; quinquangular.
quinquedentate		Five-toothed; as, a quinquedentate leaf.
quinquedentated		Five-toothed; as, a quinquedentate leaf.
quinquefarious		Arranged in five vertical rows; pentastichous.
quinquefid		Sharply cut about halfway to the middle or base into five segments; as, a quinquefid leaf or corolla.
quinquefoliate		Having five leaves or leaflets.
quinquefoliated		Having five leaves or leaflets.
quinqueliteral		Consisting of five letters.
quinquelobared		Cut less than halfway into portions, usually somewhat rounded; five-lobed; as, a quinquelobate leaf or corolla.
quinquelobate		Cut less than halfway into portions, usually somewhat rounded; five-lobed; as, a quinquelobate leaf or corolla.
quinquelobed		Same as Quinquelobate.
quinquelocular		Having five cells or loculi; five-celled; as, a quinquelocular pericarp.
quinquenerved		Having five nerves; -- said of a leaf with five nearly equal nerves or ribs rising from the end of the petiole.
quinquennalia		Public games celebrated every five years.
quinquennial		Occurring once in five years, or at the end of every five years; also, lasting five years.
quinquennium		Space of five years.
quinquepartite		Consisting of five parts.
quinquereme		A galley having five benches or banks of oars; as, an Athenian quinquereme.
quinquesyllable		A word of five syllables.
quinquevalve		Having five valves, as a pericarp.
quinquevalvular		Having five valves, as a pericarp.
quinquevir		One of five commissioners appointed for some special object.
quinquina		Peruvian bark.
quinquivalent		Same as Pentavalent.
quinsy		An inflammation of the throat, or parts adjacent, especially of the fauces or tonsils, attended by considerable swelling, painful and impeded deglutition, and accompanied by inflammatory fever.
quint		A set or sequence of five, as in piquet.
quintain		An object to be tilted at; -- called also quintel.
quintal		A hundredweight, either 112 or 100 pounds, according to the scale used.
quintan		Occurring as the fifth, after four others also, occurring every fifth day, reckoning inclusively; as, a quintan fever. -- n.
quintel		See Quintain — an object to be tilted at; -- called also quintel.
quintessence		Hence: An extract from anything, containing its rarest virtue, or most subtle and essential constituent in a small quantity; pure or concentrated essence.
quintessential		Of the nature of a quintessence; purest.
quintet		A composition for five voices or instruments; also, the set of five persons who sing or play five-part music.
quintette		A composition for five voices or instruments; also, the set of five persons who sing or play five-part music.
quintic		Of the fifth degree or order. -- n. (Alg.) A quantic of the fifth degree.
quintile		The aspect of planets when separated the fifth part of the zodiac, or 72º.
quintilllion		According to the French notation, which is used on the Continent and in America, the cube of a million, or a unit with eighteen ciphers annexed; according to the English notation…
quintin		See Quintain — an object to be tilted at; -- called also quintel.
quintine		The embryonic sac of an ovule, sometimes regarded as an innermost fifth integument.
quintole		A group of five notes to be played or sung in the time of four of the same species.
quintroon		The off-spring of an octoroon and a white person.
quintuple		Multiplied by five; increased to five times the amount; fivefold.
quintuple-nerved		The same as Quinquenerved.
quintuple-ribbed		The same as Quinquenerved.
quintuplet		pl. Five children born in the same labor.
quinzaine		The fifteenth day after a feast day, including both in the reckoning.
quinze		A game at cards in which the object is to make fifteen points.
quip		A smart, sarcastic turn or jest; a taunt; a severe retort; a gibe.
quipo		Same as Quipu.
quipu		A contrivance employed by the ancient Peruvians, Mexicans, etc., as a substitute for writing and figures, consisting of a main cord, from which hung at certain distances smaller cords of various colors…
quirboilly	Obsolete	Leather softened by boiling so as to take any required shape.
quire	Obsolete	See Choir — a band or organized company of singers, especially in church service.
quirinal		Of, pertaining to, or designating, the hill Collis Quirinalis, now Monte Quirinale (one of the seven hills of Rome), or a modern royal place situated upon it.
quirister		A chorister. See Chorister.
quiritation	Obsolete	A crying for help.
quirite		One of the Quirites.
quirites		Roman citizens.
quirk		A sudden turn; a starting from the point or line; hence, an artful evasion or subterfuge; a shift; a quibble; as, the quirks of a pettifogger.
quirked		Having, or formed with, a quirk or quirks.
quirkish		, Consisting of quirks; resembling a quirk.
quirky		Full of quirks; tricky; as, a quirky lawyer.
quirl		See Querl — to twirl; to turn or wind round; to coil; as, to querl a cord, thread, or rope.
quirpele		The Indian ferret.
quirt		A rawhide whip plaited with two thongs of buffalo hide T.
quish		See Cuish — defensive armor for the thighs.
quit		Any one of numerous species of small passerine birds native of tropical America.
quitch		(Bot.) Same as Quitch grass.
quitclaim		A release or relinquishment of a claim; a deed of release; an instrument by which some right, title, interest, or claim, which one person has, or is supposed to have, in or to an estate held by himself or another…
quite		Completely; wholly; entirely; totally; perfectly; as, the work is not quite done; the object is quite accomplished; to be quite mistaken.
quitrent		A rent reserved in grants of land, by the payment of which the tenant is quit from other service.
quits		See the Note under Quit, a.
quittable		Capable of being quitted.
quittal	Obsolete	Return; requital; quittance.
quittance		Discharge from a debt or an obligation; acquittance.
quitter		One who quits.
quittor		A chronic abscess, or fistula of the coronet, in a horse's foot, resulting from inflammation of the tissues investing the coffin bone.
quitture	Obsolete	A discharge; an issue.
quiver	Obsolete	Nimble; active.
quivered		Furnished with, or carrying, a quiver.
quiveringly		With quivering motion.
quixotic		Like Don Quixote; romantic to extravagance; absurdly chivalric; apt to be deluded.
quixotically		In a quixotic way.
quixotism		That form of delusion which leads to extravagant and absurd undertakings or sacrifices in obedience to a morbidly romantic ideal of duty or honor, as illustrated by the exploits of Don Quixote in knight-errantry.
quixotry		Quixotism; visionary schemes.
quiz		A riddle or obscure question; an enigma; a ridiculous hoax.
quizzer		One who quizzes; a quiz.
quizzical		Relating to quizzing: given to quizzing; of the nature of a quiz; farcical; sportive. -- Quiz"zic*al*ly, adv.
quizzism		The act or habit of quizzing.
quob	Local & vulgar	To throb; to quiver.
quod	Slang	A quadrangle or court, as of a prison; hence, a prison.
quoddies		Herring taken and cured or smoked near Quoddy Head, Maine, or near the entrance of Passamaquoddy Ray.
quodlibet		A nice point; a subtilty; a debatable point.
quodlibetarian		One who discusses any subject at pleasure.
quodlibetical		Not restricted to a particular subject; discussed for curiosity or entertainment. -- Quod`li*bet"ic*al*ly, adv.
quoif		See Coif — a cap. Specifically: (a) A close-fitting cap covering the sides of the head, like a small hood without a cape.
quoiffure		See Coiffure — a headdress, or manner of dressing the hair.
quoil	Obsolete	See Coil — to wind cylindrically or spirally; as, to coil a rope when not in use; the snake coiled itself before springing.
quoin		(Arch.) Originally, a solid exterior angle, as of a building; now, commonly, one of the selected pieces of material by which the corner is marked.
quoit		(a) A flattened ring-shaped piece of iron, to be pitched at a fixed object in play; hence, any heavy flat missile used for the same purpose, as a stone, piece of iron, etc. (b) pl. A game played with quoits.
quoke		imp. of Quake — to be agitated with quick, short motions continually repeated; to shake with fear, cold, etc.; to shudder; to tremble.
quoll		A marsupial of Australia (Dasyurus macrurus), about the size of a cat.
quondam		Having been formerly; former; sometime.
quook	Obsolete	imp. of Quake — to be agitated with quick, short motions continually repeated; to shake with fear, cold, etc.; to shudder; to tremble.
quop		See Quob — to throb; to quiver.
quorum		Such a number of the officers or members of any body as is competent by law or constitution to transact business; as, a quorum of the House of Representatives; a constitutional quorum was not present.
quota		A proportional part or share; the share or proportion assigned to each in a division.
quotable		Capable or worthy of being quoted; as, a quotable writer; a quotable sentence. -- Quot`a*bit"i*ty, n.
quotation		That which is quoted or cited; a part of a book or writing named, repeated, or adduced as evidence or illustration.
quotationist		One who makes, or is given to making, quotations.
quote		To cite, as a passage from some author; to name, repeat, or adduce, as a passage from an author or speaker, by way of authority or illustration; as, to quote a passage from Homer.
quoter		One who quotes the words of another.
quoth		Said; spoke; uttered; -- used only in the first and third persons in the past tenses, and always followed by its nominative, the word or words said being the object; as, quoth I. quoth he.
quotha		Indeed; forsooth.
quotidian		Occurring or returning daily; as, a quotidian fever.
quotient		(Arith.) The number resulting from the division of one number by another, and showing how often a less number is contained in a greater; thus, the quotient of twelve divided by four is three.
quotiety		The relation of an object to number.
quotum		Part or proportion; quota.
quran		See Koran — the scriptures of the Mohammedans, containing the professed revelations to Mohammed; -- called also Alcoran.
