ra	Obsolete	A roe; a deer.	
ra-		A prefix, from the Latin re and ad combined, coming to us through the French and Italian.	
raash		The electric catfish.	
rab		A rod or stick used by masons in mixing hair with mortar.	
rabat		A polishing material made of potter's clay that has failed in baking. (a) A clerical linen collar.	
rabate	Obsolete	To recover to the fist, as a hawk.	
rabatine	Obsolete	A collar or cape.	
rabato	Obsolete	A kind of ruff for the neck; a turned-down collar; a rebato.	
rabbate	Obsolete	To abate or diminish. --n.	
rabbet		To cut a rabbet in; to furnish with a rabbet.	
rabbi		Master; lord; teacher; -- a Jewish title of respect or honor for a teacher or doctor of the law.	Latin rabbi, from Greek ῥαββί, from Hebrew רבי.
rabbin		Same as Rabbi.	
rabbinic		Of or pertaining to the rabbins or rabbis, or pertaining to the opinions, learning, or language of the rabbins.	
rabbinical		Of or pertaining to the rabbins or rabbis, or pertaining to the opinions, learning, or language of the rabbins.	
rabbinically		In a rabbinical manner; after the manner of the rabbins.	
rabbinism		A rabbinic expression or phraseology; a peculiarity of the language of the rabbins.	
rabbinist		One among the Jews who adhered to the Talmud and the traditions of the rabbins, in opposition to the Karaites, who rejected the traditions.	
rabbinite		Same as Rabbinist.	
rabbiting		The hunting of rabbits.	
rabbitry		A place where rabbits are kept; especially, a collection of hutches for tame rabbits.	
rabble		An iron bar, with the end bent, used in stirring or skimming molten iron in the process of puddling.	
rabble-rout		A tumultuous crowd; a rabble; a noisy throng.	
rabblement		A tumultuous crowd of low people; a rabble.	
rabbler		A scraping tool for smoothing metal.	
rabdoidal		See Sagittal — of or pertaining to an arrow; resembling an arrow; furnished with an arowlike appendage.	
rabdology		The method or art of performing arithmetical operations by means of Napier's bones.	
rabdomancy		Divination by means of rods or wands.	
rabid		Furious; raging; extremely violent.	
rabidity		Rabidness; furiousness.	
rabidly		In a rabid manner; with extreme violence.	
rabidness		The quality or state of being rabid.	
rabies		Same as Hydrophobia (b); canine madness.	Latin rabies.
rabinet		A kind of small ordnance formerly in use.	
rabot		A rubber of hard wood used in smoothing marble to be polished.	
raca		A term of reproach used by the Jews of our Savior's time, meaning Whosoever shall say to his brother, Raca, shall be in danger of the council.	
racahout		A preparation from acorns used by the Arabs as a substitute for chocolate, and also as a beverage for invalids.	
raccoon		A North American nocturnal carnivore (Procyon lotor) allied to the bears, but much smaller, and having a long, full tail, banded with black and gray.	
race		A game, match, etc., open only to losers in early stages of contests.	Middle French race, from Italian razza, from Latin radius.
raceabout		A small sloop-rigged racing yacht carrying about six hundred square feet of sail, distinguished from a knockabout by having a short bowsprit.	
racemate		A salt of racemic acid.	
racemation		A cluster or bunch, as of grapes.	
raceme		A flower cluster with an elongated axis and many one-flowered lateral pedicels, as in the currant and chokecherry.	Latin racemus.
racemed		Arranged in a raceme, or in racemes.	
racemic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid found in many kinds of grapes.	French racémique.
racemiferous		Bearing racemes, as the currant.	
racemiform		Having the form of a raceme.	
racemose		Resembling a raceme; growing in the form of a raceme; as, (Bot.) racemose berries or flowers; (Anat.) the racemose glands, in which the ducts are branched and clustered like a raceme.	Latin racemosus.
racemous		See Racemose — resembling a raceme; growing in the form of a raceme; as, (Bot.) racemose berries or flowers; (Anat.) the racemose glands, in which the ducts are branched and clustered like a raceme.	
racemule		A little raceme.	
racemulose		Growing in very small racemes.	
racer		One who, or that which, races, or contends in a race; esp., a race horse.	
rach	Obsolete	A dog that pursued his prey by scent, as distinguished from the greyhound.	
rache	Obsolete	A dog that pursued his prey by scent, as distinguished from the greyhound.	
rachialgia		A painful affection of the spine; especially, Pott's disease; also, formerly, lead colic.	
rachidian		Of or pertaining to the rachis; spinal; vertebral.	
rachilla		Same as Rhachilla.	
rachiodont		Same as Rhachiodont.	
rachis		(Anat.) The spine; the vertebral column.	
rachitic		Of or pertaining to rachitis; affected by rachitis; rickety.	
rachitis		(Med.) Literally, inflammation of the spine, but commonly applied to the rickets.	
rachitome		A dissecting instrument for opening the spinal canal.	
racial		Of or pertaining to a race or family of men; as, the racial complexion.	
racily		In a racy manner.	
raciness		The quality of being racy; peculiar and piquant flavor.	
racing		a. & n. from Race, v. t. & i.	
rack		An instrument or frame used for stretching, extending, retaining, or displaying, something.	Old English reccan.
rack-rent		A rent of the full annual value of the tenement, or near it; an excessive or unreasonably high rent.	
rack-renter		One who is subjected to playing rack-rent.	
rackabones	Colloquial	A very lean animal, esp. a horse.	
rackarock		A Sprengel explosive consisting of potassium chlorate and mono- nitrobenzene.	
racker		A horse that has a racking gait.	
racket		A thin strip of wood, having the ends brought together, forming a somewhat elliptical hoop, across which a network of catgut or cord is stretched.	Middle English raket.
racket-tail		Any one of several species of humming birds of the genus Steganura, having two of the tail feathers very long and racket- shaped.	
racket-tailed		Having long and spatulate, or racket-shaped, tail feathers.	
racketer		One who makes, or engages in, a racket.	
rackett		An old wind instrument of the double bassoon kind, having ventages but not keys.	
rackety		Making a tumultuous noise.	
racking		Spun yarn used in racking ropes.	
racktail		An arm attached to a swinging notched arc or rack, to let off the striking mechanism of a repeating clock.	
rackwork		Any mechanism having a rack, as a rack and pinion.	
racle	Obsolete	See Rakel — hasty; reckless; rash.	
racleness	Obsolete	See Rakelness.	
raconteur		A relater; a storyteller.	
racoonda		The coypu.	
racovian		One of a sect of Socinians or Unitarians in Poland.	
racquet		See Racket — a thin strip of wood, having the ends brought together, forming a somewhat elliptical hoop, across which a network of catgut or cord is stretched.	French requette, from Arabic راحة.
racy		Having a strong flavor indicating origin; of distinct characteristic taste; tasting of the soil; hence, fresh; rich.	
rad		imp. & p. p. of Read, Rede.	
radde		imp. of Read, Rede.	
raddle		A long, flexible stick, rod, or branch, which is interwoven with others, between upright posts or stakes, in making a kind of hedge or fence.	
raddock	English dialect	The ruddock.	
radeau		A float; a raft.	
radial		Of or pertaining to a radius or ray; consisting of, or like, radii or rays; radiated; as, (Bot.) radial projections; (Zoöl.) radial vessels or canals; (Anat.) the radial artery.	
radiale		(Anat.) The bone or cartilage of the carpus which articulates with the radius and corresponds to the scaphoid bone in man.	
radially		In a radial manner.	
radian		An arc of a circle which is equal to the radius, or the angle measured by such an arc.	
radiance		The quality of being radiant; brilliancy; effulgence; vivid brightness; as, the radiance of the sun.	
radiancy		The quality of being radiant; brilliancy; effulgence; vivid brightness; as, the radiance of the sun.	
radiant		Emitting or proceeding as from a center; rays; radiating; radiate.	
radiantly		In a radiant manner; with glittering splendor.	
radiary	Obsolete	A radiate.	
radiata		An extensive artificial group of invertebrates, having all the parts arranged radially around the vertical axis of the body, and the various organs repeated symmetrically in each ray or spheromere.	
radiate		To emit rays; to be radiant; to shine.	Latin radiatus.
radiate-veined		Having the principal veins radiating, or diverging, from the apex of the petiole; -- said of such leaves as those of the grapevine, most maples, and the castor-oil plant.	
radiated		Emitted, or sent forth, in rays or direct lines; as, radiated heat.	
radiately		In a radiate manner; with radiation or divergence from a center.	
radiatiform		Having the marginal florets enlarged and radiating but not ligulate, as in the capitula or heads of the cornflower, Gray.	
radiation		The act of radiating, or the state of being radiated; emission and diffusion of rays of light; beamy brightness.	Latin radiatio.
radiative		Capable of radiating; acting by radiation.	
radiator		That which radiates or emits rays, whether of light or heat; especially, that part of a heating apparatus from which the heat is radiated or diffused; as, a stream radiator.	
radical		Of or pertaining to the root; proceeding directly from the root.	French radical, from Latin radicalis.
radicalism		The quality or state of being radical; specifically, the doctrines or principles of radicals in politics or social reform.	
radicality		Radicalness; relation to root in essential to a root in essential nature or principle.	
radically		In a radical manner; at, or from, the origin or root; fundamentally; as, a scheme or system radically wrong or defective.	
radicalness		Quality or state of being radical.	
radicant		Taking root on, or above, the ground; rooting from the stem, as the trumpet creeper and the ivy.	
radicate		Radicated.	
radicated		Rooted; specifically: (a) (Bot.) Having roots, or possessing a well-developed root.	
radication		The process of taking root, or state of being rooted; as, the radication of habits.	
radicel		A small branch of a root; a rootlet.	
radiciflorous		Rhizanthous.	
radiciform		Having the nature or appearance of a radix or root.	
radicle		(a) The rudimentary stem of a plant which supports the cotyledons in the seed, and from which the root is developed downward; the stem of the embryo; the caulicle.	Latin radicula.
radicular		Of or performance to roots, or the root of a plant.	
radicule		A radicle.	
radiculose		Producing numerous radicles, or rootlets.	
radii		pl. of Radius — (Geom.) A right line drawn or extending from the center of a circle to the periphery; the semidiameter of a circle or sphere.	
radio-		A combining form indicating connection with, or relation to, a radius or ray; specifically (Anat.), with the radius of the forearm; as, radio-ulnar, radiomuscular, radiocarpal.	Latin radius.
radio-active		Capable of luminescence under the action of cathode rays, X rays, or any of the allied forms of radiation. -- Ra`di*o- ac*tiv"i*ty, n.	
radio-flagellata		A group of Protozoa having both flagella and pseudopodia.	
radioconductor		A substance or device that has its conductivity altered in some way by electric waves, as a coherer.	
radiograph		A picture produced by the Röntgen rays upon a sensitive surface, photographic or fluorescent, especially a picture of opaque objects traversed by the rays.	
radiography		Art or process of making radiographs. -- Ra`di*o*graph ic*al (#), a. --Ra`di*o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.	
radiolaria		Order of rhizopods, usually having a siliceous skeleton, or shell, and sometimes radiating spicules.	
radiolarian		Of or pertaining to the Radiolaria. -- n.	
radioli		The barbs of the radii of a feather; barbules.	
radiolite		A hippurite.	
radiometer		(Physics) An instrument designed for measuring the mechanical effect of radiant energy.	
radiometry		The use of the radiometer, or the measurement of radiation. -- Ra`di*o*met"ric (#), a.	
radiomicrometer		A very sensitive modification or application of the thermopile, used for indicating minute changes of radiant heat, or temperature.	
radiophare		A radiotelegraphic station serving solely for determining the position of ships.	
radiophone		An apparatus for the production of sound by the action of luminous or thermal rays.	
radiophony		The art or practice of using the radiophone.	
radiopticon		See Projector, above.	
radioscopy		Direct observation of objects opaque to light by means of some other form of radiant energy, as the Röntgen rays. -- Ra`di*o*scop ic*al (#), a.	
radiotelegram		A message transmitted by radiotelegraph.	
radiotelegraph		A wireless telegraph.	
radiotelegraphic		Of or pertaining to radiotelegraphy; employing, or used or employed in, radiotelegraphy.	
radiotelegraphy		Telegraphy using the radiant energy of electrical (Hertzian) waves; wireless telegraphy; -- the term adopted for use by the Radiotelegraphic Convention of 1912.	
radiotelephone		A wireless telephone. -- Ra`di*o*te*leph"o*ny (#), n.	
radiotherapy		Treatment of disease by means of Röntgen rays or other forms of radioactivity.	
radiothorium		A radioactive substance apparently formed as a product from thorium.	
radious		Consisting of rays, and light.	
radish		The pungent fleshy root of a well-known cruciferous plant (Paphanus sativus); also, the whole plant.	Old English redic.
radium		An intensely radioactive metallic element found (combined) in minute quantities in pitchblende, and various other uranium minerals.	
radius		(Geom.) A right line drawn or extending from the center of a circle to the periphery; the semidiameter of a circle or sphere.	Latin radius.
radix		(Philol.) A primitive, from which spring other words; a radical; a root; an etymon.	Latin radix, from Greek ῥάδιξ.
radula		The chitinous ribbon bearing the teeth of mollusks; -- called also lingual ribbon, and tongue.	Latin radula.
raduliform		Rasplike; as, raduliform teeth.	
raff		A promiscuous heap; a jumble; a large quantity; lumber; refuse.	
raffaelesque		Raphaelesque.	
raffia		A fibrous material used for tying plants, said to come from the leaves of a palm tree of the genus Raphia.	
raffinose		A colorless crystalline slightly sweet substance obtained from the molasses of the sugar beet.	
raffish		Resembling, or having the character of, raff, or a raff; worthless; low.	
raffle		A kind of lottery, in which several persons pay, in shares, the value of something put up as a stake, and then determine by chance (as by casting dice) which one of them shall become the sole possessor.	Middle English rafle, from Old French rafle.
raffler		One who raffles.	
rafflesia		A genus of stemless, leafless plants, living parasitically upon the roots and stems of grapevines in Malaysia.	
raft		A collection of logs, boards, pieces of timber, or the like, fastened, together, either for their own collective conveyance on the water, or to serve as a support in conveying other things; a float.	
rafte		imp. of Reave — to take away by violence or by stealth; to snatch away; to rob; to despoil; to bereave..	
rafter		To make into rafters, as timber.	
rafting		The business of making or managing rafts.	
raftsman		A man engaged in rafting.	
rafty	English dialect	Damp; musty.	
rag		A piece of cloth torn off; a tattered piece of cloth; a shred; a tatter; a fragment.	Old Norse rǫgg.
ragabash		An idle, ragged person.	
ragabrash		An idle, ragged person.	
ragamuffin		A paltry or disreputable fellow; a mean which.	
rage		Violent excitement; eager passion; extreme vehemence of desire, emotion, or suffering, mastering the will.	Old French raige.
rageful	Obsolete	Full of rage; expressing rage.	
ragery	Obsolete	Wantonness.	
ragged		Rent or worn into tatters, or till the texture is broken; as, a ragged coat; a ragged sail.	
raggie	Obsolete	Ragged; rough.	
ragguled		Notched in regular diagonal breaks; -- said of a line, or a bearing having such an edge.	
raggy	Obsolete	Ragged; rough.	
raghuvansa		A celebrated Sanskrit poem having for its subject the Raghu dynasty.	
raging		a. & n. from Rage, v. i. -- Ra"*ging*ly, adv.	
ragious	Obsolete	Raging; furious; rageful. -- Ra"gious*ness, n.	
raglan		A loose overcoat with large sleeves; -- named from Lord Raglan, an English general.	
ragman	Obsolete	A man who collects, or deals in, rags.	
ragnarok		The so-called (called in German Götterdämmerung), the final destruction of the world in the great conflict between the Æsir (gods) on the one hand, and on the other…	
ragout		A dish made of pieces of meat, stewed, and highly seasoned; as, a ragout of mutton.	French ragoût.
ragpicker		One who gets a living by picking up rags and refuse things in the streets.	
ragtime	Colloquial	Time characterized by syncopation, as in many negro melodies.	
raguled		Notched in regular diagonal breaks; -- said of a line, or a bearing having such an edge.	
ragweed		A common American composite weed (Ambrosia artemisiæfolia) with finely divided leaves; hogweed.	
ragwork		A kind of rubblework.	
ragwort		A name given to several species of the composite genus Senecio.	
raia		A genus of rays which includes the skates. See Skate.	
raiae		The order of elasmobranch fishes which includes the sawfishes, skates, and rays; -- called also Rajæ, and Rajii.	
raid		A hostile or predatory incursion; an inroad or incursion of mounted men; a sudden and rapid invasion by a cavalry force; a foray.	Scots raid, from Old English rad.
raider		One who engages in a raid.	
raiffeisen		Designating, or pertaining to, a form of coöperative bank founded among the German agrarian population by Friedrich Wilhelm Raiffeisen (1818-88); as, Raiffeisen banks, the Raiffeisen system…	
rail		A bar of timber or metal, usually horizontal or nearly so, extending from one post or support to another, as in fences, balustrades, staircases, etc.	Middle French railler.
railer		One who rails; one who scoffs, insults, censures, or reproaches with opprobrious language.	
railing		Expressing reproach; insulting.	
railingly		With scoffing or insulting language.	
raillery		Pleasantry or slight satire; banter; jesting language; satirical merriment.	
railleur		A banterer; a jester; a mocker.	
railroad		A road or way consisting of one or more parallel series of iron or steel rails, patterned and adjusted to be tracks for the wheels of vehicles, and suitably supported on a bed or substructure.	
railroading	Colloquial	The construction of a railroad; the business of managing or operating a railroad.	
railway		A road or way consisting of one or more parallel series of iron or steel rails, patterned and adjusted to be tracks for the wheels of vehicles, and suitably supported on a bed or substructure.	
raiment		Clothing in general; vesture; garments; -- usually singular in form, with a collective sense.	
rain		-- Rain water, water that has fallen from the clouds in rain.	Middle English reyn.
rain-tight		So tight as to exclude rain as, a rain-tight roof.	
rainbow		A bow or arch exhibiting, in concentric bands, the several colors of the spectrum, and formed in the part of the hemisphere opposite to the sun by the refraction and reflection of the sun's rays in drops of falling rain.	Old English regnboga.
rainbowed		Formed with or like a rainbow.	
raindeer	Obsolete	See Reindeer — any ruminant of the genus Rangifer, of the Deer family, found in the colder parts of both the Eastern and Western hemispheres, and having long irregularly branched antlers…	
raindrop		A drop of rain.	
rainfall		A fall or descent of rain; the water, or amount of water, that falls in rain; as, the average annual rainfall of a region.	
raininess		The state of being rainy.	
rainless		Destitute of rain; as, a rainless region.	
rainy		Abounding with rain; wet; showery; as, rainy day or season.	
raip	Scots	A rope; also, a measure equal to a rod.	
rais		Same as 2d Reis.	
raisable		Capable of being raised.	
raise		To cause to rise; to bring from a lower to a higher place; to lift upward; to elevate; to heave; as, to raise a stone or weight.	Middle English raisen.
raised		Lifted up; showing above the surroundings; as, raised or embossed metal work.	
raiser		One who, or that which, raises (in various senses of the verb).	
raisin		A grape dried in the sun or by artificial heat.	Old French raisin, from Latin racemus.
raising		The act of lifting, setting up, elevating, exalting, producing, or restoring to life.	
raisonne		Arranged systematically, or according to classes or subjects; as, a catalogue raisonné.	
raivel	Scots	A separator.	
raj		Reign; rule.	
raja		Same as Rajah.	
rajah		A native prince or king; also, a landholder or person of importance in the agricultural districts.	Hindi राजा, from Sanskrit राजन्.
rajahship		The office or dignity of a rajah.	
rajpoot		A Hindoo of the second, or royal and military, caste; a Kshatriya; especially, an inhabitant of the country of Rajpootana, in northern central India.	
rajput		A Hindoo of the second, or royal and military, caste; a Kshatriya; especially, an inhabitant of the country of Rajpootana, in northern central India.	
rake		An implement consisting of a headpiece having teeth, and a long handle at right angles to it, -- used for collecting hay, or other light things which are spread over a large surface, or for breaking and smoothing the earth.	Middle English raken, from Old English racian.
rake-vein		See Rake, a mineral vein.	
rakee		A kind of ardent spirits used in southern Europe and the East, distilled from grape juice, grain, etc.	
rakehell	Obsolete	A lewd, dissolute fellow; a debauchee; a rake.	
rakehelly	Obsolete	Dissolute; wild; lewd; rakish.	
rakel	Obsolete	Hasty; reckless; rash.	
raker		One who, or that which, rakes; as: (a) A person who uses a rake. (b) A machine for raking grain or hay by horse or other power.	
rakery		Debauchery; lewdness.	
rakeshame	Obsolete	A vile, dissolute wretch.	
rakestale		The handle of a rake.	
raki		A kind of ardent spirits used in southern Europe and the East, distilled from grape juice, grain, etc.	
raking		The act or process of using a rake; the going over a space with a rake.	
rakish		Dissolute; lewd; debauched.	
rakishly		In a rakish manner.	
rakishness		The quality or state of being rakish.	
rale		An adventitious sound, usually of morbid origin, accompanying the normal respiratory sounds.	French râle.
rallentando		Slackening; -- a direction to perform a passage with a gradual decrease in time and force; ritardando.	
ralliance		The act of rallying.	
rallier		One who rallies.	
rallies		A French political group, also known as the Constitutional Right from its position in the Chambers, mainly monarchists who rallied to the support of the Republic in obedience to the encyclical put forth by Pope Leo XIII. in Feb.…	
ralline		Pertaining to the rails.	
rally		To collect, and reduce to order, as troops dispersed or thrown into confusion; to gather again; to reunite.	French railler.
ralph		A name sometimes given to the raven.	
ralstonite		A fluoride of alumina and soda occurring with the Greenland cryolite in octahedral crystals.	
ram		The male of the sheep and allied animals.	Old English ramm.
ramadan		The ninth Mohammedan month.	
ramage	Obsolete	Boughs or branches.	
ramagious	Obsolete	Wild; not tame.	
ramal		Of or pertaining to a ramus, or branch; rameal.	
ramayana		The more ancient of the two great epic poems in Sanskrit.	
ramberge		Formerly, a kind of large war galley.	
ramble		To walk, ride, or sail, from place to place, without any determinate object in view; to roam carelessly or irregularly; to rove; to wander; as, to ramble about the city; to ramble over the world.	
rambler		One who rambles; a rover; a wanderer.	
rambling		Roving; wandering; discursive; as, a rambling fellow, talk, or building.	
ramblingly		In a rambling manner.	
rambooze	Obsolete	A beverage made of wine, ale (or milk), sugar, etc. Blount.	
rambutan		A Malayan fruit produced by the tree Nephelium lappaceum, and closely related to the litchi nut.	Malay (macrolanguage rambutan.
rameal		Same as Ramal.	
ramean		A Ramist.	
ramed		Having the frames, stem, and sternpost adjusted; -- said of a ship on the stocks.	
ramee		See Ramie — the grasscloth plant (Boehmeria nivea); also, its fiber, which is very fine and exceedingly strong; -- called also China grass, and rhea.	
ramekin	Obsolete	See Ramequin — a mixture of cheese, eggs, etc., formed in a mold, or served on bread.	French ramequin.
rament	Obsolete	A scraping; a shaving.	
ramenta		Thin brownish chaffy scales upon the leaves or young shoots of some plants, especially upon the petioles and leaves of ferns.	
ramentaceous		Covered with ramenta.	
ramequin		A mixture of cheese, eggs, etc., formed in a mold, or served on bread.	
ramie		The grasscloth plant (Boehmeria nivea); also, its fiber, which is very fine and exceedingly strong; -- called also China grass, and rhea.	Malay (macrolanguage rami.
ramification		The process of branching, or the development or offshoots from a stem; also, the mode of their arrangement.	Middle French ramification.
ramiflorous		Flowering on the branches.	
ramiform		Having the form of a branch.	
ramify		To divide into branches or subdivisions; as, to ramify an art, subject, scheme.	French ramifier.
ramigerous		Bearing branches; branched.	
ramiparous		Producing branches; ramigerous.	
ramist		A follower of Pierre Ramé, better known as Ramus, a celebrated French scholar, who was professor of rhetoric and philosophy at Paris in the reign of Henry II., and opposed the Aristotelians.	
ramline		A line used to get a straight middle line, as on a spar, or from stem to stern in building a vessel.	
rammel	Obsolete	Refuse matter.	
rammer		One who, or that which, rams or drives. Specifically: (a) An instrument for driving anything force; as, a rammer for driving stones or piles, or for beating the earth to more solidity.	
rammish		Like a ram; hence, rank; lascivious.	
rammishness		The quality of being rammish.	
rammy		Like a ram; rammish.	
ramollescence		A softening or mollifying.	
ramoon		A small West Indian tree (Trophis Americana) of the Mulberry family, whose leaves and twigs are used as fodder for cattle.	
ramose		Branched, as the stem or root of a plant; having lateral divisions; consisting of, or having, branches; full of branches; ramifying; branching; branchy.	Latin rāmōsus.
ramp		To spring; to leap; to bound; to rear; to prance; to become rampant; hence, to frolic; to romp.	French rampe.
rampacious	Slang	High-spirited; rampageous.	
rampage		Violent or riotous behavior; a state of excitement, passion, or debauchery; as, to be on the rampage.	Middle English ramp, from Old French ramper.
rampageous		Characterized by violence and passion; unruly; rampant.	
rampallian	Obsolete	A mean wretch.	
rampancy		The quality or state of being rampant; excessive action or development; exuberance; extravagance.	
rampant		Ramping; leaping; springing; rearing upon the hind legs; hence, raging; furious.	
rampantly		In a rampant manner.	
rampart		That which fortifies and defends from assault; that which secures safety; a defense or bulwark.	French rempart, from Old French remparer.
rampe		The cuckoopint.	
rampier	Obsolete	See Rampart — that which fortifies and defends from assault; that which secures safety; a defense or bulwark.	
rampion		A plant (Campanula Rapunculus) of the Bellflower family, with a tuberous esculent root; -- also called ramps.	
rampire	Archaic	A rampart.	
rampler	Scots	A rambler.	
ramrod		The rod used in ramming home the charge in a muzzle-loading firearm.	
ramshackle	English dialect	Loose; disjointed; falling to pieces; out of repair.	
ramson		A broad-leaved species of garlic (Allium ursinum), common in European gardens; -- called also buckram.	
ramsted		A yellow-flowered weed; -- so named from a Mr. Ramsted who introduced it into Pennsylvania.	
ramtil		A tropical African asteraceous shrub (Guizotia abyssinica) cultivated for its seeds (called ramtil, or niger, seeds) which yield a valuable oil used for food and as an illuminant.	
ramulose		Having many small branches, or ramuli.	Latin ramulosus.
ramulous		Ramulose.	
ramulus		A small branch, or branchlet, of corals, hydroids, and similar organisms.	
ramus		A branch; a projecting part or prominent process; a ramification.	Latin ramus.
ramuscule		A small ramus, or branch.	
ran	Obsolete	imp. of Run — to move, proceed, advance, pass, go, come, etc., swiftly, smoothly, or with quick action; -- said of things animate or inanimate.	
rana		A genus of anurous batrachians, including the common frogs.	
ranal		Having a general affinity to ranunculaceous plants.	
rance		A round between the legs of a chair.	
rancescent		Becoming rancid or sour.	Latin rancescens.
ranch		To wrench; to tear; to sprain; to injure by violent straining or contortion.	
rancheria		A dwelling place of a ranchero.	
ranchero		A herdsman; a peasant employed on a ranch or rancho.	
ranchman		An owner or occupant of, or laborer on, a ranch; a herdsman.	
rancho		A rude hut, as of posts, covered with branches or thatch, where herdsmen or farm laborers may live or lodge at night.	
rancid		Having a rank smell or taste, from chemical change or decomposition; musty; as, rancid oil or butter.	Latin rancidus.
rancidity		The quality or state of being rancid; a rancid scent or flavor, as of old oil.	
rancidly		In a rancid manner.	
rancidness		The quality of being rancid.	
rancor		The deepest malignity or spite; deep-seated enmity or malice; inveterate hatred.	
rancorous		Full of rancor; evincing, or caused by, rancor; deeply malignant; implacably spiteful or malicious; intensely virulent.	
rancorously		In a rancorous manner.	
rand		A long, fleshy piece, as of beef, cut from the flank or leg; a sort of steak.	
randan	English dialect	The product of a second sifting of meal; the finest part of the bran.	
randing		(Shoemaking) The act or process of making and applying rands for shoes.	
random		A roving motion; course without definite direction; want of direction, rule, or method; hazard; chance; -- commonly used in the phrase at random, that is, without a settled point of direction; at hazard.	Middle English raundon, from Old French randon.
randomly		In a random manner.	
ranedeer	Obsolete	See Reindeer — any ruminant of the genus Rangifer, of the Deer family, found in the colder parts of both the Eastern and Western hemispheres, and having long irregularly branched antlers…	
ranee		Same as Rani.	
ranforce	Obsolete	See Reënforce.	
rang		imp. of Ring, v. t. & i.	
range		To set in a row, or in rows; to place in a regular line or lines, or in ranks; to dispose in the proper order; to rank; as, to range soldiers in line.	Middle English rengen, from Old French renger.
rangement	Obsolete	Arrangement.	
ranger		One who ranges; a rover; sometimes, one who ranges for plunder; a roving robber.	
rangership		The office of the keeper of a forest or park.	
rangle	Obsolete	To range about in an irregular manner.	
rangy		Inclined or able to range, or rove about, for considerable distances; apt or suited for much roving, --chiefly used of cattle.	
rani		A queen or princess; the wife of a rajah.	Hindi रानी, from Sanskrit राज्ञी.
ranine		(Zoöl.) Of or pertaining to the frogs and toads.	Latin rana.
rank		Luxuriant in growth; of vigorous growth; exuberant; grown to immoderate height; as, rank grass; rank weeds.	Middle English rank, from Old English ranc.
ranker		One who ranks, or disposes in ranks; one who arranges.	
rankle		To become, or be, rank; to grow rank or strong; to be inflamed; to fester; -- used literally and figuratively.	
rankly		With rank or vigorous growth; luxuriantly; hence, coarsely; grossly; as, weeds grow rankly.	
rankness		The condition or quality of being rank.	
rannel	Obsolete	A prostitute.	
ranny	Scots	The erd shrew.	Latin araneus mus.
ransack		To search thoroughly; to search every place or part of; as, to ransack a house.	Middle English ransaken, from Old Norse rannsakka.
ransom		The release of a captive, or of captive, or of captured property, by payment of a consideration; redemption; as, prisoners hopeless of ransom.	
ransomable		Such as can be ransomed.	
ransomer		One who ransoms or redeems.	
ransomless		Incapable of being ransomed; without ransom.	
rant		To rave in violent, high-sounding, or extravagant language, without dignity of thought; to be noisy, boisterous, and bombastic in talk or declamation; as, a ranting preacher.	Dutch ranten.
ranter		A noisy talker; a raving declaimer.	
ranterism		The practice or tenets of the Ranters.	
rantingly		In a ranting manner.	
rantipole	Low	A wild, romping young person.	
rantism		Ranterism.	
ranty		Wild; noisy; boisterous.	
ranula		A cyst formed under the tongue by obstruction of the duct of the submaxillary gland.	
ranunculaceous		Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Ranunculaceæ), of which the buttercup is the type, and which includes also the virgin's bower, the monkshood, larkspur, anemone, meadow rue, and peony.	
ranunculus		A genus of herbs, mostly with yellow flowers, including crowfoot, buttercups, and the cultivated ranunculi (R.	Latin ranunculus.
rap		A lay or skein containing 120 yards of yarn.	Middle English rappen.
rapaces		Same as Accipitres.	
rapacious		Given to plunder; disposed or accustomed to seize by violence; seizing by force.	
rapacity		The quality of being rapacious; rapaciousness; ravenousness; as, the rapacity of pirates; the rapacity of wolves.	
raparee		See Rapparee — a wild Irish plunderer, esp. one of the 17th century; -- so called from his carrying a half-pike, called a rapary.	
rape		Fruit, as grapes, plucked from the cluster.	Middle English rapen, from Old Norse hrapa.
rapeful		Given to the commission of rape.	
rapfully	Obsolete	Violently.	
raphaelesque		Like Raphael's works; in Raphael's manner of painting.	
raphaelism		The principles of painting introduced by Raphael, the Italian painter.	
raphaelite		One who advocates or adopts the principles of Raphaelism.	
raphany		A convulsive disease, attended with ravenous hunger, not uncommon in Sweden and Germany.	
raphe		(Anat.) A line, ridge, furrow, or band of fibers, especially in the median line; as, the raphe of the tongue.	
raphides		See Rhaphides — minute transparent, often needlle-shaped, crystals found in the tissues of plants.	
rapid		Very swift or quick; moving with celerity; fast; as, a rapid stream; a rapid flight; a rapid motion.	Latin rapidus.
rapid-fire		(a) (Gun.) Firing shots in rapid succession. (b) (Ordnance) Capable of being fired rapidly; -- applied to single- barreled guns of greater caliber than small arms, mounted so as to be quickly trained and elevated…	
rapid-firing		(a) (Gun.) Firing shots in rapid succession. (b) (Ordnance) Capable of being fired rapidly; -- applied to single- barreled guns of greater caliber than small arms, mounted so as to be quickly trained and elevated…	
rapidity		The quality or state of being rapid; swiftness; celerity; velocity; as, the rapidity of growth or improvement.	
rapidly		In a rapid manner.	
rapidness		Quality of being rapid; rapidity.	
rapier	Obsolete	A straight sword, with a narrow and finely pointed blade, used only for thrusting.	
rapiered		Wearing a rapier.	
rapilli		Lapilli.	
rapine		The act of plundering; the seizing and carrying away of things by force; spoliation; pillage; plunder.	
rapinous	Obsolete	Given to rapine.	
rappage		The enlargement of a molt caused by rapping the pattern.	
rapparee		A wild Irish plunderer, esp. one of the 17th century; -- so called from his carrying a half-pike, called a rapary.	Irish rapaire.
rapped		imp. & p. p. of Rap, to strike. imp. & p. p. of Rap, to snatch away.	
rappee		A pungent kind of snuff made from the darker and ranker kinds of tobacco leaves.	
rappel		The beat of the drum to call soldiers to arms.	French rappeler.
rapper		One who, or that which, raps or knocks; specifically, the knocker of a door.	
rapport		Relation; proportion; conformity; correspondence; accord.	
rapprochement		Act or fact of coming or being drawn near or together; establishment or state of cordial relations.	
rapscallion	Colloquial	A rascal; a good-for-nothing fellow.	
rapt		imp. & p. p. of Rap, to snatch away.	Latin raptor.
rapter	Obsolete	A raptor.	
raptor	Obsolete	A ravisher; a plunderer.	Latin raptor.
raptores		Same as Accipitres.	
raptorial		(a) Rapacious; living upon prey; -- said especially of certain birds. (b) Adapted for seizing prey; -- said of the legs, claws, etc., of insects, birds, and other animals.	
raptorious		Raptorial.	Latin raptorius.
rapture		The state or condition of being rapt, or carried away from one's self by agreeable excitement; violence of a pleasing passion; extreme joy or pleasure; ecstasy.	Latin raptura.
rapturist	Obsolete	An enthusiast.	
rapturize		To put, or be put, in a state of rapture.	
rapturous		Ecstatic; transporting; ravishing; feeling, expressing, or manifesting rapture; as, rapturous joy, pleasure, or delight; rapturous applause.	
rapturously		In a rapturous manner.	
rare		Not frequent; seldom met with or occurring; unusual; as, a rare event.	Middle English rare, from Old French rare.
rarebit		A dainty morsel; a Welsh rabbit. See Welsh rabbit, under Rabbit.	
raree-show		A show carried about in a box; a peep show.	
rarefaction		The act or process of rarefying; the state of being rarefied; - - opposed to condensation; as, the rarefaction of air.	
rarefiable		Capable of being rarefied.	
rarefy		To make rare, thin, porous, or less dense; to expand or enlarge without adding any new portion of matter to; -- opposed to condense.	
rarely		In a rare manner or degree; seldom; not often; as, things rarely seen.	
rareness		The state or quality of being rare.	
rareripe		Early ripe; ripe before others, or before the usual season.	
rarification		See Rarefaction — the act or process of rarefying; the state of being rarefied; - - opposed to condensation; as, the rarefaction of air.	
rarity		The quality or state of being rare; rareness; thinness; as, the rarity (contrasted with the density) of gases.	
ras		See 2d Reis.	Amharic ራስ.
rasante		Sweeping; grazing; -- applied to a style of fortification in which the command of the works over each other, and over the country, is kept very low…	
rascal		A mean, trickish fellow; a base, dishonest person; a rogue; a scoundrel; a trickster.	
rascaldom		State of being a rascal; rascality; domain of rascals; rascals, collectively.	
rascaless		A female rascal.	
rascality		The quality or state of being rascally, or a rascal; mean trickishness or dishonesty; base fraud.	
rascallion		A low, mean wretch	
rascally		Like a rascal; trickish or dishonest; base; worthless; -- often in humorous disparagement, without implication of dishonesty.	
rase	Passing out of use	To rub along the surface of; to graze.	
rash		Esp., overhasty in counsel or action; precipitate; resolving or entering on a project or measure without due deliberation and caution; opposed to prudent; said of persons; as, a rash statesman or commander.	Middle English rash.
rasher		A thin slice of bacon.	
rashful	Obsolete	Rash; hasty; precipitate.	
rashling	Obsolete	A rash person.	
rashly		In a rush manner; with precipitation.	
rashness		The quality of state of being rash.	
raskolnik		One of the separatists or dissenters from the established or Greek church in Russia.	
rasores		An order of birds; the Gallinæ.	
rasorial		Of or pertaining to the Rasores, or gallinaceous birds, as the peacock, domestic fowl, patridge, and the like.	
rasp		To rub or file with a rasp; to rub or grate with a rough file; as, to rasp wood to make it smooth; to rasp bones to powder.	
raspatorium		See Raspatory — a surgeon's rasp.	
raspatory		A surgeon's rasp.	
raspberry		(a) The thimble-shaped fruit of the Rubus Idæus and other similar brambles; as, the black, the red and the white raspberry.	
rasper		One who, or which, rasps; a scraper.	
raspis	Obsolete	The raspberry.	
raspy		Like a rasp, or the sound made by a rasp; grating.	
rasse		A carnivore (Viverricula Mallaccensis) allied to the civet but smaller, native of China and the East Indies.	
rasure		The act of rasing, scraping, or erasing; erasure; obliteration.	Anglo-Norman rasure.
rat		(Zoöl.) One of the several species of small rodents of the genus Mus and allied genera, larger than mice, that infest houses, stores, and ships, especially the Norway, or brown, rat (M.	Middle English rat.
rat-tail		Like a rat's tale in form; as, a rat-tail file, which is round, slender, and tapering.	
rat-tailed		Having a long, tapering tail like that of a rat.	
rata		A New Zealand forest tree (Metrosideros robusta), also, its hard dark red wood, used by the Maoris for paddles and war clubs.	
ratability		The quality or state of being ratable.	
ratable		Capable of being rated, or set at a certain value.	
ratafia		A spirituous liquor flavored with the kernels of cherries, apricots, peaches, or other fruit, spiced, and sweetened with sugar; -- a term applied to the liqueurs called noyau, curaçao, etc.	
ratan		See Rattan — one of the long slender flexible stems of several species of palms of the genus Calamus, mostly East Indian, though some are African and Australian.	
ratany		Same as Rhatany.	
rataplan		The iterative sound of beating a drum, or of a galloping horse.	
ratch		Same as Rotche.	
ratchel	English dialect	Gravelly stone.	
ratchet		A pawl, click, or detent, for holding or propelling a ratchet wheel, or ratch, etc.	
rate		To chide with vehemence; to scold; to censure violently.	Middle English raten, from Old Norse hrata.
rateable		See Ratable — capable of being rated, or set at a certain value.	
ratel		Any carnivore of the genus Mellivora, allied to the weasels and the skunks; -- called also honey badger.	
ratepayer		One who pays rates or taxes.	
rater		One who rates or estimates.	
ratfish		Same as Rat-tail.	
rath	Obsolete	A kind of ancient fortification found in Ireland.	Old Irish ráth.
rathe	Obsolete	Coming before others, or before the usual time; early.	
rather		More readily or willingly; preferably.	Middle English rather.
rathripe	Obsolete	Rareripe, or early ripe. -- n.	
rathskeller		Orig., in Germany, the cellar or basement of the city hall, usually rented for use as a restaurant where beer is sold; hence, a beer saloon of the German type below the street level, where, usually…	
ratification		The act of ratifying; the state of being ratified; confirmation; sanction; as, the ratification of a treaty.	
ratifier		One who, or that which, ratifies; a confirmer.	
ratify		To approve and sanction; to make valid; to establish; to settle; especially, to give sanction to, as something done by an agent or servant; as, to ratify an agreement, treaty, or contract; to ratify a nomination.	Latin ratifico.
ratihabition	Obsolete	Confirmation or approbation, as of an act or contract.	
ratio		(Math.) The relation which one quantity or magnitude has to another of the same kind.	Latin ratio.
ratiocinate		To reason, esp. deductively; to offer reason or argument.	
ratiocination		The process of reasoning, or deducing conclusions from premises; deductive reasoning.	French ratiocination, from Latin ratiocinatio.
ratiocinative		Characterized by, or addicted to, ratiocination; consisting in the comparison of proportions or facts, and the deduction of inferences from the comparison; argumentative; as, a ratiocinative process.	
ratiocinatory		Ratiocinative.	
ration		A fixed daily allowance of provisions assigned to a soldier in the army, or a sailor in the navy, for his subsistence.	French ration.
rational		Relating to reason; not physical; mental.	Old French rational, from Latin rationale.
rationale		An explanation or exposition of the principles of some opinion, action, hypothesis, phenomenon, or like; also, the principles themselves.	
rationalism		(Theol.) The doctrine or system of those who deduce their religious opinions from reason or the understanding, as distinct from, or opposed to, revelation.	
rationalist		One who accepts rationalism as a theory or system; also, disparagingly, a false reasoner.	
rationalistic		Belonging to, or in accordance with, the principles of rationalism. -- Ra`tion*al*is"tic*al*ly, adv.	
rationalistical		Belonging to, or in accordance with, the principles of rationalism. -- Ra`tion*al*is"tic*al*ly, adv.	
rationality		The quality or state of being rational; agreement with reason; possession of reason; due exercise of reason; reasonableness.	French rationalité, from Latin rationalitas.
rationalization		The act or process of rationalizing.	
rationalize		To make rational; also, to convert to rationalism.	
rationally		In a rational manner.	
rationalness		The quality or state of being rational; rationality.	
ratitae		An order of birds in which the wings are small, rudimentary, or absent, and the breastbone is destitute of a keel.	
ratitate		Of or pertaining to the Ratitæ.	
ratite		Of or pertaining to the Ratitæ. -- n.	
ratlines		The small transverse ropes attached to the shrouds and forming the steps of a rope ladder.	
ratlins		The small transverse ropes attached to the shrouds and forming the steps of a rope ladder.	
raton	Obsolete	A small rat.	
ratoon		Same as Rattoon, n.	
ratsbane		Rat poison; white arsenic.	
ratsbaned		Poisoned by ratsbane.	
rattan		One of the long slender flexible stems of several species of palms of the genus Calamus, mostly East Indian, though some are African and Australian.	Malay (macrolanguage rotan.
ratteen		A thick woolen stuff quilled or twilled.	French ratine, from Old French rastin, from Latin raster.
ratten		To deprive feloniously of the tools used in one's employment (as by breaking or stealing them), for the purpose of annoying; as, to ratten a mechanic who works during a strike.	
ratter		One who, or that which, rats, as one who deserts his party.	
rattinet		A woolen stuff thinner than ratteen.	
ratting		The conduct or practices of one who rats. See Rat, v. i.,	
rattle		To make a quick succession of sharp, inharmonious noises, as by the collision of hard and not very sonorous bodies shaken together; to clatter.	
rattle-brained		Giddy; rattle-headed.	
rattle-headed		Noisy; giddy; unsteady.	
rattle-pated		Rattle-headed.	
rattlebox		A toy that makes a rattle sound; a rattle.	
rattlehead		An empty, noisy talker.	
rattlepate		A rattlehead.	
rattler		One who, or that which, rattles.	
rattlesnake		Any one of several species of venomous American snakes belonging to the genera Crotalus and Caudisona, or Sistrurus.	
rattletrap	Colloquial	Any machine or vehicle that does not run smoothly.	
rattleweed		Any plant of the genus Astragalus. See Milk vetch.	
rattlewings		The golden-eye.	
rattlewort		Same as Rattlebox.	
rattlings		Ratlines.	
rattoon		One of the stems or shoots of sugar cane of the second year's growth from the root, or later.	
raucid		Hoarse; raucous Lamb.	
raucity		Harshness of sound; rough utterance; hoarseness; as, the raucity of a trumpet, or of the human voice.	Latin rausitas.
raucous		Hoarse; harsh; rough; as, a raucous, thick tone. -- Rau"cous*ly, adv.	Latin raucus.
raught		imp. & p. p. of Reach.	
raunch		See Ranch — to wrench; to tear; to sprain; to injure by violent straining or contortion.	
ravage		Desolation by violence; violent ruin or destruction; devastation; havoc; waste; as, the ravage of a lion; the ravages of fire or tempest; the ravages of an army, or of time.	French ravage.
ravager		One who, or that which, ravages or lays waste; spoiler.	
rave		One of the upper side pieces of the frame of a wagon body or a sleigh.	Old French raver.
ravehook		A tool, hooked at the end, for enlarging or clearing seams for the reception of oakum.	
ravel		To separate or undo the texture of; to take apart; to untwist; to unweave or unknit; -- often followed by out; as, to ravel a twist; to ravel out a sticking.	Dutch ravelen.
raveler		One who ravels.	
ravelin		A detached work with two embankments with make a salient angle.	
raveling		That which is raveled out; esp., a thread detached from a texture.	
raven		A large black passerine bird (Corvus corax), similar to the crow, but larger.	Old French raviner.
ravenala		A genus of plants related to the banana.	
ravener		One who, or that which, ravens or plunders.	
ravening		Eagerness for plunder; rapacity; extortion.	
ravenous		Devouring with rapacious eagerness; furiously voracious; hungry even to rage; as, a ravenous wolf or vulture.	Old French ravineus.
raver		One who raves.	
ravin	Obsolete	Ravenous.	
ravine		Food obtained by violence; plunder; prey; raven.	
raving		Talking irrationally and wildly; as, a raving lunatic. -- Rav"ing*ly, adv.	
ravish		To seize and carry away by violence; to snatch by force.	
ravisher		One who ravishes (in any sense).	
ravishing		Rapturous; transporting.	
ravishingly		In a ravishing manner.	
ravishment		The act of carrying away by force or against consent; abduction; as, the ravishment of children from their parents, or a ward from his guardian, or of a wife from her husband.	
ravissant		In a half-raised position, as if about to spring on prey.	
raw		Not altered from its natural state; not prepared by the action of heat; as, raw sienna; specifically, not cooked; not changed by heat to a state suitable for eating; not done; as, raw meat.	Middle English raw.
rawbone	Obsolete	Rawboned.	
rawboned		Having little flesh on the bones; gaunt.	
rawhead		A specter mentioned to frighten children; as, rawhead and bloodybones.	
rawhide		A cowhide, or coarse riding whip, made of untanned (or raw) hide twisted.	
rawish		Somewhat raw.	
rawly		In a raw manner; unskillfully; without experience.	
rawness		The quality or state of being raw.	
ray		One of a number of lines or parts diverging from a common point or center, like the radii of a circle; as, a star of six rays.	
rayah		A person not a Mohammedan, who pays the capitation tax.	Turkish reaya, from Arabic ra‘iyah.
rayless		Destitute of rays; hence, dark; not illuminated; blind; as, a rayless sky; rayless eyes.	
rayon	Obsolete	Ray; beam.	
rayonnant		Darting forth rays, as the sun when it shines out.	
raze		A Shakespearean word (used once) supposed to mean the same as race, a root.	Old French raser.
razed	Obsolete	Slashed or striped in patterns.	
razee		An armed ship having her upper deck cut away, and thus reduced to the next inferior rate, as a seventy-four cut down to a frigate.	
razor		A keen-edged knife of peculiar shape, used in shaving the hair from the face or the head. v. 1.	Old French rasour.
razor-backed		Having a sharp, lean, or thin back; as, a razor-backed hog, perch, etc.	
razorable		Ready for the razor; fit to be shaved.	
razorback		The rorqual.	
razorbill		(a) A species of auk (Alca torda) common in the Arctic seas. See Auk, and Illust. in Appendix.	
razure		The act of erasing or effacing, or the state of being effaced; obliteration.	
razzia		A plundering and destructive incursion; a foray; a rai	
