re		A syllable applied in solmization to the second tone of the diatonic scale of C; in the American system, to the second tone of any diatonic scale.
re-		A prefix signifying back, against, again, anew; as, recline, to lean back; recall, to call back; recede; remove; reclaim, to call out against; repugn, to fight against; recognition, a knowing again; rejoin, to join again…
re-ally		To bring together again; to compose or form anew.
re-collect		To collect again; to gather what has been scattered; as, to re- collect routed troops.
re-create		To create or form anew.
re-creation		A forming anew; a new creation or formation.
re-creative		Creating anew; as, re-creative power.
re-demption		The act of redeeming, or the state of being redeemed; repurchase; ransom; release; rescue; deliverance; as, the redemption of prisoners taken in war; the redemption of a ship and cargo.
re-echo		To echo back; to reverberate again; as, the hills reëcho the roar of cannon.
re-ferment		To ferment, or cause to ferment, again.
re-form		To give a new form to; to form anew; to take form again, or to take a new form; as, to re-form the line after a charge.
re-formation		The act of forming anew; a second forming in order; as, the reformation of a column of troops into a hollow square.
re-let		To let anew, as a hous.
re-mark		To mark again, or a second time; to mark anew.
re-present		To present again; as, to re-present the points of an argument.
re-presentation		The act of re-presenting, or the state of being presented again; a new presentation; as, re-presentation of facts previously stated.
re-reiterate		To reiterate many times.
re-resolve		To resolve again.
re-search		To search again; to examine anew.
re-sign		To affix one's signature to, a second time; to sign again.
re-sound		To sound again or anew.
re-store		To store again; as, the goods taken out were re-stored.
re-turn		To turn again.
reabsorb		To absorb again; to draw in, or imbibe, again what has been effused, extravasated, or thrown off; to swallow up again; as, to reabsorb chyle, lymph, etc.; -- used esp. of fluids.
reabsorption		The act or process of rearbsorbing.
reaccess		A second access or approach; a return.
reaccuse		To accuse again.
reach		To extend; to stretch; to thrust out; to put forth, as a limb, a member, something held, or the like.
reachable		Being within reach.
reacher		One who reaches.
reachless		Being beyond reach; lofty.
react		To act or perform a second time; to do over again; as, to react a play; the same scenes were reacted at Rome.
reactance		The influence of a coil of wire upon an alternating current passing through it, tending to choke or diminish the current, or the similar influence of a condenser; inductive resistance.
reaction		Any action in resisting other action or force; counter tendency; movement in a contrary direction; reverse action.
reactionary		Being, causing, or favoring reaction; as, reactionary movements.
reactionist		A reactionary.
reactive		Having power to react; tending to reaction; of the nature of reaction. -- Re*act ive*ness, n.
reactor		A choking coil.
read		To go over, as characters or words, and utter aloud, or recite to one's self inaudibly; to take in the sense of, as of language, by interpreting the characters with which it is expressed; to peruse; as, to read a discourse…
readability		The state of being readable; readableness.
readable		Such as can be read; legible; fit or suitable to be read; worth reading; interesting. -- Read a*bly, adv,.
readdress		To address a second time; -- often used reflexively.
readept	Obsolete	To regain; to recover.
readeption	Obsolete	A regaining; recovery of something lost.
reader		One who reads. Specifically: (a) One whose distinctive office is to read prayers in a church.
readership		The office of reader.
readily		In a ready manner; quickly; promptly.
readiness		The state or quality of being ready; preparation; promptness; aptitude; willingness.
reading		The act of one who reads; perusal; also, printed or written matter to be read.
readjourn		To adjourn a second time; to adjourn again.
readjournment		The act of readjourning; a second or repeated adjournment.
readjust		To adjust or settle again; to put in a different order or relation; to rearrange.
readjuster		One who, or that which, readjusts; in some of the States of the United States, one who advocates a refunding, and sometimes a partial repudiation, of the State debt without the consent of the State's creditors.
readjustment		A second adjustment; a new or different adjustment.
readmission		The act of admitting again, or the state of being readmitted; as, the readmission fresh air into an exhausted receiver; the readmission of a student into a seminary.
readmit		To admit again; to give entrance or access to again.
readmittance		Allowance to enter again; a second admission.
readopt		To adopt again.
readorn		To adorn again or anew.
readvance		To advance again.
readvertency		The act of adverting to again, or of reviewing.
ready		Prepared for what one is about to do or experience; equipped or supplied with what is needed for some act or event; prepared for immediate movement or action; as, the troops are ready to march; ready for the journey.
ready-made		Made already, or beforehand, in anticipation of need; not made to order; as, ready-made clothing; ready-made jokes.
ready-witted		Having ready wit.
reaffirm		To affirm again.
reaffirmance		A second affirmation.
reaffirmation		A second affirmation.
reafforest		To convert again into the forest, as a region of country.
reafforestation		The act or process of converting again into a forest.
reagent		A substance capable of producing with another a reaction, especially when employed to detect the presence of other bodies; a test.
reaggravation		The last monitory, published after three admonitions and before the last excommunication.
reagree		To agree again.
real		Actually being or existing; not fictitious or imaginary; as, a description of real life.
realgar		Arsenic sulphide, a mineral of a brilliant red color; red orpiment.
realism		(Philos.) (a) An opposed to nominalism, the doctrine that genera and species are real things or entities, existing independently of our conceptions.
realist		(Philos.) One who believes in realism; esp., one who maintains that generals, or the terms used to denote the genera and species of things, represent real existences, and are not mere names, as maintained by the nominalists.
realistic		Of or pertaining to the realists; in the manner of the realists; characterized by realism rather than by imagination.
realistically		In the realistic manner.
reality		The state or quality of being real; actual being or existence of anything, in distinction from mere appearance; fact.
realizable		Capable of being realized.
realization		The act of realizing, or the state of being realized.
realize		To make real; to convert from the imaginary or fictitious into the actual; to bring into concrete existence; to accomplish; as, to realize a scheme or project.
realizer		One who realizes.
realizing		Serving to make real, or to impress on the mind as a reality; as, a realizing view of the danger incurred. -- Re"al*i`zing*ly, adv.
reallege		To allege again.
realliance		A renewed alliance.
really	Obsolete	Royally.
realm		A royal jurisdiction or domain; a region which is under the dominion of a king; a kingdom.
realmless		Destitute of a realm.
realness		The quality or condition of being real; reality.
realty	Obsolete	Loyalty; faithfulness.
ream	Scots	Cream; also, the cream or froth on ale.
reamer		One who, or that which, reams; specifically, an instrument with cutting or scraping edges, used, with a twisting motion, for enlarging a round hole, as a bore of a cannon, etc.
reamputation		The second of two amputations performed upon the same member.
reanimate		To animate anew; to restore to animation or life; to infuse new life, vigor, spirit, or courage into; to revive; to reinvigorate; as, to reanimate a drowned person; to reanimate disheartened troops; to reanimate languid spirits.
reanimation		The act or operation of reanimating, or the state of being reanimated; reinvigoration; revival.
reannex		To annex again or anew; to reunite.
reannexation		Act of reannexing.
reanswer		To answer in return; to repay; to compensate; to make amends for.
reap		To cut with a sickle, scythe, or reaping machine, as grain; to gather, as a harvest, by cutting.
reaper		A reaping machine.
reapparel		To clothe again.
reappear		To appear again.
reappearance		A second or new appearance; the act or state of appearing again.
reapplication		The act of reapplying, or the state of being reapplied.
reapply		To apply again.
reappoint		To appoint again.
reappointment		The act of reappointing, or the state of being reappointed.
reapportion		To apportion again.
reapportionment		A second or a new apportionment.
reapproach		To approach again or anew.
rear		The back or hindmost part; that which is behind, or last on order; -- opposed to Ant: front.
rear-horse		A mantis.
reardorse		A reredos.
reardoss		A reredos.
rearer		One he, or that which, rears.
reargue		To argue anew or again.
reargument		An arguing over again, as of a motion made in court.
rearmost		Farthest in the rear; last.
rearmouse		The leather-winged bat (Vespertilio murinus).
rearrange		To arrange again; to arrange in a different way.
rearrangement		The act of rearranging, or the state of being rearranged.
rearward		The last troop; the rear of an army; a rear guard.
reascend		To rise, mount, or climb again.
reascension		The act of reascending; a remounting.
reascent		A returning ascent or ascension; acclivity.
reason		A thought or a consideration offered in support of a determination or an opinion; a just ground for a conclusion or an action; that which is offered or accepted as an explanation…
reasonable		Having the faculty of reason; endued with reason; rational; as, a reasonable being.
reasonableness		Quality of being reasonable.
reasonably		In a reasonable manner.
reasoner		One who reasons or argues; as, a fair reasoner; a close reasoner; a logical reasoner.
reasoning		The act or process of adducing a reason or reasons; manner of presenting one's reasons.
reasonist	Obsolete	A rationalist.
reasonless		Destitute of reason; as, a reasonless man or mind.
reassemblage		Assemblage a second time or again.
reassemble		To assemble again.
reassert		To assert again or anew; to maintain after an omission to do so.
reassertion		A second or renewed assertion of the same thing.
reassessment		A renewed or second assessment.
reassign		To assign back or again; to transfer back what has been assigned.
reassignment		The act of reassigning.
reassimilate		To assimilate again. -- Re`as*sim`i*la"tion, n.
reassociate		To associate again; to bring again into close relatoins.
reassume		To assume again or anew; to resume. -- Re`as*sump"tion, n.
reassurance		Assurance or confirmation renewed or repeated.
reassure		To assure anew; to restore confidence to; to free from fear or terror.
reassurer		One who reassures.
reasty	Obsolete	Rusty and rancid; -- applied to salt meat.
reata		A lariat.
reattach		To attach again.
reattachment		The act of reattaching; a second attachment.
reattain		To attain again.
reattainment		The act of reattaining.
reattempt		To attempt again.
reaumur		Of or pertaining to René Antoine Ferchault de Réaumur; conformed to the scale adopted by Réaumur in graduating the thermometer he invented. -- n.
reave	Archaic	To take away by violence or by stealth; to snatch away; to rob; to despoil; to bereave..
reaver	Archaic	One who reaves.
reawake		To awake again.
rebanish		To banish again.
rebaptisation	Obsolete	A second baptism.
rebaptism		A second baptism.
rebaptization	Obsolete	A second baptism.
rebaptize		To baptize again or a second time.
rebaptizer		One who rebaptizes.
rebarbarize		To reduce again to barbarism. -- Re*bar`ba*ri*za"tion, n.
rebate		To beat to obtuseness; to deprive of keenness; to blunt; to turn back the point of, as a lance used for exercise.
rebatement		Same as 3d Rebate, v.
rebato		Same as Rabato.
rebec		(Mus.) An instrument formerly used which somewhat resembled the violin, having three strings, and being played with a bow.
rebel		Pertaining to rebels or rebellion; acting in revolt; rebellious; as, rebel troops.
rebeldom		A region infested by rebels; rebels, considered collectively; also, conduct o Thackeray.
rebeller		One who rebels; a rebel.
rebellion		The act of rebelling; open and avowed renunciation of the authority of the government to which one owes obedience, and resistances to its officers and laws, either by levying war, or by aiding others to do so…
rebellious		Engaged in rebellion; disposed to rebel of the nature of rebels or of rebellion; resisting government or lawful authority by force. -- Re*bel lious*ness, n.
rebellow		To bellow again; to repeat or echo a bellow.
rebiting		The act or process of deepening worn lines in an etched plate by submitting it again to the action if acid.
rebloom		To bloom again.
reblossom		To blossom again.
reboant		Rebellowing; resounding loudly.
reboation		Repetition of a bellow.
reboil		To boil, or to cause to boil, again.
reborn		Born again.
rebound		To spring back; to start back; to be sent back or reverberated by elastic force on collision with another body; as, a rebounding echo.
rebozo		A kind of mantilla worn by women over the head and shoulders, and sometimes over part of the face.
rebrace		To brace again.
rebreathe		To breathe again.
rebucous	Obsolete	Rebuking.
rebuff		Repercussion, or beating back; a quick and sudden resistance.
rebuild		To build again, as something which has been demolished; to construct anew; as, to rebuild a house, a wall, a wharf, or a city.
rebuilder		One who rebuilds.
rebukable		Worthy of rebuke or reprehension; reprehensible.
rebuke		To check, silence, or put down, with reproof; to restrain by expression of disapprobation; to reprehend sharply and summarily; to chide; to reprove; to admonish.
rebukeful	Obsolete	Containing rebuke; of the nature of rebuke. -- Re*buke"ful*ly, adv.
rebuker		One who rebukes.
rebukingly		By way of rebuke.
rebullition		The act of boiling up or effervescing.
rebury		To bury again.
rebus		A mode of expressing words and phrases by pictures of objects whose names resemble those words, or the syllables of which they are composed; enigmatical representation of words by figures; hence…
rebut		To drive or beat back; to repulse.
rebuttable		Capable of being rebutted.
rebuttal		The giving of evidence on the part of a plaintiff to destroy the effect of evidence introduced by the defendant in the same suit.
rebutter		The answer of a defendant in matter of fact to a plaintiff's surrejoinder.
recadency		A falling back or descending a second time; a relapse.
recalcitrant		Kicking back; recalcitrating; hence, showing repugnance or opposition; refractory.
recalcitrate		To kick against; to show repugnance to; to rebuff.
recalcitration		A kicking back again; opposition; repugnance; refractoriness.
recall		To call back; to summon to return; as, to recall troops; to recall an ambassador.
recallable		Capable of being recalled.
recant		To withdraw or repudiate formally and publicly (opinions formerly expressed); to contradict, as a former declaration; to take back openly; to retract; to recall.
recantation		The act of recanting; a declaration that contradicts a former one; that which is thus asserted in contradiction; retraction.
recanter		One who recants.
recapacitate		To qualify again; to confer capacity on again.
recapitulate		To repeat, as the principal points in a discourse, argument, or essay; to give a summary of the principal facts, points, or arguments of; to relate in brief; to summarize.
recapitulation		The act of recapitulating; a summary, or concise statement or enumeration, of the principal points, facts, or statements, in a preceding discourse, argument, or essay.
recapitulator		One who recapitulates.
recapitulatory		Of the nature of a recapitulation; containing recapitulation.
recapper		A tool used for applying a fresh percussion cap or primer to a cartridge shell in reloading it.
recaption		The act of retaking, as of one who has escaped after arrest; reprisal; the retaking of one's own goods, chattels, wife, or children, without force or violence, from one who has taken them and who wrongfully detains them.
recaptor		One who recaptures; one who takes a prize which had been previously taken.
recapture		The act of retaking or recovering by capture; especially, the retaking of a prize or goods from a captor.
recarbonize		To restore carbon to; as, to recarbonize iron in converting it into steel.
recarnify	Obsolete	To convert again into flesh.
recarriage		Act of carrying back.
recarry		To carry back.
recast		To throw again.
recche	Obsolete	To reck.
reccheles	Obsolete	Reckless.
recede		To move back; to retreat; to withdraw.
receipt		The act of receiving; reception.
receiptment		The receiving or harboring a felon knowingly, after the commission of a felony.
receiptor		One who receipts; specifically (Law), one who receipts for property which has been taken by the sheriff.
receit	Obsolete	Receipt.
receivability		The quality of being receivable; receivableness.
receivable		Capable of being received. -- Re*ceiv"a*ble*ness, n.
receive		To take, as something that is offered, given, committed, sent, paid, or the like; to accept; as, to receive money offered in payment of a debt; to receive a gift, a message, or a letter.
receivedness		The state or quality of being received, accepted, or current; as, the receivedness of an opinion.
receiver		One who takes or receives in any manner.
receivership		The state or office of a receiver.
recelebrate		To celebrate again, or anew. -- Re*cel`e*bra"tion, n.
recency		The state or quality of being recent; newness; new state; late origin; lateness in time; freshness; as, the recency of a transaction, of a wound, etc.
recense		To review; to revise.
recension		The act of reviewing or revising; review; examination; enumeration.
recensionist		One who makes recensions; specifically, a critical editor.
recent		Of late origin, existence, or occurrence; lately come; not of remote date, antiquated style, or the like; not already known, familiar, worn out, trite, etc.; fresh; novel; new; modern; as, recent news.
recenter		To center again; to restore to the center.
recently		Newly; lately; freshly; not long since; as, advices recently received.
recentness		Quality or state of being recent.
receptacle		That which serves, or is used, fro receiving and containing something, as a basket, a vase, a bag, a reservoir; a repository.
receptacular		Pertaining to the receptacle, or growing on it; as, the receptacular chaff or scales in the sunflower.
receptaculum		A receptacle; as, the receptaculum of the chyle.
receptary	Obsolete	Generally or popularly admitted or received.
receptibility		The quality or state of being receptible; receivableness.
receptible		Such as may be received; receivable.
reception		The act of receiving; receipt; admission; as, the reception of food into the stomach; the reception of a letter; the reception of sensation or ideas; reception of evidence.
receptive		Having the quality of receiving; able or inclined to take in, absorb, hold, or contain; receiving or containing; as, a receptive mind.
receptiveness		The quality of being receptive.
receptivity		The state or quality of being receptive.
receptory	Obsolete	Receptacle.
recess		A withdrawing or retiring; a moving back; retreat; as, the recess of the tides.
recessed		Having a recess or recesses; as, a recessed arch or wall.
recession		The act of receding or withdrawing, as from a place, a claim, or a demand.
recessional		Of or pertaining to recession or withdrawal.
recessive		Going back; receding.
rechabite		One of the descendants of Jonadab, the son of Rechab, all of whom by his injunction abstained from the use of intoxicating drinks and even from planting the vine.
rechange		To change again, or change back.
recharge		To attack again; to attack anew.
recharter		A second charter; a renewal of a charter.
rechase		To chase again; to chase or drive back.
rechauffe		A dish of food that has been warmed again, hence, fig., something made up from old material; a rehash.
recheat		A strain given on the horn to call back the hounds when they have lost track of the game.
recherche		Sought out with care; choice. Hence: of rare quality, elegance, or attractiveness; peculiar and refined in kind.
rechless	Obsolete	Reckless.
rechoose		To choose again.
recidivate	Obsolete	To baskslide; to fall again.
recidivation		A falling back; a backsliding.
recidivism		The state or quality of being recidivous; relapse, specif. (Criminology), a falling back or relapse into prior criminal habits, esp. after conviction and punishment.
recidivist		One who is recidivous or is characterized by recidivism; an incorrigible criminal. -- Re*cid`i*vis"tic (#), a.
recidivous		Tending or liable to backslide or r
recipe		A formulary or prescription for making some combination, mixture, or preparation of materials; a receipt; especially, a prescription for medicine.
recipiangle		An instrument with two arms that are pivoted together at one end, and a graduated arc, -- used by military engineers for measuring and laying off angles of fortifications.
recipience		The quality or state of being recipient; a receiving; reception; receptiveness.
recipiency		The quality or state of being recipient; a receiving; reception; receptiveness.
recipient		A receiver; the person or thing that receives; one to whom, or that to which, anything is given or communicated; specifically, the receiver of a still.
reciprocal		Recurring in vicissitude; alternate.
reciprocality		The quality or condition of being reciprocal; reciprocalness.
reciprocally		In a reciprocal manner; so that each affects the other, and is equally affected by it; interchangeably; mutually.
reciprocalness		The quality or condition of being reciprocal; mutual return; alternateness.
reciprocate		To move forward and backward alternately; to recur in vicissitude; to act interchangeably; to alternate.
reciprocation		The act of reciprocating; interchange of acts; a mutual giving and returning; as, the reciprocation of kindness.
reciprocity		Mutual action and reaction.
reciprocornous		Having horns turning backward and then forward, like those of a ram.
reciprocous	Obsolete	Reciprocal.
reciprok	Obsolete	Reciprocal.
reciproque		Reciprocal.
recision		The act of cutting off.
recital		The act of reciting; the repetition of the words of another, or of a document; rehearsal; as, the recital of testimony.
recitation		The act of reciting; rehearsal; repetition of words or sentences.
recitative		A species of musical recitation in which the words are delivered in manner resembling that of ordinary declamation; also, a piece of music intended for such recitation; -- opposed to melisma.
recitativo		Recitative.
recite		To repeat, as something already prepared, written down, committed to memory, or the like; to deliver from a written or printed document, or from recollection; to rehearse; as, to recite the words of an author…
reciter		One who recites; also, a book of extracts for recitation.
reck	Archaic	To make account of; to care for; to heed; to regard.
reckless		Inattentive to duty; careless; neglectful; indifferent.
reckling		Needing care; weak; feeble; as, a reckling child.
reckon		To count; to enumerate; to number; also, to compute; to calculate.
reckoner		One who reckons or computes; also, a book of calculation, tables, etc., to assist in reckoning.
reckoning		The act of one who reckons, counts, or computes; the result of reckoning or counting; calculation.
reclaim		To claim back; to demand the return of as a right; to attempt to recover possession of.
reclaimable		That may be reclaimed.
reclaimant		One who reclaims; one who cries out against or contradicts.
reclaimer		One who reclaims.
reclaimless		That can not be reclaimed.
reclamation		Representation made in opposition; remonstrance.
reclasp		To clasp or unite again.
reclinant		Bending or leaning backward.
reclinate		Reclined, as a leaf; bent downward, so that the point, as of a stem or leaf, is lower than the base.
reclination		The act of leaning or reclining, or the state of being reclined.
recline		To cause or permit to lean, incline, rest, etc., to place in a recumbent position; as, to recline the head on the hand.
reclined		Falling or turned downward; reclinate.
recliner		One who, or that which, reclines.
reclining		(a) Bending or curving gradually back from the perpendicular. (b) Recumbent.
reclose		To close again.
reclothe		To clothe again.
reclude		To open; to unclose.
recluse		Shut up, sequestered; retired from the world or from public notice; solitary; living apart; as, a recluse monk or hermit; a recluse life In meditation deep, recluse From human converse.
reclusely		In a recluse or solitary manner.
recluseness		Quality or state of being recluse.
reclusion		A state of retirement from the world; seclusion.
reclusive		Affording retirement from society.
reclusory		The habitation of a recluse; a hermitage.
recoct	Obsolete	To boil or cook again; hence, to make over; to vamp up; to reconstruct.
recoction		A second coction or preparation; a vamping up.
recognisor		One who enters into a recognizance.
recognition		The act of recognizing, or the state of being recognized; acknowledgment; formal avowal; knowledge confessed or avowed; notice.
recognitor		One of a jury impaneled on an assize.
recognitory		Pertaining to, or connected with, recognition.
recognizability		The quality or condition of being recognizable.
recognizable		Capable of being recognized. -- Rec"og*ni`za*bly, adv.
recognizance		(Law) (a) An obligation of record entered into before some court of record or magistrate duly authorized, with condition to do some particular act, as to appear at the same or some other court, to keep the peace, or pay a debt.
recognization		Recognition.
recognize		To know again; to perceive the identity of, with a person or thing previously known; to recover or recall knowledge of.
recognizee		The person in whose favor a recognizance is made.
recognizer		One who recognizes; a recognizor.
recognizor		One who enters into a recognizance.
recognosce		To recognize.
recoil		To start, roll, bound, spring, or fall back; to take a reverse motion; to be driven or forced backward; to return.
recoiler		One who, or that which, recoils.
recoilingly		In the manner of a recoil.
recoin		To coin anew or again.
recoinage		The act of coining anew.
recollect		To recover or recall the knowledge of; to bring back to the mind or memory; to remember.
recollection		The act of recollecting, or recalling to the memory; the operation by which objects are recalled to the memory, or ideas revived in the mind; reminiscence; remembrance.
recollective		Having the power of recollecting.
recollet		Same as Recollect, n.
recolonization		A second or renewed colonization.
recolonize		To colonize again.
recombination		Combination a second or additional time.
recombine		To combine again.
recomfort		To comfort again; to console anew; to give new strength to.
recomfortless	Obsolete	Without comfort.
recomforture	Obsolete	The act of recomforting; restoration of comfort.
recommence		To commence or begin again.
recommencement		A commencement made anew.
recommend		To commend to the favorable notice of another; to commit to another's care, confidence, or acceptance, with favoring representations; to put in a favorable light before any one; to bestow commendation on; as…
recommendable		Suitable to be recommended; worthy of praise; commendable.
recommendation		That which recommends, or commends to favor; anything procuring, or tending to procure, a favorable reception, or to secure acceptance and adoption; as, he brought excellent recommendations.
recommendative	Obsolete	That which recommends; a recommendation.
recommendatory		Serving to recommend; recommending; commendatory.
recommender		One who recommends.
recommission		To commission again; to give a new commission to.
recommit		To commit again; to give back into keeping; specifically, to refer again to a committee; as, to recommit a bill to the same committee.
recommitment		A second or renewed commitment; a renewed reference to a committee.
recommittal		A second or renewed commitment; a renewed reference to a committee.
recompact		To compact or join anew.
recompensation		(Scots Law) Used to denote a case where a set-off pleaded by the defendant is met by a set-off pleaded by the plaintiff.
recompense		To render an equivalent to, for service, loss, etc.; to requite; to remunerate; to compensate.
recompensement	Obsolete	Recompense; requital.
recompenser		One who recompenses.
recompensive		Of the nature of recompense; serving to recompense.
recompilation		A new compilation.
recompile		To compile anew.
recompilement		The act of recompiling; new compilation or digest; as, a recompilement of the laws.
recompose		To compose again; to form anew; to put together again or repeatedly.
recomposer		One who recomposes.
recomposition		The act of recomposing.
reconcentrado		Lit., one who has been reconcentrated; specif., in Cuba, the Philippines, etc., during the revolution of 1895-98…
reconcentrate		To concentrate again; to concentrate thoroughly.
reconcentration		The act of reconcentrating or the state of being reconcentrated; esp., the act or policy of concentrating the rural population in or about towns and villages for convenience in political or military administration…
reconcilable		Capable of being reconciled; as, reconcilable adversaries; an act reconciable with previous acts.
reconcile		To cause to be friendly again; to conciliate anew; to restore to friendship; to bring back to harmony; to cause to be no longer at variance; as, to reconcile persons who have quarreled.
reconcilement		Reconciliation.
reconciler		One who reconciles.
reconciliation		The act of reconciling, or the state of being reconciled; reconcilenment; restoration to harmony; renewal of friendship.
reconciliatory		Serving or tending to reconcile.
recondensation		The act or process of recondensing.
recondense		To condense again.
recondite		Hidden from the mental or intellectual view; secret; abstruse; as, recondite causes of things.
reconditory	Obsolete	A repository; a storehouse.
reconduct		To conduct back or again.
reconfirm		To confirm anew.
reconfort	Obsolete	To recomfort; to comfort.
reconjoin		To join or conjoin anew.
reconnaissance		The act of reconnoitering; preliminary examination or survey. Specifically: (a) (Geol.) An examination or survey of a region in reference to its general geological character.
reconnoissance		The act of reconnoitering; preliminary examination or survey. Specifically: (a) (Geol.) An examination or survey of a region in reference to its general geological character.
reconnoiter		To examine with the eye to make a preliminary examination or survey of; esp., to survey with a view to military or engineering operations.
reconnoitre		To examine with the eye to make a preliminary examination or survey of; esp., to survey with a view to military or engineering operations.
reconquer		To conquer again; to recover by conquest; as, to reconquer a revolted province.
reconquest		A second conquest.
reconsecrate		To consecrate anew or again.
reconsecration		Renewed consecration.
reconsider		To consider again; as, to reconsider a subject.
reconsideration		The act of reconsidering, or the state of being reconsidered; as, the reconsideration of a vote in a legislative body.
reconsolate	Obsolete	To console or comfort again.
reconsolidate		To consolidate anew or again.
reconsolidation		The act or process of reconsolidating; the state of being reconsolidated.
reconstruct		To construct again; to rebuild; to remodel; to form again or anew.
reconstruction		The act of constructing again; the state of being reconstructed.
reconstructive		Reconstructing; tending to reconstruct; as, a reconstructive policy.
recontinuance		The act or state of recontinuing.
recontinue		To continue anew.
reconvene		To convene or assemble again; to call or come together again.
reconvention		A cross demand; an action brought by the defendant against the plaintiff before the same judge.
reconversion		A second conversion.
reconvert		To convert again.
reconvertible		Capable of being reconverted; convertible again to the original form or condition.
reconvey		To convey back or to the former place; as, to reconvey goods.
reconveyance		Act of reconveying.
recopy		To copy again.
record		To preserve the memory of, by committing to writing, to printing, to inscription, or the like; to make note of; to write or enter in a book or on parchment, for the purpose of preserving authentic evidence of; to register…
recordance	Obsolete	Remembrance.
recordation	Obsolete	Remembrance; recollection; also, a record.
recorder		One who records; specifically, a person whose official duty it is to make a record of writings or transactions.
recordership		The office of a recorder.
recording		Keeping a record or a register; as, a recording secretary; -- applied to numerous instruments with an automatic appliance which makes a record of their action; as, a recording gauge or telegraph.
recorporification		The act of investing again with a body; the state of being furnished anew with a body.
recouch	Obsolete	To retire again to a couch; to lie down again.
recount		To count or reckon again.
recountment	Obsolete	Recital.
recoup		(Law) To keep back rightfully (a part), as if by cutting off, so as to diminish a sum due; to take off (a part) from damages; to deduct; as…
recoupe		(Law) To keep back rightfully (a part), as if by cutting off, so as to diminish a sum due; to take off (a part) from damages; to deduct; as…
recouper		One who recoups.
recoupment		The act of recouping.
recourse		Recurrence in difficulty, perplexity, need, or the like; access or application for aid; resort.
recourseful	Obsolete	Having recurring flow and ebb; moving alternately.
recover		To cover again.
recoverable		Capable of being recovered or regained; capable of being brought back to a former condition, as from sickness, misfortune, etc.; obtainable from a debtor or possessor; as, the debt is recoverable…
recoverance	Obsolete	Recovery.
recoveree		The person against whom a judgment is obtained in common recovery.
recoverer		One who recovers.
recoveror		The demandant in a common recovery after judgment.
recovery		The act of recovering, regaining, or retaking possession.
recreance		Recreancy.
recreancy		The quality or state of being recreant.
recreant		Crying for mercy, as a combatant in the trial by battle; yielding; cowardly; mean-spirited; craven.
recreate		To give fresh life to; to reanimate; to revive; especially, to refresh after wearying toil or anxiety; to relieve; to cheer; to divert; to amuse; to gratify.
recreation		The act of recreating, or the state of being recreated; refreshment of the strength and spirits after toil; amusement; diversion; sport; pastime.
recreative		Tending to recreate or refresh; recreating; giving new vigor or animation; reinvigorating; giving relief after labor or pain; amusing; diverting.
recrement		Superfluous matter separated from that which is useful; dross; scoria; as, the recrement of ore.
recremental		Recrementitious.
recrementitial		Of the nature of a recrement. See Recrement,2 (b).
recrementitious		Of or pertaining to recrement; consisting of recrement or dross.
recriminate		To return one charge or accusation with another; to chargeback fault or crime upon an accuser.
recrimination		The act of recriminating; an accusation brought by the accused against the accuser; a counter accusation.
recriminative		Recriminatory.
recriminator		One who recriminates.
recriminatory		Having the quality of recrimination; retorting accusation; recriminating.
recross		To cross a second time.
recrudency		Recrudescence.
recrudesce		To be in a state of recrudescence; esp., to come into renewed freshness, vigor, or activity; to revive.
recrudescence		The state or condition of being recrudescent.
recrudescency		The state or condition of being recrudescent.
recrudescent		Growing raw, sore, or painful again.
recruit		To repair by fresh supplies, as anything wasted; to remedy lack or deficiency in; as, food recruits the flesh; fresh air and exercise recruit the spirits.
recruiter		One who, or that which, recruits.
recruitment		The act or process of recruiting; especially, the enlistment of men for an army.
recrystallization		The process or recrystallizing.
recrystallize		To crystallize again.
rectal		Of or pertaining to the rectum; in the region of the rectum.
rectangle		A four-sided figure having only right angles; a right-angled parallelogram.
rectangled		Rectangular.
rectangular		Right-angled; having one or more angles of ninety degrees. -- Rec*tan gu*lar*ness, n.
rectangularity		The quality or condition of being rectangular, or right-angled.
recti-		A combining form signifying straight; as, rectilineal, having straight lines; rectinerved.
rectifiable		Capable of being rectified; as, a rectifiable mistake.
rectification		The act or operation of rectifying; as, the rectification of an error; the rectification of spirits.
rectificator		That which rectifies or refines; esp., a part of a distilling apparatus in which the more volatile portions are separated from the less volatile by the process of evaporation and condensation; a rectifier.
rectifier		One who, or that which, rectifies.
rectify		To make or set right; to correct from a wrong, erroneous, or false state; to amend; as, to rectify errors, mistakes, or abuses; to rectify the will, the judgment, opinions; to rectify disorders.
rectilineal		Straight; consisting of a straight line or lines; bounded by straight lines; as, a rectineal angle; a rectilinear figure or course. -- Rec`ti*lin e*ar*ly, adv.
rectilinear		Straight; consisting of a straight line or lines; bounded by straight lines; as, a rectineal angle; a rectilinear figure or course. -- Rec`ti*lin e*ar*ly, adv.
rectilinearity		The quality or state of being rectilinear.
rectilineous	Obsolete	Rectilinear.
rectinerved		Having the veins or nerves straight; -- said of leaves.
rection		See Government, n., 7.
rectirostral		Having a straight beak.
rectiserial		Arranged in exactly vertical ranks, as the leaves on stems of many kinds; -- opposed to curviserial.
rectitis		Proctitis.
rectitude		Rightness of principle or practice; exact conformity to truth, or to the rules prescribed for moral conduct, either by divine or human laws; uprightness of mind; uprightness; integrity; honesty; justice.
recto		A writ of right.
recto-		A combining form indicating connection with, or relation to, the rectum; as, recto-vesical.
recto-uterine		Of or pertaining to both the rectum and the uterus.
recto-vesical		Of or pertaining to both the rectum and the bladder.
rector		(a) (Ch. of Eng.) A clergyman who has the charge and cure of a parish, and has the tithes, etc.; the clergyman of a parish where the tithes are not impropriate.
rectoral		Pertaining to a rector or governor.
rectorate		The office, rank, or station of a rector; rectorship.
rectoress		A governess; a rectrix.
rectorial		Pertaining to a rector or a rectory; rectoral.
rectorship		The office or rank of a rector; rectorate.
rectory		The province of a rector; a parish church, parsonage, or spiritual living, with all its rights, tithes, and glebes.
rectovaginal		Of or pertaining to both the rectum and the vagina.
rectress		A rectoress.
rectrix		(Zoöl.) One of the quill feathers of the tail of a bird.
rectum		The terminal part of the large intestine; -- so named because supposed by the old anatomists to be straight.
rectus		A straight muscle; as, the recti of the eye.
recubation	Obsolete	Recumbence.
recule	Obsolete	To recoil.
recumb	Obsolete	To lean; to recline; to repose.
recumbence		The act of leaning, resting, or reclining; the state of being recumbent.
recumbency		Recumbence.
recumbent		Leaning; reclining; lying; as, the recumbent posture of the Romans at their meals.
recuperable		Recoverable.
recuperate		To recover health; to regain strength; to convalesce.
recuperation		Recovery, as of anything lost, especially of the health or strength.
recuperative		Of or pertaining to recuperation; tending to recovery.
recuperator		Same as Regenerator.
recuperatory		Of or pertaining to recuperation; tending to recovery.
recur		To come back; to return again or repeatedly; to come again to mind.
recure		To restore, as from weariness, sickness; or the like; to repair.
recureless	Obsolete	Incapable of cure.
recurrence		The act of recurring, or state of being recurrent; return; resort; recourse.
recurrency		The act of recurring, or state of being recurrent; return; resort; recourse.
recurrent		Returning from time to time; recurring; as, recurrent pains.
recursant		Displayed with the back toward the spectator; -- said especially of an eagle.
recursion	Obsolete	The act of recurring; return.
recurvate		Recurved.
recurvation		The act of recurving, or the state of being recurved; a bending or flexure backward.
recurve		To curve in an opposite or unusual direction; to bend back or down.
recurved		Curved in an opposite or uncommon direction; bent back; as, a bird with a recurved bill; flowers with recurved petals.
recurviroster		A bird whose beak bends upward, as the avocet.
recurvirostral		Having the beak bent upwards.
recurvity		Recurvation.
recurvous		Recurved.
recusancy		The state of being recusant; nonconformity.
recusant		Obstinate in refusal; specifically, in English history, refusing to acknowledge the supremacy of the king in the churc, or to conform to the established rites of the church; as, a recusant lord.
recusation		(Old Law) The act of refusing a judge or challenging that he shall not try the cause, on account of his supposed partiality.
recusative		Refusing; denying; negative.
recuse	Obsolete	To refuse or reject, as a judge; to challenge that the judge shall not try the cause.
recussion		The act of beating or striking back.
red		The color of blood, or of that part of the spectrum farthest from violet, or a tint resembling these.
red-gum		(Med.) An eruption of red pimples upon the face, neck, and arms, in early infancy; tooth rash; strophulus.
red-hand		Having hands red with blood; in the very act, as if with red or bloody hands; -- said of a person taken in the act of homicide; hence, fresh from the commission of crime; as, he was taken red-hand or red-handed.
red-handed		Having hands red with blood; in the very act, as if with red or bloody hands; -- said of a person taken in the act of homicide; hence, fresh from the commission of crime; as, he was taken red-hand or red-handed.
red-hot		Red with heat; heated to redness; as, red-hot iron; red-hot balls. Hence, figuratively, excited; violent; as, a red-hot radical.
red-letter		Of or pertaining to a red letter; marked by red letters.
red-riband		The European red band fish, or fireflame. See Rend fish.
red-short		Hot-short; brittle when red-hot; -- said of certain kinds of iron. -- Red"-short`ness, n.
red-tailed		Having a red tail.
red-tape		Pertaining to, or characterized by, official formality. See Red tape, under Red, a.
red-tapism		Strict adherence to official formalities.
red-tapist		One who is tenacious of a strict adherence to official formalities.
redact		To reduce to form, as literary matter; to digest and put in shape (matter for publication); to edit.
redacteur		See Redactor — one who redacts; one who prepares matter for publication; an editor.
redaction		The act of redacting; work produced by redacting; a digest.
redactor		One who redacts; one who prepares matter for publication; an editor.
redan		(Fort.) A work having two parapets whose faces unite so as to form a salient angle toward the enemy.
redargue	Archaic	To disprove; to refute; toconfute; to reprove; to convict.
redargution	Obsolete	The act of redarguing; refutation.
redargutory		Pertaining to, or containing, redargution; refutatory.
redback		The dunlin.
redbelly		The char.
redbird		(a) The cardinal bird. (b) The summer redbird (Piranga rubra). (c) The scarlet tanager.
redbreast		(Zoöl.) (a) The European robin. (b) The American robin. See Robin. (c) The knot, or red-breasted snipe; -- called also robin breast, and robin snipe.
redbud		A small ornamental leguminous tree of the American species of the genus Cercis.
redcap		(Zoöl) The European goldfinch.
redcoat		One who wears a red coat; specifically, a red-coated British soldier.
redde		obs. imp. of Read, or Rede.
redden		To make red or somewhat red; to give a red color to.
reddendum		A clause in a deed by which some new thing is reserved out of what had been granted before; the clause by which rent is reserved in a lease.
reddish		Somewhat red; moderately red. -- Red"dish*ness, n.
reddition		Explanation; representation.
redditive		Answering to an interrogative or inquiry; conveying a reply; as, redditive words.
reddle		Red chalk. See under Chalk.
reddour	Obsolete	Rigor; violence.
rede	Obsolete	Advice; counsel; suggestion.
redeem		To purchase back; to regain possession of by payment of a stipulated price; to repurchase.
redeemability		Redeemableness.
redeemable		Capable of being redeemed; subject to repurchase; held under conditions permitting redemption; as, a pledge securing the payment of money is redeemable.
redeemableness		The quality or state of being redeemable; redeemability.
redeemer		One who redeems.
redeless	Obsolete	Without rede or counsel.
redeliberate		To deliberate again; to reconsider.
redeliver		To deliver or give back; to return.
redeliverance		A second deliverance.
redelivery		Act of delivering back.
redemand		To demand back; to demand again.
redemise		To demise back; to convey or transfer back, as an estate.
redemonstrate		To demonstrate again, or anew.
redemptible		Redeemable.
redemptionary		One who is, or may be, redeemed.
redemptioner		One who redeems himself, as from debt or servitude.
redemptionist		A monk of an order founded in 1197; -- so called because the order was especially devoted to the redemption of Christians held in captivity by the Mohammedans.
redemptive		Serving or tending to redeem; redeeming; as, the redemptive work of Christ.
redemptorist		One of the Congregation of the Most Holy Redeemer, founded in Naples in 1732 by St. Alphonsus Maria de Liquori.
redemptory		Paid for ransom; serving to redeem.
redempture	Obsolete	Redemption.
redented		Formed like the teeth of a saw; indented.
redeposit		To deposit again.
redescend		To descend again.
redevelop		To develop again; specif. (Photog.), to intensify (a developed image), as by bleaching with mercuric chloride and subsequently subjecting anew to a developing agent. -- Re`de*vel op*ment (#), n.
redeye	Dialect	(a) The rudd. (b) Same as Redfish. (d). (c) The goggle-eye, or fresh-water rock bass.
redfin		A small North American dace (Minnilus cornutus, or Notropis megalops).
redfinch		The European linnet.
redfish		(a) The blueback salmon of the North Pacific; -- called also nerka. See Blueback.
redhead		A person having red hair.
redhibition		The annulling of a sale, and the return by the buyer of the article sold, on account of some defect.
redhibitory		Of or pertaining to redhibition; as, a redhibitory action or fault.
redhoop	English dialect	The male of the European bullfinch.
redhorn		Any species of a tribe of butterflies (Fugacia) including the common yellow species and the cabbage butterflies.
redia		A kind of larva, or nurse, which is prroduced within the sporocyst of certain trematodes by asexual generation.
redient		Returning.
redif		A reserve force in the Turkish army, or a soldier of the reserve. See Army organization, above.
redigest		To digest, or reduce to form, a second time.
rediminish		To diminish again.
redingote		A long plain double-breasted outside coat for women.
redintegrate		Restored to wholeness or a perfect state; renewed.
redintegration		Restoration to a whole or sound state; renewal; renovation.
redirect		Applied to the examination of a witness, by the party calling him, after the cross-examination.
redisburse		To disburse anew; to give, or pay, back.
rediscover		To discover again.
redispose		To dispose anew or again; to readjust; to rearrange.
redisseize		To disseize anew, or a second time.
redisseizin		A disseizin by one who once before was adjudged to have dassezed the same person of the same lands, etc.; also, a writ which lay in such a case.
redisseizor		One who redisseizes.
redissolve		To dissolve again.
redistill		To distill again.
redistrainer		One who distrains again.
redistribute		To distribute again. -- Re*dis`tri*bu"tion (-tr, n.
redistrict		To divide into new districts.
redition	Obsolete	Act of returning; return.
redivide		To divide anew.
redivivus		Living again; revived; restored.
redleg		(a) The redshank. (b) The turnstone.
redlegs		(a) The redshank. (b) The turnstone.
redly		In a red manner; with redness.
redmouth		Any one of several species of marine food fishes of the genus Diabasis, or Hæmulon, of the Southern United States, having the inside of the mouth bright red.
redness		The quality or state of being red; red color.
redolence		The quality of being redolent; sweetness of scent; pleasant odor; fragrance.
redolency		The quality of being redolent; sweetness of scent; pleasant odor; fragrance.
redolent		Diffusing odor or fragrance; spreading sweet scent; scented; odorous; smelling; -- usually followed by of. -- Red"o*lent*ly, adv.
redouble		To double again or repeatedly; to increase by continued or repeated additions; to augment greatly; to multiply.
redoubt		(a) A small, and usually a roughly constructed, fort or outwork of varying shape, commonly erected for a temporary purpose, and without flanking defenses, -- used esp. in fortifying tops of hills and passes…
redoubtable		Formidable; dread; terrible to foes; as, a redoubtable hero; hence, valiant; -- often in contempt or burlesque.
redoubted		Formidable; dread.
redoubting	Obsolete	Reverence; honor.
redound		To roll back, as a wave or flood; to be sent or driven back; to flow back, as a consequence or effect; to conduce; to contribute; to result.
redowa		A Bohemian dance of two kinds, one in triple time, like a waltz, the other in two-four time, like a polka.
redpole		Same as Redpoll.
redpoll		(a) Any one of several species of small northern finches of the genus Acanthis (formerly Ægiothus), native of Europe and America.
redraft		To draft or draw anew.
redraw		To draw again; to make a second draft or copy of; to redraft.
redress		To dress again.
redressal		Redress.
redresser		One who redresses.
redressible		Such as may be redressed.
redressive		Tending to redress.
redressless		Not having redress; such as can not be redressed; irremediable.
redressment		The act of redressing; redress.
redroot		A name of several plants having red roots, as the New Jersey tea (see under Tea), the gromwell, the bloodroot, and the Lachnanthes tinctoria, an endogenous plant found in sandy swamps from Rhode Island to Florida.
redsear		To be brittle when red-hot; to be red-short.
redshank		(Zoöl.) (a) A common Old World limicoline bird (Totanus calidris), having the legs and feet pale red.
redskin		A common appellation for a North American Indian; -- so called from the color of the skin.
redstart		(a) A small, handsome European singing bird (Ruticilla phoenicurus), allied to the nightingale; -- called also redtail, brantail, fireflirt, firetail.
redstreak		A kind of apple having the skin streaked with red and yellow, -- a favorite English cider apple.
redtail		(a) The red-tailed hawk. (b) The European redstart.
redthroat		A small Australian singing bird (Phyrrholæmus brunneus).
redtop		A kind of grass (Agrostis vulgaris) highly valued in the United States for pasturage and hay for cattle; -- called also English grass, and in some localities herd's grass.
redub	Obsolete	To refit; to repair, or make reparation for; hence, to repay or requite.
reduce		To bring to any inferior state, with respect to rank, size, quantity, quality, value, etc.; to diminish; to lower; to degrade; to impair; as, to reduce a sergeant to the ranks; to reduce a drawing; to reduce expenses…
reducement		Reduction.
reducent		Tending to reduce. -- n.
reducer		One who, or that which, reduces.
reducible		Capable of being reduced.
reducibleness		Quality of being reducible.
reducing		a & n. from Reduce.
reduct	Obsolete	To reduce.
reductibility		The quality of being reducible; reducibleness.
reduction		The act of reducing, or state of being reduced; conversion to a given state or condition; diminution; conquest; as, the reduction of a body to powder; the reduction of things to order; the reduction of the expenses of government…
reductive		Tending to reduce; having the power or effect of reducing. -- n.
reductively		By reduction; by consequence.
reduit		A central or retired work within any other work.
redundance		The quality or state of being redundant; superfluity; superabundance; excess.
redundancy		The quality or state of being redundant; superfluity; superabundance; excess.
redundant		Exceeding what is natural or necessary; superabundant; exuberant; as, a redundant quantity of bile or food.
redundantly		In a refundant manner.
reduplicate		Double; doubled; reduplicative; repeated.
reduplication		The act of doubling, or the state of being doubled.
reduplicative		Double; formed by reduplication; reduplicate.
reduvid		Any hemipterous insect of the genus Redivius, or family Reduvidæ.
redweed		The red poppy (Papaver Rhoeas).
redwing		A European thrush (Turdus iliacus).
redwithe		A west Indian climbing shrub (Combretum Jacquini) with slender reddish branchlets.
redwood		(a) A gigantic coniferous tree (Sequoia sempervirens) of California, and its light and durable reddish timber.
ree	Obsolete	See Rei — a portuguese money of account, in value about one tenth of a cent.
reebok		The peele.
reecho		To echo back; to reverberate again; as, the hills reëcho the roar of cannon.
reechy	Obsolete	Smoky; reeky; hence, begrimed with dirt.
reed		(Bot.) A name given to many tall and coarse grasses or grasslike plants, and their slender, often jointed, stems, such as the various kinds of bamboo…
reed-mace		The cat-tail.
reedbird		(a) The bobolink. (b) One of several small Asiatic singing birds of the genera Schoenicola and Eurycercus; -- called also reed babbler.
reedbuck		See Rietboc — the reedbuck, a South African antelope (Cervicapra arundinacea); -- so called from its frequenting dry places covered with high grass or reeds.
reeded		Civered with reeds; reedy.
reeden		Consisting of a reed or reeds.
reedification		The act reëdifying; the state of being reëdified.
reedify		To edify anew; to build again after destruction.
reeding		(Arch.) A small convex molding; a reed (see Illust. (i) of Molding); one of several set close together to decorate a surface; also, decoration by means of reedings; -- the reverse of fluting.
reedless		Destitute of reeds; as, reedless banks.
reedling		The European bearded titmouse (Panurus biarmicus); -- called also reed bunting, bearded pinnock, and lesser butcher bird.
reedwork		A collective name for the reed stops of an organ.
reedy		Abounding with reeds; covered with reeds.
reef		A chain or range of rocks lying at or near the surface of the water. See Coral reefs, under Coral.
reef-band		A piece of canvas sewed across a sail to strengthen it in the part where the eyelet holes for reefing are made.
reefer		(Naut.) One who reefs; -- a name often given to midshipmen.
reefing		The process of taking in a reef.
reefy		Full of reefs or rocks.
reeky		Soiled with smoke or steam; smoky; foul.
reel		A lively dance of the Highlanders of Scotland; also, the music to the dance; -- often called Scotch reel.
reelect		To elect again; as, to reëlect the former governor.
reelection		Election a second time, or anew; as, the reëlection of a former chief.
reeler	English dialect	(Zoöl.) The grasshopper warbler; -- so called from its note.
reeligible		Eligble again; capable of reëlection; as, reëligible to the same office. -- Re*ël`i*gi*bil"i*ty (r, n.
reem		The Hebrew name of a horned wild animal, probably the Urus.
reembark		To put, or go, on board a vessel again; to embark again.
reembarkation		A putting, or going, on board a vessel again.
reembody		To embody again.
reembrace		To embrace again.
reemerge		To emerge again.
reemergence		Act of re
reenact		To enact again.
reenaction		The act of re
reenactment		The enacting or passing of a law a second time; the renewal of a law.
reencourage		To encourage again.
reendow		To endow again.
reenforce		To strengthen with new force, assistance, material, or support; as, to reënforce an argument; to reënforce a garment; especially, to strengthen with additional troops, as an army or a fort, or with additional ships, as a fleet.
reenforcement		The act of reënforcing, or the state of being reënforced.
reengage		To engage a second time or again.
reengagement		A renewed or repeated engagement.
reengrave		To engrave anew.
reenjoy		To enjoi anew.
reenjoyment		Renewed enjoiment.
reenkindle		To enkindle again.
reenlist		To enlist again.
reenlistment		A renewed enlistment.
reenslave		To enslave again.
reenter		To enter again.
reentering		The process of applying additional colors, by applications of printing blocks, to patterns already partly colored.
reenthrone		To enthrone again; to replace on a throne.
reenthronement		A second enthroning.
reentrance		The act entereing again; re Hooker.
reentrant		Reëntering; pointing or directed inwardds; as, a re angle.
reentry		A second or new entry; as, a reëntry into public life.
reerect		To erect again.
reermouse		See Rearmouse — the leather-winged bat (Vespertilio murinus).
reestablish		To establish anew; to fix or confirm again; to restore; as, to reëstablish a covenant; to reëstablish health.
reestablisher		One who establishes again.
reestablishment		The act reëstablishing; the state of being reëstablished.
reestate	Obsolete	To reëstablish.
reeve		The female of the ruff.
reexaminable		Admitting of being reëxamined or reconsidered.
reexamination		A repeated examination. See under Examination.
reexamine		To examine anew.
reexchange		To exchange anew; to reverse (a previous exchange).
reexhibit		To exhibit again.
reexpel		To expel again.
reexperience		A renewed or repeated experience.
reexport		To export again, as what has been imported.
reexportation		The act of reëxporting, or of exporting an import.
reexpulsion		Renewed or repeated expulsion.
reezed	Obsolete	Grown rank; rancid; rusty.
refaction	Obsolete	Recompense; atonemet; retribution.
refait		A drawn game; specif. (Trente et quarante), a state of the game in which the aggregate pip value of cards dealt to red equals that of those dealt to black.
refar	Obsolete	To go over again; to repeat.
refashion		To fashion anew; to form or mold into shape a second time.
refashionment		The act of refashioning, or the state of being refashioned.
refasten		To fasten again.
refect	Archaic	To restore after hunger or fatique; to refresh.
refection		Refreshment after hunger or fatique; a repast; a lunch. feeble spirit inly felt refection.
refective		Refreshing; restoring.
refectory		A room for refreshment; originally, a dining hall in monasteries or convents.
refel	Obsolete	To refute; to disprove; as, to refel the tricks of a sophister.
refer		Hence: To send or direct away; to send or direct elsewhere, as for treatment, aid, infirmation, decision, etc.; to make over, or pass over, to another; as, to refer a student to an author; to refer a beggar to an officer…
referable		Capable of being referred, or considered in relation to something else; assignable; ascribable.
referee		One to whom a thing is referred; a person to whom a matter in dispute has been referred, in order that he may settle it.
reference		The act of referring, or the state of being referred; as, reference to a chart for quidance.
referendary		An officer who delivered the royal answer to petitions.
referendum		A diplomatic agent's note asking for instructions from his government concerning a particular matter or point.
referential		Containing a reference; pointing to something out of itself; as, notes for referential use. -- Ref`er*en"tial*ly, adv.
referment		The act of referring; reference.
referrer		One who refers.
referrible		Referable.
refigure		To figure again.
refill		To fill, or become full, again.
refind		To find again; to get or experience again.
refine		To reduce to a fine, unmixed, or pure state; to free from impurities; to free from dross or alloy; to separate from extraneous matter; to purify; to defecate; as, to refine gold or silver; to refine iron; to refine wine or sugar.
refined		Freed from impurities or alloy; purifed; polished; cultured; delicate; as; refined gold; refined language; refined sentiments.
refinement		The act of refining, or the state of being refined; as, the refinement or metals; refinement of ideas.
refiner		One who, or that which, refines.
refinery		The building and apparatus for refining or purifying, esp. metals and sugar.
refit		To fit or prepare for use again; to repair; to restore after damage or decay; as, to refit a garment; to refit ships of war.
refitment		The act of refitting, or the state of being refitted.
refix		To fix again or anew; to establish anew.
reflame		To kindle again into flame.
reflect		To bend back; to give a backwaas, a mirror reflects rays of light; polished metals reflect heat.
reflected		Thrown back after striking a surface; as, reflected light, heat, sound, etc.
reflectent		Bending or flying back; reflected.
reflectible		Capable of being reflected, or thrown back; reflexible.
reflecting		Throwing back light, heat, etc., as a mirror or other surface.
reflectingly		With reflection; also, with censure; reproachfully.
reflection		The act of reflecting, or turning or sending back, or the state of being reflected.
reflective		Throwing back images; as, a reflective mirror.
reflector		One who, or that which, reflects.
reflet		Luster; special brilliancy of surface; -- used esp. in ceramics to denote the peculiar metallic brilliancy seen in lustered pottery such as majolica; as, silver reflet; gold reflet.
reflex		Directed back; attended by reflection; retroactive; introspective.
reflexed		Bent backward or outward.
reflexibility		The quality or capability of being reflexible; as, the reflexibility of the rays of light.
reflexible		Capable of being reflected, or thrown back.
reflexion		See Reflection — the act of reflecting, or turning or sending back, or the state of being reflected.
reflexity		The state or condition of being reflected.
reflexive		Etym: Bending or turned backward; reflective; having respect to something past.
reflexly		In a reflex manner; reflectively.
refloat	Obsolete	Reflux; ebb.
reflorescence		A blossoming anew of a plant after it has apparently ceased blossoming for the season.
reflourish		To flourish again.
reflow		To flow back; to ebb.
reflower		To flower, or cause to flower, again.
refluctuation		A flowing back; refluence.
refluence		The quality of being refluent; a flowing back.
refluency		The quality of being refluent; a flowing back.
refluent		Flowing back; returning; ebbing.
reflueus	Obsolete	Refluent.
reflux		Returning, or flowing back; reflex; as, reflux action.
refocillate	Obsolete	To refresh; to revive.
refocillation	Obsolete	Restoration of strength by refreshment.
refold		To fold again.
refoment		To foment anew.
reforest		To replant with trees; to reafforest; to reforestize.
reforestization		The act or process of reforestizing.
reforestize		To convert again into a forest; to plant again with trees.
reforge		To forge again or anew; hence, to fashion or fabricate anew; to make over.
reforger		One who reforges.
reform		To put into a new and improved form or condition; to restore to a former good state, or bring from bad to good; to change from worse to better; to amend; to correct; as, to reform a profligate man…
reformable		Capable of being reformed.
reformade	Obsolete	A reformado.
reformado	Obsolete	A monk of a reformed order.
reformalize		To affect reformation; to pretend to correctness.
reformation		The act of reforming, or the state of being reformed; change from worse to better; correction or amendment of life, manners, or of anything vicious or corrupt; as, the reformation of manners; reformation of the age…
reformative		Forming again; having the quality of renewing form; reformatory.
reformatory		Tending to produce reformation; reformative.
reformed		Corrected; amended; restored to purity or excellence; said, specifically, of the whole body of Protestant churches originating in the Reformation.
reformer		One who effects a reformation or amendment; one who labors for, or urges, reform; as, a reformer of manners, or of abuses.
reformist		A reformer.
reformly	Obsolete	In the manner of a reform; for the purpose of reform.
refortification		A fortifying anew, or a second time.
refortify		To fortify anew.
refossion	Obsolete	The act of digging up again.
refound		To found or cast anew.
refounder		One who refounds.
refract		To bend sharply and abruptly back; to break off.
refractable		Capable of being refracted.
refracted		(Bot. & Zoöl.) Bent backward angularly, as if half-broken; as, a refracted stem or leaf.
refracting		Serving or tending to refract; as, a refracting medium.
refraction		The act of refracting, or the state of being refracted.
refractive		Serving or having power to refract, or turn from a direct course; pertaining to refraction; as, refractive surfaces; refractive powers.
refractiveness		The quality or condition of being refractive.
refractometer		A contrivance for exhibiting and measuring the refraction of light.
refractor		Anything that refracts; specifically: (Opt.) A refracting telescope, in which the image to be viewed is formed by the refraction of light in passing through a convex lens.
refractorily		In a refractory manner; perversely; obstinately.
refractoriness		The quality or condition of being refractory.
refractory		Obstinate in disobedience; contumacious; stubborn; unmanageable; as, a refractory child; a refractory beast.
refracture		A second breaking (as of a badly set bone) by the surgeon.
refragable		Capable of being refuted; refutable. -- Ref i*ty (-b, n.
refragate		To oppose.
refrain		To hold back; to restrain; to keep within prescribed bounds; to curb; to govern.
refrainer		One who refrains.
refrainment		Act of refraining.
reframe		To frame again or anew.
refrangibility		The quality of being refrangible.
refrangible		Capable of being refracted, or turned out of a direct course, in passing from one medium to another, as rays of light. -- Re*fran"gi*ble*ness, n.
refrenation	Obsolete	The act of refraining.
refresh		To make fresh again; to restore strength, spirit, animation, or the like, to; to relieve from fatigue or depression; to reinvigorate; to enliven anew; to reanimate; as, sleep refreshes the body and the mind.
refresher		One who, or that which, refreshes.
refreshful		Full of power to refresh; refreshing. -- Re*fresh"ful*ly, adv.
refreshing		Reviving; reanimating. -- Re*fresh ing*ness, n.
refreshment		The act of refreshing, or the state of being refreshed; restoration of strength, spirit, vigor, or liveliness; relief after suffering; new life or animation after depression.
refret	Obsolete	Refrain.
refreyd	Obsolete	To chill; to cool.
refrication	Obsolete	A rubbing up afresh; a brightening.
refrigerant		Cooling; allaying heat or fever.
refrigerate		To cause to become cool; to make or keep cold or cool.
refrigeration		The act or process of refrigerating or cooling, or the state of being cooled.
refrigerative		Cooling; allaying heat. -- n.
refrigerator		That which refrigerates or makes cold; that which keeps cool. Specifically: (a) A box or room for keeping food or other articles cool, usually by means of ice.
refrigeratory		Mitigating heat; cooling.
refrigerium	Obsolete	Cooling refreshment; refrigeration.
refringency		The power possessed by a substance to refract a ray; as, different substances have different refringencies.
refringent		Pertaining to, or possessing, refringency; refractive; refracting; as, a refringent prism of spar.
refuge		Shelter or protection from danger or distress.
refugee		One who flees to a shelter, or place of safety.
refulgence		The quality of being refulgent; brilliancy; splender; radiance.
refulgency		The quality of being refulgent; brilliancy; splender; radiance.
refulgent		Casting a bright light; radiant; brilliant; resplendent; shining; splendid; as, refulgent beams. -- Re*ful"gent*ly, adv.
refund		To fund again or anew; to replace (a fund or loan) by a new fund; as, to refund a railroad loan.
refunder		One who refunds.
refundment		The act of refunding; also, that which is refunded.
refurbish		To furbish anew.
refurnish		To furnish again.
refurnishment		The act of refurnishing, or state of being refurnished.
refusable		Capable of being refused; admitting of refusal.
refusal		The act of refusing; denial of anything demanded, solicited, or offered for acceptance.
refuse		To deny, as a request, demand, invitation, or command; to decline to do or grant.
refuser		One who refuses or rejects.
refusion		New or repeated melting, as of metals.
refutability		The quality of being refutable.
refutable		Admitting of being refuted or disproved; capable of being proved false or erroneous.
refutal		Act of refuting; refutation.
refutation		The act or process of refuting or disproving, or the state of being refuted; proof of falsehood or error; the overthrowing of an argument, opinion, testimony, doctrine, or theory, by argument or countervailing proof.
refutatory		Tending tu refute; refuting.
refute		To disprove and overthrow by argument, evidence, or countervailing proof; to prove to be false or erroneous; to confute; as, to refute arguments; to refute testimony; to refute opinions or theories; to refute a disputant.
refuter		One who, or that which, refutes.
regain		To gain anew; to get again; to recover, as what has escaped or been lost; to reach again.
regal		Of or pertaining to a king; kingly; royal; as, regal authority, pomp, or sway.
regale		A prerogative of royalty.
regalement		The act of regaling; anything which regales; refreshment; entertainment.
regaler		One who regales.
regalia		That which belongs to royalty. Specifically: (a) The rights and prerogatives of a king.
regalian		Pertaining to regalia; pertaining to the royal insignia or prerogatives.
regalism		The doctrine of royal prerogative or supremacy.
regality		Royalty; ssovereignty; sovereign jurisdiction. robs reason of her due regalitie.
regally		In a regal or royal manner.
regard		To keep in view; to behold; to look at; to view; to gaze upon.
regardable		Worthy of regard or notice; to be regarded; observable.
regardant		Looking behind; looking backward watchfully. turns thither his regardant eye.
regarder		One who regards.
regardful		Heedful; attentive; observant. -- Re*gard"ful*ly, adv.
regarding		Concerning; respecting.
regardless		Having no regard; heedless; careless; as, regardless of life, consequences, dignity.
regather		To gather again.
regatta		Originally, a gondola race in Venice; now, a rowing or sailing race, or a series of such races.
regel		See Rigel — a fixed star of the first magnitude in the left foot of the constellation Orion.
regelate		To freeze together again; to undergo regelation, as ice.
regelation		The act or process of freezing anew, or together,as two pieces of ice.
regency		The office of ruler; rule; authority; government.
regeneracy		The state of being regenerated.
regenerate		(Theol.) Born anew; become Christian; renovated in heart; changed from a natural to a spiritual state.
regenerateness		The quality or state of being rgenerate.
regeneration		The act of regenerating, or the state of being regenerated.
regenerative		Of or pertaining to regeneration; tending to regenerate; as, regenerative influences.
regeneratively		So as to regenerate.
regenerator		One who, or that which, regenerates.
regeneratory		Having power to renew; tending to reproduce; regenerating.
regenesis		New birth; renewal.
regent		Ruling; governing; regnant.
regentess		A female regent.
regentship		The office of a regent; regency.
regerminate		To germinate again.
regermination		A germinating again or anew.
regest	Obsolete	A register.
reget		To get again.
regian	Obsolete	An upholder of kingly authority; a royalist.
regible	Obsolete	Governable; tractable.
regicidal		Pertaining to regicide, or to one committing it; having the nature of, or resembling, regicide.
regicide		One who kills or who murders a king; specifically (Eng.Hist.), one of the judges who condemned Charles I. to death.
regidor		One of a body of officers charged with the government of Spanish municipalities, corresponding to the English alderman.
regie		Direct management of public finance or public works by agents of the government for government account; -- opposed to the contract system.
regild		To gild anew.
regime		Mode or system of rule or management; character of government, or of the prevailing social system.
regimen		Orderly government; system of order; adminisration.
regiment		(Mil.) A body of men, either horse, foot, or artillery, commanded by a colonel, and consisting of a number of companies, usually ten.
regimental		Belonging to, or concerning, a regiment; as, regimental officers, clothing.
regimentally		In or by a regiment or regiments; as, troops classified regimentally.
regimentals		The uniform worn by the officers and soldiers of a regiment; military dress; -- formerly used in the singular in the same sense.
regiminal		Of or relating to regimen; as, regiminal rules.
region		One of the grand districts or quarters into which any space or surface, as of the earth or the heavens, is conceived of as divided; hence, in general, a portion of space or territory of indefinite extent; country; province…
regional		Of or pertaining to a particular region; sectional.
regious	Obsolete	Regal; royal.
register		A written account or entry; an official or formal enumeration, description, or record; a memorial record; a list or roll; a schedule.
registering		Recording; -- applied to instruments; having an apparatus which registers; as, a registering thermometer.
registership		The office of a register.
registrant		One who registers; esp., one who, by virtue of securing an official registration, obtains a certain right or title of possession, as to a trade-mark.
registrar		One who registers; a recorder; a keeper of records; as, a registrar of births, deaths, and marriages.
registrarship		The office of a registrar.
registrary	Obsolete	A registrar.
registrate		To register.
registration		The act of registering; registry; enrollment.
registry		The act of recording or writing in a register; enrollment; registration.
regius		Of or pertaining to a king; royal.
regive		To give again; to give back.
regle	Obsolete	To rule; to govern.
reglement	Obsolete	Regulation.
reglementary		Regulative.
reglet		(Arch.) A flat, narrow molding, used chiefly to separate the parts or members of compartments or panels from one another, or doubled, turned, and interlaced so as to form knots, frets, or other ornaments.
regma		A kind of dry fruit, consisting of three or more cells, each which at length breaks open at the inner angle.
regmacarp		Any dry dehiscent fruit.
regnal		Of or pertaining to the reign of a monarch; as, regnal years.
regnancy		The condition or quality of being regnant; sovereignty; rule.
regnant		Exercising regal authority; reigning; as, a queen regnant.
regnative	Obsolete	Ruling; governing.
regne	Obsolete	See Reign — royal authority; supreme power; sovereignty; rule; dominion.
regorge		To vomit up; to eject from the stomach; to throw back.
regrade	Obsolete	To retire; to go back.
regraft		To graft again.
regrant		To grant back; to grant again or anew.
regrate		(Masonry) To remove the outer surface of, as of an old hewn stone, so as to give it a fresh appearance.
regrater		One who regrates.
regratery		The act or practice of regrating.
regratiatory	Obsolete	A returning or giving of thanks.
regrator		One guilty of regrating.
regrede		To go back; to retrograde, as the apsis of a planet's orbit.
regredience		A going back; a retrogression; a return.
regreet		To greet again; to resalute; to return a salutation to; to greet.
regress		The act of passing back; passage back; return; retrogression..
regression		The act of passing back or returning; retrogression; retrogradation.
regressive		Passing back; returning.
regressively		In a regressive manner.
regret		Pain of mind on account of something done or experienced in the past, with a wish that it had been different; a looking back with dissatisfaction or with longing; grief; sorrow; especially…
regretful		Full of regret; indulging in regrets; repining. -- Re*gret"ful*ly, adv.
regrow		To grow again.
regrowth		The act of regrowing; a second or new growth.
reguardant		Same as Regardant.
reguerdon	Obsolete	To reward.
regulable		Capable of being regulated.
regular		Conformed to a rule; agreeable to an established rule, law, principle, or type, or to established customary forms; normal; symmetrical; as, a regular verse in poetry; a regular piece of music; a regular verb…
regularia		A division of Echini which includes the circular, or regular, sea urchins.
regularity		The condition or quality of being regular; as, regularity of outline; the regularity of motion.
regularize		To cause to become regular; to regulate.
regularly		In a regular manner; in uniform order; methodically; in due order or time.
regularness		Regularity.
regulate		To adjust by rule, method, or established mode; to direct by rule or restriction; to subject to governing principles or laws.
regulation		The act of regulating, or the state of being regulated.
regulative		Tending to regulate; regulating.
regulator		One who, or that which, regulates.
reguline		Of or pertaining to regulus.
regulize	Archaic	To reduce to regulus; to separate, as a metal from extraneous matter; as, to regulize antimony.
regulus		A petty king; a ruler of little power or consequence.
regurgitate		To throw or pour back, as from a deep or hollow place; to pour or throw back in great quantity.
regurgitation		The act of flowing or pouring back by the orifice of entrance; specifically (Med.), the reversal of the natural direction in which the current or contents flow through a tube or cavity of the body.
rehabilitate		To invest or clothe again with some right, authority, or dignity; to restore to a former capacity; to reinstate; to qualify again; to restore, as a delinquent, to a former right, rank, or privilege lost or forfeited…
rehabilitation		The act of rehabilitating, or the state of being rehabilitated.
rehash		To hash over again; to prepare or use again; as, to rehash old arguments.
rehear		To hear again; to try a second time; as, to rehear a cause in Chancery.
rehearsal		The act of rehearsing; recital; narration; repetition; specifically, a private recital, performance, or season of practice, in preparation for a public exhibition or exercise.
rehearse		To repeat, as what has been already said; to tell over again; to recite.
rehearser		One who rehearses.
reheat		To heat again.
rehibition		The returning of a thing purchased to the seller, on the ground of defect or frand.
rehibitory		Of or relating to rehibition; as, a rehibitory action.
rehire		To hire again.
rehypothecate		To hypothecate again. -- Re`hy*poth`e*ca"tion, n.
rei		A portuguese money of account, in value about one tenth of a cent.
reichsrath		The parliament of Austria (exclusive of Hungary, which has its own diet, or parliament).
reichsstand		A free city of the former German empire.
reichstag		The Diet, or House of Representatives, of the German empire, which is composed of members elected for a term of three years by the direct vote of the people.
reif	Obsolete	Robbery; spoil.
reigle	Obsolete	A hollow cut or channel for quiding anything; as, the reigle of a side post for a flood gate.
reiglement	Obsolete	Rule; regulation.
reign		Royal authority; supreme power; sovereignty; rule; dominion.
reigner		One who reigns.
reillume		To light again; to cause to shine anew; to relume; to reillumine.
reilluminate		To enlighten again; to reillumine.
reillumination		The act or process of enlightening again.
reillumine		To illumine again or anew; to reillume.
reim		A strip of oxhide, deprived of hair, and rendered pliable, -- used for twisting into ropes, etc. Simmonds.
reimbark		See Re — a syllable applied in solmization to the second tone of the diatonic scale of C; in the American system, to the second tone of any diatonic scale.
reimbody		To imbody again.
reimbursable		Capable of being repaid; repayable.
reimburse		To replace in a treasury or purse, as an equivalent for what has been taken, lost, or expended; to refund; to pay back; to restore; as, to reimburse the expenses of a war.
reimbursement		The act reimbursing.
reimburser		One who reimburses.
reimplant		To implant again.
reimport		To import again; to import what has been exported; to bring back.
reimportation		The act of reimporting; also, that which is reimported.
reimportune		To importune again.
reimpose		To impose anew.
reimpregnate		To impregnate again or anew.
reimpress		To impress anew.
reimpression		A second or repeated impression; a reprint.
reimprint		To imprint again.
reimprison		To imprison again.
reimprisonment		The act of reimprisoning, or the state of being reimprisoned.
rein		The strap of a bridle, fastened to the curb or snaffle on each side, by which the rider or driver governs the horse.
reinaugurate		To inaugurate anew.
reincit		To incite again.
reincorporate		To incorporate again.
reincrease		To increase again.
reincur		To incur again.
reindeer		Any ruminant of the genus Rangifer, of the Deer family, found in the colder parts of both the Eastern and Western hemispheres, and having long irregularly branched antlers, with the brow tines palmate.
reinduce		To induce again.
reinette		A name given to many different kinds of apples, mostly of French origin.
reinfect		To infect again.
reinfectious		Capable of reinfecting.
reinforce		See Reënforce, v. t. See Reënforce, n.
reinforcement		See Reënforcement.
reinfund	Obsolete	To flow in anew.
reingratiate		To ingratiate again or anew.
reinhabit		To inhabit again.
reinless		Not having, or not governed by, reins; hence, not checked or restrained.
reins		The kidneys; also, the region of the kidneys; the loins.
reinsert		To insert again.
reinsertion		The act of reinserting.
reinspect		To inspect again.
reinspection		The act of reinspecting.
reinspire		To inspire anew.
reinspirit		To give fresh spirit to.
reinstall		To install again.
reinstallment		A renewed installment.
reinstate		To place again in possession, or in a former state; to restore to a state from which one had been removed; to instate again; as, to reinstate a king in the possession of the kingdom.
reinstatement		The act of reinstating; the state of being reinstated; re
reinstation		Reinstatement.
reinstruct		To instruct anew.
reinsurance		Insurance a second time or again; renewed insurance.
reinsure		To insure again after a former insuranse has ceased; to renew insurance on.
reinsurer		One who gives reinsurance.
reintegrate		To renew with regard to any state or quality; to restore; to bring again together into a whole, as the parts off anything; to reas, to reintegrate a nation.
reintegration		A renewing, or making whole again. See Redintegration.
reinter		To inter again.
reinterrogate		To interrogate again; to question repeatedly.
reinthrone		See Reënthrone.
reinthronize	Obsolete	To enthrone again.
reintroduce		To introduce again. -- Re*in`tro*duc"tion (-d, n.
reinvest		To invest again or anew.
reinvestigate		To investigate again. -- Re`in*ves`ti*ga"tion (-g, n.
reinvestment		The act of investing anew; a second or repeated investment.
reinvigorate		To invigorate anew.
reinvolve		To involve anew.
reis		The word is used as a Portuguese designation of money of account, one hundred reis being about equal in value to eleven cents.
reissuable		Capable of being reissued.
reissue		To issue a second time.
reit	Obsolete	Sedge; seaweed.
reiter		A German cavalry soldier of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries.
reiterant		Reiterating.
reiterate		To repeat again and again; to say or do repeatedly; sometimes, to repeat.
reiteratedly		Repeatedly.
reiteration		The act of reiterating; that which is reiterated.
reiterative		(Gram.) A word expressing repeated or reiterated action.
reiver		See Reaver — one who reaves.
reject		To cast from one; to throw away; to discard.
rejectable		Capable of being, or that ought to be, rejected.
rejectamenta		Things thrown out or away; especially, things excreted by a living organism.
rejectaneous	Obsolete	Not chosen orr received; rejected.
rejecter		One who rejects.
rejection		Act of rejecting, or state of being rejected.
rejectitious		Implying or requiring rejection; rejectable.
rejective		Rejecting, or tending to reject.
rejectment		Act of rejecting; matter rejected, or thrown away.
rejoice		To feel joy; to experience gladness in a high degree; to have pleasurable satisfaction; to be delighted.
rejoicement	Obsolete	Rejoicing.
rejoicer		One who rejoices.
rejoicing		Joy; gladness; delight.
rejoicingly		With joi or exultation.
rejoin		To join again; to unite after separation.
rejoinder	Archaic	(Law) The defendant's answer to the plaintiff's replication.
rejoindure	Obsolete	Act of joining again. (i.e., kisses).
rejoint		To reunite the joints of; to joint anew.
rejolt		A reacting jolt or shock; a rebound or recoil.
rejourn	Obsolete	To adjourn; to put off.
rejournment	Obsolete	Adjournment.
rejudge		To judge again; to re Rejudge his acts, and dignify disgrace.
rejuvenate		To render young again.
rejuvenated		Rendered young again; as, rejuvenated life.
rejuvenation		Rejuvenescence.
rejuvenescence		A renewing of youth; the state of being or growing young again.
rejuvenescency		Rejuvenescence.
rejuvenescent		Becoming, or causing to become, rejuvenated; rejuvenating.
rejuvenize		To rejuvenate.
rekindle		To kindle again.
rekne	Obsolete	To reckon.
relade		To lade or load again.
relaid		imp. & p. p. of Relay.
relais		A narrow space between the foot of the rampart and the scarp of the ditch, serving to receive the earth that may crumble off or be washed down, and prevent its falling into the ditch.
reland		To land again; to put on land, as that which had been shipped or embarked.
relapse		To slide or turn back into a former state or practice; to fall back from some condition attained; -- generally in a bad sense, as from a state of convalescence or amended condition; as, to relaps into a stupor, into vice…
relapser		One who relapses.
relapsing		Marked by a relapse; falling back; tending to return to a former worse state.
relate		To recount; to narrate; to tell over.
related		Allied by kindred; connected by blood or alliance, particularly by consanguinity; as, persons related in the first or second degree.
relatedness		The state or condition of being related; relationship; affinity.
relater		One who relates or narrates.
relation		The act of relating or telling; also, that which is related; recital; account; narration; narrative; as, the relation of historical events. relation doth well figure them.
relational		Having relation or kindred; related.
relationist	Obsolete	A relative; a relation.
relationship		The state of being related by kindred, affinity, or other alliance.
relative		Having relation or reference; referring; respecting; standing in connection; pertaining; as, arguments not relative to the subject.
relatively		In a relative manner; in relation or respect to something else; not absolutely.
relativeness		The state of being relative, or having relation; relativity.
relativity		The state of being relative; as, the relativity of a subject.
relator		One who relates; a relater.
relatrix		A female relator.
relax		To make lax or loose; to make less close, firm, rigid, tense, or the like; to slacken; to loosen; to open; as, to relax a rope or cord; to relax the muscles or sinews.
relaxable		Capable of being relaxed.
relaxant		A medicine that relaxes; a laxative.
relaxation		The act or process of relaxing, or the state of being relaxed; as, relaxation of the muscles; relaxation of a law.
relaxative		Having the quality of relaxing; laxative. -- n.
relay		To lay again; to lay a second time; as, to relay a pavement.
relbun		The roots of the Chilian plant Calceolaria arachnoidea, -- used for dyeing crimson.
releasable		That may be released.
release		To lease again; to grant a new lease of; to let back.
releasee		One to whom a release is given.
releasement		The act of releasing, as from confinement or obligation.
releaser		One who releases, or sets free.
releasor		One by whom a release is given.
relegate		To remove, usually to an inferior position; to consign; to transfer; specifically, to send into exile; to banish.
relegation		The act of relegating, or the state of being relegated; removal; banishment; exile.
relent		To become less severe or intense; to become less hard, harsh, cruel, or the like; to soften in temper; to become more mild and tender; to feel compassion.
relentless		Unmoved by appeals for sympathy or forgiveness; insensible to the distresses of others; destitute of tenderness; unrelenting; unyielding; unpitying; as, a prey to relentless despotism.
relentment		The act or process of retenting; the state of having relented.
relesse	Obsolete	To release.
relessee		See Releasee — one to whom a release is given.
relessor		See Releasor — one by whom a release is given.
relevance		The quality or state of being relevant; pertinency; applicability.
relevancy		The quality or state of being relevant; pertinency; applicability.
relevant		Relieving; lending aid or support.
relevantly		In a relevant manner.
relevation	Obsolete	A raising or lifting up.
reliability		The state or quality of being reliable; reliableness.
reliable		Suitable or fit to be relied on; worthy of dependance or reliance; trustworthy.
reliance		The act of relying, or the condition or quality of being reliant; dependence; confidence; trust; repose of mind upon what is deemed sufficient support or authority.
reliant		Having, or characterized by, reliance; confident; trusting.
relic		That which remains; that which is left after loss or decay; a remaining portion; a remnant.
relicly	Obsolete	In the manner of relics.
relict		A woman whose husband is dead; a widow.
relicted		Left uncovered, as land by recession of water.
reliction		A leaving dry; a recession of the sea or other water, leaving dry land; land left uncovered by such recession.
relief		The act of relieving, or the state of being relieved; the removal, or partial removal, of any evil, or of anything oppressive or burdensome, by which some ease is obtained; succor; alleviation; comfort; ease; redress.
reliefful	Obsolete	Giving relief.
reliefless		Destitute of relief; also, remediless.
relier		One who relies.
relievable		Capable of being relieved; fitted to recieve relief.
relieve		To cause to seem to rise; to put in relief; to give prominence or conspicuousness to; to Her tall figure relieved against the blue sky; seemed almost of supernatural height.
relievement	Archaic	The act of relieving, or the state of being relieved; relief; release.
reliever		One who, or that which, relieves.
relieving		Serving or tending to relieve.
relievo		See Relief, n., 5.
relight		To light or kindle anew.
religieuse		A person bound by monastic vows; a nun; a monk.
religieux		A person bound by monastic vows; a nun; a monk.
religion		The outward act or form by which men indicate their recognition of the existence of a god or of gods having power over their destiny, to whom obedience, service, and honor are due; the feeling or expression of human love, fear…
religionary	Obsolete	Relating to religion; pious; as, religionary professions.
religioner		A religionist.
religionism		The practice of, or devotion to, religion.
religionist		One earnestly devoted or attached to a religion; a religious zealot.
religionize		To bring under the influence of religion.
religionless		Destitute of religion.
religiosity		The quality of being religious; religious feeling or sentiment; religiousness.
religious		Of or pertaining to religion; concerned with religion; teaching, or setting forth, religion; set apart to religion; as, a religious society; a religious sect; a religious place; religious subjects, books, teachers, houses, wars.
religiously		In a religious manner.
religiousness		The quality of being religious.
relinquent		Relinquishing.
relinquish		To withdraw from; to leave behind; to desist from; to abandon; to quit; as, to relinquish a pursuit.
relinquisher		One who relinquishes.
relinquishment		The act of relinquishing.
reliquary		A depositary, often a small box or casket, in which relics are kept.
relique		See Relic — that which remains; that which is left after loss or decay; a remaining portion; a remnant.
reliquiae		Remains of the dead; organic remains; relics.
reliquian		Of or pertaining to a relic or relics; of the nature of a relic.
reliquidate		To liquidate anew; to adjust a second time.
reliquidation		A second or renewed liquidation; a renewed adjustment.
relish		To taste or eat with pleasure; to like the flavor of; to partake of with gratification; hence, to enjoy; to be pleased with or gratified by; to experience pleasure from; as, to relish food.
relishable		Capable of being relished; agreeable to the taste; gratifying.
relive	Obsolete	To live again; to revive.
reload		To load again, as a gun.
reloan		A second lending of the same thing; a renewal of a loan.
relocate		To locate again.
relocation		A second location.
relodge		To lodge again.
relove	Obsolete	To love in return.
relucent		Reflecting light; shining; glittering; glistening; bright; luminous; splendid.
reluct		To strive or struggle against anything; to make resistance; to draw back; to feel or show repugnance or reluctance.
reluctance		The state or quality of being reluctant; repugnance; aversion of mind; unwillingness; -- often followed by an infinitive, or by to and a noun, formerly sometimes by against.
reluctancy		The state or quality of being reluctant; repugnance; aversion of mind; unwillingness; -- often followed by an infinitive, or by to and a noun, formerly sometimes by against.
reluctant		Striving against; opposed in desire; unwilling; disinclined; loth.
reluctantly		In a reluctant manner.
reluctate	Obsolete	To struggle against anything; to resist; to oppose.
reluctation	Obsolete	Repugnance; resistance; reluctance.
reluctivity		Specific reluctance.
relume		To rekindle; to light again.
relumine		To light anew; to rekindle.
rely		To rest with confidence, as when fully satisfied of the veracity, integrity, or ability of persons, or of the certainty of facts or of evidence; to have confidence; to trust; to depend; -- with on, formerly also with in.
remade		imp. & p. p. of Remake.
remain		To stay behind while others withdraw; to be left after others have been removed or destroyed; to be left after a number or quantity has been subtracted or cut off; to be left as not included or comprised.
remainder		Anything that remains, or is left, after the separation and removal of a part; residue; remnant.
remainder-man		One who has an estate after a particular estate is determined. See Remainder, n., 3.
remake		To make anew.
remand		To recommit; to send back.
remandment		A remand.
remanence		The state of being remanent; continuance; permanence.
remanency		The state of being remanent; continuance; permanence.
remanent		That which remains; a remnant; a residue.
remanet		A case for trial which can not be tried during the term; a postponed case.
remark		To take notice of, or to observe, mentally; as, to remark the manner of a speaker.
remarkable		Worthy of being remarked or noticed; noticeable; conspicuous; hence, uncommon; extraordinary.
remarker		One who remarks.
remarque		(a) A small design etched on the margin of a plate and supposed to be removed after the earliest proofs have been taken; also, any feature distinguishing a particular stage of the plate.
remarriage		A second or repeated marriage.
remarry		To marry again.
remast		To furnish with a new mast or set of masts.
remasticate		To chew or masticate again; to chew over and over, as the cud.
remastication		The act of masticating or chewing again or repeatedly.
remberge		See Ramberge — formerly, a kind of large war galley.
remblai		Earth or materials made into a bank after having been excavated.
remble		To remove.
remean	Obsolete	To give meaning to; to explain the meaning of; to interpret.
remeant		Coming back; returning.
remeasure		To measure again; to retrace.
remediable		Capable of being remedied or cured. -- Re*me di*a*bly, adv.
remedial		Affording a remedy; intended for a remedy, or for the removal or abatement of an evil; as, remedial treatment.
remedially		In a remedial manner.
remediate		Remedial.
remediless		Not admitting of a remedy; incapable of being restored or corrected; incurable; irreparable; as, a remediless mistake or loss.
remedy		That which relieves or cures a disease; any medicine or application which puts an end to disease and restores health; -- with for; as, a remedy for the gout.
remelt		To melt again.
remember		To have ( a notion or idea) come into the mind again, as previously perceived, known, or felt; to have a renewed apprehension of; to bring to mind again; to think of again; to recollect; as, I remember the fact…
rememberable		Capable or worthy of being remembered. -- Re*mem"ber*a*bly, adv.
rememberer		One who remembers.
remembrance		The act of remembering; a holding in mind, or bringing to mind; recollection.
remembrancer		One who, or that which, serves to bring to, or keep in, mind; a memento; a memorial; a reminder.
rememorate	Obsolete	To recall something by means of memory; to remember.
rememoration	Obsolete	A recalling by the faculty of memory; remembrance.
rememorative		Tending or serving to remind.
remenant	Obsolete	A remnant.
remercie	Obsolete	To thank.
remercy	Obsolete	To thank.
remerge		To merge again.
remeve	Obsolete	To remove.
remewe	Obsolete	To remove.
remiform		Shaped like an oar.
remiges		The quill feathers of the wings of a bird.
remigrate		To migrate again; to go back; to return.
remigration		Migration back to the place from which one came.
remind		To put (one) in mind of something; to bring to the remembrance of; to bring to the notice or consideration of (a person).
reminder		One who, or that which, reminds; that which serves to awaken remembrance.
remindful		Tending or adapted to remind; careful to remind.
reminiscence		The act or power of recalling past experience; the state of being reminiscent; remembrance; memory.
reminiscency	Obsolete	Reminiscence.
reminiscent		Recalling to mind, or capable of recalling to mind; having remembrance; reminding one of something.
reminiscential		Of or pertaining to reminiscence, or remembrance.
remiped		Having feet or legs that are used as oars; -- said of certain crustaceans and insects.
remise		To send, give, or grant back; torelease a claim to; to resign or surrender by deed; to return.
remiss	Obsolete	Not energetic or exact in duty or business; not careful or prompt in fulfilling engagements; negligent; careless; tardy; behindhand; lagging; slack; hence, lacking earnestness or activity; languid; slow.
remissful		Inclined to remit punishment; lenient; clement.
remissibility		The state or quality of being remissible.
remissible		Capable of being remitted or forgiven.
remission		The act of remitting, surrendering, resigning, or giving up.
remissive		Remitting; forgiving; abating.
remissly		In a remiss or negligent manner; carelessly.
remissness		Quality or state of being remiss.
remissory		Serving or tending to remit, or to secure remission; remissive.
remit		To send back; to give up; to surrender; to resign.
remitment		The act of remitting, or the state of being remitted; remission.
remittal		A remitting; a giving up; surrender; as, the remittal of the first fruits.
remittance		The act of transmitting money, bills, or the like, esp. to a distant place, as in satisfaction of a demand, or in discharge of an obligation.
remittee		One to whom a remittance is sent.
remittent		Remitting; characterized by remission; having remissions.
remitter		One who remits. Specifically: (a) One who pardons. (b) One who makes remittance.
remittitur		(a) A remission or surrender, -- remittitur damnut being a remission of excess of damages.
remittor		One who makes a remittance; a remitter.
remix		To mix again or repeatedly.
remnant		Remaining; yet left.
remodel		To model or fashion anew; to change the form of.
remodification		The act of remodifying; the state of being remodified.
remodify		To modify again or anew; to reshape.
remolade		A kind of piquant sauce or salad dressing resembling mayonnaise.
remold		To mold or shape anew or again; to reshape.
remollient		Mollifying; softening.
remonetization		The act of remonetizing.
remonetize		To restore to use as money; as, to remonetize silver.
remonstrance	Obsolete	The act of remonstrating; as: (a) A pointing out; manifestation; proof; demonstration.
remonstrant		Inclined or tending to remonstrate; expostulatory; urging reasons in opposition to something.
remonstrantly		In a remonstrant manner.
remonstrate	Obsolete	To point out; to show clearly; to make plain or manifest; hence, to prove; to demonstrate.
remonstration		The act of remonstrating; remonstrance.
remonstrative		Having the character of a remonstrance; expressing remonstrance.
remonstrator		One who remonstrates; a remonsrant.
remontant		Rising again; -- applied to a class of roses which bloom more than once in a season; the hybrid perpetual roses, of which the Jacqueminot is a well-known example.
remontoir		See under Escapement.
remora		(Zoöl.) Any one of several species of fishes belonging to Echeneis, Remora, and allied genera.
remorate	Obsolete	To hinder; to delay.
remord	Obsolete	To excite to remorse; to rebuke.
remordency	Obsolete	Remorse; compunction; compassion.
remorse		The anguish, like gnawing pain, excited by a sense of guilt; compunction of conscience for a crime committed, or for the sins of one's past life.
remorsed	Obsolete	Feeling remorse.
remorseful	Obsolete	Compassionate; feeling tenderly.
remorseless		Being without remorse; having no pity; hence, destitute of sensibility; cruel; insensible to distress; merciless. -- Unpitying; pitiless; relentless; unrelenting; implacable; merciless; unmerciful; savage…
remote		Removed to a distance; not near; far away; distant; -- said in respect to time or to place; as, remote ages; remote lands.
remotion		The state of being remote; remoteness.
remoulad		A kind of piquant sauce or salad dressing resembling mayonnaise.
remoulade		An ointment used in farriery.
remould		To mold or shape anew or again; to reshape. See Remold.
remount		To mount again.
removable		Admitting of being removed.
removal		The act of removing, or the state of being removed.
remove		To move away from the position occupied; to cause to change place; to displace; as, to remove a building.
removed		Dismissed from office.
remover		One who removes; as, a remover of landmarks.
remuable	Obsolete	That may be removed; removable.
remue	Obsolete	To remove.
remugient		Rebellowing.
remunerable		Admitting, or worthy, of remuneration. -- Re*mu`ner*a*bil"i*ty (r, n.
remunerate		To pay an equivalent to for any service, loss, expense, or other sacrifice; to recompense; to requite; as, to remunerate men for labor.
remuneration		That which is given to remunerate; an equivalent given, as for services, loss, or sufferings.
remunerative		Affording remuneration; as, a remunerative payment for services; a remunerative business. -Re*mu ner*a*tive*ness, n.
remuneratory		Remunerative.
remurmur		To murmur again; to utter back, or reply, in murmurs.
ren	Obsolete	See Renne — to plunder; -- only in the phrase See under Rap, v. t., to snatch.
renable	Obsolete	Reasonable; also, loquacious. -- Ren"a*bly, adv.
renaissance		A new birth, or revival. Specifically: (a) The transitional movement in Europe, marked by the revival of classical learning and art in Italy in the 15th century, and the similar revival following in other countries.
renaissant		Of or pertaining to the Renaissance.
renal		Of or pertaining to the kidneys; in the region of the kidneys.
renal-portal		Both renal and portal. See Portal.
rename		To give a new name to.
renard		A fox; -- so called in fables or familiar tales, and in poetry.
renardine		Of or pertaining to Renard, the fox, or the tales in which Renard is mentioned.
renascence		The state of being renascent.
renascency		State of being renascent.
renascent		Springing or rising again into being; being born again, or reproduced.
renascible		Capable of being reproduced; ablle to spring again into being.
renate	Obsolete	Born again; regenerate; renewed.
renavigate		To navigate again.
renay	Obsolete	To deny; to disown.
rencontre		Same as Rencounter, n.
rencounter		To meet unexpectedly; to encounter.
rend		To separate into parts with force or sudden violence; to tear asunder; to split; to burst; as, powder rends a rock in blasting; lightning rends an oak.
render		To return; to pay back; to restore.
renderable		Capable of being rendered.
renderer		One who renders.
rendering		The act of one who renders, or that which is rendered. Specifically: (a) A version; translation; as, the rendering of the Hebrew text.
rendezvous		A place appointed for a meeting, or at which persons customarily meet.
rendible		Capable of being rent or torn.
rendition		The act of rendering; especially, the act of surrender, as of fugitives from justice, at the claim of a foreign government; also, surrender in war.
rendrock		A kind of dynamite used in blasting.
renegade		One faithless to principle or party. Specifically: (a) An apostate from Christianity or from any form of religious faith.
renegado		See Renegade — one faithless to principle or party. Specifically: (a) An apostate from Christianity or from any form of religious faith.
renegat	Obsolete	A renegade.
renegation		A denial.
renege	Obsolete	To deny; to disown.
renerve		To nerve again; to give new vigor to; to reinvigorate.
renew		To make new again; to restore to freshness, perfection, or vigor; to give new life to; to rejuvenate; to re In such a night Medea gathered the enchanted herbs That did renew old Shak.
renewability		The quality or state of being renewable.
renewable		Capable of being renewed; as, a lease renewable at pleasure.
renewal		The act of renewing, or the state of being renewed; as, the renewal of a treaty.
renewedly		Again; once more.
renewedness		The state of being renewed.
renewer		One who, or that which, renews.
reneye	Obsolete	To deney; to reject; to renounce.
reng	Obsolete	A rank; a row.
renidification		The act of rebuilding a nest.
reniform		Having the form or shape of a kidney; as, a reniform mineral; a reniform leaf.
renitence		The state or quality of being renitent; resistance; reluctance.
renitency		The state or quality of being renitent; resistance; reluctance.
renitent		Resisting pressure or the effect of it; acting against impluse by elastic force.
renne	Obsolete	To plunder; -- only in the phrase See under Rap, v. t., to snatch.
renner	Obsolete	A runner.
rennet		A name of many different kinds of apples.
renneted		Provided or treated with rennet.
renneting		Same as 1st Rennet.
renning	Obsolete	See 2d Rennet.
renounce		To declare against; to reject or decline formally; to refuse to own or acknowledge as belonging to one; to disclaim; as, to renounce a title to land or to a throne.
renouncement		The act of disclaiming or rejecting; renunciation.
renouncer		One who renounces.
renovate		To make over again; to restore to freshness or vigor; to renew.
renovation		The act or process of renovating; the state of being renovated or renewed.
renovator		One who, or that which, renovates.
renovel	Obsolete	To renew; to renovate.
renovelance	Obsolete	Renewal.
renowmed	Obsolete	Renowned.
renown		The state of being much known and talked of; exalted reputation derived from the extensive praise of great achievements or accomplishments; fame; celebrity; -- always in a good sense.
renowned		Famous; celebrated for great achievements, for distinguished qualities, or for grandeur; eminent; as, a renowned king.
renownedly		With renown.
renowner		One who gives renown.
renownful		Having great renown; famous.
renownless		Without renown; inglorius.
rensselaerite		A soft, compact variety of talc,, being an altered pyroxene.
rent		An opening made by rending; a break or breach made by force; a tear. See what a rent the envious Casca made.
rentable		Capable of being rented, or suitable for renting.
rental		A schedule, account, or list of rents, with the names of the tenants, etc.; a rent roll.
rente		In France, interest payable by government on indebtedness; the bonds, shares, stocks, etc.,, which represent government indebtedness.
renter		One who rents or leases an estate; -- usually said of a lessee or tenant.
renterer		One who renters.
rentier		One who has a fixed income, as from lands, stocks, or the like.
renumerate		To recount.
renunciation		(Law) Formal declination to take out letters of administration, or to assume an office, privilege, or right.
renunciatory		Pertaining to renunciation; containing or declaring a renunciation; as, renunciatory vows.
renverse	Obsolete	To reverse.
renversement	Obsolete	A reversing.
renvoy	Obsolete	To send back.
reobtain		To obtain again.
reobtainable		That may be reobtained.
reoccupy		To occupy again.
reometer		Same as Rheometer.
reopen		To open again.
reoppose		To oppose again.
reordain		To ordain again, as when the first ordination is considered defective.
reorder		To order a second time.
reordination		A second ordination.
reorganization		The act of reorganizing; a reorganized existence; as, reorganization of the troops.
reorganize		To organize again or anew; as, to reorganize a society or an army.
reorient		Rising again.
reostat		See Rheostat — a contrivance for adjusting or regulating the strength of electrical currents, operating usually by the intercalation of resistance which can be varied at will.
reotrope		See Rheotrope — an instrument for reversing the direction of an electric current.
rep		A fabric made of silk or wool, or of silk and wool, and having a transversely corded or ribbed surface.
rep-silver		Money anciently paid by servile tenants to their lord, in lieu of the customary service of reaping his corn or grain.
repace		To pace again; to walk over again in a contrary direction.
repacify		To pacify again.
repack		To pack a second time or anew; as, to repack beef; to repack a trunk.
repacker		One who repacks.
repaganize		To paganize anew; to bring back to paganism.
repaid		imp. & p. p. of Repay.
repaint		To paint anew or again; as, to repaint a house; to repaint the ground of a picture.
repair		To go; to betake one's self; to resort; ass, to repair to sanctuary for safety.
repairable		Reparable.
repairer		One who, or that which, repairs, restores, or makes amends.
repairment		Act of repairing.
repand		Having a slightly undulating margin; -- said of leaves.
reparability		The quality or state of being reparable.
reparable		Capable of being repaired, restored to a sound or good state, or made good; restorable; as, a reparable injury.
reparably		In a reparable manner.
reparation		The act of renewing, restoring, etc., or the state of being renewed or repaired; as, the reparation of a bridge or of a highway; -- in this sense, repair is oftener used.
reparative		Repairing, or tending to repair.
reparel	Obsolete	A change of apparel; a second or different suit.
repartee		A smart, ready, and witty reply.
repartimiento		A partition or distribution, especially of slaves; also, an assessment of taxes.
repartotion		Another, or an additional, separation into parts.
repass		To pass again; to pass or travel over in the opposite direction; to pass a second time; as, to repass a bridge or a river; to repass the sea.
repassage		The act of repassing; passage back.
repassant		Counterpassant.
repast		The act of taking food.
repaster	Obsolete	One who takes a repast.
repasture	Obsolete	Food; entertainment.
repatriate		To restore to one's own country.
repatriation		Restoration to one's country.
repay		To pay back; to refund; as, to repay money borrowed or advanced.
repayable		Capable of being, or proper to be, repaid; due; as, a loan repayable in ten days; services repayable in kind.
repayment		The act of repaying; reimbursement.
repeal		To recall, as a deed, will, law, or statute; to revoke; to rescind or abrogate by authority, as by act of the legislature; as, to repeal a law.
repealability		The quality or state of being repealable.
repealable		Capable of being repealed. -- Re*peal"a*ble*ness, n.
repealer		One who repeals; one who seeks a repeal; specifically, an advocate for the repeal of the Articles of Union between Great Britain and Ireland.
repealment	Obsolete	Recall, as from banishment.
repeat		To go over again; to attempt, do, make, or utter again; to iterate; to recite; as, to repeat an effort, an order, or a poem.
repeatedly		More than once; again and again; indefinitely.
repeater		One who, or that which, repeats. Specifically: (a) A watch with a striking apparatus which, upon pressure of a spring, will indicate the time, usually in hours and quarters.
repeating		Doing the same thing over again; accomplishing a given result many times in succession; as, a repeating firearm; a repeating watch.
repedation	Obsolete	A stepping or going back.
repel		To drive back; to force to return; to check the advance of; to repulse as, to repel an enemy or an assailant.
repellence		The principle of repulsion; the quality or capacity of repelling; repulsion.
repellency		The principle of repulsion; the quality or capacity of repelling; repulsion.
repellent		Driving back; able or tending to repel.
repeller		One who, or that which, repels.
repent		(Bot.) Prostrate and rooting; -- said of stems.
repentance		The act of repenting, or the state of being penitent; sorrow for what one has done or omitted to do; especially, contrition for sin.
repentant		Penitent; sorry for sin.
repentantly		In a repentant manner.
repenter		One who repents.
repentingly		With repentance; penitently.
repentless		Unrepentant.
repeople		To people anew.
reperception		The act of perceiving again; a repeated perception of the same object.
repercuss		To drive or beat back; hence, to reflect; to reverberate.
repercussion		The act of driving back, or the state of being driven back; reflection; reverberation; as, the repercussion of sound.
repercussive		Tending or able to repercuss; having the power of sending back; causing to reverberate.
repertitious	Obsolete	Found; gained by finding.
repertoire		A list of drams, operas, pieces, parts, etc., which a company or a person has rehearsed and is prepared to perform.
repertory		A place in which things are disposed in an orderly manner, so that they can be easily found, as the index of a book, a commonplace book, or the like.
reperusal		A second or repeated perusal.
reperuse		To peruse again.
repetend		That part of a circulating decimal which recurs continually, ad infinitum: -- sometimes indicated by a dot over the first and last repetend is 283.
repetition		The act of repeating; a doing or saying again; iteration.
repetitional		Of the nature of, or containing, repetition.
repetitionary		Of the nature of, or containing, repetition.
repetitioner	Obsolete	One who repeats.
repetitious		Repeating; containing repetition.
repetitive		Containing repetition; repeating.
repetitor		A private instructor.
repine	Obsolete	To continue pining; to feel inward discontent which preys on the spirits; to indulge in envy or complaint; to murmur.
repiner		One who repines.
repiningly		With repening or murmuring.
repkie		Any edible sea urchin.
replace		To place again; to restore to a former place, position, condition, or the like.
replaceability		The quality, state, or degree of being replaceable.
replaceable		Capable or admitting of being put back into a place.
replacement		(Crystallog.) The removal of an edge or an angle by one or more planes.
replait		To plait or fold again; to fold, as one part over another, again and again.
replant		To plant again.
replantable		That may be planted again.
replantation		The act of planting again; a replanting.
replead		To plead again.
repleader		A second pleading, or course of pleadings; also, the right of pleading again.
replenish		To fill again after having been diminished or emptied; to stock anew; hence, to fill completely; to cause to abound.
replenisher		One who replenishes.
replenishment		The act of replenishing, or the state of being replenished.
replete		Filled again; completely filled; full; charged; abounding.
repleteness		The state of being replete.
repletion		The state of being replete; superabundant fullness.
repletive		Tending to make replete; filling. -- Re*ple"tive*ly, adv.
repletory		Repletive.
repleviable		Capable of being replevied.
replevin		(Law) A personal action which lies to recover possession of goods and chattle wrongfully taken or detained.
replevisable		Repleviable.
replevy		(Law) To take or get back, by a writ for that purpose (goods and chattels wrongfuly taken or detained), upon giving security to try the right to them in a suit at law, and, if that should be determined against the plaintiff…
replica		(Fine Arts) A copy of a work of art, as of a picture or satue, made by the maker of the original.
replicant		One who replies.
replicate	Obsolete	To reply.
replicated		Folded over or backward; folded back upon itself; as, a replicate leaf or petal; a replicate margin of a shell.
replication		(Law Pleadings) The reply of the plaintiff, in matters of fact, to the defendant's plea.
replier		One who replies.
replum		The framework of some pods, as the cress, which remains after the valves drop off.
reply		Figuratively, to do something in return for something done; as, to reply to a signal; to reply to the fire of a battery.
replyer		See Replier — one who replies.
repolish		To polish again.
repone		To replace.
repopulation		The act of repeopling; act of furnishing with a population anew.
report		To bring back, as an answer; to announce in return; to relate, as what has been discovered by a person sent to examine, explore, or investigate; as, a messenger reports to his employer what he has seen or ascertained…
reportable		Capable or admitting of being reported.
reportage	Obsolete	SAme as Report.
reporter		One who reports. Specifically: (a) An officer or person who makees authorized statements of law proceedings and decisions, or of legislative debates.
reportingly		By report or common fame.
reportorial		Of or pertaining to a reporter or reporters; as, the reportorial staff of a newspaper.
reposal		The act or state of reposing; as, the reposal of a trust.
reposance	Obsolete	Reliance.
repose		To lay at rest; to cause to be calm or quiet; to compose; to rest, -- often reflexive; as, to repose one's self on a couch.
reposed		Composed; calm; tranquil; at rest.
reposeful		Full of repose; quiet.
reposer		One who reposes.
reposit		To cause to rest or stay; to lay away; to lodge, as for safety or preservation; to place; to store.
reposition		The act of repositing; a laying up.
repositor		An instrument employed for replacing a displaced organ or part.
repository		A place where things are or may be reposited, or laid up, for safety or preservation; a depository.
repossess		To possess again; as, to repossess the land.
repossession		The act or the state of possessing again.
reposure		Rest; quiet.
repour		To pour again.
repoussage		Art or process of hammering out or pressing thin metal from the reverse side: (1) in producing repoussé work; (2) in leveling up any part of an etched plate that has been worked so as to cause a depression.
repousse		(a) Formed in relief, as a pattern on metal. (b) Ornamented with patterns in relief made by pressing or hammering on the reverse side; -- said of thin metal, or of a vessel made of thin metal. -- n.
reprefe	Obsolete	Reproof.
reprehend		To reprove or reprimand with a view of restraining, checking, or preventing; to make charge of fault against; to disapprove of; to chide; to blame; to censure.
reprehender		One who reprehends.
reprehensible		Worthy of reprehension; culpable; censurable; blamable. -- Rep`re*hen si*bly, adv.
reprehension		Reproof; censure; blame; disapproval.
reprehensive		Containing reprehension; conveying reproof.
reprehensory		Containing reproof; reprehensive; as, reprehensory complaint.
represent		To present again or anew; to present by means of something standing in the place of; to exhibit the counterpart or image of; to typify.
representable		Capable of being represented.
representance	Obsolete	Representation; likeness.
representant	Obsolete	Appearing or acting for another; representing.
representation		The act of representing, in any sense of the verb.
representationary		Implying representation; representative.
representative		Fitted to represent; exhibiting a similitude.
representatively		In a representative manner; vicariously.
representativeness		The quality or state of being representative.
representer		One who shows, exhibits, or describes.
representment	Obsolete	Representation.
repress		To press again.
represser		One who, or that which, represses.
repressible		Capable of being repressed.
repression		The act of repressing, or state of being repressed; as, the repression of evil and evil doers.
repressive		Having power, or tending, to repress; as, repressive acts or measures. -- Re*press"ive*ly, adv.
reprevable	Obsolete	Reprovable.
repreve	Obsolete	To reprove.
repriefe	Obsolete	Repreve.
reprieval		Reprieve.
reprieve		To delay the punishment of; to suspend the execution of sentence on; to give a respite to; to respite; as, to reprieve a criminal for thirty days.
reprimand		Severe or formal reproof; reprehension, private or public.
reprimander		One who reprimands.
reprimer		A machine or implement for applying fresh primers to spent cartridge shells, so that the shells be used again.
reprint		To print again; to print a second or a new edition of.
reprinter		One who reprints.
reprisal		The act of taking from an enemy by way of reteliation or indemnity.
reprise		pl. (Law) Deductions and duties paid yearly out of a manor and lands, as rent charge, rent seck, pensions, annuities, and the like.
repristinate		To restore to an original state.
repristination		Restoration to an original state; renewal of purity.
reprive	Obsolete	To take back or away.
reprize	Obsolete	See Reprise — pl. (Law) Deductions and duties paid yearly out of a manor and lands, as rent charge, rent seck, pensions, annuities, and the like.
reprizes		See Repise, n., 2.
reproach		To attribute blame to; to allege something disgracefull against; to charge with a fault; to censure severely or contemptuously; to upbraid.
reproachablr		Deserving reproach; censurable.
reproacher		One who reproaches.
reproachful		Expressing or containing reproach; upbraiding; opprobrious; abusive.
reproachless		Being without reproach.
reprobacy		Reprobation.
reprobance	Obsolete	Reprobation.
reprobate		Abandoned to punishment; hence, morally abandoned and lost; given up to vice; depraved.
reprobateness		The state of being reprobate.
reprobater		One who reprobates.
reprobation		The act of reprobating; the state of being reprobated; strong disapproval or censure.
reprobationer		One who believes in reprobation. See Reprobation,2.
reprobative		Of or pertaining to reprobation; expressing reprobation.
reprobatory		Reprobative.
reproduce		To produce again. Especially: (a) To bring forward again; as, to reproduce a witness; to reproduce charges; to reproduce a play.
reproducer		One who, or that which, reproduces.
reproduction		The act or process of reproducing; the state of being reproduced; specifically (Biol.), the process by which plants and animals give rise to offspring.
reproductive		Tending, or pertaining, to reproduction; employed in reproduction.
reproductory		Reproductive.
reproof		An expression of blame or censure; especially, blame expressed to the face; censure for a fault; chiding; reproach.
reprovable		Worthy of reproof or censure.
reproval		Reproof.
reprove		To chide to the face as blameworthy; to accuse as guilty; to censure.
reprover		One who, or that which, reproves.
reprovingly		In a reproving manner.
reprune		To prune again or anew.
reptant		(Zoöl.) Creeping; crawling; -- said of reptiles, worms, etc.
reptantia		A divisiom of gastropods; the Pectinibranchiata.
reptation		The act of creeping.
reptatory		Creeping.
reptile		Creeping; moving on the belly, or by means of small and short legs.
reptilia		A class of air-breathing oviparous vertebrates, usually covered with scales or bony plates.
reptilian		Belonging to the reptiles.
republic		A state in which the sovereign power resides in the whole body of the people, and is exercised by representatives elected by them; a commonwealth.
republican		Consonant with the principles of a republic; as, republican sentiments or opinions; republican manners.
republicanism		A republican form or system of government; the principles or theory of republican government.
republicanize		To change, as a state, into a republic; to republican principles; as, France was republicanized; to republicanize the rising generation.
republicate	Obsolete	To make public again; to republish.
republication		A second publication, or a new publication of something before published, as of a former will, of a volume already published, or the like; specifically, the publication in one country of a work first issued in another; a reprint.
republish		To publish anew; specifically, to publish in one country (a work first published in another); also, to revive (a will) by re Subsecquent to the purchase or contract, the devisor republished his will.
republisher		One who republishes.
repudiable		Admitting of repudiation; fit or proper to be put away.
repudiate		To cast off; to disavow; to have nothing to do with; to renounce; to reject.
repudiation		The act of repudiating, or the state of being repuddiated; as, the repudiation of a doctrine, a wife, a debt, etc. One who favors repudiation, especially of a public debt.
repudiator		One who repudiates.
repugn		To fight against; to oppose; to resist.
repugnable		Capable of being repugned or resisted.
repugnance		The state or condition of being repugnant; opposition; contrariety; especially, a strong instinctive antagonism; aversion; reluctance; unwillingness, as of mind, passions, principles, qualities, and the like.
repugnancy		The state or condition of being repugnant; opposition; contrariety; especially, a strong instinctive antagonism; aversion; reluctance; unwillingness, as of mind, passions, principles, qualities, and the like.
repugnant		Disposed to fight against; hostile; at war with; being at variance; contrary; inconsistent; refractory; disobedient; also, distasteful in a high degree; offensive; -- usually followed by to, rarely and less properly by with; as…
repugnantly		In a repugnant manner.
repugnate	Obsolete	To oppose; to fight against.
repugner		One who repugns.
repullulate		To bud again.
repullulation		The act of budding again; the state of having budded again.
repulse		To repel; to beat or drive back; as, to repulse an assault; to repulse the enemy.
repulseless		Not capable of being repulsed.
repulser		One who repulses, or drives back.
repulsion		The act of repulsing or repelling, or the state of being repulsed or repelled.
repulsive		Serving, or able, to repulse; repellent; as, a repulsive force.
repulsory		Repulsive; driving back.
repurchase		To buy back or again; to regain by purchase.
repurify		To purify again.
reputable		Having, or worthy of, good repute; held in esteem; honorable; praiseworthy; as, a reputable man or character; reputable conduct.
reputation		The estimation in which one is held; character in public opinion; the character attributed to a person, thing, or action; repute.
reputatively		By repute.
repute		Character reputed or attributed; reputation, whether good or bad; established opinion; public estimate.
reputedly		In common opinion or estimation; by repute.
reputeless		Not having good repute; disreputable; disgraceful; inglorius.
requere	Obsolete	To require.
request		The act of asking for anything desired; expression of desire or demand; solicitation; prayer; petition; entreaty.
requester		One who requests; a petitioner.
requicken		To quicken anew; to reanimate; to give new life to.
requiem		(R.C.Ch.) A mass said or sung for the repose of a departed soul.
requietory	Obsolete	A sepulcher.
requin		The man-eater, or white shark (Carcharodon carcharias); -- so called on account of its causing requiems to be sung.
requirable		Capable of being required; proper to be required.
require		To demand; to insist upon having; to claim as by right and authority; to exact; as, to require the surrender of property.
requirement		The act of requiring; demand; requisition.
requirer		One who requires.
requisite		That which is required, or is necessary; something indispensable.
requisition		The act of requiring, as of right; a demand or application made as by authority.
requisitionist		One who makes or signs a requisition.
requisitive		Expressing or implying demand.
requisitor		One who makes reqisition; esp., one authorized by a requisition to investigate facts.
requisitory		Sought for; demanded.
requitable		That may be requited.
requital		The act of requiting; also, that which requites; return, good or bad, for anything done; in a good sense, compensation; recompense; as, the requital of services; in a bad sense, retaliation, or punishment; as…
requite		To repay; in a good sense, to recompense; to return (an equivalent) in good; to reward; in a bad sense, to retaliate; to return (evil) for evil; to punish.
requitement	Obsolete	Requital E.
requiter		One who requites.
rerebrace		Armor for the upper part of the arm.
reredemain	Obsolete	A backward stroke.
reredos		(a) A screen or partition wall behind an altar. (b) The back of a fireplace.
rerefief		A fief held of a superior feudatory; a fief held by an under tenant.
rereign		To reign again.
reremouse		The leather-winged bat (Vespertilio murinus).
rereward	Obsolete	The rear quard of an army.
res		A thing; the particular thing; a matter; a point.
resail		To sail again; also, to sail back, as to a former port.
resale		A sale at second hand, or at retail; also, a second sale.
resalgar	Obsolete	Realgar.
resalute		To salute again.
resaw		To saw again; specifically, to saw a balk, or a timber, which has already been squared, into dimension lumber, as joists, boards, etc.
rescat	Obsolete	To ransom; to release; to rescue.
rescind		To cut off; to abrogate; to annul.
rescindable		Capable of being rescinded.
rescindment		The act of rescinding; rescission.
rescission		The act of rescinding, abrogating, annulling, or vacating; as, the rescission of a law, decree, or judgment.
rescissory		Tending to rescind; rescinding.
rescous	Obsolete	Rescue; deliverance.
rescowe	Obsolete	To rescue.
rescribe		To write back; to write in reply.
rescript		(Rom.Antiq.) The answer of an emperor when formallyconsulted by particular persons on some difficult question; hence, an edict or decree.
rescription		A writing back; the answering of a letter.
rescriptive		Pertaining to, or answering the purpose of, a rescript; hence, deciding; settling; determining.
rescriptively		By rescript.
rescuable		That may be rescued.
rescue		To free or deliver from any confinement, violence, danger, or evil; to liberate from actual restraint; to remove or withdraw from a state of exposure to evil; as, to rescue a prisoner from the enemy…
rescueless		Without rescue or release.
rescuer		One who rescues.
rescussee		The party in whose favor a rescue is made.
rescussor		One who makes an unlawful rescue; a rescuer.
rese	Obsolete	To shake; to quake; to tremble.
research		Diligent inquiry or examination in seeking facts or principles; laborius or continued search after truth; as, researches of human wisdom.
researcher		One who researches.
researchful		Making researches; inquisitive.
reseat		To seat or set again, as on a chair, throne, etc. Dryden.
reseau		(a) (Astron.) A system of lines forming small squares of standard size, which is photographed, by a separate exposure, on the same plate with star images to facilitate measurements, detect changes of the film, etc. (b) In lace…
resect		To cut or pare off; to remove by cutting.
resection		The act of cutting or paring off.
reseda		(Bot.) A genus of plants, the type of which is mignonette.
reseek		To seek again.
reseize		To seize again, or a second time.
reseizer		One who seizes again.
reseizure		A second seizure; the act of seizing again.
resell		To sell again; to sell what has been bought or sold; to retail.
resemblable	Obsolete	Admitting of being compared; like.
resemblance		The quality or state of resembling; likeness; similitude; similarity.
resemblant		Having or exhibiting resemblance; resembling.
resemble		To be like or similar to; to bear the similitude of, either in appearance or qualities; as, these brothers resemble each other.
resembler		One who resembles.
resemblingly		So as to resemble; with resemblance or likeness.
reseminate	Obsolete	To produce again by means of seed.
resend		To send again; as, to resend a message.
resent		To express or exhibit displeasure or indignation at, as by words or acts.
resenter		One who resents.
resentful		Inclined to resent; easily provoked to anger; irritable. -- Re*sent"ful*ly, adv.
resentiment	Obsolete	Resentment.
resentingly		With a sense of wrong or affront; with resentment.
resentive		Resentful.
resentment		In a bad sense, strong displeasure; anger; hostility provoked by a wrong or injury experienced.
reserate	Obsolete	To unlock; to open.
reservance		Reservation.
reservation		The act of reserving, or keeping back; concealment, or withholding from disclosure; reserve.
reservative		Tending to reserve or keep; keeping; reserving.
reservatory		A place in which things are reserved or kept.
reserve		To keep back; to retain; not to deliver, make over, or disclose.
reserved		Kept for future or special use, or for an exigency; as, reserved troops; a reserved seat in a theater.
reservee		One to, or for, whom anything is reserved; -- contrasted with reservor.
reserver		One who reserves.
reservist		A member of a reserve force of soldiers or militia.
reservoir		A place where anything is kept in store; especially, a place where water is collected and kept for use when wanted, as to supply a fountain, a canal, or a city by means of aqueducts, or to drive a mill wheel, or the like.
reservor		One who reserves; a reserver.
reset		To set again; as, to reset type; to reset copy; to reset a diamond.
resetter		One who receives or conceals, as stolen goods or criminal.
resettle		To settle again.
resettlement		Act of settling again, or state of being settled again; as, the resettlement of lees.
reshape		To shape again.
reship		To ship again; to put on board of a vessel a second time; to send on a second voyage; as, to reship bonded merchandise.
reshipment		The act of reshipping; also, that which is reshippped.
reshipper		One who reships.
resiance	Obsolete	Residence; abode.
resiant	Obsolete	Resident; present in a place.
reside		To dwell permanently or for a considerable time; to have a settled abode for a time; to abide continuosly; to have one's domicile of home; to remain for a long time.
residence		The act or fact of residing, abiding, or dwelling in a place for some continuance of time; as, the residence of an American in France or Italy for a year.
residencia		In Spanish countries, a court or trial held, sometimes as long as six months, by a newly elected official, as the governor of a province, to examine into the conduct of a predecessor.
residency		A political agency at a native court in British India, held by an officer styled the Residentl: also, a Dutch commercial colony or province in the East Indies.
resident		Dwelling, or having an abode, in a place for a continued length of time; residing on one's own estate; -- opposed to nonresident; as, resident in the city or in the country.
residenter	Obsolete	A resident.
residential		Of or pertaining to a residence or residents; as, residential trade.
residentiary		Having residence; as, a canon residentary; a residentiary guardian.
residentiaryship		The office or condition of a residentiary.
residentship		The office or condition of a resident.
resider		One who resides in a place.
residual		Pertaining to a residue; remaining after a part is taken.
residuary		Consisting of residue; as, residuary matter; pertaining to the residue, or part remaining; as, the residuary advantage of an estate.
residue		That which remains after a part is taken, separated, removed, or designated; remnant; remainder.
residuous		Remaining; residual.
residuum		That which is left after any process of separation or purification; that which remains after certain specified deductions are made…
resiege	Obsolete	To seat again; to reinstate.
resign		To sign back; to return by a formal act; to yield to another; to surrender; -- said especially of office or emolument.
resignation		The act of resigning or giving up, as a claim, possession, office, or the like; surrender; as, the resignation of a crown or comission.
resigned		Submissive; yielding; not disposed to resist or murmur.
resignedly		With submission.
resignee		One to whom anything is resigned, or in whose favor a resignation is made.
resigner		One who resigns.
resignment		The act of resigning.
resile		To start back; to recoil; to recede from a purpose.
resilience		The act of resiling, springing back, or rebounding; as, the resilience of a ball or of sound.
resiliency		The act of resiling, springing back, or rebounding; as, the resilience of a ball or of sound.
resilient		Leaping back; rebounding; recoling.
resilition		Resilience.
resin		Any one of a class of yellowish brown solid inflammable substances, of vegetable origin, which are nonconductors of electricity, have a vitreous fracture, and are soluble in ether, alcohol, and essential oils, but not in water…
resinaceous		Having the quality of resin; resinous.
resinate		Any one of the salts the resinic acids.
resinic		Pertaining to, or obtained from, resin; as, the resinic acids.
resiniferous		Yielding resin; as, a resiniferous tree or vessel.
resiniform		Having the form of resin.
resino-electric		Containing or exhibiting resinous electricity.
resinoid		Somewhat like resin.
resinous		Of or pertaining to resin; of the nature of resin; resembling or obtained from resin.
resinously		By means, or in the manner, of resin.
resinousness		The quality of being resinous.
resiny		Like resin; resinous.
resipiscence		Wisdom derived from severe experience; hence, repentance.
resist		To stand against; to withstand; to obstruct.
resistance		The act of resisting; opposition, passive or active.
resistant		Making resistance; resisting. -- n.
resister		One who resists.
resistful		Making much resistance.
resistibility		The quality of being resistible; resistibleness.
resistible		Capable of being resisted; as, a resistible force.
resisting		Making resistance; opposing; as, a resisting medium. -- Re*sist"ing ly, adv.
resistive		Serving to resist.
resistless		Incapable of being resisted; irresistible.
resoluble		Admitting of being resolved; resolvable; as, bodies resoluble by fire.
resolute		Having a decided purpose; determined; resolved; fixed in a determination; hence, bold; firm; steady.
resolutely		In a resolute manner; with fixed purpose; boldly; firmly; steadily; with perseverance.
resoluteness		The quality of being resolute.
resolution		The act, operation, or process of resolving. Specifically: (a) The act of separating a compound into its elements or component parts.
resolutioner		One who makes a resolution; one who joins with others in a declaration or resolution; specifically, one of a party in the Scottish Church in the 17th century.
resolutionist		One who makes a resolution.
resolutive		Serving to dissolve or relax.
resolutory		Resolutive.
resolvability		The quality or condition of being resolvable; resolvableness.
resolvable		Admitting of being resolved; admitting separation into constituent parts, or reduction to first principles; admitting solution or explanation; as, resolvable compounds; resolvable ideas or difficulties.
resolvableness		The quality of being resolvable; resolvability.
resolve		To separate the component parts of; to reduce to the constituent elements; -- said of compound substances; hence, sometimes, to melt, or dissolve.
resolved		Having a fixed purpose; determined; resolute; -- usually placed after its noun; as, a man resolved to be rich.
resolvedly		Resolutely; decidedly; firmly.
resolvedness		Fixedness of purpose; firmness; resolution.
resolvent		Having power to resolve; causing solution; solvent.
resolver		That which decomposes, or dissolves.
resonance		The act of resounding; the quality or state of being resonant.
resonancy		Resonance.
resonant		Returning, or capable of returning, sound; fitted to resound; resounding; echoing back.
resonantly		In a reasonant manner.
resonator		Anything which resounds; specifically, a vessel in the form of a cylinder open at one end, or a hollow ball of brass with two apertures, so contrived as to greatly intensify a musical tone by its resonance.
resorb		To swallow up.
resorbent		Swallowing up.
resorcin		A colorless crystalline substance of the phenol series, obtained by melting certain resins, as galbanum, asafetida, etc., with caustic potash.
resorcylic		Of, or pertaining to, or producing, resorcin; as, resorcylic acid.
resorption		The act of resorbing; also, the act of absorbing again; reabsorption.
resort		To go; to repair; to betake one's self.
resorter		One who resorts; a frequenter.
resound		To sound loudly; as, his voice resounded far.
resource		That to which one resorts orr on which one depends for supply or support; means of overcoming a difficulty; resort; expedient.
resourceful		Full of resources.
resourceless		Destitute of resources.
resow		To sow again.
resown	Obsolete	To resound.
respeak		To speak or utter again.
respect		To take notice of; to regard with special attention; to regard as worthy of special consideration; hence, to care for; to heed.
respectability		The state or quality of being respectable; the state or quality which deserves or commands respect.
respectable		Worthy of respect; fitted to awaken esteem; deserving regard; hence, of good repute; not mean; as, a respectable citizen.
respectant		Placed so as to face one another; -- said of animals.
respecter		One who respects.
respectful		Marked or characterized by respect; as, respectful deportment.
respecting		With regard or relation to; regarding; concerning; as, respecting his conduct there is but one opinion.
respection	Obsolete	The act of respecting; respect; regard.
respective		Looking towardl having reference to; relative, not absolute; as, the respective connections of society.
respectively		As relating to each; particularly; as each belongs to each; as each refers to each in order; as, let each man respectively perform his duty.
respectless		Having no respect; without regard; regardless.
respectuous	Obsolete	Respectful; as, a respectuous silence.
respell		To spell again.
resperse	Obsolete	To sprinkle; to scatter.
respersion	Obsolete	The act of sprinkling or scattering.
respirability		The quality or state of being respirable; respirableness.
respirable		Suitable for being breathed; adapted for respiration. -- Re*spir"a*ble*ness, n.
respiration		The act of respiring or breathing again, or catching one's breath.
respirational		Of or pertaining to respiration; as, respirational difficulties.
respirative		Of or pertaining to respiration; as, respirative organs.
respirator		A divice of gauze or wire, covering the mouth or nose, to prevent the inhalation of noxious substances, as dust or smoke.
respiratory		Of or pertaining to respiration; serving for respiration; as, the respiratory organs; respiratory nerves; the respiratory function; respiratory changes.
respire		To take breath again; hence, to take rest or refreshment.
respite		A putting off of that which was appointed; a postponement or delay.
respiteless		Without respite.
resplendence		The quality or state of being resplendent; brilliant luster; vivid brightness; splendor.
resplendency		The quality or state of being resplendent; brilliant luster; vivid brightness; splendor.
resplendent		Shining with brilliant luster; very bright. -- Re*splen"dent*ly, adv.
resplendishant		Resplendent; brilliant.
resplendishing	Obsolete	Resplendent.
resplit		To split again.
respond		To say somethin in return; to answer; to reply; as, to respond to a question or an argument.
respondence		The act of responding; the state of being respondent; an answering.
respondency		The act of responding; the state of being respondent; an answering.
respondent		Disposed or expected to respond; answering; according; corresponding.
respondentia		A loan upon goods laden on board a ship.
responsal	Obsolete	Answerable.
response		An answer or reply. Specifically: (a) Reply to an objection in formal disputation.
responseless		Giving no response.
responsibility		The state of being responsible, accountable, or answerable, as for a trust, debt, or obligation.
responsible		Liable to respond; likely to be called upon to answer; accountable; answerable; amenable; as, a guardian is responsible to the court for his conduct in the office.
responsion		(University of Oxford) The first university examination; -- called also little go.
responsive		That responds; ready or inclined to respond.
responsorial		Responsory; antiphonal.
responsory		Containing or making answer; answering.
ressaldar		In the Anglo-Indian army, a native commander of a ressala.
rest		A state of quiet or repose; a cessation from motion or labor; tranquillity; as, rest from mental exertion; rest of body or mind.
rest-harrow		A European leguminous plant (Ononis arvensis) with long, tough roots.
restagnant	Obsolete	Stagnant; motionless.
restagnate	Obsolete	To stagnate; to cease to flow.
restagnation	Obsolete	Stagnation.
restant		Persistent.
restate		To state anew.
restaurant		An eating house.
restaurate	Obsolete	To restore.
restaurateur		The keeper of an eathing house or a restaurant.
restauration	Obsolete	Restoration.
restem		To force back against the current; as, to restem their backward course.
restful		Being at rest; quiet.
restiff	Obsolete	Restive.
restiffness	Obsolete	Restiveness.
restiform		Formed like a rope; -- applied especially to several ropelike bundles or masses of fibers on the dorsal side of the medulla oblongata.
restily	Obsolete	In a resty manner.
restinction	Obsolete	Act of quenching or extingishing.
restiness	Obsolete	The quality or state of being resty; sluggishness.
resting		a. & n. from Rest, v. t. & i.
restinguish	Obsolete	To quench or extinguish.
restitute		To restore to a former state.
restitution		The act of restoring anything to its rightful owner, or of making good, or of giving an equivalent for any loss, damage, or injury; indemnification.
restitutor		One who makes restitution..
restive		Unwilling to go on; obstinate in refusing to move forward; stubborn; drawing back.
restless		Never resting; unquiet; uneasy; continually moving; as, a restless child.
restorable		Admitting of being restored; capable of being reclaimed; as, restorable land.
restoral	Obsolete	Restoration.
restoration		The act of restoring or bringing back to a former place, station, or condition; the fact of being restored; renewal; reëstablishment; as, the restoration of friendship between enemies; the restoration of peace after war.
restorationer		A Restorationist.
restorationism		The belief or doctrines of the Restorationists.
restorationist		One who believes in a temporary future punishment and a final restoration of all to the favor and presence of God; a Universalist.
restorative		Of or pertaining to restoration; having power to restore.
restoratively		In a restorative manner.
restorator		A restaurateur.
restoratory		Restorative.
restore		To bring back to its former state; to bring back from a state of ruin, decay, disease, or the like; to repair; to renew; to recover. ix. 25.
restorement	Obsolete	Restoration.
restorer		One who, or that which, restores.
restrain		To draw back again; to hold back from acting, proceeding, or advancing, either by physical or moral force, or by any interposing obstacle; to repress or suppress; to keep down; to curb.
restrainable		Capable of being restrained; controllable.
restrainedly		With restraint.
restrainer		One who, or that which, restrains.
restrainment		The act of restraining.
restraint		The act or process of restraining, or of holding back or hindering from motion or action, in any manner; hindrance of the will, or of any action, physical or mental.
restrengthen		To strengthen again; to fortify anew.
restrict	Obsolete	Restricted.
restriction		The act of restricting, or state of being restricted; confinement within limits or bounds.
restrictionary		Restrictive.
restrictive		Serving or tending to restrict; limiting; as, a restrictive particle; restrictive laws of trade.
restringe	Obsolete	To confine; to contract; to stringe.
restringency	Obsolete	Quality or state of being restringent; astringency.
restringent	Obsolete	Restringing; astringent; styptic. -- n.
restrive		To strive anew.
resty	Obsolete	Disposed to rest; indisposed toexercton; sluggish; also, restive.
resubjection		A second subjection.
resublime		To sublime again.
resudation		Act of sweating again.
result		To come out, or have an issue; to terminate; to have consequences; -- followed by in; as, this measure will result in good or in evil.
resultance		The act of resulting; that which results; a result.
resultant		Resulting or issuing from a combination; existing or following as a result or consequence.
resultate	Obsolete	A result.
resultful		HAving results or effects.
resultive	Obsolete	Resultant.
resultless		Being without result; as, resultless investigations.
resumable		Capable of, or admitting of, being resumed.
resume		A summing up; a condensed statement; an abridgment or brief recapitulation.
resummon		To summon again.
resummons		A second summons.
resumption		The act of resuming; as, the resumption of a grant, of delegated powers, of an argument, of specie payments, etc.
resumptive		Taking back; resuming, or tending toward resumption; as, resumptive measures.
resupinate		Inverted in position; appearing to be upside down or reversed, as the flowers of the orchis and the leaves of some plants.
resupinated		Resupinate.
resupination		The state of luing on the back; the state of being resupinate, or reversed.
resupine		Lying on the back; supine; hence, careless.
resupply		To supply again.
resurgence		The act of rising again; resurrection.
resurgent		Rising again, as from the dead.
resurrect	Slang	To take from the grave; to disinter.
resurrection		A rising again; the resumption of vigor.
resurrectionist	Slang	One who steals bodies from the grave, as for dissection.
resurrectionize		To raise from the dead.
resurvey		To survey again or anew; to review.
resuscitable		Capable of resuscitation; as, resuscitable plants.
resuscitant		One who, or that which resuscitates.
resuscitate		Restored to life.
resuscitation		The act of resuscitating, or state of being resuscitated.
resuscitative		Tending to resuscitate; reviving; revivifying.
resuscitator		One who, or that which, resuscitates.
ret	Obsolete	See Aret — to reckon; to ascribe; to impute.
retable		A shelf behind the altar, for display of lights, vases of wlowers, etc.
retail		The sale of commodities in small quantities or parcels; -- opposed to wholesale; sometimes, the sale of commodities at second hand.
retailer		One who retails anything; as, a retailer of merchandise; a retailer of gossip.
retailment		The act of retailing.
retain		To continue to hold; to keep in possession; not to lose, part with, or dismiss; to retrain from departure, escape, or the like.
retainable		Capable of being retained.
retainal		The act of retaining; retention.
retainer		One who, or that which, retains.
retainment		The act of retaining; retention.
retake		To take or receive again.
retaker		One who takes again what has been taken; a recaptor.
retaliate		To return the like for; to repay or requite by an act of the same kind; to return evil for (evil).
retaliation		The act of retaliating, or of returning like for like; retribution; now, specifically, the return of evil for evil; e.g., an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth.
retaliative		Same as Retaliatory.
retaliatory		Tending to, or involving, retaliation; retaliative; as retaliatory measures.
retard		To keep delaying; to continue to hinder; to prevent from progress; to render more slow in progress; to impede; to hinder; as, to retard the march of an army; to retard the motion of a ship; -- opposed to Ant: accelerate.
retardation		The act of retarding; hindrance; the act of delaying; as, the retardation of the motion of a ship; -- opposed to Ant: acceleration.
retardative		Tending, or serving, to retard.
retarder		One who, or that which, retards.
retardment		The act of retarding; retardation.
retch	Obsolete	To make an effort to vomit; to strain, as in vomiting.
retchless	Obsolete	Careless; reckless.
rete		A net or network; a plexus; particularly, a network of blood vessels or nerves, or a part resembling a network.
retecious		Resembling network; retiform.
retection	Obsolete	Act of disclosing or uncovering something concealed.
retell		To tell again.
retene		A white crystalline hydrocarbon, polymeric with benzene.
retent		That which is retained.
retention		The act of retaining, or the state of being ratined.
retentive		Having power to retain; as, a retentive memory.
retentively		In a retentive manner.
retentiveness		The quality of being retentive.
retentivity		The power of retaining; retentive force; as, the retentivity of a magnet.
retentor		A muscle which serves to retain an organ or part in place, esp. when retracted.
retepore		Any one of several species of bryozoans of the genus Retepora.
retex	Obsolete	To annual, as orders.
retexture		The act of weaving or forming again.
rethor	Obsolete	A rhetorician; a careful writer.
rethoryke	Obsolete	Rhetoric.
retiarius		A gladiator armed with a net for entangling his adversary and a trident for despatching him.
retiary		(Zoöl.) Any spider which spins webs to catch its prey.
reticence		The quality or state of being reticent, or keeping silence; the state of holding one's tonque; refraining to speak of that which is suggested; uncommunicativeness.
reticency		Reticence.
reticent		Inclined to keep silent; reserved; uncommunicative.
reticle		A small net.
reticular		Having the form of a net, or of network; formed with interstices; retiform; as, reticular cartilage; a reticular leaf.
reticularia		An extensive division of rhizopods in which the pseudopodia are more or less slender and coalesce at certain points, forming irregular meshes.
reticularian		One of the Reticularia.
reticularly		In a reticular manner.
reticulate		Resembling network; having the form or appearance of a net; netted; as, a reticulated structure.
reticulated		Resembling network; having the form or appearance of a net; netted; as, a reticulated structure.
reticulation		The quality or state of being reticulated, or netlike; that which is reticulated; network; an organization resembling a net.
reticule		A little bag, originally of network; a woman's workbag, or a little bag to be carried in the hand.
reticulosa		Same as Reticularia.
reticulose		Forming a network; characterized by a reticulated sructure.
reticulum		(a) The second stomach of ruminants, in which folds of the mucous membrane form hexagonal cells; -- also called the honeycomb stomach.
retiform		Composed of crossing lines and interstices; reticular; netlike; as, the retiform coat of the eye.
retina		The delicate membrane by which the back part of the globe of the eye is lined, and in which the fibers of the optic nerve terminate.
retinaculum		(Anat.) (a) A connecting band; a frænum; as, the retinacula of the ileocæcal and ileocolic valves.
retinal		Of or pertaining to the retina.
retinalite		A translucent variety of serpentine, of a honey yellow or greenish yellow color, having a waxy resinlike luster.
retinasphalt		Retinite.
retinasphaltum		Retinite.
retinerved		Having reticulated veins.
retineum		That part of the eye of an invertebrate which corresponds in function with the retina of a vertebrate.
retinic		Of or pertaining to resin; derived from resin; specifically, designating an acid found in certain fossil resins and hydrocarbons.
retinite		An inflammable mineral resin, usually of a yellowish brown color, found in roundish masses, sometimes with coal.
retinitis		Inflammation of the retina.
retinoid		Resinlike, or resinform; resembling a resin without being such.
retinol		A hydrocarbon oil obtained by the distillation of resin, -- used in printer's ink.
retinophora		One of group of two to four united cells which occupy the axial part of the ocelli, or ommatidia, of the eyes of invertebrates, and contain the terminal nerve fibrillæ.
retinophoral		Of or pertaining to retinophoræ.
retinoscopy		The study of the retina of the eye by means of the ophthalmoscope.
retinue	Obsolete	The body of retainers who follow a prince or other distinguished person; a train of attendants; a suite.
retinula		One of the group of pigmented cells which surround the retinophoræ of invertebrates.
retinulate		Having, or characterized by, retinul
retiped		A bird having small polygonal scales covering the tarsi.
retiracy		Retirement; -- mostly used in a jocose or burlesque way.
retirade		A kind of retrenchment, as in the body of a bastion, which may be disputed inch by inch after the defenses are dismantled.
retire		To withdraw; to take away; -- sometimes used reflexively.
retired		Private; secluded; quiet; as, a retired life; a person of retired habits.
retirement		The act of retiring, or the state of being retired; withdrawal; seclusion; as, the retirement of an officer.
retirer		One who retires.
retiring		Reserved; shy; not forward or obtrusive; as, retiring modesty; retiring manners.
retistene		A white crystalline hydrocarbon produced indirectly from retene.
retitelae		A group of spiders which spin irregular webs; -- called also Retitelariæ.
retold		imp. & p. p. of Retell.
retorsion		Same as Retortion.
retort		To bend or curve back; as, a retorted line.
retorter		One who retorts.
retortion		Act of retorting or throwing back; reflection or turning back.
retortive		Containing retort.
retoss		To toss back or again.
retouch		To touch again, or rework, in order to improve; to revise; as, to retouch a picture or an essay.
retoucher		One who retouches.
retrace		To trace back, as a line.
retract		To draw back; to draw up or shorten; as, the cat can retract its claws; to retract a muscle.
retractable		Capable of being retracted; retractile.
retractate	Obsolete	To retract; to recant.
retractation		The act of retracting what has been said; recantation.
retractible		Retractable.
retractile		CApable of retraction; capable of being drawn back or up; as, the claws of a cat are retractile.
retraction		The act of retracting, or drawing back; the state of being retracted; as, the retraction of a cat's claws.
retractive		Serving to retract; of the nature of a retraction. -- Re*tract"ive*ly, adv.
retractor		One who, or that which, retracts. Specifically: (a) In breech-loading firearms, a device for withdrawing a cartridge shell from the barrel.
retraict	Obsolete	Retreat.
retrait	Obsolete	A portrait; a likeness.
retransform		To transform anew or back. -- Re`trans*for*ma"tion, n.
retranslate		To translate anew; especially, to translate back into the original language.
retraxit		The withdrawing, or open renunciation, of a suit in court by the plaintiff, by which he forever lost his right of action.
retread		To tread again.
retreat		The act of retiring or withdrawing one's self, especially from what is dangerous or disagreeable.
retreatful		Furnishing or serving as a retreat.
retreatment		The act of retreating; specifically, the Hegira.
retrench		To cut off; to pare away.
retrenchment		The act or process of retrenching; as, the retrenchment of words in a writing.
retrial		A secdond trial, experiment, or test; a second judicial trial, as of an accused person.
retribute	Obsolete	To pay back; to give in return, as payment, reward, or punishment; to requite; as, to retribute one for his kindness; to retribute just punishment to a criminal.
retributer		One who makes retribution.
retribution		The act of retributing; repayment.
retributive		Of or pertaining to retribution; of the nature of retribution; involving retribution or repayment; as, retributive justice; retributory comforts.
retributory		Of or pertaining to retribution; of the nature of retribution; involving retribution or repayment; as, retributive justice; retributory comforts.
retrievable		That may be retrieved or recovered; admitting of retrieval. -- Re*triev a*bly, adv.
retrieval		The act retrieving.
retrieve		To find again; to recover; to regain; to restore from loss or injury; as, to retrieve one's character; to retrieve independence.
retrievement		Retrieval.
retriever		One who retrieves.
retrim		To trim again.
retriment		Refuse; dregs.
retro-		A prefix or combining form signifying backward, back; as, retroact, to act backward; retrospect, a looking back.
retroact		To act backward, or in return; to act in opposition; to be retrospective.
retroaction		Action returned, or action backward.
retroactive		Fitted or designed to retroact; operating by returned action; affecting what is past; retrospective.
retroactively		In a retroactive manner.
retrocede		To cede or grant back; as, to retrocede a territory to a former proprietor.
retrocedent		Disposed or likely to retrocede; -- said of diseases which go from one part of the body to another, as the gout.
retrocession		The state of being retroceded, or granted back.
retrochoir		Any extension of a church behind the higggggggh altar, as a chapel; also, in an apsidal church, all the space beyond the line of the back or eastern face of the altar.
retrocopulant		Copulating backward, or from behind.
retrocopulation		Copulation from behind.
retroduction		A leading or bringing back.
retroflex		Reflexed; bent or turned abruptly backward.
retroflexed		Reflexed; bent or turned abruptly backward.
retroflexion		The act of reflexing; the state of being retroflexed.
retrofract		Refracted; as, a retrofract stem.
retrofracted		Refracted; as, a retrofract stem.
retrogenerative		Begetting young by retrocopulation.
retrogradation		The act of retrograding, or moving backward.
retrograde		(Astron.) Apparently moving backward, and contrary to the succession of the signs, that is, from east to west, as a planet.
retrogradingly		By retrograding; so as to retrograde.
retrogress		Retrogression.
retrogression		The act of retrograding, or going backward; retrogradation.
retrogressive		Tending to retrograde; going or moving backward; declining from a better to a worse state.
retrogressively		In a retrogressive manner.
retromingency		The quality or state of being retromingent.
retromingent		Organized so as to discharge the urine backward. -- n. (Zoöl.) An animal that discharges its urine backward.
retropulsive		Driving back; repelling.
retrorse		Bent backward or downward. -- Re*trorse"ly, adv.
retrospect		To look backward; hence, to affect or concern what is past.
retrospection		The act, or the faculty, of looking back on things past.
retrospective		Looking backward; contemplating things past; -- opposed to prospective; as, a retrospective view.
retrospectively		By way of retrospect.
retrousse		Turned up; -- said of a pug nose.
retrovaccination		The inoculation of a cow with human vaccine virus.
retroversion		A turning or bending backward; also, the state of being turned or bent backward; displacement backwards; as, retroversion of the uterus.
retrovert		To turn back.
retroverted		In a state of retroversion.
retrude		To thrust back.
retruse	Obsolete	Abstruse.
retrusion		The act of retruding, or the state of being retruded.
retry		To try (esp. judicially) a second time; as, to retry a case; to retry an accused person.
rette	Obsolete	See Aret — to reckon; to ascribe; to impute.
rettery		A place or establishment where flax is retted. See Ret.
retting		The act or process of preparing flax for use by soaking, meceration, and kindred processes; -- also called rotting.
retund		To blunt; to turn, as an edge; figuratively, to cause to be obtuse or dull; as, to retund confidence.
return		To turn back; to go or come again to the same place or condition.
returnable		Capable of, or admitting of, being returned.
returner		One who returns.
returnless		Admitting no return.
retuse		Having the end rounded and slightly indented; as, a retuse leaf.
reunion		A second union; union formed anew after separation, secession, or discord; as, a reunion of parts or particles of matter; a reunion of parties or sects.
reunite		To unite again; to join after separation or variance.
reunitedly		In a reunited manner.
reunition		A second uniting.
reurge		To urge again.
revaccinate		To vaccinate a second time or again. -- Re*vac`ci*na"tion(#), n.
revalescence		The act of growing well; the state of being revalescent.
revalescent		Growing well; recovering strength.
revaluation		A second or new valuation.
revamp		To vamp again; hence, topatch up; to reconstruct.
reve	Obsolete	To reave.
reveal		To make known (that which has been concealed or kept secret); to unveil; to disclose; to show.
revealability		The quality or state of being revealable; revealableness.
revealable		Capable of being revealed. -- Re*veal"a*ble*ness, n.
revealer		One who, or that which, reveals.
revealment		Act of revealing.
revegetate		To vegetate anew.
reveille		The beat of drum, or bugle blast, about break of day, to give notice that it is time for the soldiers to rise, and for the sentinels to forbear challenging.
revel		See Reveal — to make known (that which has been concealed or kept secret); to unveil; to disclose; to show.
revel-rout	Obsolete	Tumultuous festivity; revelry.
revelate	Obsolete	To reveal.
revelation		The act of revealing, disclosing, or discovering to others what was before unknown to them.
revelator		One who makes a revelation; a revealer.
reveler		One who revels.
revellent		Causing revulsion; revulsive. -- n. (Med.) A revulsive medicine.
revelment		The act of reveling.
revelous	Obsolete	Fond of festivity; given to merrymaking or reveling.
revelry		The act of engaging in a revel; noisy festivity; reveling.
revendicate		To reclaim; to demand the restoration of.
revendication		The act of revendicating.
revenge		To inflict harm in return for, as an injury, insult, etc.; to exact satisfaction for, under a sense of injury; to avenge; -- followed either by the wrong received, or by the person or thing wronged, as the object…
revengeable		Capable of being revenged; as, revengeable wrong.
revengeance	Obsolete	Vengeance; revenge.
revengeful		Full of, or prone to, revenge; vindictive; malicious; revenging; wreaking revenge.
revengeless	Obsolete	Unrevenged.
revengement	Obsolete	Revenge.
revenger		One who revenges.
revenging		Executing revenge; revengeful. -- Re*ven"ging*ly, adv.
revenue		That which returns, or comes back, from an investment; the annual rents, profits, interest, or issues of any species of property, real or personal; income.
reverb	Obsolete	To echo.
reverberant		Having the quality of reverberation; reverberating.
reverberate		To return or send back; to repel or drive back; to echo, as sound; to reflect, as light, as light or heat.
reverberation		The act of reverberating; especially, the act of reflecting light or heat, or reëchoing sound; as, the reverberation of rays from a mirror; the reverberation of rays from a mirror; the reverberation of voices…
reverberative		Of the nature of reverberation; tending to reverberate; reflective.
reverberator		One who, or that which, produces reverberation.
reverberatory		Producing reverberation; acting by reverberation; reverberative.
reverdure		To cover again with verdure.
revere		To regard with reverence, or profound respect and affection, mingled with awe or fear; to venerate; to reverence; to honor in estimation.
reverence		Profound respect and esteem mingled with fear and affection, as for a holy being or place; the disposition to revere; veneration.
reverencer		One who regards with reverence.
reverend		Worthy of reverence; entitled to respect mingled with fear and affection; venerable.
reverendly	Obsolete	Reverently.
reverent		Disposed to revere; impressed with reverence; submissive; humble; respectful; as, reverent disciples.
reverential		Proceeding from, or expressing, reverence; having a reverent quality; reverent; as, reverential fear or awe.
reverentially		In a reverential manner.
reverently		In a reverent manner; in respectful regard.
reverer		One who reveres.
reverie		A loose or irregular train of thought occurring in musing or mediation; deep musing; daydream.
revers		A part turned or folded back so as to show the inside, or a piece put on in imitation of such a part, as the lapel of a coat.
reversal		The act of reversing; the causing to move or face in an opposite direction, or to stand or lie in an inverted position; as, the reversal of a rotating wheel; the reversal of objects by a convex lens.
reverse		Turned backward; having a contrary or opposite direction; hence; opposite or contrary in kind; as, the reverse order or method.
reversed		Turned side for side, or end for end; changed to the contrary; specifically (Bot. & Zoöl.), sinistrorse or sinistral; as, a reversed, or sinistral, spiral or shell.
reversedly		In a reversed way.
reverseless		Irreversible.
reversely		In a reverse manner; on the other hand; on the opposite.
reverser		One who reverses.
reversibility		The quality of being reversible.
reversible		Capable of being reversed; as, a chair or seat having a reversible back; a reversible judgment or sentence.
reversibly		In a reversible manner.
reversing		Serving to effect reversal, as of motion; capable of being reversed.
reversion		(Law) The returning of an esttate to the grantor or his heirs, by operation of law, after the grant has terminated; hence, the residue of an estate left in the proprietor or owner thereof, to take effect in possession…
reversionary		Of or pertaining to a reversion; involving a reversion; to be enjoyed in succession, or after the termination of a particular estate; as, a reversionary interest or right.
reversioner		One who has a reversion, or who is entitled to lands or tenements, after a particular estate granted is terminated.
reversis		A certain game at cards.
revert		To turn back, or to the contrary; to reverse.
reverted		Turned back; reversed. Specifically: (Her.) Bent or curved twice, in opposite directions, or in the form of an S.
revertent	Obsolete	A remedy which restores the natural order of the inverted irritative motions in the animal system.
reverter		One who, or that which, reverts.
revertible		Capable of, or admitting of, reverting or being reverted; as, a revertible estate.
revertive		Reverting, or tending to revert; returning. -- Re*vert"ive*ly, adv.
revery		A loose or irregular train of thought occurring in musing or mediation; deep musing; daydream.
revest		To clothe again; to cover, as with a robe; to robe.
revestiary		The apartment, in a church or temple, where the vestments, etc., are kept; -- now contracted into vestry.
revestry	Obsolete	Same as Revestiary.
revestture	Obsolete	Vesture.
revet		To face, as an embankment, with masonry, wood, or other material.
revetment		A facing of wood, stone, or any other material, to sustain an embankment when it receives a slope steeper than the natural slope; also, a retaining wall. [Written also revêtement (
revibrate		To vibrate back or in return. -- Re`vi*bra"tion, n.
revict	Obsolete	To reconquer.
reviction	Obsolete	Return to life.
revictual		To victual again.
revie		To vie with, or rival, in return.
review		To view or see again; to look back on
reviewable		Capable of being reviewed.
reviewal		A review.
reviewer		One who reviews or reëxamines; an inspector; one who examines publications critically, and publishes his opinion upon their merits; a professional critic of books.
revigorate	Obsolete	Having new vigor or strength; invigorated anew.
revile	Obsolete	To address or abuse with opprobrious and contemptuous language; to reproach.
revilement		The act of reviling; also, contemptuous language; reproach; abuse.
reviler		One who reviles. 1.
reviling		Reproach; abuse; vilification.
revince	Obsolete	To overcome; to refute, as error.
revindicate		To vindicate again; to reclaim; to demand and take back.
revirescence	Obsolete	A growing green or fresh again; renewal of youth or vigor.
revisable		That may be revised.
revisal		The act of revising, or reviewing and reëxamining for correction and improvement; revision; as, the revisal of a manuscript; the revisal of a proof sheet; the revisal of a treaty.
revise		To look at again for the detection of errors; to reëxamine; to review; to look over with care for correction; as, to revise a writing; to revise a translation.
reviser		One who revises.
revision		The act of revising; reëxamination for correction; review; as, the revision of a book or writing, or of a proof sheet; a revision of statutes.
revisional		Of or pertaining to revision; revisory.
revisionary		Of or pertaining to revision; revisory.
revisit		To visit again.
revisitation		The act of revisiting.
revisory		Having the power or purpose to revise; revising.
revitalize		To restore vitality to; to bring back to life.
revivable		That may be revived.
revival		The act of reviving, or the state of being revived. Specifically: (a) Renewed attention to something, as to letters or literature.
revivalism		The spirit of religious revivals; the methods of revivalists.
revivalist		A clergyman or layman who promotes revivals of religion; an advocate for religious revivals; sometimes, specifically, a clergyman, without a particular charge, who goes about to promote revivals.
revivalistic		Pertaining to revivals.
revive		To return to life; to recover life or strength; to live anew; to become reanimated or reinvigorated.
revivement		Revival.
reviver		One who, or that which, revives.
revivificate		To revive; to recall or restore to life.
revivification		Renewal of life; restoration of life; the act of recaling, or the state of being recalled, to life.
revivify		To cause to revive.
reviving		Returning or restoring to life or vigor; reanimating.
reviviscence		The act of reviving, or the state of being revived; renewal of life.
reviviscency		The act of reviving, or the state of being revived; renewal of life.
reviviscent		Able or disposed to revive; reviving.
revivor		Revival of a suit which is abated by the death or marriage of any of the parties, -- done by a bill of revivor.
revocability		The quality of being revocable; as, the revocability of a law.
revocable		Capable of being revoked; as, a revocable edict or grant; a revocable covenant. -- Rev o*ca*bly, adv.
revocate	Obsolete	To recall; to call back.
revocation		The act of calling back, or the state of being recalled; recall.
revocatory		Of or pertaining to revocation; tending to, or involving, a revocation; revoking; recalling.
revoice		To refurnish with a voice; to refit, as an organ pipe, so as to restore its tone.
revoke		Hence, to annul, by recalling or taking back; to repeal; to rescind; to cancel; to reverse, as anything granted by a special act; as,, to revoke a will, a license, a grant, a permission, a law, or the like.
revokement		Revocation.
revoker		One who revokes.
revokingly		By way of revocation.
revolt		To turn away; to abandon or reject something; specifically, to turn away, or shrink, with abhorrence.
revolter		One who revolts.
revolting		Causing abhorrence mixed with disgust; exciting extreme repugnance; loathsome; as, revolting cruelty. -- Re*volt"ing*ly, adv.
revoluble	Obsolete	Capable of revolving; rotatory; revolving.
revolute		Rolled backward or downward.
revolution		The act of revolving, or turning round on an axis or a center; the motion of a body round a fixed point or line; rotation; as, the revolution of a wheel, of a top, of the earth on its axis, etc.
revolutionary		Of or pertaining to a revolution in government; tending to, or promoting, revolution; as, revolutionary war; revolutionary measures; revolutionary agitators.
revolutioner		One who is engaged in effecting a revolution; a revolutionist.
revolutionism		The state of being in revolution; revolutionary doctrines or principles.
revolutionist		One engaged in effecting a change of government; a favorer of revolution.
revolutionize		To change completely, as by a revolution; as, to revolutionize a government.
revolutive	Obsolete	Inclined to revolve things in the mind; meditative.
revolvable		That may be revolved.
revolve		To turn or roll round on, or as on, an axis, like a wheel; to rotate, -- which is the more specific word in this sense.
revolvement		Act of revolving.
revolvency	Archaic	The act or state of revolving; revolution.
revolver		One who, or that which, revolves; specifically, a firearm ( commonly a pistol) with several chambers or barrels so arranged as to revolve on an axis, and be discharged in succession by the same lock; a repeater.
revolving		Making a revolution or revolutions; rotating; -- used also figuratively of time, seasons, etc., depending on the revolution of the earth.
revulse		To pull back with force.
revulsion		A strong pulling or drawing back; withdrawal.
revulsive		Causing, or tending to, revulsion.
rewake		To wake again.
reward		To give in return, whether good or evil; -- commonly in a good sense; to requite; to recompense; to repay; to compensate.
rewardable		Worthy of reward. -- Re*ward a*bly, adv.
rewarder		One who rewards.
rewardful		Yielding reward.
rewardless		Having, or affording, no reward.
rewet		A gunlock.
rewin		To win again, or win back.
reword		To alter the wording of; to restate in other words; as, to reword an idea or a passage.
rewrite		To write again.
reyn	Obsolete	Rain or rein.
reynard		An appelation applied after the manner of a proper name to the fox.
reyse	Obsolete	To raise.
rez-de-chaussee		The ground story of a building, either on a level with the street or raised slightly above it; -- said esp. of buildings on the continent of Europe.
