rhabarbarate		Impregnated or tinctured with rhubarb.
rhabarbarin		Chrysophanic acid.
rhabarbarine		Chrysophanic acid.
rhabdite		(Zoöl.) A minute smooth rodlike or fusiform structure found in the tissues of many Turbellaria.
rhabdocoela		A suborder of Turbellaria including those that have a simple cylindrical, or saclike, stomach, without an intestine.
rhabdocoelous		Of or pertaining to the Rhabdocoela.
rhabdoidal		See Sagittal — of or pertaining to an arrow; resembling an arrow; furnished with an arowlike appendage.
rhabdolith		A minute calcareous rodlike structure found both at the surface and the bottom of the ocean; -- supposed by some to be a calcareous alga.
rhabdology		Same as Rabdology.
rhabdom		One of numerous minute rodlike structures formed of two or more cells situated behind the retinulæ in the compound eyes of insects, etc. See Illust. under Ommatidium.
rhabdomancy		Same as Rabdomancy.
rhabdomere		One of the several parts composing a rhabdom.
rhabdophora		An extinct division of Hydrozoa which includes the graptolities.
rhabdopleura		A genus of marine Bryozoa in which the tubular cells have a centralchitinous axis and the tentacles are borne on a bilobed lophophore.
rhabdosphere		A minute sphere composed of rhabdoliths.
rhachialgia		See Rachialgia — a painful affection of the spine; especially, Pott's disease; also, formerly, lead colic.
rhachidian		Of or pertaining to the rhachis; as, the rhachidian teeth of a mollusk.
rhachiglossa		A division of marine gastropods having a retractile proboscis and three longitudinal rows of teeth on the radula.
rhachilla		A branch of inflorescence; the zigzag axis on which the florets are arranged in the spikelets of grasses.
rhachiodont		Having gular teeth formed by a peculiar modification of the inferior spines of some of the vertebræ, as certain South African snakes (Dasypelits) which swallow birds' eggs and use these gular teeth to crush them.
rhachis		(Bot.) (a) The continued stem or midrib of a pinnately compound leaf, as in a rose leaf or a fern.
rhachitis		See Rachitis — (Med.) Literally, inflammation of the spine, but commonly applied to the rickets.
rhadamanthine		Of or pertaining to Rhadamanthus; rigorously just; as, a Rhadamanthine judgment.
rhadamanthus		One of the three judges of the internal regions; figuratively, a strictly just judge.
rhadamanthys		One of the three judges of the internal regions; figuratively, a strictly just judge.
rhaetian		Rhetian.
rhaetic		Pertining to, or of the same horizon as, certain Mesozoic strata of the Rhetian Alps.
rhaetizite		A variety of the mineral cyanite.
rhamadan		See Ramadan — the ninth Mohammedan month.
rhamnaceous		Of or pertaining to a natural order of shrubs and trees (Rhamnaceæ, or Rhamneæ) of which the buckthorn (Rhamnus) is the type.
rhamnus		A genus of shrubs and small trees; buckthorn.
rhamphorhynchus		A genus of pterodactyls in which the elongated tail supported a leathery expansion at the tip.
rhamphotheca		The horny covering of the bill of birds.
rhaphe		The continuation of the seed stalk along the side of an anatropous ovule or seed, forming a ridge or seam.
rhaphides		Minute transparent, often needlle-shaped, crystals found in the tissues of plants.
rhaponticine		Chrysophanic acid.
rhapsode		A rhapsodist.
rhapsoder	Obsolete	A rhapsodist.
rhapsodic		Of or pertaining to rhapsody; consisting of rhapsody; hence, confused; unconnected. -- Rhap*sod ic*al*ly, adv.
rhapsodist		Anciently, one who recited or composed a rhapsody; especially, one whose profession was to recite the verses of Hormer and other epic poets.
rhapsodize		To utter as a rhapsody, or in the manner of a rhapsody Sterne.
rhapsodomancy		Divination by means of verses.
rhapsody		A recitation or song of a rhapsodist; a portion of an epic poem adapted for recitation, or usually recited, at one time; hence, a division of the Iliad or the Odyssey; -- called also a book.
rhatanhy		The powerfully astringent root of a half-shrubby Peruvian plant (Krameria triandra).
rhatany		The powerfully astringent root of a half-shrubby Peruvian plant (Krameria triandra).
rhea		The ramie or grass-cloth plant. See Grass-cloth plant, under Grass.
rheae		A suborder of struthious birds including the rheas.
rheeboc		The peele.
rheic	Passing out of use	Pertaining to, or designating, an acid (commonly called chrysophanic acid) found in rhubarb (Rheum).
rhein		Chrysophanic acid.
rheinberry		One of the berries or drupes of the European buckthorn; also, the buckthorn itself.
rhematic		Having a verb for its base; derived from a verb; as, rhematic adjectives.
rhemish		Of or pertaining to Rheimis, or Reima, in France.
rhenish		Of or pertaining to the river Rhine; as, Rhenish wine. -- n.
rheochord		A metallic wire used for regulating the resistance of a circuit, or varying the strength of an electric current, by inserting a greater or less length of it in the circuit.
rheocrat		A kind of motor speed controller permitting of very gradual variation in speed and of reverse.
rheometer		(Physics) An instrument for measuring currents, especially the force or intensity of electrical currents; a galvanometer.
rheometric		Of or pertaining to a rheometer or rheometry.
rheometry		The measurement of the force or intensity of currents.
rheomotor		Any apparatus by which an electrical current is originated.
rheophore		(a) A connecting wire of an electric or voltaic apparatus, traversed by a current.
rheoscope		An instrument for detecting the presence or movement of currents, as of electricity.
rheostat		A contrivance for adjusting or regulating the strength of electrical currents, operating usually by the intercalation of resistance which can be varied at will.
rheotome		An instrument which periodically or otherwise interrupts an electric current.
rheotrope		An instrument for reversing the direction of an electric current.
rhesus		A monkey; the bhunder.
rhetian		Pertaining to the ancient Rhæti, or Rhætians, or to Rhætia, their country; as, the Rhetian Alps, now the country of Tyrol and the Grisons.
rhetic		Pertining to, or of the same horizon as, certain Mesozoic strata of the Rhetian Alps.
rhetizite		A variety of the mineral cyanite.
rhetor	Obsolete	A rhetorician.
rhetoric		The art of composition; especially, elegant composition in prose.
rhetorical		Of or pertaining to rhetoric; according to, or exhibiting, rhetoric; oratorical; as, the rhetorical art; a rhetorical treatise; a rhetorical flourish.
rhetoricate	Obsolete	To play the orator.
rhetorication	Obsolete	Rhetorical amplification.
rhetorician		One well versed in the rules and principles of rhetoric.
rhetorize		To play the orator.
rheum		A genus of plants. See Rhubarb.
rheumatic		(Med.) Of or pertaining to rheumatism; as, rheumatic pains or affections; affected with rheumatism; as, a rheumatic old man; causing rheumatism; as, a rheumatic day.
rheumatism		A general disease characterized by painful, often multiple, local inflammations, usually affecting the joints and muscles, but also extending sometimes to the deeper organs, as the heart.
rheumatismal		Of or pertaining to rheumatism.
rheumatismoid		Of or resembling rheum or rheumatism.
rheumic		Pertaining to, or characterized by, rheum.
rheumides		The class of skin disease developed by the dartrous diathesis. See under Dartrous.
rheumy		Of or pertaining to rheum; abounding in, or causing, rheum; affected with rheum.
rhigolene		A mixture of volatile hydrocarbons intermediate between gsolene and cymogene.
rhime	Obsolete	See Rhyme — an expression of thought in numbers, measure, or verse; a composition in verse; a rhymed tale; poetry; harmony of language.
rhinal		Og or pertaining to the nose or olfactory organs.
rhinaster		The borele.
rhine	English dialect	A water course; a ditch.
rhinencephalic		Of or pertaining to the rhinencephalon.
rhinencephalon		The division of the brain in front of the prosencephalon, consisting of the two olfactory lobes from which the olfactory nerves arise.
rhinestone		A colorless stone of high luster, made of paste.
rhinitis		Infllammation of the nose; esp., inflammation of the mucous membrane of the nostrils.
rhino		Gold and silver, or money.
rhino-		A combining form from Greek the nose, as in rhinolith, rhinology.
rhinocerial		Of or pertaining to the rhinoceros; resembling the rhinoceros, or his horn.
rhinocerical		Of or pertaining to the rhinoceros; resembling the rhinoceros, or his horn.
rhinoceros		Any pachyderm belonging to the genera Rhinoceros, Atelodus, and several allied genera of the family Rhinocerotidæ, of which several living, and many extinct, species are known.
rhinocerote	Obsolete	A rhinoceros.
rhinocerotic		Of or pertaining to the rhinoceros.
rhinolite		A concretion formed within the cavities of the nose.
rhinolith		A concretion formed within the cavities of the nose.
rhinological		Of or pertaining to rhinology.
rhinologist		One skilled in rhinology.
rhinology		The science which treats of the nose, and its diseases.
rhinolophid		Any species of the genus Rhinilophus, or family Rhinolophidæ, having a horseshoe-shaped nasal crest; a horseshoe bat.
rhinolophine		Like or pertaining to the rhinolophids, or horseshoe bats.
rhinophore		One of the two tentacle-like organs on the back of the head or neck of a nudibranch or tectibranch mollusk.
rhinoplastic		Of or pertaining to rhinoplasty; as, a rhinoplastic operation.
rhinoplasty		Plastic surgery of the nose to correct deformity or to replace lost tissue.
rhinopome		Any old-world bat of the genus Rhinopoma.
rhinoscleroma		A rare disease of the skin, characterized by the development of very hard, more or less flattened, prominences, appearing first upon the nose and subsequently upon the neighboring parts, esp. the lips, palate, and throat.
rhinoscope		A small mirror for use in rhinoscopy.
rhinoscopic		Of or pertaining to rhinoscopy.
rhinoscopy		The examination or study of the soft palate, posterior nares, etc., by means of a laryngoscopic mirror introduced into the pharynx.
rhinotheca		The sheath of the upper mandible of a bird.
rhipidoglossa		A division of gastropod mollusks having a large number of long, divergent, hooklike, lingual teeth in each transverse row.
rhipipter		One of the Rhipiptera, a group of insects having wings which fold like a fan; a strepsipter.
rhipipteran		Same as Rhipipter.
rhizanthous		Producing flowers from a rootstock, or apparently from a root.
rhizine		A rootlike filament or hair growing from the stems of mosses or on lichens; a rhizoid.
rhizocarpous		Having perennial rootstocks or bulbs, but annual flowering stems; -- said of all perennial herbs.
rhizocephala		A division of Pectostraca including saclike parasites of Crustacea.
rhizodont		A reptile whose teeth are rooted in sockets, as the crocodile.
rhizogan		Prodicing roots.
rhizogen		One of a proposed class of flowering plants growning on the roots of other plants and destitute of green foliage.
rhizoid		A rootlike appendage.
rhizoma		SAme as Rhizome.
rhizomatous		Having the nature or habit of a rhizome or rootstock.
rhizome		A rootstock. See Rootstock.
rhizophaga		A division of marsupials.
rhizophagous		Feeding on roots; root-eating.
rhizophora		A genus of trees including the mangrove. See Mangrove.
rhizophorous		Bearing roots.
rhizopod		One of the Rhizopoda.
rhizopoda		An extensive class of Protozoa, including those which have pseudopodia, by means of which they move about and take their food.
rhizopodous		Of or pertaining to the rhizopods.
rhizostomata		A suborder of Medusæ which includes very large species without marginal tentacles, but having large mouth lobes closely united at the edges.
rhizostome		One of the Rhizostomata.
rhizotaxis		The arrangement of the roots of plants.
rhob		See 1st Rob.
rhodammonium		Pertaining to, derived from, or containing, rhodium and ammonia; -- said of certain complex compounds.
rhodanate	Passing out of use	A salt of rhodanic acid; a sulphocyanate.
rhodanic	Passing out of use	Pertaining to, or designating, an acid (commonly called sulphocyanic acid) which frms a red color with ferric salts.
rhodeoretin		Same as Convolvuln.
rhodian		Of or pertaining to Rhodes, an island of the Mediterranean. -- n.
rhodic		Of or pertaining to rhodium; containing rhodium.
rhodium		A rare element of the light platinum group.
rhodizonic		Pertaining to, or designating, a colorless crystalline substance (called rhodizonic acid, and carboxylic acid) obtained from potassium carboxide and from certain quinones.
rhodochrosite		Manganese carbonate, a rose-red mineral sometimes occuring crystallized, but generally massive with rhombohedral cleavage like calcite; -- called also dialogite.
rhodocrinite		A rose encrinite.
rhododendron		A genus of shrubs or small trees, often having handsome evergreen leaves, and remarkable for the beauty of their flowers; rosebay.
rhodomontade		See Rodomontade — vain boasting; empty bluster or vaunting; rant.
rhodomontader		See Rodomontador — a rodomontadist.
rhodonite		Manganese spar, or silicate of manganese, a mineral occuring crystallised and in rose-red masses.
rhodophane		The red pigment contained in the inner segments of the cones of the retina in animals.
rhodopsin		The visual purple. See under Visual.
rhodosperm		Any seaweed with red spores.
rhomb		(Geom.) An equilateral parallelogram, or quadrilateral figure whose sides are equal and the opposite sides parallel.
rhombic		Shaped like a rhomb.
rhomboganoid		A ganoid fish having rhombic enameled scales; one of the Rhomboganoidei.
rhomboganoidei		Same as Ginglymodi.
rhombogene		A dicyemid which produces infusorialike embryos; -- opposed to nematogene.
rhombohedral		Related to the rhombohedron; presenting the form of a rhombohedron, or a form derivable from a rhombohedron; relating to a system of forms including the rhombohedron and scalenohedron.
rhombohedric		Rhombohedral.
rhombohedron		A solid contained by six rhomboids; a parallelopiped.
rhomboid		An oblique-angled parallelogram like a rhomb, but having only the opposite sides equal, the length and with being different.
rhomboid-ovate		Between rhomboid and ovate, or oval, in shape.
rhomboidal		Having, or approaching, the shape of a rhomboid.
rhomboides		A rhomboid.
rhombus		Same as Rhomb, 1.
rhonchal		Rhonchial.
rhonchial		Of or pertaining to a rhonchus; produced by rhonchi.
rhonchisonant		Making a snorting noise; snorting.
rhonchus		An adventitious whistling or snoring sound heard on auscultation of the chest when the air channels are partially obstructed.
rhopalic		Applied to a line or verse in which each successive word has one more syllable than the preceding.
rhopalium		One of the marginal sensory bodies of medusæ belonging to the Discophora.
rhopalocera		A division of Lepidoptera including all the butterflies.
rhotacism		An oversounding, or a misuse, of the letter r; specifically (Phylol.), the tendency, exhibited in the Indo-European languages, to change s to r, as wese to were.
rhubarb		(Bot.) The name of several large perennial herbs of the genus Rheum and order Polygonaceæ.
rhubarby		Like rhubarb.
rhumb		A line which crosses successive meridians at a constant angle; -- called also rhumb line, and loxodromic curve.
rhus		A genus of shrubs and small treets. See Sumac.
rhusma		A mixtire of caustic lime and orpiment, or tersulphide of arsenic, -- used in the depilation of hides.
rhyme		An expression of thought in numbers, measure, or verse; a composition in verse; a rhymed tale; poetry; harmony of language.
rhymeless		Destitute of rhyme.
rhymer		One who makes rhymes; a versifier; -- generally in contempt; a poor poet; a poetaster.
rhymery		The art or habit of making rhymes; rhyming; -- in contempt.
rhymester		A rhymer; a maker of poor poetry.
rhymic		Pertaining to rhyme.
rhymist		A rhymer; a rhymester.
rhynchobdellea		A suborder of leeches including those that have a protractile proboscis, without jaws.
rhynchocephala		An order of reptiles having biconcave vertebræ, immovable quadrate bones, and many other peculiar osteological characters.
rhynchocoela		Same as Nemertina. -- Rhyn`cho*coe"lous, a.
rhyncholite		A fossil cephalopod beak.
rhynchonella		A genus of brachiopods of which some species are still living, while many are found fossil.
rhynchophora		A group of Coleoptera having a snoutlike head; the snout beetles, curculios, or weevils.
rhynchophore		One of the Rhynchophora.
rhynchota		Same as Hemiptera.
rhyolite		A quartzose trachyte, an igneous rock often showing a fluidal structure. -- Rhy`o*lit"ic, a.
rhyparography		In ancient art, the painting of genre or still-life pictures.
rhysimeter		An instrument, acting on the principle of Pitot's tube, for measuring the velocity of a fluid current, the speed of a ship, etc.
rhythm		In the widest sense, a dividing into short portions by a regular succession of motions, impulses, sounds, accents, etc., producing an agreeable effect, as in music poetry, the dance, or the like.
rhythmer		One who writes in rhythm, esp. in poetic rhythm or meter.
rhythmic		Pertaining to, or of the nature of, rhythm DAy and night I worked my rhythmic thought.
rhythmical		Pertaining to, or of the nature of, rhythm DAy and night I worked my rhythmic thought.
rhythmically		In a rhythmical manner.
rhythmics		The department of musical science which treats of the length of sounds.
rhythming		Writing rhythm; verse making.
rhythmless		Being without rhythm.
rhythmometer		An instrument for marking time in musical movements. See Metronome.
rhytina		See Rytina — a genus of large edentulous sirenians, allied to the dugong and manatee, including but one species (R.
