rial	Obsolete	A Spanish coin. See Real.	
riant		Laughing; laughable; exciting gayety; gay; merry; delightful to the view, as a landscape.	French riant.
rib		(Anat.) One of the curved bones attached to the vertebral column and supporting the lateral walls of the thorax.	
ribald		A low, vulgar, brutal, foul-mouthed wretch; a lewd fellow.	
ribaldish		Like a ribald.	
ribaldrous		Of a ribald quality.	
ribaldry		The talk of a ribald; low, vulgar language; indecency; obscenity; lewdness; -- now chiefly applied to indecent language, but formerly, as by Chaucer, also to indecent acts or conduct.	
riban	Obsolete	See Ribbon — a fillet or narrow woven fabric, commonly of silk, used for trimming some part of a woman's attire, for badges, and other decorative purposes.	
riband		See Ribbon — a fillet or narrow woven fabric, commonly of silk, used for trimming some part of a woman's attire, for badges, and other decorative purposes.	
ribanded		Ribboned.	
ribaud	Obsolete	A ribald.	
ribaudequin		An engine of war used in the Middle Ages, consisting of a protected elevated staging on wheels, and armed in front with pikes.	
ribaudred	Obsolete	Filthy; obscene; ribald.	
ribaudrous	Obsolete	Filthy; obscene; ribald.	
ribaudry	Obsolete	Ribaldry.	
ribaudy	Obsolete	Ribaldry.	
ribauld	Obsolete	A ribald.	
ribband		A ribbon.	
ribbed		Furnished or formed with ribs; as, a ribbed cylinder; ribbed cloth.	
ribbing		An assemblage or arrangement of ribs, as the timberwork for the support of an arch or coved ceiling, the veins in the leaves of some plants, ridges in the fabric of cloth, or the like.	
ribbon		A fillet or narrow woven fabric, commonly of silk, used for trimming some part of a woman's attire, for badges, and other decorative purposes.	Old French riban.
ribbonism		The principles and practices of the Ribbonmen. See Ribbon Society, under Ribbon.	
ribbonman		A member of the Ribbon Society. See Ribbon Society, under Ribbon.	
ribbonwood		A malvaceous tree (Hoheria populnea) of New Zealand, the bark of which is used for cordage.	
ribes		A genus of shrubs including gooseberries and currants of many kinds.	
ribibe	Obsolete	A sort of stringed instrument; a rebec.	
ribible		A small threestringed viol; a rebec.	
ribless		Having no ribs.	
ribroast	Slang	To beat soundly.	
ribwort		A species of plantain (Plantago lanceolata) with long, narrow, ribbed leaves; -- called also rib grass, ripple grass, ribwort plantain.	
rice		A well-known cereal grass (Oryza sativa) and its seed.	Middle English rys, from Old French ris, from Italian riso, from Latin oryza.
rice-shell		Any one of numerous species of small white polished marine shells of the genus Olivella.	
ricebird		(a) The Java sparrow. (b) The bobolink.	
rich		Having an abundance of material possessions; possessed of a large amount of property; well supplied with land, goods, or money; wealthy; opulent; affluent; -- opposed to Ant: poor.	Middle English riche, from Old English rice.
riches		That which makes one rich; an abundance of land, goods, money, or other property; wealth; opulence; affluence.	Middle English riches.
richesse	Obsolete	Wealth; riches. See the Note under Riches.	
richly		In a rich manner.	
richness		The quality or state of being rich (in any sense of the adjective).	
richweed		An herb (Pilea pumila) of the Nettle family, having a smooth, juicy, pellucid stem; -- called also clearweed.	
ricinelaidic		Pertaining to, or designating, an isomeric modification of ricinoleic acid obtained as a white crystalline solid.	
ricinelaidin		The glycerin salt of ricinelaidic acid, obtained as a white crystalline waxy substance by treating castor oil with nitrous acid.	
ricinic		Pertaining to, or derived from, castor oil; formerly, designating an acid now called ricinoleic acid.	
ricinine		A bitter white crystalline alkaloid extracted from the seeds of the castor-oil plant.	
ricinoleate		A salt of ricinoleic acid; -- formerly called palmate.	
ricinoleic		Pertaining to, or designating, a fatty acid analogous to oleic acid, obtained from castor oil as an oily substance, Cricinolic.	
ricinolein		The glycerin salt of ricinoleic acid, occuring as a characteristic constituent of castor oil; -- formerly called palmin.	
ricinolic		Ricinoleic.	
ricinus		A genus of plants of the Spurge family, containing but one species (R. communis), the castor-oil plant.	
rick		A stack or pile, as of grain, straw, or hay, in the open air, usually protected from wet with thatching.	Middle English wricke.
ricker		A stout pole for use in making a rick, or for a spar to a boat.	
ricketish	Obsolete	Rickety.	
rickets		A disease which affects children, and which is characterized by a bulky head, crooked spine and limbs, depressed ribs, enlarged and spongy articular epiphyses, tumid abdomen, and short stature…	
rickety		Affected with rickets.	
rickrack		A kind of openwork edging made of serpentine braid.	
rickstand		A flooring or framework on which a rick is made.	
ricochet		A rebound or skipping, as of a ball along the ground when a gun is fired at a low angle of elevation, or of a fiat stone thrown along the surface of water.	French ricochet.
rictal		Of or pertaining to the rictus; as, rictal bristles.	
ricture	Obsolete	A gaping.	Latin ringi.
rictus		The gape of the mouth, as of birds; -- often resricted to the corners of the mouth.	Latin rictus.
rid		To get over; to dispose of; to dispatch; to finish.	
ridable		Suitable for riding; as, a ridable horse; a ridable road.	
riddance		The act of ridding or freeing; deliverance; a cleaning up or out.	
ridden		p. p. of Ride — to be carried on the back of an animal, as a horse.	
ridder		One who, or that which, rids.	
riddle		A sieve with coarse meshes, usually of wire, for separating coarser materials from finer, as chaff from grain, cinders from ashes, or gravel from sand.	Middle English riddil.
riddler		One who riddles (grain, sand, etc.).	
riddling		Speaking in a riddle or riddles; containing a riddle. -- Rid"dling, adv.	
ride		To be carried on the back of an animal, as a horse.	Middle English riden.
rideau		A small mound of earth; ground slightly elevated; a small ridge.	
riden		imp. pl. & p. p. of Ride.	
rident		Laughing.	
rider		One who, or that which, rides.	
riderless		Having no rider; as, a riderless horse.	
ridge		The back, or top of the back; a crest.	Middle English rigge.
ridgeband		The part of a harness which passes over the saddle, and supports the shafts of a cart; -- called also ridgerope, and ridger.	
ridgebone	Obsolete	The backbone.	
ridgel		Same as Ridgelling.	
ridgelet		A little ridge.	
ridgeling		A half-castrated male animal.	
ridgepiece		See Ridgepole — the timber forming the ridge of a roof, into which the rafters are secured.	
ridgeplate		See Ridgepole — the timber forming the ridge of a roof, into which the rafters are secured.	
ridgepole		The timber forming the ridge of a roof, into which the rafters are secured.	
ridgerope		See Life line (a), under Life.	
ridgingly		So as to form ridges.	
ridgy		Having a ridge or ridges; rising in a ridge.	
ridicle	Obsolete	Ridicule.	
ridicule		An object of sport or laughter; a laughingstock; a laughing matter. was so miserably ignorant, that his deficiencies made him the ridicule of his contemporaries.	Latin ridiculus.
ridiculer		One who ridicules.	
ridiculize	Obsolete	To make ridiculous; to ridicule.	
ridiculosity	Archaic	The quality or state of being ridiculous; ridiculousness; also, something ridiculous.	
ridiculous		Fitted to excite ridicule; absurd and laughable; unworthy of serious consideration; as, a ridiculous dress or behavior.	
riding		One of the three jurisdictions into which the county of York, in England, is divided; -- formerly under the government of reeve.	
ridotto		A favorite Italian public entertainment, consisting of music and dancing, -- held generally on fast eves.	Italian ridotto.
rie	Obsolete	See Rye — (Bot.) A grain yielded by a hardy cereal grass (Secale cereale), closely allied to wheat; also, the plant itself.	
rief	Obsolete	Robbery.	
rietboc		The reedbuck, a South African antelope (Cervicapra arundinacea); -- so called from its frequenting dry places covered with high grass or reeds.	
rifacimento		A remaking or recasting; an adaptation, esp. of a literary work or musical composition.	
rife		Prevailing; prevalent; abounding.	
riffle		A trough or sluice having cleats, grooves, or steps across the bottom for holding quicksilver and catching particles of gold when auriferous earth is washed; also, one of the cleats, grooves, or steps in such a trough.	
riffler		A curved file used in carving wool and marble.	
riffraff		Sweepings; refuse; the lowest order of society.	
rifle		To seize and bear away by force; to snatch away; to carry off.	
riflebird		Any one of several species of beautiful birds of Australia and New Guinea, of the genera Ptiloris and Craspidophora, allied to the paradise birds.	
rifleman		A soldier armed with a rifle.	
rifler		One who rifles; a robber.	
rifling		(a) The act or process of making the grooves in a rifled cannon or gun barrel.	
rift		p. p. of Rive — to rend asunder by force; to split; to cleave; as, to rive timber for rails or shingles.	Old Norse rypta.
rifter	Obsolete	A rafter.	
rig		To furnish with apparatus or gear; to fit with tackling.	
rig-veda		See Veda — the ancient sacred literature of the Hindoos; also, one of the four collections, called Rig-Veda, Yajur-Veda, Sama-Veda, and Atharva-Veda…	
rigadoon		A gay, lively dance for one couple, -- said to have been borrowed from Provence in France.	French rigaudon.
rigarion	Obsolete	See Irrigation — the act or process of irrigating, or the state of being irrigated; especially, the operation of causing water to flow over lands, for nourishing plants.	
rigel		A fixed star of the first magnitude in the left foot of the constellation Orion.	
rigescent		Growing stiff or numb.	
rigger		One who rigs or dresses; one whose occupation is to fit the rigging of a ship.	
rigging		DRess; tackle; especially (Naut.), the ropes, chains, etc., that support the masts and spars of a vessel, and serve as purchases for adjusting the sails, etc. See Illustr. of Ship and Sails.	
riggish	Obsolete	Like a rig or wanton.	
riggle	English dialect	See Wriggle — to move the body to and fro with short, writhing motions, like a worm; to squirm; to twist uneasily or quickly about.	
right		Straight; direct; not crooked; as, a right line.	Old English rihtan.
right-about	Colloquial	A turning directly about by the right, so as to face in the opposite direction; also, the quarter directly opposite; as, to turn to the right-about.	
right-angled		Containing a right angle or right angles; as, a right-angled triangle.	
right-hand		Situated or being on the right; nearer the right hand than the left; as, the right-hand side, room, or road.	
right-handed		Using the right hand habitually, or more easily than the left.	
right-handedness		The state or quality of being right-handed; hence, skill; dexterity.	
right-hearted		Having a right heart or disposition. -- Right"-heart`ed*ness, n.	
right-lined		Formed by right lines; rectilineal; as, a right-lined angle.	
right-minded		Having a right or honest mind. -- Right"-mind`ed*ness, n.	
right-running		Straight; direct.	
righten	Obsolete	To do justice to.	
righteous		Doing, or according with, that which is right; yielding to all their due; just; equitable; especially, free from wrong, guilt, or sin; holy; as, a righteous man or act; a righteous retribution.	
righteoused	Obsolete	Made righteous.	
righteously		In a righteous manner; as, to judge righteously.	
righteousness		The quality or state of being righteous; holiness; purity; uprightness; rectitude.	Middle English rightwisnes.
righter		One who sets right; one who does justice or redresses wrong.	
rightful		Consonant to justice; just; as, a rightful cause.	
rightfully		According to right or justice.	
rightfulness		The quality or state of being rightful; accordance with right and justice.	
rightless		Destitute of right.	
rightly		According to justice; according to the divine will or moral rectitude; uprightly; as, duty rightly performed.	
rightness		Straightness; as, the rightness of a line.	
rightward		Toward the right.	
rightwise	Obsolete	Righteous.	Middle English rightwise.
rightwisely	Obsolete	Righteously.	
rightwiseness	Obsolete	Righteousness.	
rigid		Firm; stiff; unyielding; not pliant; not flexible.	Latin rigidus.
rigidity		The quality or state of being rigid; want of pliability; the quality of resisting change of from; the amount of resistance with which a body opposes change of form; -- opposed to flexibility, ductility, malleability, and softness.	
rigidly		In a rigid manner; stiffly.	
rigidness		The quality or state of being rigid.	
rigidulous		Somewhat rigid or stiff; as, a rigidulous bristle.	
riglet		See Reglet — (Arch.) A flat, narrow molding, used chiefly to separate the parts or members of compartments or panels from one another, or doubled, turned, and interlaced so as to form knots, frets…	
rigmarole	Colloquial	A succession of confused or nonsencial statements; foolish talk; nonsense.	
rigol	Obsolete	A circle; hence, a diadem.	
rigolette		A woman's light scarflike head covering, usually knit or crocheted of wool.	
rigoll		A musical instrument formerly in use, consisting of several sticks bound together, but separated by beads, and played with a stick with a ball at its end.	
rigor		Rigidity; stiffness.	
rigorism		Rigidity in principle or practice; strictness; -- opposed to laxity.	
rigorist		One who is rigorous; -- sometimes applied to an extreme Jansenist.	
rigorous		Manifesting, exercising, or favoring rigor; allowing no abatement or mitigation; scrupulously accurate; exact; strict; severe; relentless; as, a rigorous officer of justice; a rigorous execution of law…	
rigsdag		See Legislature, Denmark.	
rigsdaler		A Danish coin worth about fifty-four cents.	
riksdaler		A Swedish coin worth about twenty-seven cents.	
rile		To render turbid or muddy; to stir up; to roil.	
rilievo		Same as Relief, n.,5.	
rill		A very small brook; a streamlet.	
rille		One of certain narrow, crooked valleys seen, by aid of the telescope, on the surface of the moon.	
rillet		A little rill.	
rim		The border, edge, or margin of a thing, usually of something circular or curving; as, the rim of a kettle or basin.	Old English rima.
rim-fire		Having the percussion fulminate in a rim surrounding the base, distinguished from center-fire; -- said of cartridges; also, using rim-fire cartridges; as, a rim-fire gun.	
rima		A narrow and elongated aperture; a cleft; a fissure.	
rimbase		A short cylinder connecting a trunnion with the body of a cannon. See Illust. of Cannon.	
rime		A rent or long aperture; a chink; a fissure; a crack.	Middle English rim.
rimer		A rhymer; a versifier.	
rimey	Obsolete	To compose in rhyme; to versify. rimeyed in their first Breton tongue.	
rimmer		An implement for cutting, trimming, or ornamenting the rim of anything, as the edges of pies, etc.; also, a reamer.	
rimose		Full of rimes, fissures, or chinks.	Latin rimosus.
rimosely		In a rimose manner.	
rimosity		State of being rimose.	
rimple		A fold or wrinkle. See Rumple.	
rimy		Abounding with rime; frosty.	
rincon		An interior corner; a nook; hence, an angular recess or hollow bend in a mountain, river, cliff, or the like.	
rind		The external covering or coat, as of flesh, fruit, trees, etc.; skin; hide; bark; peel; shell.	Old English rinde.
rinderpest		A highly contagious distemper or murrain, affecting neat cattle, and less commonly sheep and goats; -- called also cattle plague, Russian cattle plague, and steppe murrain.	German Rinderpest.
rindle		A small water course or gutter.	
rindless		Destitute of a rind.	
rindy		Having a rind or skin.	
rine	Obsolete	See Rind — the external covering or coat, as of flesh, fruit, trees, etc.; skin; hide; bark; peel; shell.	Middle English rinen, from Old English hrinan.
rined	Obsolete	Having a rind Milton.	
rinforzando		Increasing; strengthening; -- a direction indicating a sudden increase of force (abbreviated rf., rfz.) Cf.	
ring		To cause to sound, especially by striking, as a metallic body; as, to ring a bell.	Middle English ring, from Old English hring.
ring-necked		Having a well defined ring of color around the neck.	
ring-streaked		Having circular streaks or lines on the body; as, ring-streaked goats.	
ring-tailed		Having the tail crossed by conspicuous bands of color.	
ringbill		The ring-necked scaup duck; -- called also ring-billed blackhead. See Scaup.	
ringbird		The reed bunting.	
ringbolt		An eyebolt having a ring through the eye.	
ringbone		A morbid growth or deposit of bony matter between or on the small pastern and the great pastern bones.	
ringdove		A European wild pigeon (Columba palumbus) having a white crescent on each side of the neck, whence the name.	
ringed		Encircled or marked with, or as with, a ring or rings.	
ringent		Having the lips widely separated and gaping like an open mouth; as a ringent bilabiate corolla.	
ringer		One who, or that which, rings; especially, one who rings chimes on bells.	
ringhead		An instrument used for stretching woolen cloth.	
ringing		a & n. from Ring, v.	
ringingly		In a ringing manner.	
ringleader		The leader of a circle of dancers; hence, the leader of a number of persons acting together; the leader of a herd of animals.	
ringlestone		The ringed dotterel, or ring plover.	
ringlet		A small ring; a small circle; specifically, a fairy ring.	
ringman	Obsolete	The ring finger.	
ringmaster		One in charge of the performances (as of horses) within the ring in a circus.	
ringneck		(Zoöl.) Any one of several species of small plovers of the genus Ægialitis, having a ring around the neck.	
ringsail		See Ringtail,2.	
ringstraked		Ring-streaked.	
ringtail		(Zoöl.) A bird having a distinct band of color across the tail, as the hen harrier.	
ringtoss		A game in which the object is to toss a ring so that it will catch upon an upright stick.	
ringworm		A contagious affection of the skin due to the presence of a vegetable parasite, and forming ring-shaped discolored patches covered with vesicles or powdery scales.	
rink		The smooth and level extent of ice marked off for the game of curling.	Middle English rink.
rinker	Colloquial	One who skates at a rink.	
rinking	Colloquial	Skating in a rink.	
rinse		To wash lightly; to cleanse with a second or repeated application of water after washing.	Middle English rinsen.
rinser		One who, or that which, rinses.	
riot		Wanton or unrestrained behavior; uproar; tumult.	
rioter		One who riots; a reveler; a roisterer.	
riotise	Obsolete	Excess; tumult; revelry.	
riotour	Obsolete	A rioter.	
riotous		Involving, or engaging in, riot; wanton; unrestrained; luxurious.	
riotry		The act or practice of rioting; riot.	
rip		A wicker fish basket.	Middle English rippen.
riparian		Of or pertaining to the bank of a river; as, riparian rights.	
riparious		Growing along the banks of rivers; riparian.	Latin riparius.
ripe		Ready for reaping or gathering; having attained perfection; mature; -- said of fruits, seeds, etc.; as, ripe grain.	Old English ripe.
ripely		Maturely; at the fit time.	
ripen		To grow ripe; to become mature, as grain, fruit, flowers, and the like; as, grapes ripen in the sun.	
ripeness		The state or quality of being ripe; maturity;; completeness; perfection; as, the ripeness of grain; ripeness of manhood; ripeness of judgment.	
ripidolite		A translucent mineral of a green color and micaceous structure, belonging to the chlorite group; a hydrous silicate of alumina, magnesia, and iron; -- called also clinochlore.	
ripienist		A player in the ripieno portion of an orchestra. See Ripieno.	
ripieno		Filling up; supplementary; supernumerary; -- a term applied to those instruments which only swell the mass or tutti of an orchestra, but are not obbligato.	
ripler	Obsolete	One who brings fish from the seacoast to markets in inland towns.	
ripost		In fencing, a return thrust after a parry.	French riposte.
ripper		One who, or that which, rips; a ripping tool.	
ripple		An implement, with teeth like those of a comb, for removing the seeds and seed vessels from flax, broom corn, etc.	Middle English rypelen.
ripple-marked		HAving ripple marks.	
ripplet		A small ripple.	
ripplingly		In a rippling manner.	
ripply		Having ripples; as, ripply water; hence, resembling the sound of rippling water; as, ripply laughter; a ripply cove.	
riprap		A foundation or sustaining wall of stones thrown together without order, as in deep water or on a soft bottom.	
ripsaw		A handsaw with coarse teeth which have but a slight set, used for cutting wood in the direction of the fiber; -- called also ripping saw.	
riptowel	Obsolete	A gratuity given to tenants after they had reaped their lord's corn.	
ris	Obsolete	A bough or branch; a twig.	
rise		To move from a lower position to a higher; to ascend; to mount up. Specifically: -- (a) To go upward by walking, climbing, flying, or any other voluntary motion; as, a bird rises in the air; a fish rises to the bait.	Middle English risen, from Old English risan.
risen		p. p. & a. from Rise. 2.	
riser		One who rises; as, an early riser.	
rish	Obsolete	A rush (the plant).	
risibility		The quality of being risible; as, risibility is peculiar to the human species.	
risible		Having the faculty or power of laughing; disposed to laugh.	French risible, from Latin risibilis.
rising		Attaining a higher place; taking, or moving in, an upward direction; appearing above the horizon; ascending; as, the rising moon.	
risk		Hazard; danger; peril; exposure to loss, injury, or destruction.	
risker		One who risks or hazards.	
risky		Attended with risk or danger; hazardous.	
risorial		Pertaining to, or producing, laughter; as, the risorial muscles.	Latin ridere.
risotto		A kind of pottage.	
risque		Hazardous; risky; esp., fig., verging upon impropriety; dangerously close to, or suggestive of, what is indecent or of doubtful morality; as, a risqué story.	French risqué.
risquee		Hazardous; risky; esp., fig., verging upon impropriety; dangerously close to, or suggestive of, what is indecent or of doubtful morality; as, a risqué story.	
risse		imp. of Rise — to move from a lower position to a higher; to ascend; to mount up. Specifically: -- (a) To go upward by walking, climbing, flying, or any other voluntary motion; as…	
rissoid		Any one of very numerous species of small spiral gastropods of the genus Rissoa, or family Rissoidæ, found both in fresh and salt water.	Latin Rissoa.
rissole		A small ball of rich minced meat or fish, covered with pastry and fried.	
rist		3d pers. sing. pres. of Rise, contracted from riseth.	
rit		3d pers. ssing. pres. of Ride, contracted from rideth.	
ritardando		Retarding; -- a direction for slower time; rallentado.	
rite		The act of performing divine or solemn service, as established by law, precept, or custom; a formal act of religion or other solemn duty; a solemn observance; a ceremony; as, the rites of freemasonry.	
ritenuto		Held back; holding back; ritardando.	
ritornelle		(a) A short return or repetition; a concluding symphony to an air, often consisting of the burden of the song.	
ritornello		(a) A short return or repetition; a concluding symphony to an air, often consisting of the burden of the song.	Italian ritornello.
ritratto		A picture.	
ritual		Of or pertaining to rites or ritual; as, ritual service or sacrifices; the ritual law.	
ritualism		A system founded upon a ritual or prescribed form of religious worship; adherence to, or observance of, a ritual.	
ritualist		One skilled un, or attached to, a ritual; one who advocates or practices ritualism.	
ritualistic		Pertaining to, or in accordance with, a ritual; adhering to ritualism.	
ritually		By rites, or by a particular rite.	
rivage		(O.Eng.Law) A duty paid to the crown for the passage of vessels on certain rivers.	Anglo-Norman rivage.
rival		One who is in pursuit of the same object as another; one striving to reach or obtain something which another is attempting to obtain, and which one only can posses; a competitor; as, rivals in love; rivals for a crown.	Latin rivalis.
rivaless	Obsolete	A female rival.	
rivality	Obsolete	Rivalry; competition.	
rivalry		The act of rivaling, or the state of being a rival; a competition. -- Emulation; competition.	
rivalship		Rivalry.	
rive	English dialect	To rend asunder by force; to split; to cleave; as, to rive timber for rails or shingles.	Middle English riven.
rivel	Obsolete	To contract into wrinkles; to shrivel; to shrink; as, riveled fruit; riveled flowers.	
riven		p. p. & a. from Rive.	Middle English riven.
river		One who rives or splits.	Anglo-Norman rivere, from Old French riviere.
rivered		Supplied with rivers; as, a well rivered country.	
riveret	Obsolete	A rivulet.	
riverhood		The quality or state of being a river.	
riverling		A rivulet.	
riverside		The side or bank of a river.	
rivery		Having rivers; as, a rivery country.	
rivet		A metallic pin with a head, used for uniting two plates or pieces of material together, by passing it through them and then beating or pressing down the point so that it shall spread out and form a second head…	
riveter		One who rivets.	
riveting		The act of joining with rivets; the act of spreading out and clinching the end, as of a rivet, by beating or pressing.	
riviere		A necklace of diamonds or other precious stones, esp. one of several strings.	
rivose		Marked with sinuate and irregular furrows.	
rivulet		A small stream or brook; a streamlet.	Old French riveret.
rix-dollar		A name given to several different silver coins of Denmark, Holland, Sweden,, NOrway, etc., varying in value from about 30 cents to $1.10; also, a British coin worth about 36 cents, used in Ceylon and at the Cape of Good Hope.	
rixation	Obsolete	A brawl or quarrel.	Latin rīxārī.
rixatrix		A scolding or quarrelsome woman; a scold.	Latin rixor.
rixdaler		A Dutch silver coin, worth about $1.00.	
rizzar	Scots	To dry in the sun; as, rizzared haddock.	
