roach		(Zoöl.) (a) A European fresh-water fish of the Carp family (Leuciscus rutilus).	
roach-backed		Having a back like that of roach; -- said of a horse whose back a convex instead of a concave curve.	
road		A place where one may ride; an open way or public passage for vehicles, persons, and animals; a track for travel, forming a means of communication between one city, town, or place, and another.	Old English rad.
roadbed		In railroads, the bed or foundation on which the superstructure (ties, rails, etc.) rests; in common roads, the whole material laid in place and ready for travel.	
roadless		Destitute of roads.	
roadmaker		One who makes roads.	
roadmaster		One who has charge of the track; --called also roadmaster.	
roadside		Land adjoining a road or highway; the part of a road or highway that borders the traveled part.	
roadstead		An anchorage off shore.	
roadster		(Naut.) A clumsy vessel that works its way from one anchorage to another by means of the tides.	
roadway		A road; especially, the part traveled by carriages.	
roam		To go from place to place without any certain purpose or direction; to rove; to wander.	Middle English romen.
roamer		One who roams; a wanderer.	
roan		Having a bay, chestnut, brown, or black color, with gray or white thickly interspersed; -- said of a horse.	
roar		To cry with a full, loud, continued sound. Specifically: (a) To bellow, or utter a deep, loud cry, as a lion or other beast.	Old English rarian.
roarer		One who, or that which, roars. Specifically: (a) A riotous fellow; a roaring boy.	
roaring		A loud, deep, prolonged sound, as of a large beast, or of a person in distress, anger, mirth, etc., or of a noisy congregation.	
roaringly		In a roaring manner.	
roast		To cook by exposure to radiant heat before a fire; as, to roast meat on a spit, or in an oven open toward the fire and having reflecting surfaces within; also, to cook in a close oven.	Middle English rosten, from Old French rostir.
roaster		One who roasts meat.	
roasting		a. & n., from Roast, v.	
rob		The inspissated juice of ripe fruit, obtained by evaporation of the juice over a fire till it acquires the consistence of a sirup.	Middle English robben, from Anglo-Norman rober.
robalito		Any of several pikelike marine fishes of the West Indies and tropical America constituting the family Oxylabracidæ, esp. the largest species (Oxylabrax, syn.	
robalo		Any of several pikelike marine fishes of the West Indies and tropical America constituting the family Oxylabracidæ, esp. the largest species (Oxylabrax, syn.	
roband		See Roperand.	
robber		One who robs; in law, one who feloniously takes goods or money from the person of another by violence or by putting him in fear.	
robbery		The act or practice of robbing; theft.	Old French roberie.
robbin		A kind of package in which pepper and other dry commodities are sometimes exported from the East Indies.	
robe		An outer garment; a dress of a rich, flowing, and elegant style or make; hence, a dress of state, rank, office, or the like.	Middle English robe.
robe-de-chambre		A dressing gown, or morning gown.	
roberdsman		A bold, stout robber, or night thief; -- said to be so called from Robin Hood.	
robert		See Herb Robert, under Herb.	
robertsman		A bold, stout robber, or night thief; -- said to be so called from Robin Hood.	
robin	Dialect	(a) A small European singing bird (Erythacus rubecula), having a reddish breast; -- called also robin redbreast, robinet, and ruddock.	
robinet		(Zoöl.) (a) The chaffinch; -- called also roberd. (b) The European robin.	
robing		The act of putting on a robe.	
robinia		A genus of leguminous trees including the common locust of North America (Robinia Pseudocacia).	
roble		The California white oak (Quercus lobata).	
roborant		Strengthening. -- n. (Med.) A strengthening medicine; a tonic.	Latin roborans.
roborate	Obsolete	To give strength or support to; to confirm.	Latin roborare.
roboration	Obsolete	The act of strengthening.	Latin roboratio.
roborean	Obsolete	Made of oak.	
roboreous	Obsolete	Made of oak.	
robust		Evincing strength; indicating vigorous health; strong; sinewy; muscular; vigorous; sound; as, a robust body; robust youth; robust health.	Latin robustus.
robustly		In a robust manner.	
robustness		The quality or state of being robust.	
roc		A monstrous bird of Arabian mythology.	Spanish rocho.
rocaille		(a) Artificial rockwork made of rough stones and cement, as for gardens.	
rocambole		A name of Allium Scorodoprasum and A.	
roccellic		Pertaining to, or designating, a dibasic acid of the oxalic series found in archil (Roccella tinctoria, etc.), and other lichens, and extracted as a white crystalline substance C17H32O4.	
roccellin		A red dyestuff, used as a substitute for cochineal, archil, etc. It consists of the sodium salt of a complex azo derivative of naphtol.	
rochelime		Lime in the lump after it is burned; quicklime.	
rochelle		A seaport town in France.	
rochet		(Eccl.) A linen garment resembling the surplise, but with narrower sleeves, also without sleeves, worn by bishops, and by some other ecclesiastical dignitaries, in certain religious ceremonies.	
rock		See Roc — a monstrous bird of Arabian mythology.	Middle English rokken, from Aragonese roccian.
rockaway		Formerly, a light, low, four-wheeled carriage, with standing top, open at the sides, but having waterproof curtains which could be let down when occasion required; now, a somewhat similar, but heavier, carriage, inclosed…	
rockelay	Scots	See Rokelay — a short cloak.	
rocker		One who rocks; specifically, one who rocks a cradle.	
rockered		Shaped like a rocker; curved; as, a rockered keel.	
rockery		A mound formed of fragments of rock, earth, etc., and set with plants.	
rocket		(a) A cruciferous plant (Eruca sativa) sometimes eaten in Europe as a salad.	Italian rocchetta.
rocketer		A bird, especially a pheasant, which, being flushed, rises straight in the air like a rocket.	
rockfish		(a) Any one of several California scorpænoid food fishes of the genus Sebastichthys, as the red rockfish (S. ruber).	
rockiness		The state or quality of being rocky.	
rocking		Having a swaying, rolling, or back-and-forth movement; used for rocking.	
rocking-chair		A chair mounted on rockers, in which one may rock.	
rocking-horse		The figure of a horse, mounted upon rockers, for children to ride.	
rocking-stone		A stone, often of great size and weight, resting upon another stone, and so exactly poised that it can be rocked, or slightly moved, with but little force.	
rocklay	Scots	See Rokelay — a short cloak.	
rockless		Being without rocks.	
rockling		Any species of small marine fishes of the genera Onos and Rhinonemus (formerly Motella), allied to the cod.	
rockrose		A name given to any species of the genus Helianthemum, low shrubs or herbs with yellow flowers, especially the European H. vulgare and the American frostweed, H.	
rocksucker		A lamprey.	
rockweed		Any coarse seaweed growing on sea-washed rocks, especially Fucus.	
rockwood		Ligniform asbestus; also, fossil wood.	
rockwork		(Arch.) Stonework in which the surface is left broken and rough.	
rocky		Full of, or abounding in, rocks; consisting of rocks; as, a rocky mountain; a rocky shore.	
rocoa		The orange-colored pulp covering the seeds of the tropical plant Bixa Orellana, from which annotto is prepared.	
rococo		A florid style of ornamentation which prevailed in Europe in the latter part of the eighteenth century.	
rod		A straight and slender stick; a wand; hence, any slender bar, as of wood or metal (applied to various purposes).	
roddy	Obsolete	Full of rods or twigs.	
rode	Obsolete	Redness; complexion. imp. of Ride. See Rood, the cross.	
rodent		Gnawing; biting; corroding; (Med.) applied to a destructive variety of cancer or ulcer.	Latin rodens.
rodentia		An order of mammals having two (rarely four) large incisor teeth in each jaw, distant from the molar teeth.	
rodeo		A round-up. See Round-up.	
rodge		The gadwall.	
rodomel		Juice of roses mixed with honey.	
rodomont		A vain or blustering boaster; a braggart; a braggadocio.	
rodomontade		Vain boasting; empty bluster or vaunting; rant.	
rodomontadist		One who boasts.	
rodomontado		Rodomontade.	
rodomontador		A rodomontadist.	
rodsman		One who carries and holds a leveling staff, or rod, in a surveying party.	
roe		(a) A roebuck. See Roebuck. (b) The female of any species of deer.	Middle English ro, from Old English ra.
roebuck		A small European and Asiatic deer (Capreolus capræa) having erect, cylindrical, branched antlers, forked at the summit.	
roed		Filled with roe.	
roedeer		The roebuck.	
roestone		Same as Oölite.	
rogation		(Eccl.) Litany; supplication.	Latin rogatio.
rogatory		Seeking information; authorized to examine witnesses or ascertain facts; as, a rogatory commission.	
roger		A black flag with white skull and crossbones, formerly used by pirates; -- called also Jolly Roger.	Shelta roger.
rogue		(Eng.Law) A vagrant; an idle, sturdy beggar; a vagabond; a tramp.	Middle French rogue, from Old French rogre, from Old Norse hrokr.
roguery		The practices of a rogue; knavish tricks; cheating; fraud; dishonest practices.	
rogueship		The quality or state of being a rogue.	
roguish		Resembling, or characteristic of, a rogue; knavish.	
roguy	Obsolete	Roguish.	
rohob		An inspissated juice. See Rob.	
roil		To render turbid by stirring up the dregs or sediment of; as, to roil wine, cider, etc., in casks or bottles; to roil a spring.	
roily		Turbid; as, roily water.	
roin	Obsolete	See Royne — to bite; to gnaw.	
roinish	Obsolete	See Roynish — mangy; scabby; hence, mean; paltry; troublesome.	
roint		See Aroint — stand off, or begone.	
roist		See Roister — to bluster; to swagger; to bully; to be bold, noisy, vaunting, or turbulent.	
roister		To bluster; to swagger; to bully; to be bold, noisy, vaunting, or turbulent.	Old French rustre, from Latin rusticus.
roisterer		A blustering, turbulent fellow.	
roisterly		Blustering; violent.	
rokambole		See Rocambole — a name of Allium Scorodoprasum and A.	
roke		Mist; smoke; damp	
rokeage	Dialect	Parched Indian corn, pounded up and mixed with sugar; -- called also yokeage.	
rokee	Dialect	Parched Indian corn, pounded up and mixed with sugar; -- called also yokeage.	
rokelay	Scots	A short cloak.	
roky	English dialect	Misty; foggy; cloudy.	
role		A part, or character, performed by an actor in a drama; hence, a part of function taken or assumed by any one; as, he has now taken the rôle of philanthropist.	French rôle.
roll		To cause to revolve by turning over and over; to move by turning on an axis; to impel forward by causing to turn over and over on a supporting surface; as, to roll a wheel, a ball, or a barrel.	
rollable		Capable of being rolled.	
rollejee		A kind of sausage, made in a bag of tripe, sliced and fried, famous among the Dutch of New Amsterdam and still known, esp. in New Jersey.	
roller		One who, or that which, rolls; especially, a cylinder, sometimes grooved, of wood, stone, metal, etc., used in husbandry and the arts.	
rolley		A small wagon used for the underground work of a mine.	
rollic	Colloquial	To move or play in a careless, swaggering manner, with a frolicsome air; to frolic; to sport; commonly in the form rollicking.	
rolliche		A kind of sausage, made in a bag of tripe, sliced and fried, famous among the Dutch of New Amsterdam and still known, esp. in New Jersey.	
rollichie		A kind of sausage, made in a bag of tripe, sliced and fried, famous among the Dutch of New Amsterdam and still known, esp. in New Jersey.	
rolling		Rotating on an axis, or moving along a surface by rotation; turning over and over as if on an axis or a pivot; as, a rolling wheel or ball.	
rolling-pin		A cylindrical piece of wood or other material, with which paste or dough may be rolled out and reduced to a proper thickness.	
rollway		A place prepared for rolling logs into a stream.	
rolly-poly		A kind of pudding made of paste spread with fruit, rolled into a cylindrical form, and boiled or steamed. -- a.	
rolly-pooly		A game in which a ball, rolling into a certain place, wins.	
roly-poly		Rolly-poly.	
romage	Obsolete	See Rummage — a searching carefully by looking into every corner, and by turning things over.	
romaic		Of or relating to modern Greece, and especially to its language. -- n.	
romajikai		An association, including both Japanese and Europeans, having for its object the changing of the Japanese method of writing by substituting Roman letters for Japanese characters.	
roman		Of or pertaining to Rome, or the Roman people; like or characteristic of Rome, the Roman people, or things done by Romans; as, Roman fortitude; a Roman aqueduct; Roman art.	
romance		A species of fictitious writing, originally composed in meter in the Romance dialects, and afterward in prose, such as the tales of the court of Arthur, and of Amadis of Gaul; hence, any fictitious and wonderful tale…	Middle English romauns.
romancer		One who romances.	
romancist		A romancer.	
romancy		Romantic.	
romanesque		(Arch.) Somewhat resembling the Roman; -- applied sometimes to the debased style of the later Roman empire, but esp. to the more developed architecture prevailing from the 8th century to the 12th.	
romanic		Of or pertaining to Rome or its people.	
romanish		Pertaining to Romanism.	
romanism		The tenets of the Church of Rome; the Roman Catholic religion.	
romanist		One who adheres to Romanism.	
romanize		To Latinize; to fill with Latin words or idioms.	
romanizer		One who Romanizes.	
romansch		The language of the Grisons in Switzerland, a corruption of the Latin.	
romant	Obsolete	A romaunt.	
romantic		Of or pertaining to romance; involving or resembling romance; hence, fanciful; marvelous; extravagant; unreal; as, a romantic tale; a romantic notion; a romantic undertaking.	
romantical		Romantic.	
romanticaly		In a romantic manner.	
romanticism		A fondness for romantic characteristics or peculiarities; specifically, in modern literature, an aiming at romantic effects…	
romanticist		One who advocates romanticism in modern literature.	
romanticly		Romantically.	
romanticness		The state or quality of being romantic; widness; fancifulness.	
romany		The language spoken among themselves by the gypsies.	
romanza		See Romance,5.	
romaunt		A romantic story in verse; as, the O, hearken, loving hearts and bold, Unto my wild romaunt.	Old French romaunt.
rombowline		Old, condemned canvas, rope, etc., unfit for use except in chafing gear.	
romeine		A mineral of a hyacinth or honey-yellow color, occuring in square octahedrons.	
romeite		A mineral of a hyacinth or honey-yellow color, occuring in square octahedrons.	
romekin	Obsolete	A drinking cup.	
romeward		Toward Rome, or toward the Roman Catholic Church.	
romic		A method of notation for all spoken sounds, proposed by Mr. Sweet; -- so called because it is based on the common Roman-letter alphabet.	
romish		Belonging or relating to Rome, or to the Roman Catholic Church; -- frequently used in a disparaging sense; as, the Romish church; the Romish religion, ritual, or ceremonies.	
romist		A Roman Catholic.	
romp		To play rudely and boisterously; to leap and frisk about in play.	
romping		Inclined to romp; indulging in romps.	
rompingly		In a romping manner.	
rompish		Given to rude play; inclined to romp. --- Romp ish*ness, n.	
rompu		Broken, as an ordinary; cut off, or broken at the top, as a chevron, a bend, or the like.	French rompu.
roncador		Any one of several species of California sciænoid food fishes, especially Roncador Stearnsi, which is an excellent market fish, and the red roncador (Corvina, or Johnius, saturna).	
ronchil		An American marine food fish (Bathymaster signatus) of the North Pacific coast, allied to the tilefish.	
ronco		See Croaker, n.,	
rondache		A circular shield carried by foot soldiers.	
ronde		A kind of script in which the heavy strokes are nearly upright, giving the characters when taken together a round look.	
rondeau		A species of lyric poetry so composed as to contain a refrain or repetition which recurs according to a fixed law, and a limited number of rhymes recurring also by rule.	French rondeau, from Old French rondel.
rondel		Etym: (a) Same as Rondeau. (b) Specifically, a particular form of rondeau containing fourteen lines in two rhymes, the refrain being a repetition of the first and second lines as the seventh and eighth…	
rondeletia		A tropical genus of rubiaceous shrubs which often have brilliant flowers.	
rondle		A round mass, plate, or disk; especially (Metal.), the crust or scale which forms upon the surface of molten metal in the crucible.	
rondo		(Mus.) A composition, vocal or instrumental, commonly of a lively, cheerful character, in which the first strain recurs after each of the other strains.	Italian rondo, from French rondeau, from Old French rondel.
rondure		Roundness; plumpness.	
rong	Obsolete	imp. & p. p. of Ring.	
rongeur		An instrument for removing small rough portions of bone.	
ronin		In Japan, under the feudal system, a samurai who had renounced his clan or who had been discharged or ostracized and had become a wanderer without a lord; an outcast; an outlaw.	Japanese 浪人.
ronion		A mangy or scabby creature. the rump-fed ronyon cries.	
ronne		obs. imp. pl., and Ron"nen (, obs. p. p. of Renne, to run.	
ronnen		obs. imp. pl., and Ron"nen (, obs. p. p. of Renne, to run.	
rontgen		Of or pertaining to the German physicist Wilhelm Konrad Röntgen, or the rays discovered by him; as, Röntgen apparatus.	
rontgenize		To render (air or other gas) conducting by the passage of Röntgen rays.	
ronyon		A mangy or scabby creature. the rump-fed ronyon cries.	
rood		A representation in sculpture or in painting of the cross with Christ hanging on it.	Middle English rood, from Old English rod.
roodebok		The pallah.	
roody		Rank in growth.	
roof		(Arch.) The cover of any building, including the roofing (see Roofing) and all the materials and construction necessary to carry and maintain the same upon the walls or other uprights.	Middle English rof, from Old English hrof.
roofer		One who puts on roofs.	
roofing		The act of covering with a roof.	
roofless		Having no roof; as, a roofless house.	
rooflet		A small roof, covering, or shelter.	
rooftree		The beam in the angle of a roof; hence, the roof itself.	
roofy		Having roofs.	
rook		(Zoöl.) A European bird (Corvus frugilegus) resembling the crow, but smaller.	
rookery		The breeding place of a colony of rooks; also, the birds themselves.	
rooky	Obsolete	Misty; gloomy.	
room		Unobstructed spase; space which may be occupied by or devoted to any object; compass; extent of place, great or small; as, there is not room for a house; the table takes up too much room.	Middle English rome, from Old English rume.
roomage	Obsolete	Space; place; room.	
roomer	Colloquial	A lodger.	
roomful		Abounding with room or rooms; roomy.	
roomily		Spaciously.	
roominess		The quality or state of being roomy; spaciousness; as, the roominess of a hall.	
roomless		Being without room or rooms.	
roommate		One of twe or more occupying the same room or rooms; one who shares the occupancy of a room or rooms; a chum.	
roomth	Obsolete	Room; space.	Middle English roomth.
roomthy	Obsolete	Roomy; spacious.	
roomy		Having ample room; spacious; large; as, a roomy mansion; a roomy deck.	
roon		Vermilion red; red.	
roop	English dialect	See Roup — to cry or shout; hence, to sell by auction.	Middle English ropen, from Old English hropan.
roorbach		A defamatory forgery or falsehood published for purposes of political intrigue.	
roorback		A defamatory forgery or falsehood published for purposes of political intrigue.	
roost		The pole or other support on which fowls rest at night; a perch.	Old English hrost.
roostcock	English dialect	The male of the domestic fowl; a cock.	
rooster		The male of the domestic fowl; a cock.	
root		To turn up the earth with the snout, as swine.	Middle English wroten, from Old English wrotan.
rootcap		A mass of parenchym	
rooted		Having taken root; firmly implanted; fixed in the heart. -- Root ed*ness, n.	
rooter		One who, or that which, roots; one that tears up by the roots.	
rootery		A pile of roots, set with plants, mosses, etc., and used as an ornamental object in gardening.	
rootless		Destitute of roots.	
rootlet		A radicle; a little root.	
rootstock		A perennial underground stem, producing leafly s	
rooty		Full of roots; as, rooty ground.	
ropalic		See Rhopalic — applied to a line or verse in which each successive word has one more syllable than the preceding.	
rope		A large, stout cord, usually one not less than an inch in circumference, made of strands twisted or braided together.	Old English rap.
rope-yarn		the yarn or thread of any stuff of which the strands of a rope are made.	
ropeband		A small piece of spun yarn or marline, used to fasten the head of the sail to the spar.	
ropedancer		One who dances, walks, or performs acrobatic feats, on a rope extended through the air at some height. -- Rope"dan`cing, n.	
roper		One who ropes goods; a packer.	
ropery		A place where ropes are made.	
ropewalk		A long, covered walk, or a low, level building, where ropes are manufactured.	
ropewalker		A ropedancer.	
ropily		In a ropy manner; in a viscous or glutinous manner.	
ropiness		Quality of being ropy; viscosity.	
ropish		Somewhat ropy.	
ropy		capable of being drawn into a thread, as a glutinous substance; stringy; viscous; tenacious; glutinous; as ropy sirup; ropy lees.	Middle English ropy.
roque		A form of croquet modified for greater accuracy of play.	
roquefort		A highly flavored blue-molded cheese, made at Roquefort, department of Aveyron, France.	
roquelaure		A cloak reaching about to, or just below, the knees, worn in the 18th century.	
roquet		To hit, as another's ball, with one's own ball.	
roral		Of or pertaining to dew; consisting of dew; dewy.	Latin ros.
roration		A falling of dew.	
roric		Of or pertaining to dew; resembling dew; dewy.	Latin ros.
rorid		Dewy; bedewed.	Latin roridus.
roriferous		generating or producing dew.	Latin rorifer.
rorifluent		Flowing with dew.	Latin ros.
rorqual		A very large North Atlantic whalebone whale (Physalus antiquorum, or Balænoptera physalus).	Norwegian røyrkval, from Old Norse reyðarhvalr.
rorulent		(Zoöl.) Having the surface appearing as if dusty, or covered with fine dew.	
rosaceous		(Bot.) (a) Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Rosaceæ) of which the rose is the type.	
rosacic	Obsolete	Pertaining to, or designating, an acid (called also lithic acid) found in certain red precipitates of urine.	
rosalgar	Obsolete	realgar. chaucer.	
rosalia		A form of melody in which a phrase or passage is successively repeated, each time a step or half step higher; a melodic sequence.	
rosaniline		A complex nitrogenous base, C20H21N3O, obtained by oxidizing a mixture of aniline and toluidine, as a colorless crystalline substance which forms red salts.	
rosarian		A cultivator of roses.	
rosary		A bed of roses, or place where roses grow.	
roscid		Containing, or consisting of, dew; dewy.	Latin roscidus.
roscoelite		A green micaceous mineral occurring in minute scales.	
rose		imp. of Rise — to move from a lower position to a higher; to ascend; to mount up. Specifically: -- (a) To go upward by walking, climbing, flying, or any other voluntary motion; as…	
rose-colored		Having the color of a pink rose; rose-pink; of a delicate pink color.	
rose-cut		Cut flat on the reverse, and with a convex face formed of triangular facets in rows; -- said of diamonds and other precious stones.	
rose-pink		Having a pink color like that of the rose, or like the pigment called rose pink.	
rose-red		Red as a rose; specifically (Zoöl.), of a pure purplish red color.	
rose-rial		A name of several English gold coins struck in different reigns and having having different values; a rose noble.	
rose-water		Having the odor of rose water; hence, affectedly nice or delicate; sentimental.	
roseal	Obsolete	resembling a rose in smell or color.	
roseate		Full of roses; rosy; as, roseate bowers.	
rosebay	Obsolete	(a) the oleander. (b) Any shrub of the genus Rhododendron. (c) An herb (Epilobium spicatum) with showy purple flowers, common in Europe and North America; -- called also great willow herb.	
rosebud		The flower of a rose before it opens, or when but partially open.	
rosebush		The bush or shrub which bears roses.	
rosedrop		A lozenge having a rose flavor.	
rosefinch		Any one of numerous species of Asiatic finches of the genera Carpodacus, and Propasser, and allied genera, in which the male is more or less colored with rose red.	
rosefish		A large marine scorpænoid food fish (Sebastes marinus) found on the northern coasts of Europe and America. called also red perch, hemdurgan, Norway haddok, and also, erroneously, snapper, bream, and bergylt.	
rosehead		A many-sided pyramidal head upon a nail; also a nail with such a head.	
roseine		See Magenta — an aniline dye obtained as an amorphous substance having a green bronze surface color, which dissolves to a shade of red; also, the color; -- so called from Magenta, in Italy…	
roselite		A hydrous arsenite of cobalt, occuring in small red crystals, allied to erythrite.	
rosella		A beautiful Australian parrakeet (Platycercus eximius) often kept as a cage bird.	
roselle		a malvaceous plant (Hibiscus Sabdariffa) cultivated in the east and West Indies for its fleshy calyxes, which are used for making tarts and jelly and an acid drink.	
rosemaloes		The liquid storax of the East Indian Liquidambar orientalis.	
rosemary		A labiate shrub (Rosmarinus officinalis) with narrow grayish leaves, growing native in the southern part of France, Spain, and Italy, also in Asia Minor and in China.	
rosen	Obsolete	Consisting of roses; rosy.	
roseo-		A prefix (also used adjectively) signifying rose-red; specifically used to designate certain rose-red compounds (called roseo-cobaltic compounds) of cobalt with ammonia.	
roseola		A rose-colored efflorescence upon the skin, occurring in circumscribed patches of little or no elevation and often alternately fading and reviving; also…	
roser	Obsolete	A rosier; a rosebush.	
roseroot		A fleshy-leaved herb (Rhodiola rosea); rosewort; -- so called because the roots have the odor of roses.	
rosery		A place where roses are cultivated; a nursery of roses. See Rosary, 1.	
roset		A red color used by painters.	
rosette		An imitation of a rose by means of ribbon or other material, -- used as an ornament or a badge.	French rosette.
rosewood		A valuable cabinet wood of a dark red color, streaked and variegated with black, obtained from several tropical leguminous trees of the genera Dalbergia and Machærium.	
roseworm		The larva of any one of several species of lepidopterous insects which feed upon the leaves, buds, or blossoms of the rose, especially Cacæcia rosaceana, which rolls up the leaves for a nest, and devours both the leaves and buds.	
rosewort		(a) Roseroot. (b) Any plant nearly related to the rose.	
rosicrucian		One who, in the 17th century and the early part of the 18th, claimed to belong to a secret society of philosophers deeply versed in the secrets of nature, -- the alleged society having existed, it was stated…	
rosied		Decorated with roses, or with the color of roses.	
rosier	Obsolete	A rosebush; roses, collectively.	
rosily		In a rosy manner.	
rosin		The hard, amber-colored resin left after distilling off the volatile oil of turpentine; colophony.	
rosiness		The quality of being rosy.	
rosinweed		(a) The compass plant. See under Compass. (b) A name given in California to various composite plants which secrete resins or have a resinous smell.	
rosiny		like rosin, or having its qualities.	
rosland	English dialect	heathy land; land full of heather; moorish or watery land.	
rosmarine	Obsolete	Dew from the sea; sea dew.	
rosolic		Pertaining to, or designating, a complex red dyestuff (called rosolic acid) which is analogous to rosaniline and aurin.	
ross	English dialect	The rough, scaly matter on the surface of the bark of trees.	
rossel	Obsolete	Light land; rosland.	
rosselly	Obsolete	Loose; light.	
rost	Scots	See Roust — to rouse; to disturb; as, to roust one out.	
rostel		same as Rostellum.	
rostellar		Pertaining to a rostellum.	
rostellate		Having a rostellum, or small beak; terminating in a beak.	
rostelliform		Having the form of a rostellum, or small beak.	
rostellum		A small beaklike process or extension of some part; a small rostrum; as, the rostellum of the stigma of violets, or of the operculum of many mosses; the rostellum on the head of a tapeworm.	
roster		A register or roll showing the order in which officers, enlisted men, companies, or regiments are called on to serve.	
rostra		See Rostrum, 2.	
rostral		Of or pertaining to the beak or snout of an animal, or the beak of a ship; resembling a rostrum, esp., the rostra at Rome, or their decorations. adorned with rostral crowns and naval ornaments.	
rostrate		Having a process resembling the beak of a bird; beaked; rostellate.	
rostrated		Having a process resembling the beak of a bird; beaked; rostellate.	
rostrifera		A division of pectinibranchiate gastropods, having the head prolonged into a snout which is not retractile.	
rostriform		Having the form of a beak.	
rostrulum		A little rostrum, or beak, as of an insect.	
rostrum		Hence, a stage for public speaking; the pulpit or platform occupied by an orator or public speaker.	Latin rostrum.
rosulate		Arranged in little roselike clusters; -- said of leaves and bracts.	
rosy		Resembling a rose in color, form, or qualities; blooming; red; blushing; also, adorned with roses.	
rot		To undergo a process common to organic substances by which they lose the cohesion of their parts and pass through certain chemical changes, giving off usually in some stages of the process more or less offensive odors…	Middle English rotten.
rota		An ecclesiastical court of Rome, called also Rota Romana, that takes cognizance of suits by appeal.	Latin rota.
rotacism		See Rhotacism — an oversounding, or a misuse, of the letter r; specifically (Phylol.), the tendency, exhibited in the Indo-European languages, to change s to r, as wese to were.	
rotal		Relating to wheels or to rotary motion; rotary.	
rotalite		Any fossil foraminifer of the genus Rotalia, abundant in the chalk formation.	Latin rotalis.
rotary		Turning, as a wheel on its axis; pertaining to, or resembling, the motion of a wheel on its axis; rotatory; as, rotary motion.	
rotascope		Same as Gyroscope, 1.	
rotate		Having the parts spreading out like a wheel; wheel-shaped; as, a rotate spicule or scale; a rotate corolla, i.e., a monopetalous corolla with a flattish border, and no tube or a very short one.	Latin rotatus.
rotated		Turned round, as a wheel; also, wheel-shaped; rotate.	
rotation		The act of turning, as a wheel or a solid body on its axis, as distinguished from the progressive motion of a revolving round another body or a distant point; thus, the daily turning of the earth on its axis is a rotation…	Latin rotationem.
rotative		turning, as a wheel; rotary; rotational.	
rotator		(Anat.) that which gives a rotary or rolling motion, as a muscle which partially rotates or turns some part on its axis.	
rotatoria		Same as Rotifera.	
rotatory		Turning as on an axis; rotary.	
rotche		A very small arctic sea bird (Mergulus alle, or Alle alle) common on both coasts of the Atlantic in winter; -- called also little auk, dovekie, rotch, rotchie, and sea dove.	
rotchet		The European red gurnard (Trigla pini).	
rotella		Any one of numerous species of small, polished, brightcolored gastropods of the genus Rotella, native of tropical seas.	
rotgut	Slang	Bad small beer.	
rother	Obsolete	Bovine. -- n.	
rotifer		One of the Rotifera. See Illust. in Appendix.	
rotifera		An order of minute worms which usually have one or two groups of vibrating cilia on the head, which, when in motion, often give an appearance of rapidly revolving wheels.	
rotiform		Wheel-shaped; as, rotiform appendages.	
rotograph		A photograph printed by a process in which a strip or roll of sensitized paper is automatically fed over the negative so that a series of prints are made, and are then developed, fixed, cut apart, and washed at a very rapid rate.	
rotor		The rotating part of a generator or motor.	
rotta		See Rota — an ecclesiastical court of Rome, called also Rota Romana, that takes cognizance of suits by appeal.	
rotten		Having rotted; putrid; decayed; as, a rotten apple; rotten meat. Hence: (a) Offensive to the smell; fetid; disgusting.	Middle English roten, from Old Norse rotinn.
rotula		The patella, or kneepan.	
rotular		Of or pertaining to the rotula, or kneepan.	
rotund		Round; circular; spherical.	Latin rotundus.
rotunda		A round building; especially, one that is round both on the outside and inside, like the Pantheon at Rome.	
rotundate		Rounded; especially, rounded at the end or ends, or at the corners.	
rotundifolious		Having round leaves.	
rotundity		The state or quality of being rotu Smite flat the thick rotundity o'the world!	
rotundness		Roundness; rotundity.	
rotundo		See Rotunda — a round building; especially, one that is round both on the outside and inside, like the Pantheon at Rome.	
roture		(Fr. & Canadian Law) A feudal tenure of lands by one who has no privileges of nobility…	
roturer	Obsolete	A roturier.	
roturier		A person who is not of noble birth; specif., a freeman who during the prevalence of feudalism held allodial land.	
roty	Obsolete	To make rotten.	
rouble		A coin. See Ruble.	
rouche		See Ruche — a plaited, quilled, or goffered strip of lace, net, ribbon, or other material, -- used in place of collars or cuffs, and as a trimming for women's dresses and bonnets.	
roue		One devoted to a life of sensual pleasure; a debauchee; a rake.	
rouet		A small wheel formerly fixed to the pan of firelocks for discharging them.	
rouge		(Chem.) A red amorphous powder consisting of ferric oxide.	French rouge, from Latin rubeus.
rougecroix		One of the four pursuivants of the English college of arms.	
rough		Having inequalities, small ridges, or points, on the surface; not smooth or plain; as, a rough board; a rough stone; rough cloth.	Old English ruh.
rough-footed		Feather-footed; as, a rough-footed dove.	
rough-grained		Having a rough grain or fiber; hence, figuratively, having coarse traits of character; not polished; brisque.	
rough-legged		Having the legs covered with feathers; -- said of a bird. rough-legged hawk.	
roughcast		To form in its first rudiments, without revision, correction, or polish.	
roughcaster		One who roughcasts.	
roughdraw		To draw or delineate rapidly and by way of a first sketch.	
roughdry		in laundry work, to dry without smoothing or ironing.	
roughen		To make rough.	
roughhead		The redfin.	
roughhew		To hew coarsely, without smoothing; as, to roughhew timber.	
roughhewer		One who roughhews.	
roughhewn		Hewn coarsely without smoothing; unfinished; not polished.	
roughing-in		The first coat of plaster laid on brick; also, the process of applying it.	
roughish		Somewhat rough.	
roughleg		Any one of several species of large hawks of the genus Archibuteo, having the legs feathered to the toes.	
roughly		In a rough manner; unevenly; harshly; rudely; severely; austerely.	
roughness		The quality or state of being rough.	
roughrider		One who breaks horses; especially (Mil.), a noncommissioned officer in the British cavalry, whose duty is to assist the riding master.	
roughscuff	Colloquial	A rough, coarse fellow; collectively, the lowest class of the people; the rabble; the riffraff.	
roughsetter		A mason who builds rough stonework.	
roughshod		Shod with shoes armed with points or calks; as, a roughshod horse.	
roughstrings		Pieces of undressed timber put under the steps of a wooden stair for their support.	
rought		imp. of Reach. imp. of Reck, to care.	
roughtail		Any species of small ground snakes of the family Uropeltidæ; -- so called from their rough tails.	
roughwork		To work over coarsely, without regard to nicety, smoothness, or finish.	
roughwrought		Wrought in a rough, unfinished way; worked over coarsely.	
rouk	Obsolete	See 5th Ruck, and Roke.	
roulade		A smoothly running passage of short notes (as semiquavers, or sixteenths) uniformly grouped, sung upon one long syllable, as in Handel's oratorios.	French roulade.
rouleau		A little roll; a roll of coins put up in paper, or something resembling such a roll.	
roulette		A game of chance, in which a small ball is made to move round rapidly on a circle divided off into numbered red and black spaces, the one on which it stops indicating the result of a variety of wagers permitted by the game.	
rouly-pouly		See Rolly-pooly — a game in which a ball, rolling into a certain place, wins.	
roumanian		Of or pertaining to Roumania.	
roun	Obsolete	To whisper.	Old English runian.
rounce		The handle by which the bed of a hand press, holding the form of type, etc., is run in under the platen and out again; -- sometimes applied to the whole apparatus by which the form is moved under the platen.	
rounceval	Obsolete	Large; strong; -- from the gigantic bones shown at Roncesvalles, and alleged to be those of old heroes.	
rouncy	Obsolete	A common hackney horse; a nag. he rode upon a rouncy as he could.	Anglo-Norman rouncie.
round		Having every portion of the surface or of the circumference equally distant from the center; spherical; circular; having a form approaching a spherical or a circular shape; orbicular; globular; as, a round ball.	Middle English rounen, from Old English runian.
round-arm		Applied to the method delivering the ball in bowling, by swinging the arm horizontally.	
round-backed		Having a round back or shoulders; round-shouldered.	
round-shouldered		Having the shoulders stooping or projecting; round-backed.	
round-up		The act of collecting or gathering together scattered cattle by riding around them and driving them in.	
roundabout		Circuitous; going round; indirect; as, roundabout speech.	
roundaboutness		The quality of being roundabout; circuitousness.	
rounded		Modified by contraction of the lip opening; labialized; labial. See Guide to Pronunciation, § 11.	
roundel		Anything having a round form; a round figure; a circle.	Middle French rondelet.
roundelay		(Poetry) See Rondeau, and Rondel.	Middle French rondelet.
rounder		One who rounds; one who comes about frequently or regularly.	
roundfish		(a) Any ordinary market fish, exclusive of flounders, sole, halibut, and other flatfishes.	
roundhead		A nickname for a Puritan. See Roundheads, the, in the Dictionary of Noted Names in Fiction.	
roundheaded		Having a round head or top.	
roundhouse		(Naut.) (a) A cabin or apartament on the after part of the quarter-deck, having the poop for its roof; -- sometimes called the coach.	
rounding		Round or nearly round; becoming round; roundish.	
roundish		Somewhat round; as, a roundish seed; a roundish figure. -- Round"ish*ness, n.	
roundlet		A little circle.	Middle English roundelet, from Middle French rondelet.
roundly		In a round form or manner.	
roundness		The quality or state of being round in shape; as, the roundness of the globe, of the orb of the sun, of a ball, of a bowl, a column, etc.	
roundridge		To form into round ridges by plowing.	
roundsman		A patrolman; also, a policeman who acts as an inspector over the rounds of the patrolmen.	
roundtop		A top; a platform at a masthead; -- so called because formerly round in shape.	
roundure	Obsolete	Roundness; a round or circle.	
roundworm		A nematoid worm.	
roup	Scots	To cry or shout; hence, to sell by auction.	
rousant		Rising; -- applied to a bird in the attitude of rising; also, sometmes, to a bird in profile with wings addorsed.	
rouse		To pull or haul strongly and all together, as upon a rope, without the assistance of mechanical appliances.	Middle English rowsen.
rouser		One who, or that which, rouses.	
rousing		Having power to awaken or excite; exciting.	
rousingly		In a rousing manner.	
roussette		(Zoöl.) A fruit bat, especially the large species (Pieropus vulgaris) inhabiting the islands of the Indian ocean.	
roust	English dialect	To rouse; to disturb; as, to roust one out.	
roustabout		A laborer, especially a deck hand, on a river steamboat, who moves the cargo, loads and unloads wood, and the like; in an opprobrious sense, a shiftless vagrant who lives by chance jobs.	
rout		A disorderly and tumultuous crowd; a mob; hence, the rabble; the herd of common people. the endless routs of wretched thralls.	Middle English routen.
route		The course or way which is traveled or passed, or is to be passed; a passing; a course; a road or path; a march.	Old French route.
router		(a) A plane made like a spokeshave, for working the inside edges of circular sashes.	
routhe	Obsolete	Ruth; sorrow.	
routinary		Involving, or pertaining to, routine; ordinary; customary.	
routine		A round of business, amusement, or pleasure, daily or frequently pursued; especially, a course of business or offical duties regularly or frequently returning.	French routine.
routinism		the practice of doing things with undiscriminating, mechanical regularity.	
routinist		One who habituated to a routine.	
routish	Obsolete	Uproarious; riotous.	
routously		With that violation of law called a rout. See 5th Rout, 4.	
roux		A thickening, made of flour, for soups and gravies.	
rove		To draw through an eye or aperture.	
rover		One who practices robbery on the seas; a pirate.	Middle English roven.
roving		The operatin of forming the rove, or slightly twisted sliver or roll of wool or cotton, by means of a machine for the purpose, called a roving frame, or roving machine.	
rovingly		In a wandering manner.	
rovingness		The state of roving.	
row		To propel with oars, as a boat or vessel, along the surface of water; as, to row a boat.	Middle English rowen, from Old English rowan.
rowable		That may be rowed, or rowed upon.	
rowan		Rowan tree.	
rowboat		A boat designed to be propelled by oars instead of sails.	
rowdy		One who engages in rows, or noisy quarrels; a ruffianly fellow.	
rowdydow	Vulgar	Hubbub; uproar.	
rowdydowdy	Vulgar	Uproarious.	
rowdyish		Resembling a rowdy in temper or conduct; characteristic of a rowdy.	
rowdyism		the conduct of a rowdy.	
rowed		Formed into a row, or rows; having a row, or rows; as, a twelve-rowed ear of corn.	
rowel		The little wheel of a spur, with sharp points.	
rowen		A stubble field left unplowed till late in the autumn, that it may be cropped by cattle.	
rower		One who rows with an oar.	
rowett		See Rowen — a stubble field left unplowed till late in the autumn, that it may be cropped by cattle.	
rowlock		A contrivance or arrangement serving as a fulcrum for an oar in rowing.	
rown	Obsolete	To whisper.	
rowport		An opening in the side of small vessels of war, near the surface of the water, to facilitate rowing in calm weather.	
roxburgh		A style of bookbinding in which the back is plain leather, the sides paper or cloth, the top gilt-edged, but the front and bottom left uncut.	
royal		Kingly; pertaining to the crown or the sovereign; suitable for a king or queen; regal; as, royal power or prerogative; royal domains; the royal family; royal state.	Old French roial, from Latin regalis.
royalet		A petty or powerless king. there were at this time two other royalets, as only kings by his leave.	
royalism		the principles or conduct of royalists.	
royalist		An adherent of a king (as of Charles I. in England, or of the Bourbons in france); one attached to monarchical government.	
royalization		The act of making loyal to a king.	
royalize		to make royal.	
royally		In a royal or kingly manner; like a king; as becomes a king.	
royalty		The state of being royal; the condition or quality of a royal person; kingship; kingly office; sovereignty.	Old French roialté.
royne	Obsolete	To bite; to gnaw.	
roynish	Obsolete	Mangy; scabby; hence, mean; paltry; troublesome.	
royster		same as Roister, Roisterer.	
roysterer		same as Roister, Roisterer.	
roytelet	Archaic	A little king.	French roitelet.
roytish	Obsolete	Wild; irregular.	
