rub		To subject (a body) to the action of something moving over its surface with pressure and friction, especially to the action of something moving back and forth; as, to rub the flesh with the hand; to rub wood with sandpaper.	Middle English rubben.
ruba-dub		The sound of a drum when continuously beaten; hence, a clamorous, repeated sound; a clatter.	
rubaiyat		Quatrians; as, the Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam.	
rubato		Robbed; borrowed.	
rubbage	Obsolete	Rubbish.	
rubber		One who, or that which, rubs. Specifically: (a) An instrument or thing used in rubbing, polishing, or cleaning.	
rubberize		To coat or impregnate with rubber or a rubber solution or preparation, as silk.	
rubbidge	Obsolete	Rubbish.	
rubbing		a. & n. from Rub, v.	
rubbish		Waste or rejected matter; anything worthless; valueless stuff; trash; especially, fragments of building materials or fallen buildings; ruins; débris.	Anglo-Norman rubouses.
rubble		Water-worn or rough broken stones; broken bricks, etc., used in coarse masonry, or to fill up between the facing courses of walls.	
rubblestone		See Rubble, 1 and 2.	
rubblework		Masonry constructed of unsquared stones that are irregular in size and shape.	
rubbly		Relating to, or containing, rubble.	
rubedinous		Reddish.	
rubefacient		Making red. -- n. (Med.) An external application which produces redness of the skin.	
rubefaction		The act or process of making red.	
rubelet		A little ruby.	
rubell		A red color used in enameling.	
rubella		An acute specific disease with a dusky red cutaneous eruption resembling that of measles, but unattended by catarrhal symptoms; -- called also German measles.	
rubelle		A red color used in enameling.	
rubellite		A variety of tourmaline varying in color from a pale rose to a deep ruby, and containing lithium.	
rubeola		(a) the measles. (b) Rubella.	
ruberythrinic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid extracted from madder root.	
rubescence		The quality or state of being rubescent; a reddening; a flush.	
rubescent		Growing or becoming red; tending to redness.	
rubiaceous		Of or pertaining to a very large natural order of plants (Rubiaceæ) named after the madder (Rubia tinctoria), and including about three hundred and seventy genera and over four thousand species.	
rubiacin		A substance found in madder root, and probably identical with ruberythrinic acid.	
rubian		One of several color-producing glycosides found in madder root.	
rubianic	Obsolete	pertaining to, or derived from, rubian; specifically, designating an acid called also ruberythrinic acid.	
rubican		Colored a prevailing red, bay, or black, with flecks of white or gray especially on the flanks; -- said of horses.	
rubicelle		A variety of ruby of a yellowish red color, from Brazil.	
rubicon		A small river which separated Italy from Cisalpine Gaul, the province alloted to Julius Cæsar.	
rubicund		Inclining to redness; ruddy; red.	Latin rubicundus.
rubicundity		The quality or state of being rubicund; ruddiness.	
rubidic		Of or pertaining to rubidium; containing rubidium.	
rubidine		A nitrogenous base homologous with pyridine, obtained from coal tar as an oily liquid, C11H17N; also, any one of the group od metameric compounds of which rubidine is the type.	
rubidium		A rare metallic element.	
rubific		Making red; as, rubific rays.	
rubification		The act of making red.	
rubiform		Having the nature or quality of red; as, the rubiform rays of the sun.	
rubify		To redden.	
rubiginose		Having the appearance or color of iron rust; rusty-looking.	
rubiginous		Having the appearance or color of iron rust; rusty-looking.	
rubigo		same as Rust, n., 2.	
rubious	Obsolete	Red; ruddy.	Latin rubeus.
rubiretin		One of the red dye products extracted from madder root, and probably identical with ruberythrinic acid.	
ruble		The unit of monetary value in Russia.	
rubric		That part of any work in the early manuscripts and typography which was colored red, to distinguish it from other portions.	
rubrical		Colored in, or marked with, red; placed in rubrics.	
rubricate		Marked with red.	
rubrician		One skilled in, or tenaciously adhering to, the rubric or rubrics.	
rubricist		One skilled in, or tenaciously adhering to, the rubric or rubrics.	
rubricity		Redness.	
rubstone		A stone for scouring or rubbing; a whetstone; a rub.	
rubus		A genus of rosaceous plants, including the raspberry and blackberry.	
ruby		(Min.) A precious stone of a carmine red color, sometimes verging to violet, or intermediate between carmine and hyacinth red.	Latin rubeus.
ruby-tailed		Having the tail, or lower part of the body, bright red.	
rubytail		A European gold wasp (Chrysis ignita) which has the under side of the abdomen bright red, and the other parts deep bluish green with a metallic luster.	
rubythroat		Any one of numerous species of humming birds belonging to Trochilus, Calypte, Stellula, and allies, in which the male has on the throat a brilliant patch of red feathers having metallic reflections; esp.…	
rubywood		red sandalwood. See under Sandalwood.	
rucervine		Of, like, or pertaining to, a deer of the genus Rucervus, which includes the swamp deer of India.	
ruche		A plaited, quilled, or goffered strip of lace, net, ribbon, or other material, -- used in place of collars or cuffs, and as a trimming for women's dresses and bonnets.	
ruching		A ruche, or ruches collectively.	
ruck	Colloquial	The common sort, whether persons or things; as, the ruck in a horse race.	Middle English ruke.
ructation		The act of belching wind.	
ruction	English dialect	An uproar; a quarrel; a noisy outbreak.	
rud		Ruddle; red ocher.	
rudbeckia		A genus of composite plants, the coneflowers, consisting of perennial herbs with showy pedunculate heads, having a hemispherical involucre, sterile ray flowers, and a conical chaffy receptacle.	
rudd		A fresh-water European fish of the Carp family (Leuciscus erythrophthalmus).	
rudder		(Naut.) The mechanical appliance by means of which a vessel is guided or steered when in motion.	Old English roþor.
rudderhead		The upper end of the rudderpost, to which the tiller is attashed.	
rudderhole		The hole in the deck through which the rudderpost passes.	
rudderless		Without a rudder.	
rudderpost		The shank of a rudder, having the blade at one end and the attachments for operating it at the other.	
rudderstock		The main part or blade of the rudder, which is connected by hinges, or the like, with the sternpost of a vessel.	
ruddied		Made ruddy or red.	
ruddily		In a ruddy manner.	
ruddiness		The quality or state of being ruddy; as, the ruddiness of the cheeks or the sky.	
ruddle	Obsolete	To raddle or twist.	
ruddock		(Zoöl.) The European robin.	
ruddy		Of a red color; red, or reddish; as, a ruddy sky; a ruddy flame.	Old English rudig.
rude		Characterized by roughness; umpolished; raw; lacking delicacy or refinement; coarse.	
rudenture		Cabling. See Cabling. gwilt.	
ruderary	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to rubbish..	
rudesby	Obsolete	An uncivil, turbulent fellow.	
rudesheimer		A German wine made near Rüdesheim, on the Rhine.	
rudiment		That which is unformed or undeveloped; the principle which lies at the bottom of any development; an unfinished beginning. but I will bring thee where thou soon shalt quit Those rudiments…	
rudimental		Rudimentary.	
rudimentary		Of or pertaining to rudiments; consisting in first principles; elementary; initial; as, rudimental essays.	
rudish		Somewhat rude.	
rudistes		An extinct order or suborder of bivalve mollusks characteristic of the Cretaceous period; -- called also Rudista.	
rudity		Rudeness; ignorance.	
rudmasday		Either of the feasts of the Holy Cross, occuring on May 3 and September 14, annually.	
rudolphine		Pertaining to, or designating, a set of astronomical tables computed by Kepler, and founded on the observations of Tycho Brahe; - - so named from Rudolph II., emperor of Germany.	
rue		(Bot.) A perennial suffrutescent plant (Ruta graveolens), having a strong, heavy odor and a bitter taste; herb of grace.	Old English hreowan.
ruedesheimer		A German wine made near Rüdesheim, on the Rhine.	
rueful		Causing one to rue or lament; woeful; mournful; sorrowful.	
ruelle	Obsolete	A private circle or assembly at a private house; a circle.	
rufescent		Reddish; tinged with red.	
ruff		(a) A game similar to whist, and the predecessor of it.	
ruffe		A small freshwater European perch (Acerina vulgaris); -- called also pope, blacktail, and stone, or striped, perch.	
ruffed		Furnished with a ruff.	
ruffian		A boisterous, cruel, brutal fellow; a desperate fellow ready for murderous or cruel deeds; a cutthroat.	
ruffianage		Ruffians, collectively; a body of ruffians.	
ruffianish		Having the qualities or manners of a ruffian; ruffianly.	
ruffianlike		Ruffianly.	
ruffianly		Like a ruffian; bold in crimes; characteristic of a ruffian; violent; brutal.	
ruffianous	Obsolete	Ruffianly.	
ruffin	Obsolete	Disordered.	
ruffle		To make into a ruff; to draw or contract into puckers, plaits, or folds; to wrinkle.	
ruffleless		Having no ruffle.	
rufflement		The act of ruffling.	
ruffler		One who ruffles; a swaggerer; a bully; a ruffian.	
rufigallic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid which is obtained from gallic acid as a brown or red crystalline substance, and is related to rufiopin and anthracene.	
rufiopin		A yellowish red crystalline substance related to anthracene, and obtained from opianic acid.	
rufol		A phenol derivative of anthracene obtained as a white crystalline substance, which on oxidation produces a red dyestuff related to anthraquinone.	
rufous		Reddish; of a yellowish red or brownish red color; tawny.	Latin rufus.
ruft	Obsolete	Eructation; belching.	
rufterhood		A kind of hood for a hawk.	
rug		A kind of coarse, heavy frieze, formerly used for garments.	
rug-gowned		Wearing a coarse gown or shaggy garment made of rug.	
rug-headed	Obsolete	Having shaggy hair; shock-headed.	
ruga		A wrinkle; a fold; as, the rugæ of the stomach.	Latin ruga.
rugate		Having alternate ridges and depressions; wrinkled.	Latin rugatus.
rugged		Full of asperities on the surface; broken into sharp or irregular points, or otherwise uneven; not smooth; rough; as, a rugged mountain; a rugged road.	Middle English rugged.
rugging		A coarse kind of woolen cloth, used for wrapping, blanketing, etc.	
ruggy	Obsolete	Rugged; rough.	
rugin	Obsolete	A nappy cloth.	
rugine		An instrument for scraping the periosteum from bones; a raspatory.	
rugosa		An extinct tribe of fossil corals, including numerous species, many of them of large size.	
rugose		Wrinkled; full of wrinkles; specifically (Bot.), having the veinlets sunken and the spaces between them elevated, as the leaves of the sage and horehound.	
rugosity		The quality or state of being rugose.	
rugous		Wrinkled; rugose.	
rugulose		Somewhat rugose.	
ruin		Such a change of anything as destroys it, or entirely defeats its object, or unfits it for use; destruction; overthrow; as, the ruin of a ship or an army; the ruin of a constitution or a government; the ruin of health or hopes.	Middle English ruine, from Old French ruine, from Latin ruina.
ruinable		Capable of being ruined.	
ruinate	Obsolete	To cause to fall; to cast down.	
ruination		The act of ruining, or the state of being ruined.	
ruiner		One who, or that which, ruins.	
ruiniform		Having the appearance of ruins, or of the ruins of houses; -- said of certain minerals.	
ruinous		Causing, or tending to cause, ruin; destructive; baneful; pernicious; as, a ruinous project.	
rukh	Obsolete	(Zoöl.) A large bird, supposed by some to be the same as the extinct Epiornis of Madagascar.	
rulable		That may be ruled; subject to rule; accordant or conformable to rule.	
rule		That which is prescribed or laid down as a guide for conduct or action; a governing direction for a specific purpose; an authoritative enactment; a regulation; a prescription; a precept; as, the rules of various societies…	
rule-monger		A stickler for rules; a slave of rules Hare.	
ruleless		Destitute of rule; lawless.	
ruler		One who rules; one who exercises sway or authority; a governor.	
ruling		Predominant; chief; reigning; controlling; as, a ruling passion; a ruling sovereign.	
rulingly		In a ruling manner; so as to rule.	
rullichies	Dialect	Chopped meat stuffed into small bags of tripe.	
ruly	Obsolete	orderly; easily restrained; -- opposed to Ant: unruly.	Middle English rewly.
rum	Colloquial	A kind of intoxicating liquor distilled from cane juice, or from the scumming of the boiled juice, or from treacle or molasses, or from the lees of former distillations.	
rumble		To make a low, heavy, continued sound; as, the thunder rumbles at a distance.	
rumbler		One who, or that which, rumbles.	
rumbling		a. & n. from Rumble, v. i.	
rumblingly		In a rumbling manner.	
rumbowline		Same as Rombowline.	
rumen		(Anat.) The first stomach of ruminants; the paunch; the fardingbag. See Illust. below.	Latin rumen.
rumicin		A yellow crystalline substance found in the root of yellow dock (Rumex crispus) and identical with chrysophanic acid.	
ruminal		Ruminant; ruminating.	
ruminant		Chewing the cud; characterized by chewing again what has been swallowed; of or pertaining to the Ruminantia.	Latin rumino.
ruminantia		A division of Artiodactyla having four stomachs.	
ruminantly		In a ruminant manner; by ruminating, or chewing the cud.	
ruminate		To chew the cud; to chew again what has been slightly chewed and swallowed.	
ruminated		Having a hard albumen penetrated by irregular channels filled with softer matter, as the nutmeg and the seeds of the North American papaw.	
rumination		The act or process of ruminating, or chewing the cud; the habit of chewing the cud.	
ruminative		Inclined to, or engaged in, rumination or meditation.	
ruminator		One who ruminates or muses; a meditator.	
rumkin	Obsolete	A popular or jocular name for a drinking vessel.	
rummage		A searching carefully by looking into every corner, and by turning things over.	Old French arrumage.
rummager		One who rummages.	
rummer	Obsolete	A large and tall glass, or drinking cup.	
rummy	Low	Of or pertaining to rum; characteristic of rum; as a rummy flavor.	
rumney	Obsolete	A sort of Spanish wine.	
rumor		A flying or popular report; the common talk; hence, public fame; notoriety.	
rumorer		A teller of news; especially, one who spreads false reports.	
rumorous	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to a rumor; of the nature of rumors.	
rump		The end of the backbone of an animal, with the parts adjacent; the buttock or buttoks.	Middle English rumpe, from Old Norse rumpr, from Middle Low German rump.
rump-fed		A Shakespearean word of uncertain meaning.	
rumper		A member or a supporter of the Rump Parliament.	
rumple		To make uneven; to form into irregular inequalities; to wrinkle; to crumple; as, to rumple an apron or a cravat.	
rumpled		Wrinkled; crumpled.	
rumpless		Destitute of a rump.	
rumply		Rumpled.	
rumpus	Colloquial	A disturbance; noise and confusion; a quarrel.	
rumseller		One who sells rum; one who deals in intoxicating liquors; especially, one who sells spirituous beverages at retail.	
run		To move, proceed, advance, pass, go, come, etc., swiftly, smoothly, or with quick action; -- said of things animate or inanimate.	Middle English ronnen.
run-around	Colloquial	A whitlow running around the finger nail, but not affecting the bone.	
runagate		A fugitive; a vagabond; an apostate; a renegade. See Renegade.	
runaway		One who, or that which, flees from danger, duty, restraint, etc.; a fugitive.	
runcation	Obsolete	A weedling.	
runch		The wild radish.	
runcinate		Pinnately cut with the lobes pointing downwards, as the leaf of the dandelion.	
rundel	English dialect	A moat with water in it; also, a small stream; a runlet.	
rundle		Something which rotates about an axis, as a wheel, or the drum of a capstan.	
rundlet		A small barrel of no certain dimensions.	
rune		A letter, or character, belonging to the written language of the ancient Norsemen, or Scandinavians; in a wider sense, applied to the letters of the ancient nations of Northern Europe in general.	Old Norse rún.
runer		A bard, or learned man, among the ancient Goths.	
rung		(Shipbuilding) A floor timber in a ship.	Old English hrung.
runghead		The upper end of a floor timber in a ship.	
runic		Of or pertaining to a rune, to runes, or to the Norsemen; as, runic verses; runic letters; runic names; runic rhyme.	
runlet		A little run or stream; a streamlet; a brook.	
runnel		A rivulet or small brook.	
runner		One who, or that which, runs; a racer.	
runnet		See Rennet — a name of many different kinds of apples.	
running		Moving or advancing by running. Specifically, of a horse; (a) Having a running gait; not a trotter or pacer.	
runningly		In a running manner.	
runnion		See Ronion — a mangy or scabby creature. the rump-fed ronyon cries.	
runology		The science of runes. -- Ru*nol"o*gist, n.	
runround	Colloquial	A felon or whitlow.	
runt		(Zoöl.) Any animal which is unusually small, as compared with others of its kind; -- applied particulary to domestic animals.	
runty		Like a runt; diminutive; mean.	
runway		The beaten path made, by deer or other animals in passing to and from their feeding grounds.	
rupee		A silver coin, and money of account, in the East Indies.	Hindi रुपीया.
rupia		An eruption upon the skin, consisting of vesicles with inflamed base and filled with serous, purulent, or bloody fluid, which dries up, forming a blackish crust.	
rupial		Of or pertaining to rupia.	
rupicola		A genus of beautiful South American passerine birds, including the cock of the rock.	
rupicoline		Rock-inhabiting.	
ruption		A breaking or bursting open; breach; rupture.	Latin ruptio.
ruptuary		One not of noble blood; a plebeian; a roturier.	
rupture		The act of breaking apart, or separating; the state of being asunder; as, the rupture of the skin; the rupture of a vessel or fiber; the rupture of a lutestring.	French rupture.
ruptured		Having a rupture, or hernia.	
rupturewort		(a) Same as Burstwort. (b) A West Indian plant (Alternanthera polygonoides) somewhat resembling burstwort.	
rural		Of or pertaining to the country, as distinguished from a city or town; living in the country; suitable for, or resembling, the country; rustic; as, rural scenes; a rural prospect.	Old French rural, from Latin ruralis.
rurales		The gossamer-winged butterflies; a family of small butterflies, including the hairstreaks, violets, and theclas.	
ruralism		The quality or state of being rural; ruralness.	
ruralist		One who leads a rural life.	
rurality		The quality or state of being rural.	
ruralize		To render rural; to give a rural appearance to.	
rurally		In a rural manner; as in the country.	
ruralness		The quality or state of being rural.	
ruricolist		An inhabitant of the country.	
ruridecanal		Of or pertaining to a rural dean; as, a ruridecanal district; the ruridecanal intellect.	Latin rus.
rurigenous	Obsolete	Born in the country.	
ruse		An artifice; trick; stratagem; wile; fraund; deceit.	
rush		(Bot.) A name given to many aquatic or marsh-growing endogenous plants with soft, slender stems, as the species of Juncus and Scirpus.	Middle English ruschen.
rush-bearing		A kind of rural festival at the dedication of a church, when the parishioners brought rushes to strew the church.	
rushbuckler	Obsolete	A bullying and violent person; a braggart; a swashbuckler.	
rushed		Abounding or covered with rushes.	
rusher	Obsolete	One who rushes.	
rushiness		The quality or state of abounding with rushes.	
rushingly		In a rushing manner.	
rushlight		A rush candle, or its light; hence, a small, feeble light.	
rushlike		Resembling a rush; weak.	
rushy		Abounding with rushes.	
rusine		Of, like, or pertaining to, a deer of the genus Rusa, which includes the sambur deer (Rusa Aristotelis) of India.	
rusk		A kind of light, soft bread made with yeast and eggs, often toasted or crisped in an oven; or a kind of sweetened biscuit.	
rusma		A depilatory made of orpiment and quicklime, and used by the Turks. See Rhusma.	
russ	Rare	A Russian, or the Russians.	
russet		Of a reddish brown color, or (by some called) a red gray; of the color composed of blue, red, and yellow in equal strength, but unequal proportions, namely, two parts of red to one each of blue and yellow; also…	
russeting		See Russet, n., 2 and 4.	
russety		Of a russet color; russet.	
russia		A country of Europe and Asia.	
russian		Of or pertaining to Russia, its inhabitants, or language. -- n.	
russianize		To make Russian, or more or less like the Russians; as, to Russianize the Poles.	
russification		The act or process of being Russified.	
russify		To Russianize; as, to Russify conquered tribes.	
russophile		One who, not being a Russian, favors Russian policy and aggrandizement. -- Rus*soph"ilism, n.	
russophilist		One who, not being a Russian, favors Russian policy and aggrandizement. -- Rus*soph"ilism, n.	
russophobe		One who dreads Russia or Russian influence.	
russophobia		Morbid dread of Russia or of Russian influence.	
russophobist		One who dreads Russia or Russian influence.	
rust		(Chem.) The reddish yellow coating formed on iron when exposed to moist air, consisting of ferric oxide or hydroxide; hence, by extension, any metallic film of corrosion.	Old English rust.
rustful		Full of rust; resembling rust; causing rust; rusty.	
rustic		Of or pertaining to the country; rural; as, the rustic gods of antiquity.	Latin rusticus.
rustical		Rustic. -- Rus tic*al*ness, n.	
rusticate		To go into or reside in the country; to ruralize.	
rusticated		resembling rustic work. See Rustic work (a), under Rustic.	
rustication		The act of rusticating, or the state of being rusticated; specifically, the punishment of a student for some offence, by compelling him to leave the institution for a time.	
rusticity		The quality or state of being rustic; rustic manners; rudeness; simplicity; artlessness.	
rusticly		In a rustic manner; rustically.	
rustily		In a rusty state.	
rustiness		The quality or state of being rusty.	
rustle		To make a quick succession of small sounds, like the rubbing or moving of silk cloth or dry leaves.	
rustler		One who, or that which, rustles.	
rustless		Free from rust.	
rusty		Covered or affected with rust; as, a rusty knife or sword; rusty wheat.	
rut		(Physiol.) Sexual desire or oestrus of deer, cattle, and various other mammals; heat; also, the period during which the oestrus exists.	
ruta-baga		A kind of turnip commonly with a large and long or ovoid yellowish root; a Swedish turnip.	
rutaceous		Of or pertaining to plants of a natural order (Rutacæ) of which the rue is the type, and which includes also the orange, lemon, dittany, and buchu.	Latin rutaceous.
rutate		A salt of rutic acid.	
ruth	Poetic	Sorrow for the misery of another; pity; tenderness.	Middle English ruthe.
ruthenic		Pertaining to, or containing, ruthenium; specifically, designating those compounds in which it has a higher valence as contrasted with ruthenious compounds.	
ruthenious		Pertaining to, or containing, ruthenium; designating those compounds in which it has a lower valence as contrasted with ruthenic compounds.	
ruthenium		A rare element of the light platinum group, found associated with platinum ores, and isolated as a hard, brittle steel-gray metal which is very infusible.	
ruthful		Full of ruth; as: (a) Pitiful; tender. (b) Full of sorrow; woeful. (c) Causing sorrow.	Middle English reuthful.
ruthless		Having no ruth; cruel; pitiless.	
rutic		pertaining to, or obtained from, rue (Ruta); as, rutic acid, now commonly called capric acid.	
rutilant		Having a reddish glow; shining.	Latin rutilans.
rutilate	Obsolete	To shine; to emit rays of light.	
rutile		A mineral usually of a reddish brown color, and brilliant metallic adamantine luster, occurring in tetragonal crystals.	
rutilian		Any species of lamellicorn beetles belonging to Rurila and allied genera, as the spotted grapevine beetle (Pelidnota punctata).	
rutin		A glucoside resembling, but distinct from, quercitrin.	
rutinose		A disaccharide present in glycosides.	
rutter	Obsolete	A horseman or trooper.	
rutterkin	Obsolete	An old crafty fox or beguiler -- a word of contempt.	
ruttier	Obsolete	A chart of a course, esp. at sea.	French routier.
ruttish		Inclined to rut; lustful; libidinous; salacious.	
ruttle	Obsolete	A rattling sound in the throat arising from difficulty of breathing; a rattle.	
rutty	Obsolete	Ruttish; lustful.	
rutylene		A liquid hydrocarbon, C10H18, of the acetylene series.	
