saadh		See Sadh — a member of a monotheistic sect of Hindoos.	
saan		Same as Bushmen.	
sabadilla		A Mexican liliaceous plant (Schænocaulon officinale); also, its seeds, which contain the alkaloid veratrine.	
sabaean		Same as Sabianism.	
sabaeanism		Same as Sabianism.	
sabaeism		See Sabianism — the doctrine of the Sabians; the Sabian religion; that species of idolatry which consists in worshiping the sun, moon, and stars; heliolatry.	
sabaism		See Sabianism — the doctrine of the Sabians; the Sabian religion; that species of idolatry which consists in worshiping the sun, moon, and stars; heliolatry.	
sabal		A genus of palm trees including the palmetto of the Southern United States.	
sabaoth		Incorrectly, the Sabbath.	
sabbat		In mediæval demonology, the nocturnal assembly in which demons and sorcerers were thought to celebrate their orgies.	
sabbatarian		One who regards and keeps the seventh day of the week as holy, aggreeably to the letter of the fourth commandment in the Decalogue.	
sabbatarianism		The tenets of Sabbatarians.	
sabbath		A season or day of rest; one day in seven appointed for rest or worship, the observance of which was enjoined upon the Jews in the Decalogue…	
sabbathless		Without Sabbath, or intermission of labor; hence, without respite or rest.	
sabbatic		Of or pertaining to the Sabbath; resembling the Sabbath; enjoying or bringing an intermission of labor.	
sabbatical		Of or pertaining to the Sabbath; resembling the Sabbath; enjoying or bringing an intermission of labor.	Greek σαββατικός.
sabbatism		Intermission of labor, as upon the Sabbath; rest.	
sabbaton		A round-toed, armed covering for the feet, worn during a part of the sixteenth century in both military and civil dress.	
sabean		Same as Sabian.	
sabeism		Same as Sabianism.	
sabella		A genus of tubiculous annelids having a circle of plumose gills around head.	Latin sabulum.
sabellian		Pertaining to the doctrines or tenets of Sabellius. See Sabellian, n.	
sabellianism		The doctrines or tenets of Sabellius. See Sabellian, n.	
sabelloid		Like, or related to, the genus Sabella. -- Sa*bel"loid, n.	
saber		A sword with a broad and heavy blade, thick at the back, and usually more or less curved like a scimiter; a cavalry sword.	
saberbill		The curlew.	
sabian		Of or pertaining to Saba in Arabia, celebrated for producing aromatic plants.	
sabianism		The doctrine of the Sabians; the Sabian religion; that species of idolatry which consists in worshiping the sun, moon, and stars; heliolatry.	
sabicu		The very hard wood of a leguminous West Indian tree (Lysilona Sabicu), valued for shipbuilding.	
sabine		Of or pertaining to the ancient Sabines, a people of Italy. -- n.	
sable		(Zoöl.) A carnivorous animal of the Weasel family (Mustela zibellina) native of the northern latitudes of Europe, Asia, and America, -- noted for its fine, soft, and valuable fur.	
sabot		A kind of wooden shoe worn by the peasantry in France, Belgium, Sweden, and some other European countries.	French sabot, from Turkish zabata.
sabotage		(a) Scamped work. (b) Malicious waste or destruction of an employer's property or injury to his interests by workmen during labor troubles.	French sabotage.
sabotiere		A kind of freezer for ices.	
sabre		A sword with a broad and heavy blade, thick at the back, and usually more or less curved like a scimiter; a cavalry sword.	French sabre, from German Säbel, from Hungarian szablya.
sabrebill		The curlew.	
sabretasche		A leather case or pocket worn by cavalry at the left side, suspended from the sword belt.	French sabretache.
sabulose		Growing in sandy places.	
sabulosity		The quality of being sabulous; sandiness; grittiness.	
sabulous		Sandy; gritty.	Latin sabulosus.
sac		(Biol.) A cavity, bag, or receptacle, usually containing fluid, and either closed, or opening into another cavity to the exterior; a sack.	French sac, from Latin saccus, from Greek σάκκος.
sacalait		A kind of fresh-water bass; the crappie.	
sacar		See Saker — (Zo\'94l.) (a) A falcon (Falco sacer) native of Southern Europe and Asia, closely resembling the lanner.	
saccade		A sudden, violent check of a horse by drawing or twitching the reins on a sudden and with one pull.	French saccade.
saccate		(Biol.) Having the form of a sack or pouch; furnished with a sack or pouch, as a petal.	
saccharate		(a) A salt of saccharic acid. (b) In a wider sense, a compound of saccharose, or any similar carbohydrate, with such bases as the oxides of calcium, barium, or lead; a sucrate.	
saccharic		Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, saccharine substances; specifically, designating an acid obtained, as a white amorphous gummy mass, by the oxidation of mannite, glucose, sucrose, etc.	
sacchariferous		Producing sugar; as, sacchariferous canes.	
saccharify		Toconvert into, or to impregnate with, sugar.	
saccharilla		A kind of muslin.	
saccharimeter		An instrument for ascertain the quantity of saccharine matter in any solution, as the juice of a plant, or brewers' and distillers' worts.	
saccharimetrical		Of or pertaining to saccharimetry; obtained saccharimetry.	
saccharimetry		The act, process or method of determining the amount and kind of sugar present in sirup, molasses, and the like, especially by the employment of polarizing apparatus.	
saccharin		A bitter white crystalline substance obtained from the saccharinates and regarded as the lactone of saccharinic acid; -- so called because formerly supposed to be isomeric with cane sugar (saccharose).	
saccharinate		(a) A salt of saccharinic acid. (b) A salt of saccharine.	
saccharine		Of or pertaining to sugar; having the qualities of sugar; producing sugar; sweet; as, a saccharine taste; saccharine matter.	
saccharinic		Of, pertaining to, or derived from, saccharin; specifically, designating a complex acid not known in the free state but well known in its salts, which are obtained by boiling dextrose and levulose (invert sugar) with milk of lime.	
saccharize		To convert into, or to impregnate with, sugar.	
saccharoid		resembling sugar, as in taste, appearance, consistency, or composition; as, saccharoidal limestone.	
saccharoidal		resembling sugar, as in taste, appearance, consistency, or composition; as, saccharoidal limestone.	
saccharometer		A saccharimeter.	
saccharomyces		A genus of budding fungi, the various species of which have the power, to a greater or less extent, or splitting up sugar into alcohol and carbonic acid.	
saccharomycetes		A family of fungi consisting of the one genus Saccharomyces.	
saccharonate		A salt of saccharonic acid.	
saccharone		(a) A white crystalline substance, C6H8O6, obtained by the oxidation of saccharin, and regarded as the lactone of saccharonic acid.	
saccharonic		Of, pertaining to, or derived from, saccharone; specifically, designating an unstable acid which is obtained from saccharone (a) by hydration, and forms a well-known series of salts.	
saccharose		Cane sugar; sucrose; also, in general, any one of the group of which saccharose, or sucrose proper, is the type.	
saccharous		Saccharine.	
saccharum		A genus of tall tropical grasses including the sugar cane.	
saccholactate	Obsolete	A salt of saccholactactic acid; -- formerly called also saccholate. See Mucate.	
saccholactic	Obsolete	Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid now called mucic acid; saccholic.	French saccholactique.
saccholic	Obsolete	Saccholatic.	
sacchulmate		A salt of sacchulmic acid.	
sacchulmic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained as a dark amorphous substance by the long-continued boiling of sucrose with very dilute sulphuric acid.	
sacchulmin		An amorphous huminlike substance resembling sacchulmic acid, and produced together with it.	
sacciferous		Bearing a sac.	
sacciform		Having the general form of a sac.	
saccoglossa		Same as Pellibranchiata.	
saccular		Like a sac; sacciform.	
sacculated		Furnished with little sacs.	
saccule		A little sac; specifically, the sacculus of the ear.	Latin sacculus.
sacculo-cochlear		pertaining to the sacculus and cochlea of the ear.	
sacculo-utricular		Pertaining to the sacculus and utriculus of the ear.	
sacculus		A little sac; esp., a part of the membranous labyrinth of the ear. See the Note under Ear.	Latin sacculus.
sacellum		(a) (Rom.	Latin sacellum.
sacerdotal		Of or pertaining to priests, or to the order of priests; relating to the priesthood; priesty; as, sacerdotal dignity; sacerdotal functions.	Latin sacerdotalis.
sacerdotalism		The system, style, spirit, or character, of a priesthood, or sacerdotal order; devotion to the interests of the sacerdotal order.	
sacerdotally		In a sacerdotal manner.	
sachel		A small bag. See Satchel.	
sachem		A chief of a tribe of the American Indians; a sagamore.	
sachemdom		The government or jurisdiction of a sachem.	
sachemship		Office or condition of a sachem.	
sachet		A scent bag, or perfume cushion, to be laid among handkerchiefe, garments, etc., to perfume them.	
saciety	Obsolete	Satiety.	
sack		A anme formerly given to various dry Spanish wines.	Middle English sak.
sack-winged		Having a peculiar pouch developed near the front edge of the wing; -- said of certain bats of the genus Saccopteryx.	
sackage		The act of taking by storm and pillaging; sack.	
sackbut		A brass wind instrument, like a bass trumpet, so contrived that it can be lengthened or shortened according to the tone required; -- said to be the same as the trombone.	
sackcloth		Linen or cotton cloth such a sacks are made of; coarse cloth; anciently, a cloth or garment worn in mourning, distress, mortification, or penitence.	
sackclothed		Clothed in sackcloth.	
sacker		One who sacks; one who takes part in the storm and pillage of a town.	
sackful	Obsolete	As much as a sack will hold.	
sacking		Stout, coarse cloth of which sacks, bags, etc., are made.	
sackless	Obsolete	Quiet; peaceable; harmless; innocent.	Middle English sakles.
sacque		Same as 2d Sack, 3.	
sacral		Of or pertaining to the sacrum; in the region of the sacrum.	
sacrament	Obsolete	The oath of allegiance taken by Roman soldiers; hence, a sacred ceremony used to impress an obligation; a solemn oath-taking; an oath.	Latin sacramentum.
sacramental		Of or pertaining to a sacrament or the sacraments; of the nature of a sacrament; sacredly or solemny binding; as, sacramental rites or elements.	
sacramentalism		The doctrine and use of sacraments; attashment of excessive importance to sacraments.	
sacramentalist		One who holds the doctrine of the real objective presence of Christ;s body and blood in the holy eucharist.	
sacramentally		In a sacrament manner.	
sacramentarian		(Eccl.) A name given in the sixteenth century to those German reformers who rejected both the Roman and the Lutheran doctrine of the holy eucharist.	
sacramentary		Of or pertaining a sacrament or the sacraments; sacramental.	
sacramentize		To administer the sacraments.	
sacrarium		A sort of family chapel in the houses of the Romans, devoted to a special divinity.	Latin sacrarium.
sacrate	Obsolete	To consecrate.	
sacration	Obsolete	Consecration.	Latin sacratio.
sacre	Obsolete	See Sakker.	Middle English sacren.
sacred		Set apart by solemn religious ceremony; especially, in a good sense, made holy; set apart to religious use; consecrated; not profane or common; as, a sacred place; a sacred day; sacred service.	Middle English sacred.
sacrific		Employed in sacrifice.	
sacrificable		Capable of being offered in sacrifice.	
sacrifical		Employed in sacrifice.	
sacrificant		One who offers a sacrifice.	
sacrificator		A sacrificer; one who offers a sacrifice.	Latin sacrificator.
sacrificatory		Offering sacrifice.	
sacrifice		The offering of anything to God, or to a god; consecratory rite.	Latin sacrificium.
sacrificer		One who sacrifices.	
sacrificial		Of or pertaining to sacrifice or sacrifices; consisting in sacrifice; performing sacrifice.	Latin sacrificialis.
sacrilege		The sin or crime of violating or profaning sacred things; the alienating to laymen, or to common purposes, what has been appropriated or consecrated to religious persons or uses.	
sacrilegious		Violating sacred things; polluted with sacrilege; involving sacrilege; profane; impious.	
sacrilegist		One guilty of sacrilege.	
sacring		a. & n. from Sacre.	
sacrist		A sacristan; also, a person retained in a cathedral to copy out music for the choir, and take care of the books.	
sacristan		An officer of the church who has the care of the utensils or movables, and of the church in general; a sexton.	French sacristian.
sacristy		A apartment in a church where the sacred utensils, vestments, etc., are kept; a vestry.	Latin sacristia.
sacro-		A combining form denoting connection with, or relation to, the sacrum, as in sacro-coccyageal, sacro-iliac, sacrosciatic.	
sacrosanct		Sacred; inviolable.	
sacrosciatic		Of or pertaining to both the sacrum and the hip; as, the sacrosciatic formina formed by the sacrosciatic ligaments which connect the sacrum and hip bone.	
sacrovertebral		Of or pertaining to the sacrum and that part of the vertebral column immediately anterior to it; as, the sacrovertebral angle.	
sacrum		That part of the vertebral column which is directly connected with, or forms a part of, the pelvis.	
sacs		A tribe of Indians, which, together with the Foxes, formerly occupied the region about Green Bay, Wisconsin.	
sad		Dull; grave; dark; somber; -- said of colors.	Middle English sad, from Old English sæd.
sadda		A work in the Persian tongue, being a summary of the Zend- Avesta, or sacred books.	
sadden	Obsolete	To make sad. Specifically: (a) To render heavy or cohesive.	
sadder		Same as Sadda.	
saddle		A seat for a rider, -- usually made of leather, padded to span comfortably a horse's back, furnished with stirrups for the rider's feet to rest in, and fastened in place with a girth; also…	Old English sadol.
saddle-backed		Having the outline of the upper part concave like the seat of a saddle.	
saddle-shaped		Shaped like a saddle. Specifically: (a) (Bot.) Bent down at the sides so as to give the upper part a rounded form.	
saddleback		Anything saddle-backed; esp., a hill or ridge having a concave outline at the top.	
saddlebags		Bags, usually of leather, united by straps or a band, formerly much used by horseback riders to carry small articles, one bag hanging on each side.	
saddlebow		The bow or arch in the front part of a saddle, or the pieces which form the front.	
saddlecloth		A cloth under a saddle, and extending out behind; a housing.	
saddled		Having a broad patch of color across the back, like a saddle; saddle-backed.	
saddler		One who makes saddles.	
saddlery		The materials for making saddles and harnesses; the articles usually offered for sale in a saddler's shop.	
saddletree		The frame of a saddle.	
sadducaic		Pertaining to, or like, the Sadducees; as, Sadducaic reasonings.	
sadducee		One of a sect among the ancient Jews, who denied the resurrection, a future state, and the existence of angels. -- Sad`du*ce"an, a.	
sadduceeism		The tenets of the Sadducees.	
sadducism		The tenets of the Sadducees.	
sadducize		To adopt the principles of the Sadducees.	
sadh		A member of a monotheistic sect of Hindoos.	
sadiron		An iron for smoothing clothes; a flatiron.	
sadly		Grievously; deeply; sorrowfully; miserably.	
sadness		Quality of being sad, or unhappy; gloominess; sorrowfulness; dejection.	
sadr		A plant of the genus Ziziphus (Z. lotus); -- so called by the Arabs of Barbary, who use its berries for food.	
saengerbund		A singers' union; an association of singers or singing clubs, esp. German.	
saengerfest		A festival of singers; a German singing festival.	
safe		Free from harm, injury, or risk; untouched or unthreatened by danger or injury; unharmed; unhurt; secure; whole; as, safe from disease; safe from storms; safe from foes. 1 Sam. xii. 11.	Middle English safe.
safe-conduct	Poetic	That which gives a safe, passage; either (a) a convoy or guard to protect a person in an enemy's country or a foreign country, or (b) a writing, pass, or warrant of security, given to a person to enable him to travel with safety.	
safe-keeping		The act of keeping or preserving in safety from injury or from escape; care; custody.	
safe-pledge		A surety for the appearance of a person at a given time.	
safeguard		One who, or that which, defends or protects; defense; protection.	
safely		In a safe manner; danger, injury, loss, or evil consequences.	
safeness		The quality or state of being safe; freedom from hazard, danger, harm, or loss; safety; security; as the safeness of an experiment, of a journey, or of a possession.	
safety		The condition or state of being safe; freedom from danger or hazard; exemption from hurt, injury, or loss.	Old French sauveté.
safflow	Obsolete	The safflower.	
safflower		(Bot.) An annual composite plant (Carthamus tinctorius), the flowers of which are used as a dyestuff and in making rouge; bastard, or false, saffron.	Middle French safleur, from Arabic اصفر.
saffron		(Bot.) A bulbous iridaceous plant (Crocus sativus) having blue flowers with large yellow stigmas.	Old French safran, from Latin safranum, from Arabic زعفران, from Persian زرپران.
saffrony		Having a color somewhat like saffron; yellowish.	
safranin		(a) An orange-red dyestuff extracted from the saffron. (b) A red dyestuff extracted from the safflower, and formerly used in dyeing wool, silk, and cotton pink and scarlet; -- called also Spanish red, China lake, and carthamin.	
safranine		An orange-red nitrogenous dyestuff produced artificailly by oxidizing certain aniline derivatives, and used in dyeing silk and wool; also, any one of the series of which safranine proper is the type.	
sag		To sink, in the middle, by its weight or under applied pressure, below a horizontal line or plane; as, a line or cable supported by its ends sags, though tightly drawn; the floor of a room sags; hence, to lean, give way…	
saga		A Scandinavian legend, or heroic or mythic tradition, among the Norsemen and kindred people; a northern European popular historical or religious tale of olden time.	Old Norse saga.
sagacious		Of quick sense perceptions; keen-scented; skilled in following a trail.	
sagacity		The quality of being sagacious; quickness or acuteness of sense perceptions; keenness of discernment or penetration with soundness of judgment; shrewdness.	French sagacité, from Latin sagacitas.
sagamore		Etym: The head of a tribe among the American Indians; a chief; -- generally used as synonymous with sachem, but some writters distinguished between them, making the sachem a chief of the first rank…	
sagapen		Sagapenum.	
sagapenum		A fetid gum resin obtained from a species of Ferula.	
sagathy		A mixed woven fabric of silk and cotton; or silk and wool; sayette; also, a light woolen fabric.	French sagatis.
sage		(a) A suffriticose labiate plant (Salvia officinalis) with grayish green foliage, much used in flavoring meats, etc. The name is often extended to the whole genus, of which many species are cultivated for ornament…	Old French sauge, from Latin salvia.
sagebrush		A low irregular shrub (Artemisia tridentata), of the order Compositæ, covering vast tracts of the dry alkaline regions of the American plains; -- called also sagebush, and wild sage.	
sagely		In a sage manner; wisely.	
sagene		A Russian measure of length equal to about seven English feet.	
sageness		The quality or state of being sage; wisdom; sagacity; prudence; gravity.	
sagenite		Acicular rutile occurring in reticulated forms imbedded in quartz.	French sagénite.
sagenitic		Resembling sagenite; -- applied to quartz when containing acicular crystals of other minerals, most commonly rutile, also tourmaline, actinolite, and the like.	
sagger		A pot or case of fire clay, in which fine stoneware is inclosed while baking in the kiln; a segga.	
sagging		A bending or sinking between the ends of a thing, in consequence of its own, or an imposed, weight; an arching downward in the middle, as of a ship after straining.	
saginate		To make fat; to pamper.	
sagination		The act of fettening or pampering.	
sagitta		(Astron.) A small constellation north of Aquila; the Arrow.	Latin sagitta.
sagittal		Of or pertaining to an arrow; resembling an arrow; furnished with an arowlike appendage.	Latin sagittalis.
sagittarius		(a) The ninth of the twelve signs of the zodiac, which the sun enters about November 22, marked thus in almanacs; the Archer.	
sagittary		(Myth.) A centaur; a fabulous being, half man, half horse, armed with a bow and quiver.	Latin sagittarius.
sagittate		Shaped like an arrowhead; triangular, with the two basal angles prolonged downward.	Latin sagitta.
sagittated		Sagittal; sagittate.	
sagittocyst		A defensive cell containing a minute rodlike structure which may be expelled.	
sago		A dry granulated starch imported from the East Indies, much used for making puddings and as an article of diet for the sick; also, as starch, for stiffening textile fabrics.	Malay (macrolanguage sagu.
sagoin		A marmoset; -- called also sagouin.	
sagum		The military cloak of the Roman soldiers.	
sagus		A genus of palms from which sago is obtained.	
sagy		Full of sage; seasoned with sage.	
saheb		A respectful title or appelation given to Europeans of rank.	
sahib		A respectful title or appelation given to Europeans of rank.	
sahibah		A lady; mistress.	
sahidic		Same as Thebaic.	
sahlite		See Salite — to season with salt; to salt.	
sahui		A marmoset.	
sai		See Capuchin, 3 (a).	
saibling		A European mountain trout (Salvelinus alpinus); -- called also Bavarian charr.	
saic		A kind of ketch very common in the Levant, which has neither topgallant sail nor mizzen topsail.	French saïque, from Turkish şayka.
said		imp. & p. p. of Say. before-mentioned; already spoken of or specified; aforesaid; -- used chiefly in legal style.	
saiga		An antelope (Saiga Tartarica) native of the plains of Siberia and Eastern Russia.	Russian сайга.
saikyr	Obsolete	Same as Saker.	
sail		An extent of canvas or other fabric by means of which the wind is made serviceable as a power for propelling vessels through the water.	Old English seglian.
sailable		Capable of being sailed over; navigable; as, a sailable river.	
sailboat		A boat propelled by a sail or sails.	
sailcloth		Duck or canvas used in making sails.	
sailer		A ship or other vessel; -- with qualifying words descriptive of speed or manner of sailing; as, a heavy sailer; a fast sailer.	
sailfish		(a) The banner fish, or spikefish (Histiophorus.) (b) The basking, or liver, shark.	
sailing		The act of one who, or that which, sails; the motion of a vessel on water, impelled by wind or steam; the act of starting on a voyage.	
sailless		Destitute of sails.	
sailmaker		One whose occupation is to make or repair sails. -- Sail"mak`ing, n.	
sailor		One who follows the business of navigating ships or other vessels; one who understands the practical management of ships; one of the crew of a vessel; a mariner; a common seaman.	
saily		Like a sail.	
saim	Scots	Lard; grease.	
saimir		The squirrel monkey.	
sainfoin		(a) A leguminous plant (Onobrychis sativa) cultivated for fodder. (b) A kind of tick trefoil (Desmodium Canadense).	French sainfoin.
saint		A person sanctified; a holy or godly person; one eminent for piety and virtue; any true Christian, as being redeemed and consecrated to God.	Middle English saint, from Old French saint, from Latin sanctus.
saint-simonian		A follower of the Count de St. Simon, who died in 1825, and who maintained that the principle of property held in common, and the just division of the fruits of common labor among the members of society…	
saint-simonianism		The principles, doctrines, or practice of the Saint-Simonians; -- called also Saint-Simonism.	
saint-simonism		A system of socialism in which the state owns all the property and the laborer is entitled to share according to the quality and amount of his work, founded by Saint Simon (1760-1825).	
saintdom		The state or character of a saint.	
sainted		Consecrated; sacred; holy; pious.	
saintess		A female saint.	
sainthood		The state of being a saint; the condition of a saint.	
saintish		Somewhat saintlike; -- used ironically.	
saintism		The character or quality of saints; also, hypocritical pretense of holiness.	
saintlike		Resembling a saint; suiting a saint; becoming a saint; saintly.	
saintliness		Quality of being saintly.	
saintly		Like a saint; becoming a holy person.	
saintologist		One who writes the lives of saints.	
saintship		The character or qualities of a saint.	
saith	Archaic	3d pers. sing. pres. of Say.	Old English sæġþ.
saithe	Scots	The pollock, or coalfish; -- called also sillock.	
saiva		One of an important religious sect in India which regards Siva with peculiar veneration.	
saivism		The worship of Siva.	
sajene		Same as Sagene.	
sajou		Same as Sapajou.	
sake		Final cause; end; purpose of obtaining; cause; motive; reason; interest; concern; account; regard or respect; -- used chiefly in such phrases as, for the sake, for his sake, for man's sake, for mercy's sake, and the like; as…	Middle English sake, from Old English sacu.
saker	English dialect	(Zo\'94l.) (a) A falcon (Falco sacer) native of Southern Europe and Asia, closely resembling the lanner.	French sacre, from Spanish sacro, from Arabic صقر.
sakeret		The male of the saker (a).	
saki		Any one of several species of South American monkeys of the genus Pithecia.	
sakieh		A kind of water wheel used in Egypt for raising water, from wells or pits, in buckets attached to its periphery or to an endless rope.	
sakiyeh		A kind of water wheel used in Egypt for raising water, from wells or pits, in buckets attached to its periphery or to an endless rope.	
sakti		The divine energy, personified as the wife of a deity (Brahma, Vishnu, Siva, etc.); the female principle.	
sal		An East Indian timber tree (Shorea robusta), much used for building purposes.	
salaam		Same as Salam.	Arabic سلام.
salability		The quality or condition of being salable; salableness.	
salable		Capable of being sold; fit to be sold; finding a ready market. -- Sal a*bly, adv.	
salacious		Having a propensity to venery; lustful; lecherous.	Latin salax.
salacity		Strong propensity to venery; lust; lecherousness.	Latin salacitatem.
salad		A preparation of vegetables, as lettuce, celery, water cress, onions, etc., usually dressed with salt, vinegar, oil, and spice, and eaten for giving a relish to other food; as, lettuce salad; tomato salad…	
salade		A helmet. See Sallet.	
salading		Vegetable for salad.	
salaeratus		See Saleratus — aërated salt; a white crystalline substance having an alkaline taste and reaction, consisting of sodium bicarbonate (see under Sodium.) It is lagerly used in cooking…	
salagane		The esculent swallow. See under Esculent.	
salal-berry		The edible fruit of the Gaultheria Shallon, an ericaceous shrub found from California northwards.	
salam		A salutation or compliment of ceremony in the east by word or act; an obeisance, performed by bowing very low and placing the right palm on the forehead.	
salamander		(Zoöl.) Any one of numerous species of Urodela, belonging to Salamandra, Amblystoma, Plethodon, and various allied genera, especially those that are more or less terrestrial in their habits.	
salamandrina		A suborder of Urodela, comprising salamanders.	
salamandrine		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a salamander; enduring fire.	
salamandroid		Like or pertaining to the salamanders.	
salamandroidea		A division of Amphibia including the Salamanders and allied groups; the Urodela.	
salamstone		A kind of blue sapphire brought from Ceylon.	
salangana		The salagane.	
salaried		Receiving a salary; paid by a salary; having a salary attached; as, a salaried officer; a salaried office.	
salary	Obsolete	Saline The recompense or consideration paid, or stipulated to be paid, to a person at regular intervals for services; fixed wages, as by the year, quarter, or month; stipend; hire.	Latin salarium.
sale		The act of selling; the transfer of property, or a contract to transfer the ownership of property, from one person to another for a valuable consideration, or for a price in money.	Middle English sale, from Old English sala, from Old Norse sala.
saleable		See Salable, Salably, etc.	
saleably		See Salable, Salably, etc.	
saleb		See Salep — the dried tubers of various species of Orchis, and Eulophia.	
salebrosity	Obsolete	Roughness or ruggedness.	
salebrous	Obsolete	Rough; rugged.	
salep		The dried tubers of various species of Orchis, and Eulophia.	Turkish salep, from Arabic سحلب.
saleratus		Aërated salt; a white crystalline substance having an alkaline taste and reaction, consisting of sodium bicarbonate (see under Sodium.) It is lagerly used in cooking…	
salesman		One who sells anything; one whose occupation is to sell goods or merchandise.	
saleswoman		A woman whose occupation is to sell goods or merchandise.	
salework		Work or things made for sale; hence, work done carelessly or slightingly.	
salian		Denoting a tribe of Franks who established themselves early in the fourth century on the river Sala; Salic. -- n.	
saliant		Same as Salient.	
saliaunce	Obsolete	Salience; onslaught.	
salic		Of or pertaining to the Salian Franks, or to the Salic law so called.	
salicaceous		Belonging or relating to the willow.	Latin salix.
salicin		A glucoside found in the leaves of several species of willow (Salix) and poplar, and extracted as a bitter white crystalline substance.salicyl alcohol glucoside, salicyl alcohol b-D- glucopyranoside…	Latin salix.
salicyl		The hypothetical radical of salicylic acid and of certain related compounds.	
salicylal		A thin, fragrant, colorless oil, HO.C6H4.CHO, found in the flowers of meadow sweet (Spiræa), and also obtained by oxidation of saligenin, etc. It reddens on exposure.	
salicylate		A salt of salicylic acid.	
salicylic		Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid formerly obtained by fusing salicin with potassium hydroxide…	
salicylide		A white crystalline substance obtained by dehydration of salicylic acid.	
salicylite		A compound of salicylal; -- named after the analogy of a salt.	
salicylol		Same as Salicylal.	
salicylous	Obsolete	Pertaining to, or designating, a substance called salicylous acid, and now salicylal.	
salience		That quality or condition of being salient; a leaping; a springing forward; an assaulting.	
saliency		Quality of being salient; hence, vigor.	
salient		Moving by leaps or springs; leaping; bounding; jumping.	
saliently		In a salient manner.	
saliferous		Producing, or impregnated with, salt.	
salifiable		Capable of neutralizing an acid to form a salt; -- said of bases; thus, ammonia is salifiable.	
salification		The act, process, or result of salifying; the state of being salified.	
salify		(a) To combine or impregnate with a salt. (b) To form a salt with; to convert into a salt; as, to salify a base or an acid.	
saligenin		A phenol alcohol obtained, by the decomposition of salicin, as a white crystalline substance; -- called also hydroxy-benzyl alcohol.	
saligot		The water chestnut (Trapa natans).	
salimeter		An instrument for measuring the amount of salt present in any given solution.	
salimetry		The art or process of measuring the amount of salt in a substance.	
salina		A salt marsh, or salt pond, inclosed from the sea.	
salination		The act of washing with salt water.	
saline		Consisting of salt, or containing salt; as, saline particles; saline substances; a saline cathartic.	
salineness		The quality or state of being salt; saltness.	
saliniferous		Same as Saliferous.	
saliniform		Having the form or the qualities of a salt, especially of common salt.	
salinity		Salineness.	
salinometer		A salimeter.	
saliretin		A yellow amorphous resinoid substance obtained by the action of dilute acids on saligenin.	
salisburia		The ginkgo tree (Ginkgo biloba, or Salisburia adiantifolia).	
salite	Obsolete	To season with salt; to salt.	
saliva		The secretion from the salivary glands.	Latin saliva.
salival		Salivary.	
salivant		Producing salivation.	
salivary		Of or pertaining to saliva; producing or carrying saliva; as, the salivary ferment; the salivary glands; the salivary ducts, etc.	
salivate		To produce an abnormal flow of saliva in; to produce salivation or ptyalism in, as by the use of mercury. over.; as, salivate over the prospects of high profits from an enterprise.	Latin salivatus.
salivation		The act or process of salivating; an excessive secretion of saliva, often accompained with soreness of the mouth and gums; ptyalism.	Latin salivatio.
salivous		Pertaining to saliva; of the nature of saliva.	
salix		(a) A genus of trees or shrubs including the willow, osier, and the like, growing usually in wet grounds.	
sallenders		An eruption on the hind leg of a horse.	French solandres.
sallet	Obsolete	A light kind of helmet, with or without a visor, introduced during the 15th century.	Middle French salade, from Spanish celada.
salliance	Obsolete	Salience.	
sallow	Poetic	The willow; willow twigs.	Middle English salowe, from Old English salu.
sallowish		Somewhat sallow.	
sallowness		The quality or condition of being sallow.	
sally		To leap or rush out; to burst forth; to issue suddenly; as a body of troops from a fortified place to attack besiegers; to make a sally.	French saillie.
sallyman		The velella; -- called also saleeman.	
salmagundi		A mixture of chopped meat and pickled herring, with oil, vinegar, pepper, and onions.	French salmigondis, from Middle French salmigondin.
salmi		Same as Salmis.	
salmiac		Sal ammoniac. See under Sal.	
salmis		A ragout or partky roasted game stewed with sauce, wine, bread, and condiments suited to provoke appetite.	
salmon		(Zoöl.) Any one of several species of fishes of the genus Salmo and allied genera.	Middle English samon, from Anglo-Norman saumon, from Old French saumon, from Latin salmo.
salmonet		A salmon of small size; a samlet.	
salmonoid		Like, or pertaining to, the Salmonidæ, a family of fishes including the trout and salmon. -- n.	
salogen	Obsolete	A halogen.	
salol		A white crystalline substance consisting of phenol salicylate.	
salometer		See Salimeter — an instrument for measuring the amount of salt present in any given solution.	
salometry		Salimetry.	
salon		An apartment for the reception of company; hence, in the plural, faschionable parties; circles of fashionable society.	French salon, from Italian salone.
saloon		A spacious and elegant apartment for the reception of company or for works of art; a hall of reception, esp. a hall for public entertainments or amusements; a large room or parlor; as, the saloon of a steamboat.	French salon, from Italian salone.
saloop		An aromatic drink prepared from sassafras bark and other ingredients, at one time much used in London.	
salp		Any species of Salpa, or of the family Salpidæ.	
salpa		A genus of transparent, tubular, free-swimming oceanic tunicates found abundantly in all the warmer latitudes.	
salpian		A salpa.	
salpicon		Chopped meat, bread, etc., used to stuff legs of veal or other joints; stuffing; farce.	
salpid		A salpa.	
salpingitis		Inflammation of the salpinx.	
salpinx		The Eustachian tube, or the Fallopian tube.	
salsafy		See Salsify — see Oyster plant (a), under Oyster.	
salsamentarious		Salt; salted; saline.	
salse		A mud volcano, the water of which is often impregnated with salts, whence the name.	
salsify		See Oyster plant (a), under Oyster.	French salsifis, from Italian sassefrica.
salso-acid		Having a taste compounded of saltness and acidity; both salt and acid.	
salsoda		See Sal soda, under Sal.	
salsola		A genus of plants including the glasswort. See Glasswort.	
salsuginous		Growing in brackish places or in salt marches.	Latin salsugo.
salt		The chloride of sodium, a substance used for seasoning food, for the preservation of meat, etc. It is found native in the earth, and is also produced, by evaporation and crystallization…	Old English sealt.
salt-green		Sea-green in color.	
saltant		Leaping; jumping; dancing.	
saltarella		See Saltarello — a popular Italian dance in quick 3-4 or 6-8 time, running mostly in triplets, but with a hop step at the beginning of each measure.	
saltarello		A popular Italian dance in quick 3-4 or 6-8 time, running mostly in triplets, but with a hop step at the beginning of each measure.	
saltate		To leap or dance.	
saltation		Beating or palpitation; as, the saltation of the great artery.	
saltatoria		A division of Orthoptera including grasshoppers, locusts, and crickets.	
saltatorial		Relating to leaping; saltatory; as, saltatorial exercises.	
saltatorious		Capable of leaping; formed for leaping; saltatory; as, a saltatorious insect or leg.	
saltatory		Leaping or dancing; having the power of, or used in, leaping or dancing.	
saltbush		An Australian plant (Atriplex nummularia) of the Goosefoot family.	
saltcat		A mixture of salt, coarse meal lime, etc., attractive to pigeons.	
saltcellar		Formerly a large vessel, now a small vessel of glass or other material, used for holding salt on the table.	
salter		One who makes, sells, or applies salt; one who salts meat or fish.	
saltern		A building or place where salt is made by boiling or by evaporation; salt works.	
saltfoot		A large saltcellar formerly placed near the center of the table.	
saltie		The European dab.	
saltier		See Saltire — a st. Andrew's cross, or cross in the form of an X, -- one of the honorable ordinaries.	
saltigradae		A tribe of spiders including those which lie in wait and leap upon their prey; the leaping spiders.	
saltigrade		Having feet or legs formed for leaping.	
saltimbanco	Obsolete	A mountebank; a quack.	
salting		The act of sprinkling, impregnating, or furnishing, with salt.	
saltire		A St. Andrew's cross, or cross in the form of an X, -- one of the honorable ordinaries.	
saltirewise		In the manner of a saltire; -- said especially of the blazoning of a shield divided by two lines drawn in the direction of a bend and a bend sinister, and crossing at the center.	
saltish		Somewhat salt. -- Salt ish*ness, n.	
saltless		Destitute of salt; insipid.	
saltly		With taste of salt; in a salt manner.	
saltmouth		A wide-mouthed bottle with glass stopper for holding chemicals, especially crystallized salts.	
saltness		The quality or state of being salt, or state of being salt, or impregnated with salt; salt taste; as, the saltness of sea water.	
saltpeter		Potassium nitrate; niter, a white crystalline substance, KNO3, having a cooling saline taste, obtained by leaching from certain soils in which it is produced by the process of nitrification (see Nitrification, 2).	
saltpetre		Potassium nitrate; niter, a white crystalline substance, KNO3, having a cooling saline taste, obtained by leaching from certain soils in which it is produced by the process of nitrification (see Nitrification, 2).	
saltpetrous	Obsolete	Pertaining to saltpeter, or partaking of its qualities; impregnated with saltpeter.	
saltwort		A name given to several plants which grow on the seashore, as the Batis maritima, and the glasswort.	
salty		Somewhat salt; saltish.	
salubrious		Favorable to health; healthful; promoting health; as, salubrious air, water, or climate.	Latin salus.
salubrity		The quality of being salubrious; favorableness to the preservation of health; salubriousness; wholesomeness; healthfulness; as, the salubrity of the air, of a country, or a climate.	
salue	Obsolete	To salute.	
salutary		Wholesome; healthful; promoting health; as, salutary exercise.	
salutation		The act of saluting, or paying respect or reverence, by the customary words or actions; the act of greeting, or expressing good will or courtesy; also, that which is uttered or done in saluting or greeting.	
salutatorian		The student who pronounces the salutatory oration at the annual Commencement or like exercises of a college, -- an honor commonly assigned to that member of the graduating class who ranks second in scholarship.	
salutatorily		By way of salutation.	
salutatory		Containing or expressing salutations; speaking a welcome; greeting; -- applied especially to the oration which introduces the exercises of the Commencements, or similar public exhibitions, in American colleges.	
salute		To adress, as with expressions of kind wishes and courtesy; to greet; to hail.	
saluter		One who salutes.	
salutiferous		Bringing health; healthy; salutary; beneficial; as, salutiferous air.	
salutiferously		Salutarily.	
salvability		The quality or condition of being salvable; salvableness.	
salvable		Capable of being saved; admitting of salvation.	
salvage		The act of saving a vessel, goods, or life, goods, or life, from perils of the sea.	Old French salver.
salvation		The act of saving; preservation or deliverance from destruction, danger, or great calamity.	
salvationist		An evangelist, a member, or a recruit, of the Salvation Army.	
salvatory		A place where things are preserved; a repository.	Latin salvatorium.
salve		An adhesive composition or substance to be applied to wounds or sores; a healing ointment.	Latin salvare.
salver	Obsolete	One who salves, or uses salve as a remedy; hence, a quacksalver, or quack.	
salver-shaped		Tubular, with a speading border. See Hypocraterimorphous.	
salvia		A genus of plants including the sage. See Sage.	Latin salvia.
salvific	Obsolete	Tending to save or secure safety.	
salvo		(Mil.) A concentrated fire from pieces of artillery, as in endeavoring to make a break in a fortification; a volley.	Latin salvo.
salvor		One who assists in saving a ship or goods at sea, without being under special obligation to do so.	
sam	Obsolete	Together.	Middle English sammen.
samaj		A society; a congregation; a worshiping assembly, or church, esp. of the Brahmo-somaj.	
samara		A dry, indehiscent, usually one-seeded, winged fruit, as that of the ash, maple, and elm; a key or key fruit.	
samare		See Simar — a woman's long dress or robe; also light covering; a scarf.	
samaritan		Of or pertaining to Samaria, in Palestine. -- n.	
samarium		A rare metallic element of doubtful identity.	
samaroid		Resembling a samara, or winged seed vessel.	
samarra		See Simar — a woman's long dress or robe; also light covering; a scarf.	
samarskite		A rare mineral having a velvet-black color and submetallic luster.	
sambo		A colloquial or humorous appelation for a negro; sometimes, the offspring of a black person and a mulatto; a zambo.	Russian самбо.
samboo		Same as Sumbur.	
sambucus		A genus of shrubs and trees; the elder.	
sambuke		An ancient stringed instrument used by the Greeks, the particular construction of which is unknown.	Latin sambuca, from Greek σαμβύκη.
sambur		An East Indian deer (Rusa Aristotelis) having a mane on its neck.	
same		Not different or other; not another or others; identical; unchanged.	Middle English same, from Old Norse samr.
sameliness		Sameness,	
sameness		The state of being the same, identity; abscence of difference; near resemblance; correspondence; similarity; as, a sameness of person, of manner, of sound, of appearance, and the like.	
samette	Obsolete	See Samite — a species of silk stuff, or taffeta, generally interwoven with gold.	
samian		Of or pertaining to the island of Samos.	
samiel		A hot and destructive wind that sometimes blows, in Turkey, from the desert.	Turkish samyeli.
samisen		A Japanese musical instrument with three strings, resembling a guitar or banjo.	
samite		A species of silk stuff, or taffeta, generally interwoven with gold.	Old French samit, from Latin samitum.
samlet		The parr.	
sammier		A machine for pressing the water from skins in tanning.	
samoan		Of or pertaining to the Samoan Islands (formerly called Navigators' Islands) in the South Pacific Ocean, or their inhabitants. -- n.	
samovar		A metal urn used in Russia for making tea.	
samoyedes		An ignorant and degraded Turanian tribe which occupies a portion of Northern Russia and a part of Siberia.Samoyeds.	
samp		An article of food consisting of maize broken or bruised, which is cooked by by boiling, and usually eaten with milk; coarse hominy.	Wampanoag nasamp.
sampan		A Chinese boat from twelve to fifteen feet long, covered with a house, and sometimes used as a permanent habitation on the inland waters.	
samphire		(a) A fleshy, suffrutescent, umbelliferous European plant (Crithmum maritimum).	
sample		A part of anything presented for inspection, or shown as evidence of the quality of the whole; a specimen; as, goods are often purchased by samples.	
sampler		One who makes up samples for inspection; one who examines samples, or by samples; as, a wool sampler.	
samshoo		A spirituous liquor distilled by the Chinese from the yeasty liquor in which boiled rice has fermented under pressure.	
samshu		A spirituous liquor distilled by the Chinese from the yeasty liquor in which boiled rice has fermented under pressure.	
samson		An Israelite of Bible record (see Judges xiii.), distinguished for his great strength; hence, a man of extraordinary physical strength.	
samurai		In the former feudal system of Japan, the class or a member of the class, of military retainers of the daimios, constituting the gentry or lesser nobility.	
sanability		The quality or state of being sanable; sanableness; curableness.	
sanable		Capable of being healed or cured; susceptible of remedy.	Latin sanabilis.
sanableness		The quality of being sanable.	
sanation	Obsolete	The act of healing or curing.	Latin sanatio.
sanative		Having the power to cure or heal; healing; tending to heal; sanatory. -- San"a*tive*ness, n.	
sanatorium		An establishment for the treatment of the sick; a resort for invalids.	Latin sanatus.
sanatory		Conducive to health; tending to cure; healing; curative; sanative.	Latin sanatorius.
sanbenito		Anciently, a sackcloth coat worn by penitens on being reconciled to the church.	Spanish sambenito.
sance-bell		See Sanctus bell, under Sanctus.	
sancho		The nine of trumps in sancho pedro.	
sanctificate	Obsolete	To sanctify.	
sanctification		The act of sanctifying or making holy; the being sanctified or made holy; esp. (Theol.), the act of God's grace by which the affections of men are purified, or alienated from sin and the world, and exalted to…	
sanctified		Made holy; also, made to have the air of sanctity; sanctimonious.	
sanctifier		One who sanctifies, or makes holy; specifically, the Holy Spirit.	
sanctify		To make sacred or holy; to set apart to a holy or religious use; to consecrate by appropriate rites; to hallow.	Latin sanctifico.
sanctifyingly		In a manner or degree tending to sanctify or make holy.	
sanctiloquent		Discoursing on heavenly or holy things, or in a holy manner.	
sanctimonial	Obsolete	Sanctimonius.	Latin sanctimonialis.
sanctimonious		Possessing sanctimony; holy; sacred; saintly.	
sanctimony		Holiness; devoutness; scrupulous austerity; sanctity; especially, outward or artificial saintliness; assumed or pretended holiness; hypocritical devoutness.	Latin sanctimonia.
sanction		Solemn or ceremonious ratification; an official act of a superior by which he ratifies and gives validity to the act of some other person or body; establishment or furtherance of anything by authority to it; confirmation…	French sanction.
sanctionary		Of, pertaining to, or giving, sanction.	
sanctitude		Holiness; sacredness; sanctity. milton.	Latin sanctitudo.
sanctity		The state or quality of being sacred or holy; holiness; saintliness; moral purity; godliness.	
sanctuarize	Obsolete	To shelter by means of a sanctuary or sacred privileges.	
sanctuary		A sacred place; a consecrated spot; a holy and inviolable site. Hence, specifically: (a) The most retired part of the temple at Jerusalem, called the Holy of Holies, in which was kept the ark of the covenant…	Middle English sanctuary, from Old French saintuaire, from Latin sanctuarium.
sanctum		A sacred place; hence, a place of retreat; a room reserved for personal use; as, an editor's sanctum.	Latin sanctum.
sanctus		(Eccl.) A part of the Mass, or, in Protestant churches, a part of the communion service, of which the first words in Latin are Sanctus, sanctus, sanctus; -- called also Tersanctus.	
sand		Fine particles of stone, esp. of siliceous stone, but not reduced to dust; comminuted stone in the form of loose grains, which are not coherent when wet.	Old English sand.
sand-blind		Having defective sight; dim-sighted; purblind.	
sand-lot		Lit., of or pert. to a lot or piece of sandy ground, -- hence, pert. to, or characteristic of, the policy or practices of the socialistic or communistic followers of the Irish agitator Denis Kearney…	
sandal		Same as Sendal.	Old French sandale, from Latin sandalium, from Greek σανδάλιον.
sandaled		Wearing sandals.	
sandaliform		Shaped like a sandal or slipper.	
sandalwood		(a) The highly perfumed yellowish heartwood of an East Indian and Polynesian tree (Santalum album), and of several other trees of the same genus, as the Hawaiian Santalum Freycinetianum and S. pyrularium…	Middle English sandell.
sandarac		(Bot. Chem.) A white or yellow resin obtained from a Barbary tree (Callitris quadrivalvis or Thuya articulata), and pulverized for pounce; -- probably so called from a resemblance to the mineral.	Latin sandaraca, from Greek σανδαράκη.
sandarach		(Bot. Chem.) A white or yellow resin obtained from a Barbary tree (Callitris quadrivalvis or Thuya articulata), and pulverized for pounce; -- probably so called from a resemblance to the mineral.	
sandbagger		An assaulter whose weapon is a sand bag. See Sand bag, under Sand.	
sanded		Covered or sprinkled with sand; sandy; barren.	
sandemanian		A follower of Robert Sandeman, a Scotch sectary of the eighteenth century.	
sandemanianism		The faith or system of the Sandemanians.	
sanderling		A small gray and brown sandpiper (Calidris arenaria) very common on sandy beaches in America, Europe, and Asia.	
sanders		An old name of sandalwood, now applied only to the red sandalwood. See under Sandalwood.	
sanders-blue		See Saundersblue.	
sandever	Obsolete	See Sandiver — a whitish substance which is cast up, as a scum, from the materials of glass in fusion, and, floating on the top, is skimmed off; -- called also glass gall.	
sandfish		A small marine fish of the Pacific coast of North America (Trichodon trichodon) which buries itself in the sand.	
sandglass		An instrument for measuring time by the running of sand. See Hourglass.	
sandhiller		A nickname given to any living in the pine woods which cover the sandy hills in Georgia and South Carolina.	
sandiness		The quality or state of being sandy, or of being of a sandy color.	
sandish	Obsolete	Approaching the nature of sand; loose; not compact.	
sandiver		A whitish substance which is cast up, as a scum, from the materials of glass in fusion, and, floating on the top, is skimmed off; -- called also glass gall.	
sandix	Obsolete	A kind of minium, or red lead, made by calcining carbonate of lead, but inferior to true minium.	Latin sandix.
sandman		A mythical person who makes children sleepy, so that they rub their eyes as if there were sand in them.	
sandnecker		A European flounder (Hippoglossoides limandoides); -- called also rough dab, long fluke, sand fluke, and sand sucker.	
sandpaper		Paper covered on one side with sand glued fast, -- used for smoothing and polishing.	
sandpiper		(Zo\'94l.) Any one of numerous species of small limicoline game birds belonging to Tringa, Actodromas, Ereunetes, and various allied genera of the family Tringid\'91.	
sandpit		A pit or excavation from which sand is or has been taken.	
sandre		A Russian fish (Lucioperca sandre) which yields a valuable oil, called sandre oil, used in the preparation of caviare.	
sandstone		A rock made of sand more or less firmly united.	
sandwich		Two pieces of bread and butter with a thin slice of meat, cheese, or the like, between them.	
sandworm		(a) Any one of numerous species of annelids which burrow in the sand of the seashore.	
sandwort		Any plant of the genus Arenaria, low, tufted herbs (order Caryophyllace\'91.)	
sandy		Consisting of, abounding with, or resembling, sand; full of sand; covered or sprinkled with sand; as, a sandy desert, road, or soil.	
sandyx		See Sandix — a kind of minium, or red lead, made by calcining carbonate of lead, but inferior to true minium.	
sane		Being in a healthy condition; not deranged; acting rationally; -- said of the mind.	Latin sanus.
saneness		The state of being sane; sanity.	
sang		imp. of Sing — to utter sounds with musical inflections or melodious modulations of voice, as fancy may dictate, or according to the notes of a song or tune, or of a given part (as alto, tenor…	
sang-froid		Freedom from agitation or excitement of mind; coolness in trying circumstances; indifference; calmness.	French sang-froid.
sanga		The Abyssinian ox (Bos or Bibos, Africanus), noted for the great length of its horns.	
sangaree		Wine and water sweetened and spiced, -- a favorite West Indian drink.	
sangiac		See Sanjak — a district or a subvision of a vilayet.	
sangraal		See Holy Grail, under Grail.	
sangreal		See Holy Grail, under Grail.	
sangu		The Abyssinian ox (Bos or Bibos, Africanus), noted for the great length of its horns.	
sanguiferous		Conveying blood; as, sanguiferous vessels, i. e., the arteries, veins, capillaries.	
sanguification		The production of blood; the conversion of the products of digestion into blood; hematosis.	
sanguifier		A producer of blood.	
sanguifluous		Flowing or running with blood.	
sanguify		To produce blood from.	
sanguigenous		Producing blood; as, sanguigenous food.	
sanguinaceous		Of a blood-red color; sanguine.	
sanguinaria		(Bot.) A genus of plants of the Poppy family.	
sanguinarily		In a sanguinary manner.	
sanguinariness		The quality or state of being sanguinary.	
sanguinary		Attended with much bloodshed; bloody; murderous; as, a sanguinary war, contest, or battle.	Latin sanguinarius.
sanguine		Having the color of blood; red.	French sanguin.
sanguineless		Destitute of blood; pale.	
sanguinely		In a sanguine manner.	
sanguineness		The quality of being sanguine.	
sanguineous		Abounding with blood; sanguine.	Latin sanguineus.
sanguinity		The quality of being sanguine; sanguineness.	
sanguinivorous		Subsisting on blood.	
sanguinolency		The state of being sanguinolent, or bloody.	
sanguinolent		Tinged or mingled with blood; bloody; as, sanguinolent sputa.	Latin sanguinolentus.
sanguisuge		A bloodsucker, or leech.	
sanguivorous		Subsisting upon blood; -- said of certain blood-sucking bats and other animals.	
sanhedrim		the great council of the Jews, which consisted of seventy members, to whom the high priest was added.	
sanhedrin		the great council of the Jews, which consisted of seventy members, to whom the high priest was added.	
sanhedrist		A member of the sanhedrin.	
sanhita		A collection of vedic hymns, songs, or verses, forming the first part of each Veda.	
sanicle		Any plant of the umbelliferous genus Sanicula, reputed to have healing powers.	
sanidine		A variety of orthoclase feldspar common in certain eruptive rocks, as trachyte; -- called also glassy feldspar.	
sanies		A thin, serous fluid commonly discharged from ulcers or foul wounds.	Latin sanies.
sanious		(Med.) pertaining to sanies, or partaking of its nature and appearance; thin and serous, with a slight bloody tinge; as, the sanious matter of an ulcer.	
sanitarian		Of or pertaining to health, or the laws of health; sanitary.	
sanitarist		A sanitarian.	
sanitarium		A health station or retreat; a sanatorium.	
sanitary		Of or pertaining to health; designed to secure or preserve health; relating to the preservation or restoration of health; hygienic; as, sanitary regulations.	
sanitation		The act of rendering sanitary; the science of sanitary conditions; the preservation of health; the use of sanitary measures; hygiene.	
sanity		The condition or quality of being sane; soundness of health of body or mind, especially of the mind; saneness.	Latin sanitas.
sanjak		A district or a subvision of a vilayet.	Turkish sancak.
sank		imp. of Sink — to fall by, or as by, the force of gravity; to descend lower and lower; to decline gradually; to subside; as, a stone sinks in water; waves rise and sink; the sun sinks in the west.	
sankha		A chank shell (Turbinella pyrum); also, a shell bracelet or necklace made in India from the chank shell.	
sankhya		A Hindoo system of philosophy which refers all things to soul and a rootless germ called prakriti, consisting of three elements, goodness, passion, and darkness.	
sannop		same as Sannup.	
sannup		A male Indian; a brave; -- correlative of squaw.	Eastern Abnaki senabe.
sanny	English dialect	The sandpiper.	
sans		Without; deprived or destitute of.	Middle English sans.
sans-culotte		A fellow without breeches; a ragged fellow; -- a name of reproach given in the first French revolution to the extreme republican party, who rejected breeches as an emblem peculiar to the upper classes or aristocracy…	French sans-culotte.
sans-culottic		pertaining to, or involving, sans-culottism; radical; revolutionary; Jacobinical.	
sans-culottism		Extreme republican principles; the principles or practice of the sans-culottes.	French sans-culottisme.
sans-souci		Without care; free and easy.	
sanscrit		See Sanskrit — the ancient language of the Hindoos, long since obsolete in vernacular use, but preserved to the present day as the literary and sacred dialect of India.	
sanskrit		The ancient language of the Hindoos, long since obsolete in vernacular use, but preserved to the present day as the literary and sacred dialect of India.	
sanskritic		Sanskrit.	
sanskritist		One versed in Sanskrit.	
santal		A colorless crystalline substance, isomeric with piperonal, but having weak acid properties.	
santalaceous		Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Santalaceæ), of which the genus Santalum is the type, and which includes the buffalo nut and a few other North American plants, and many peculiar plants of the southern hemisphere.	
santalic		Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, sandalwood (Santalum); -- used specifically to designate an acid obtained as a resinous or red crystalline dyestuff, which is called also santalin.	
santalin		Santalic acid. See Santalic.	
santalum		A genus of trees with entire opposite leaves and small apetalous flowers.	
santees		One of the seven confederated tribes of Indians belonging to the Sioux, or Dakotas.	
santer		See Saunter — to wander or walk about idly and in a leisurely or lazy manner; to lounge; to stroll; to loiter.	
santon		A Turkish saint; a kind of dervish, regarded by the people as a saint: also, a hermit.	French santon, from Spanish santón.
santonate		A salt of santonic acid.	
santonic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid (distinct from santoninic acid) obtained from santonin as a white crystalline substance.	
santonin		A white crystalline substance having a bitter taste, extracted from the buds of levant wormseed and used as an anthelmintic.	
santoninate		A salt of santoninic acid.	
santoninic		Of or pertaining to santonin; -- used specifically to designate an acid not known in the free state, but obtained in its salts.	
sao		Any marine annelid of the genus Hyalinæcia, especially H. tubicola of Europe, which inhabits a transparent movable tube resembling a quill in color and texture.	
sap		The juice of plants of any kind, especially the ascending and descending juices or circulating fluid essential to nutrition.	French saper.
sapadillo		See Sapodila.	
sapajo		The sapajou.	
sapajou		Any one of several species of South American monkeys of the genus Cebus, having long and prehensile tails.	French sapajou.
sapful		Abounding in sap; sappy.	
saphead	Low	A weak-minded, stupid fellow; a milksop.	
saphenous		(a) Manifest; -- applied to the two principal superficial veins of the lower limb of man.	Arabic صافن, from Greek σαφηνής.
sapid		Having the power of affecting the organs of taste; possessing savor, or flavor.	
sapidity		The quality or state of being sapid; taste; savor; savoriness.	
sapidness		Quality of being sapid; sapidity.	
sapience		The quality of being sapient; wisdom; sageness; knowledge.	Old French sapience, from Latin sapientia.
sapient		Wise; sage; discerning; -- often in irony or contempt.	Old French sapient.
sapiential		Having or affording wisdom. -- Sa`pi*en"tial*ly, adv.	
sapientious	Obsolete	Sapiential.	
sapientize		To make sapient.	
sapiently		In a sapient manner.	
sapindaceous		Of or pertaining to an order of trees and shrubs (Sapindaceæ), including the (Typical) genus Sapindus, the maples, the margosa, and about seventy other genera.	
sapindus		A genus of tropical and subtropical trees with pinnate leaves and panicled flowers.	
sapless		Destitute of sap; not juicy.	
sapling		A young tree.	
sapodilla		A tall, evergeen, tropical American tree (Achras Sapota); also, its edible fruit, the sapodilla plum.	
sapogenin		A white crystalline substance obtained by the decomposition of saponin.	
saponaceous		Resembling soap; having the qualities of soap; soapy.	Latin sapo.
saponacity		The quality or state of being saponaceous.	
saponary		Saponaceous.	
saponifiable		Capable of conversion into soap; as, a saponifiable substance.	
saponification		The act, process, or result, of soap making; conversion into soap; specifically (Chem.), the decomposition of fats and other ethereal salts by alkalies; as, the saponification of ethyl acetate.	
saponifier		That which saponifies; any reagent used to cause saponification.	
saponify		To convert into soap, as tallow or any fat; hence (Chem.), to subject to any similar process, as that which ethereal salts undergo in decomposition; as, to saponify ethyl acetate.	
saponin		A poisonous glucoside found in many plants, as in the root of soapwort (Saponaria), in the bark of soap bark (Quillaia), etc. It is extracted as a white amorphus powder, which occasions a soapy lather in solution…	
saponite		A hydrous silicate of magnesia and aluminia.	
saponul	Obsolete	A soapy mixture obtained by treating an essential oil with an alkali; hence, any similar compound of an essential oil.	
sapor		Power of affecting the organs of taste; savor; flavor; taste.	
saporific		Having the power to produce the sensation of taste; producing taste, flavor, or relish.	Latin sapor.
saporosity		The quality of a body by which it excites the sensation of taste.	
saporous		Having flavor or taste; yielding a taste.	
sapota		The sapodilla.	
sapotaceous		Of or pertaining to a natural order (Sapotaceæ) of (mostly tropical) trees and shrubs, including the star apple, the Lucuma, or natural marmalade tree, the gutta-percha tree (Isonandra), and the India mahwa…	
sappare		Kyanite.	
sapper		One who saps; specifically (Mil.), one who is employed in working at saps, building and repairing fortifications, and the like.	
sapphic		Of or pertaining to Sappho, the Grecian poetess; as, Sapphic odes; Sapphic verse.	
sapphire		(Min.) Native alumina or aluminium sesquioxide, Al2O3; corundum; esp., the blue transparent variety of corundum, highly prized as a gem. of rubies, sapphires, and of pearlés white.	Old French saphir, from Latin sapphirus, from Greek σάπφειρος.
sapphirine		Resembling sapphire; made of sapphire; having the color, or any quality of sapphire.	
sappho		Any one of several species of brilliant South American humming birds of the genus Sappho, having very bright-colored and deeply forked tails; -- called also firetail.	
sappiness		The quality of being sappy; juiciness.	
sappodilla		See Sapodilla — a tall, evergeen, tropical American tree (Achras Sapota); also, its edible fruit, the sapodilla plum.	
sappy		Abounding with sap; full of sap; juisy; succulent.	
saprophagan		One of a tribe of beetles which feed upon dacaying animal and vegetable substances; a carrion beetle.	
saprophagous		Feeding on carrion.	
saprophyte		Any plant growing on dacayed animal or vegetable matter, as most fungi and some flowering plants with no green color, as the Indian pipe.	
saprophytic		Feeding or growing upon decaying anomal or vegetable matter; pertaining to a saprophyte or the saprophytes.	
saprophytism		State or fact of being saprophytic.	
sapsago		A kind of Swiss cheese, of a greenish color, flavored with melilot.	
sapskull	Low	A saphead.	
sapucaia		A Brazilian tree. See Lecythis, and Monkey-pot.	Portuguese sapucaya.
sapwood		The alburnum, or part of the wood on any exogenous tree next to the bark, being that portion of the tree through which the sap flows most freely; -- distinguished from Heartwood.	
sarabaite		One of certain vagrant or heretical Oriental monks in the early church.	
saraband		A slow Spanish dance of Saracenic origin, to an air in triple time; also, the air itself.	French sarabande.
saracen		Anciently, an Arab; later, a Mussulman; in the Middle Ages, the common term among Christians in Europe for a Mohammedan hostile to the crusaders.	
saracenic		Of or pertaining to the Saracens; as, Saracenic architecture.	
saracenical		Of or pertaining to the Saracens; as, Saracenic architecture.	
sarasin		See Sarrasin — a portcullis, or herse.	
saraswati		The sakti or wife of Brahma; the Hindoo goddess of learning, music, and poetry.	
sarcasm		A keen, reproachful expression; a satirical remark uttered with some degree of scorn or contempt; a taunt; a gibe; a cutting jest.	Latin sarcasmus, from Greek σαρκασμός.
sarcasmous	Obsolete	Sarcastic.	
sarcastic		Expressing, or expressed by, sarcasm; characterized by, or of the nature of, sarcasm; given to the use of sarcasm; bitterly satirical; scornfully severe; taunting.	
sarcastical		Expressing, or expressed by, sarcasm; characterized by, or of the nature of, sarcasm; given to the use of sarcasm; bitterly satirical; scornfully severe; taunting.	
sarcastically		In a sarcastic manner.	
sarcel		One of the outer pinions or feathers of the wing of a bird, esp. of a hawk.	Old French cercel.
sarceled		Cut through the middle.	
sarcelle		The old squaw, or long-tailed duck.	
sarcenet		A species of fine thin silk fabric, used for linings, etc. Thou green sarcenet flap for a sore eye.	
sarcin		Same as Hypoxanthin.	
sarcina		A genus of bacteria found in various organic fluids, especially in those those of the stomach, associated with certain diseases.	
sarcle	Obsolete	To weed, or clear of weeds, with a hoe.	
sarco		A combining form from Gr. flesh; as, sarcophagous, flesh- eating; sarcology.	
sarco-		A combining form from Gr. flesh; as, sarcophagous, flesh- eating; sarcology.	Greek σάρξ.
sarcobasis		A fruit consisting of many dry indehiscent cells, which contain but few seeds and cohere about a common style, as in the mallows.	
sarcoblast		A minute yellowish body present in the interior of certain rhizopods.	
sarcocarp		the fleshy part of a stone fruit, situated between the skin, or epicarp, and the stone, or endocarp, as in a peach.	
sarcocele		Any solid tumor of the testicle.	
sarcocol		A gum resin obtained from certain shrubs of Africa (Penæa), -- formerly thought to cause healing of wounds and ulcers.	
sarcocolla		A gum resin obtained from certain shrubs of Africa (Penæa), -- formerly thought to cause healing of wounds and ulcers.	
sarcode		A name applied by Dujardin in 1835 to the gelatinous material forming the bodies of the lowest animals; protoplasm.	
sarcoderm		(a) A fleshy covering of a seed, lying between the external and internal integuments.	
sarcoderma		(a) A fleshy covering of a seed, lying between the external and internal integuments.	
sarcodic		Of or pertaining to sarcode.	
sarcoid		Resembling flesh, or muscle; composed of sarcode.	
sarcolactic		relating to muscle and milk; as, sarcolactic acid. See Lactic acid, under Lactic.	
sarcolemma		The very thin transparent and apparently homogenous sheath which incloses a striated muscular fiber; the myolemma.	
sarcoline		Flesh-colored.	
sarcologic		Of or pertaining to sarcology.	
sarcological		Of or pertaining to sarcology.	
sarcology		That part of anatomy which treats of the soft parts.	
sarcoma		A tumor of fleshy consistence; -- formerly applied to many varieties of tumor, now restricted to a variety of malignant growth made up of cells resembling those of fetal development without any proper intercellular substance.	
sarcomatous		Of or pertaining to sarcoma; resembling sarcoma.	
sarcophaga		A suborder of carnivorous and insectivorous marsupials including the dasyures and the opossums.	
sarcophagan		(Zoöl.) Any animal which eats flesh, especially any carnivorous marsupial.	
sarcophagous		Feeding on flesh; flesh-eating; carnivorous.	
sarcophagus		A species of limestone used among the Greeks for making coffins, which was so called because it consumed within a few weeks the flesh of bodies deposited in it.	French sarcophage, from Latin sarcophagus, from Greek σαρκοφάγος.
sarcophagy		The practice of eating flesh.	
sarcophile		A flesh-eating animal, especially any one of the carnivorous marsupials.	
sarcoptes		A genus of parasitic mites including the itch mites.	
sarcoptid		Any species of the genus Sarcoptes and related genera of mites, comprising the itch mites and mange mites. -- a.	
sarcorhamphi		A division of raptorial birds composing the vultures.	
sarcoseptum		One of the mesenteries of an anthozoan.	
sarcosin		A crystalline nitrogenous substance, formed in the decomposition of creatin (one of the constituents of muscle tissue).	
sarcosis		(a) Abnormal formation of flesh. (b) Sarcoma.	
sarcotic		Producing or promoting the growth of flesh. -- n.	
sarcous		Fleshy; -- applied to the minute stryctural elements, called sarcous elements, or sarcous disks, of which striated muscular fiber is composed.	
sarculation		A weeding, as with a hoe or a rake.	Latin sarculatio.
sard		A variety of carnelian, of a rich reddish yellow or brownish red color.	
sardachate		A variety of agate containing sard.	
sardan	Obsolete	A sardine.	
sardel	Obsolete	A sardine.	
sardine		Any one of several small species of herring which are commonly preserved in olive oil for food, especially the pilchard, or European sardine (Clupea pichardus).	Latin sardine.
sardinian		Of or pertaining to the island, kingdom, or people of Sardinia. -- n.	
sardius		A precious stone, probably a carnelian, one of which was set in Aaron's breastplate.	
sardoin		Sard; carnelian.	
sardonian	Obsolete	Sardonic.	
sardonic		Forced; unnatural; insincere; hence, derisive, mocking, malignant, or bitterly sarcastic; -- applied only to a laugh, smile, or some facial semblance of gayety.	French sardonique, from Latin ''[[sardonicus]] [[risus]]''.
sardonyx		A variety of onyx consisting of sard and white chalcedony in alternate layers.	
saree		The principal garment of a Hindoo woman.	
sargasso		The gulf weed. See under Gulf.	Portuguese sargasso.
sargassum		A genus of algæ including the gulf weed.	
sargo		Any one of several species of sparoid fishes belonging to Sargus, Pomodasys, and related genera; -- called also sar, and saragu.	
sari		Same as Saree.	Hindi साड़ी, from Sanskrit शाटी.
sarigue		A small South American opossum (Didelphys opossum), having four white spots on the face.	
sark	Scots	A shirt.	Middle English sark.
sarkin		Same as Hypoxanthin.	
sarking		Thin boards for shealting, as above the rafters, and under the shingles or slates, and for similar purposes.	
sarlac		The yak.	
sarlyk		The yak.	
sarmatian		Of or pertaining to Sarmatia, or its inhabitants, the ancestors of the Russians und the Poles.	
sarmatic		Of or pertaining to Sarmatia, or its inhabitants, the ancestors of the Russians und the Poles.	
sarment		A prostrate filiform stem or runner, as of the strawbwrry. See Runner.	
sarmentaceous		Bearing sarments, or runners, as the strawberry.	
sarmentose		(a) Long and filiform, and almost naked, or having only leaves at the joints where it strikes root; as, a sarmentose stem.	
sarmentous		Sarmentose.	
sarn	English dialect	A pavement or stepping-stone.	
sarong		A sort of petticoat worn by both sexes in Java and the Malay Archipelago.	Malay (macrolanguage sarung.
saros		A Chaldean astronomical period or cycle, the length of which has been variously estimated from 3,600 years to 3,600 days, or a little short of 10 years.	
sarplar		A large bale or package of wool, containing eighty tods, or 2,240 pounds, in weight.	
sarplier		A coarse cloth made of hemp, and used for packing goods, etc. Tyrwhitt.	French serpillière.
sarpo		A large toadfish the Southern United States and the Gulf of Mexico (Batrachus tau, var. pardus).	
sarracenia		A genus of American perrenial herbs growing in bogs; the American pitcher plant.	
sarrasin		A portcullis, or herse.	
sarrasine		A portcullis, or herse.	
sarsa		Sarsaparilla.	
sarsaparilla		(a) Any plant of several tropical American species of Smilax. (b) The bitter mucilaginous roots of such plants, used in medicine and in sirups for soda, etc.	Spanish zarzaparrilla.
sarsaparillin		See Parillin — a glucoside resembling saponin, found in the root of sarsaparilla, smilax, etc., and extracted as a bitter white crystalline substance; -- called also smilacin, sarsaparilla saponin…	
sarse	Obsolete	A fine sieve; a searce.	
sarsen		One of the large sandstone blocks scattered over the English chalk downs; -- called also sarsen stone, and Druid stone.	
sarsenet		See Sarcenet — a species of fine thin silk fabric, used for linings, etc. Thou green sarcenet flap for a sore eye.	
sart	Obsolete	An assart, or clearing.	
sartorial		Of or pertaining to a tailor or his work.	Latin sartorius.
sartorius		A muscle of the thigh, called the tailor's muscle, which arises from the hip bone and is inserted just below the knee.	
sash		A scarf or band worn about the waist, over the shoulder, or otherwise; a belt; a girdle, -- worn by women and children as an ornament; also worn as a badge of distinction by military officers, members of societies…	Arabic شاش.
sashery		A collection of sashes; ornamentation by means of sashes.	
sashoon	Obsolete	A kind of pad worn on the leg under the boot.	
sasin		The Indian antelope (Antilope bezoartica, or cervicapra), noted for its beauty and swiftness.	
sassaby		A large African antelope (Alcelaphus tunata), similar to the hartbeest, but having its horns regularly curved.	
sassabye		A large African antelope (Alcelaphus tunata), similar to the hartbeest, but having its horns regularly curved.	
sassafras		An American tree of the Laurel family (Sassafras officinale); also, the bark of the roots, which has an aromatic smell and taste.	Spanish sasafras.
sassanage		Stones left after sifting.	
sassarara	Obsolete	A word used to emphasize a statement.	
sasse	Obsolete	A sluice or lock, as in a river, to make it more navigable.	Dutch sas, from French sas.
sassenach		A Saxon; an Englishman; a Lowlander.	Scottish Gaelic sasunnach.
sassolin		Native boric acid, found in saline incrustations on the borders of hot springs near Sasso, in the territory of Florence.	
sassoline		Native boric acid, found in saline incrustations on the borders of hot springs near Sasso, in the territory of Florence.	
sassorol		The rock pigeon. See under Pigeon.	
sassorolla		The rock pigeon. See under Pigeon.	
sastra		Same as Shaster.	
sastrugi		Incorrect, but common, var. of Zastrugi.	
sat		imp. of Sit — obs. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Sit, for sitteth.	
satan		The grand adversary of man; The Devil, or Prince of darkness; the chief of the fallen angels; the archfiend.	
satanic		Of or pertaining to Satan; having the qualities of Satan; resembling Satan; extremely malicious or wicked; devilish; infernal.	
satanical		Of or pertaining to Satan; having the qualities of Satan; resembling Satan; extremely malicious or wicked; devilish; infernal.	
satanism		The evil and malicious disposition of Satan; a diabolical sprit.	
satanist		A very wicked-person.	
satanophany		An incarnation of Satan; a being possessed by a demon.	
satchel		A little sack or bag for carrying papers, books, or small articles of wearing apparel; a hand bag.	
sate		To satisfy the desire or appetite of; to satiate; to glut; to surfeit.	Malay (macrolanguage sate.
sateen		A kind of dress goods made of cotton or woolen, with a glossy surface resembling satin.	
sateless		Insatiable.	
satellite		An attendant attached to a prince or other powerful person; hence, an obsequious dependent.	Middle French satellite, from Latin satellitem.
satellitious		Pertaining to, or consisting of, satellites.	
satiate		Filled to satiety; glutted; sated; -- followed by with or of.	Latin satiatus.
satiation		Satiety.	
satiety		The state of being satiated or glutted; fullness of gratification, either of the appetite or of any sensual desire; fullness beyond desire; an excess of gratification which excites wearisomeness or loathing; repletion; satiation.	Middle French satieté, from Latin satietas.
satin		A silk cloth, of a thick, close texture, and overshot woof, which has a glossy surface.	Old French satin.
satinet		A thin kind of satin.	
satinette		One of a breed of fancy frilled pigeons allied to the owls and turbits, having the body white, the shoulders tricolored, and the tail bluish black with a large white spot on each feather.	
satinwood		The hard, lemon-colored, fragrant wood of an East Indian tree (Chloroxylon Swietnia).	
satiny		Like or composed of satin; glossy; as, to have a satiny appearance; a satiny texture.	
sation	Obsolete	A sowing or planting.	Latin satio.
satire		A composition, generally poetical, holding up vice or folly to reprobation; a keen or severe exposure of what in public or private morals deserves rebuke; an invective poem; as, the Satires of Juvenal.	
satiric		Of or pertaining to satire; of the nature of satire; as, a satiric style.	
satirical		Of or pertaining to satire; of the nature of satire; as, a satiric style.	
satirist		One who satirizes; especially, one who writes satire.	
satirize		To make the object of satire; to attack with satire; to censure with keenness or severe sarcasm.	
satisfaction		The act of satisfying, or the state of being satisfied; gratification of desire; contentment in possession and enjoyment; repose of mind resulting from compliance with its desires or demands.	Latin satisfactio.
satisfactive	Obsolete	Satisfactory.	
satisfactory		Giving or producing satisfaction; yielding content; especially, relieving the mind from doubt or uncertainty, and enabling it to rest with confidence; sufficient; as, a satisfactory account or explanation.	
satisfiable		That may be satisfied.	
satisfier		One who satisfies.	
satisfy		In general, to fill up the measure of a want of (a person or a thing); hence, to grafity fully the desire of; to make content; to supply to the full, or so far as to give contentment with what is wished for.	Latin satisfacere.
satisfyingly		So as to satisfy; satisfactorily.	
sative	Obsolete	Sown; propagated by seed.	
satle	Obsolete	To settle.	
satrap		The governor of a province in ancient Persia; hence, a petty autocrat despot.	Middle English satrape, from Latin satrapes, from Greek σατράπης, from Old Persian (ca. 600-400 B.C. 𐎧𐏁𐏂𐎱𐎠𐎺𐎠.
satrapal		Of or pertaining to a satrap, or a satrapy.	
satrapess		A female satrap.	
satrapical		Satrapal.	
satrapy		The government or jurisdiction of a satrap; a principality.	
saturable		Capable of being saturated; admitting of saturation. -- Sat`u*ra*bil"i*ty, n.	
saturant		Impregnating to the full; saturating.	
saturate		To cause to become completely penetrated, impregnated, or soaked; to fill fully; to sate.	Latin saturatus.
saturated		Filled to repletion; holding by absorption, or in solution, all that is possible; as, saturated garments; a saturated solution of salt.	
saturation		The act of saturating, or the state of being saturating; complete penetration or impregnation.	
saturator		One who, or that which, saturates.	
saturday		The seventh or last day of the week; the day following Friday and preceding Sunday.	
saturity	Obsolete	The state of being saturated; fullness of supply.	
saturn		(Roman Myth.) One of the elder and principal deities, the son of Coelus and Terra (Heaven and Earth), anf the father of Jupiter.	
saturnalia		Hence: A period or occasion of general licemse, in which the passions or vices have riotous indulgence.	Latin Sāturnālia.
saturnalian		Of unrestrained and intemperate jollity; riotously merry; dissolute.	
saturnian		(Roman Myth.) Of or pertaining to Saturn, whose age or reign, from the mildness and wisdom of his government, is called the golden age.	
saturnicentric		Appearing as if seen from the center of the planet Saturn; relating or referred to Saturn as a center.	
saturnine		Born under, or influenced by, the planet Saturn.	
saturnism		Plumbum.	
saturnist		A person of a dull, grave, gloomy temperament.	
satyr		(Zoöl.) Any one of many species of butterflies belonging to the family Nymphalidæ.	French satyre, from Latin satyrus, from Greek σάτυρος, from Hebrew שָׂעִיר.
satyriasis		Immoderate venereal appetite in the male.	Latin satyriasis, from Greek σατυρίασις.
satyric		Of or pertaining to satyrs; burlesque; as, satyric tragedy.	Greek σατυρικός.
satyrical		Of or pertaining to satyrs; burlesque; as, satyric tragedy.	
satyrion	Obsolete	Any one of several kinds of orchids.	
sauce		A composition of condiments and appetizing ingredients eaten with food as a relish; especially, a dressing for meat or fish or for puddings; as, mint sauce; sweet sauce, etc. High sauces and rich spices fetched from the Indies.	Old French sauce, from Latin salsa.
sauce-alone		Jack-by-the-hedge. See under Jack.	
saucebox		A saucy, impudent person; especially, a pert child.	
saucepan		A small pan with a handle, in which sauce is prepared over a fire; a stewpan.	
saucer		A small dish, commonly deeper than a plate, in which a cup is set at table.	French saucière.
saucily		In a saucy manner; impudently; with impertinent boldness.	
sauciness		The quality or state of being saucy; that which is saucy; impertinent boldness; contempt of superiors; impudence.	
saucisse		(Mining or Gun.) A long and slender pipe or bag, made of cloth well pitched, or of leather, filled with powder, and used to communicate fire to mines, caissons, bomb chests, etc.	
saucisson		(Mining or Gun.) A long and slender pipe or bag, made of cloth well pitched, or of leather, filled with powder, and used to communicate fire to mines, caissons, bomb chests, etc.	
saucy		Showing impertinent boldness or pertness; transgressing the rules of decorum; treating superiors with contempt; impudent; insolent; as, a saucy fellow.	
sauerkraut		Cabbage cut fine and allowed to ferment in a brine made of its own juice with salt, -- a German dish.	
sauf	Obsolete	Safe. haucer.	
sauger		An American fresh-water food fish (Stizostedion Canadense); -- called also gray pike, blue pike, hornfish, land pike, sand pike, pickering, and pickerel.	
saugh		imp. sing. of See.	
sauh		imp. sing. of See.	
sauks		Same as Sacs.	
saulie	Scots	A hired mourner at a funeral.	
sault		A rapid in some rivers; as, the Sault Ste.	Middle French sault.
saunders		See Sandress.	
saunders-blue		A kind of color prepared from calcined lapis lazuli; ultramarine; also, a blue prepared from carbonate of copper.	
saunter		To wander or walk about idly and in a leisurely or lazy manner; to lounge; to stroll; to loiter.	
saunterer		One who saunters.	
saur	English dialect	Soil; dirt; dirty water; urine from a cowhouse.	
saurel		Any carangoid fish of the genus Trachurus, especially T. trachurus, or T. saurus, of Europe and America, and T. picturatus of California.	
sauria		A division of Reptilia formerly established to include the Lacertilia, Crocodilia, Dinosauria, and other groups.	
saurian		Of or pertaining to, or of the nature of, the Sauria. -- n.	
saurioid		Same as Sauroid.	
saurobatrachia		The Urodela.	
saurognathous		Having the bones of the palate arranged as in saurians, the vomer consisting of two lateral halves, as in the woodpeckers.	
sauroid		(a) Like or pertaining to the saurians. (b) Resembling a saurian superficially; as, a sauroid fish.	
sauroidichnite		The fossil track of a saurian.	
sauropoda		An extinct order of herbivorous dinosaurs having the feet of a saurian type, instead of birdlike, as they are in many dinosaurs.	
sauropsida		A comprehensive group of vertebrates, comprising the reptiles and birds.	
sauropterygia		Same as Plesiosauria.	
saururae		An extinct order of birds having a long vertebrated tail with quills along each side of it.	
saury		A slender marine fish (Scombresox saurus) of Europe and America.	
sausage		An article of food consisting of meat (esp. pork) minced and highly seasoned, and inclosed in a cylindrical case or skin usually made of the prepared intestine of some animal.	
sauseflem	Obsolete	Having a red, pimpled face.	
saussurite		A tough, compact mineral, of a white, greenish, or grayish color.	
saut	Obsolete	An assault.	
saute	Obsolete	An assault. p. p. of Sauter.	
sauter	Obsolete	To fry lightly and quickly, as meat, by turning ot tossing it over frequently in a hot pan greased with a little fat.	
sauterelle		An instrument used by masons and others to trace and form angles.	
sauterne		A white wine made in the district of sauterne, France.	
sautrie	Obsolete	Psaltery.	
sauvegarde		The monitor.	
savable		capable of, or admitting of, being saved.	
savableness		Capability of being saved.	
savacioun	Obsolete	Salvation.	
savage		Of or pertaining to the forest; remote from human abodes and cultivation; in a state of nature; nature; wild; as, a savage wilderness.	Old French sauvage.
savagely		In a savage manner.	
savageness		The state or quality of being savage.	
savagery		The state of being savage; savageness; savagism.	
savagism		The state of being savage; the state of rude, uncivilized men, or of men in their native wildness and rudeness.	
savanilla	Dialect	The tarpum.	
savanna		A tract of level land covered with the vegetable growth usually found in a damp soil and warm climate, -- as grass or reeds, -- but destitute of trees.	Spanish sabana.
savant		A man of learning; one versed in literature or science; a person eminent for acquirements.	French savant, from Latin sapere.
save		To make safe; to procure the safety of; to preserve from injury, destruction, or evil of any kind; to rescue from impending danger; as, to save a house from the flames.	
save-all		Anything which saves fragments, or prevents waste or loss. Specifically: (a) A device in a candlestick to hold the ends of candles, so that they be burned.	
saveable		See Savable — capable of, or admitting of, being saved.	
saveloy		A kind of dried sausage.	
savement	Obsolete	The act of saving.	
saver		One who saves.	
savin		(a) A coniferous shrub (Juniperus Sabina) of Western Asia, occasionally found also in the northern parts of the United States and in British America.	Old French savine, from Latin Sabina.
savine		(a) A coniferous shrub (Juniperus Sabina) of Western Asia, occasionally found also in the northern parts of the United States and in British America.	
saving		Preserving; rescuing.	
savingly		In a saving manner; with frugality or parsimony.	
savingness		The quality of being saving; carefulness not to expend money uselessly; frugality; parsimony.	
savior		One who saves, preserves, or delivers from destruction or danger.	
savioress		A female savior.	
savor		That property of a thing which affects the organs of taste or smell; taste and odor; flavor; relish; scent; as, the savor of an orange or a rose; an ill savor.	Old French savourer, from Latin saporare.
savorily		In a savory manner.	
savoriness		The quality of being savory.	
savorless		Having no savor; destitute of smell or of taste; insipid.	
savorous	Obsolete	Having a savor; savory.	
savory		Pleasing to the organs of taste or smell.	
savoury		An aromatic labiate plant (Satireia hortensis), much used in cooking; -- also called summer savory.	
savoy		A variety of the common cabbage (Brassica oleracea major), having curled leaves, -- much cultivated for winter use.	
savoyard		A native or inhabitant of Savoy.	
savvey	Slang	To understand; to comprehend; know.	
savvy	Slang	To understand; to comprehend; know.	
saw		imp. of See — specifically: (a) The seat of episcopal power; a diocese; the jurisdiction of a bishop; as, the see of New York.	Middle English sawe, from Old English sagu.
saw-set		An instrument used to set or turn the teeth of a saw a little sidewise, that they may make a kerf somewhat wider than the thickness of the blade, to prevent friction; -- called also saw-wrest.	
saw-toothed		Having a tooth or teeth like those of a saw; serrate.	
saw-whet		A small North American owl (Nyctale Acadica), destitute of ear tufts and having feathered toes; -- called also Acadian owl.	
saw-wort		Any plant of the composite genus Serratula; -- so named from the serrated leaves of most of the species.	
saw-wrest		See Saw-set — an instrument used to set or turn the teeth of a saw a little sidewise, that they may make a kerf somewhat wider than the thickness of the blade, to prevent friction…	
sawbelly	Dialect	The alewife.	
sawbill	English dialect	The merganser.	
sawbones		A nickname for a surgeon.	
sawbuck		A sawhorse.	
sawceflem	Obsolete	See Sauseflem — having a red, pimpled face.	
sawder	Slang	A corrupt spelling and pronunciation of solder.	
sawdust		Dust or small fragments of wood 9or of stone, etc.) made by the cutting of a saw.	
sawer		One who saws; a sawyer.	
sawfish		Any one of several species of elasmobranch fishes of the genus Pristis.	
sawfly		Any one of numerous species of hymenopterous insects belonging to the family Tenthredinidæ.	
sawhorse		A kind of rack, shaped like a double St. Andrew's cross, on which sticks of wood are laid for sawing by hand; -- called also buck, and sawbuck.	
sawmill		A mill for sawing, especially one for sawing timber or lumber.	
sawneb	English dialect	A merganser.	
sawtooth		An arctic seal (Lobodon carcinophaga), having the molars serrated; -- called also crabeating seal.	
sawtry	Obsolete	A psaltery.	
sawyer		One whose occupation is to saw timber into planks or boards, or to saw wood for fuel; a sawer.	
sax		A kind of chopping instrument for trimming the edges of roofing slates.	
sax-tuba		A powerful instrument of brass, curved somewhat like the Roman buccina, or tuba.	
saxatile		Of or pertaining to rocks; living among rocks; as, a saxatile plant.	
saxhorn		A name given to a numerous family of brass wind instruments with valves, invented by Antoine Joseph Sax (known as Adolphe Sax), of Belgium and Paris, and much used in military bands and in orchestras.	
saxicava		Any species of marine bivalve shells of the genus Saxicava.	
saxicavid		Of or pertaining to the saxicavas. -- n.	
saxicavous		Boring, or hollowing out, rocks; -- said of certain mollusks which live in holes which they burrow in rocks.	
saxicoline		Stone-inhabiting; pertaining to, or having the characteristics of, the stonechats.	
saxicolous		Growing on rocks.	
saxifraga		A genus of exogenous polypetalous plants, embracing about one hundred and eighty species.	
saxifragaceous		Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Saxifragaceæ) of which saxifrage is the type.	
saxifragant		Breaking or destroying stones; saxifragous. -- n.	
saxifrage		Any plant of the genus Saxifraga, mostly perennial herbs growing in crevices of rocks in mountainous regions.	
saxifragous		Dissolving stone, especially dissolving stone in the bladder.	
saxon		(a) One of a nation or people who formerly dwelt in the nothern part of Germany, and who, with other Teutonic tribes, invaded and conquered England in the fifth and sixth centuries.	
saxonic		relating to the saxons or Anglo-Saxons.	
saxonism		An idiom of the Saxon or Anglo-Saxon language.	
saxonist		One versed in the Saxon language.	
saxonite		See Mountain soap, under Mountain.	
saxony		A kind of glossy woolen cloth formerly much used.	
saxophone		A wind instrument of brass, containing a reed, and partaking of the qualities both of a brass instrument and of a clarinet.	French saxophone.
say		To utter or express in words; to tell; to speak; to declare; as, he said many wise things.	Middle English seyen.
sayer		One who says; an utterer.	
sayette		A mixed stuff, called also sagathy. See Sagathy.	
saying		That which is said; a declaration; a statement, especially a proverbial one; an aphorism; a proverb.	
sayman	Obsolete	One who assays.	
saymaster	Obsolete	A master of assay; one who tries or proves.	
saynd	Obsolete	obs. p. p. of Senge, to singe.	
