scab		An incrustation over a sore, wound, vesicle, or pustule, formed by the drying up of the discharge from the diseased part.
scabbard		The case in which the blade of a sword, dagger, etc., is kept; a sheath.
scabbed		Abounding with scabs; diseased with scabs.
scabbedness		Scabbiness.
scabbily		In a scabby manner.
scabbiness		The quality or state of being scabby.
scabble		See Scapple — (a) To work roughly, or shape without finishing, as stone before leaving the quarry.
scabby		Affected with scabs; full of scabs.
scabies		The itch.
scabious		Consisting of scabs; rough; itchy; leprous; as, scabious eruptions.
scabling		A fragment or chip of stone.
scabredity	Obsolete	Roughness; ruggedness.
scabrous		Rough to the touch, like a file; having small raised dots, scales, or points; scabby; scurfy; scaly.
scabrousness		The quality of being scabrous.
scabwort		Elecampane.
scad	Scots	(a) A small carangoid fish (Trachurus saurus) abundant on the European coast, and less common on the American.
scaffold		A temporary structure of timber, boards, etc., for various purposes, as for supporting workmen and materials in building, for exhibiting a spectacle upon, for holding the spectators at a show, etc. Pardon, gentles all, The flat…
scaffoldage		A scaffold.
scaffolding		A scaffold; a supporting framework; as, the scaffolding of the body.
scaglia		A reddish variety of limestone.
scagliola		An imitation of any veined and ornamental stone, as marble, formed by a substratum of finely ground gypsum mixed with glue, the surface of which, while soft, is variegated with splinters of marble, spar, granite, etc.…
scala		(Surg.) A machine formerly employed for reducing dislocations of the humerus.
scalable		Capable of being scaled.
scalade		See Escalade — a furious attack made by troops on a fortified place, in which ladders are used to pass a ditch or mount a rampart.
scalado		See Escalade — a furious attack made by troops on a fortified place, in which ladders are used to pass a ditch or mount a rampart.
scalar		In the quaternion analysis, a quantity that has magnitude, but not direction; -- distinguished from a vector, which has both magnitude and direction.
scalaria		Any one of numerous species of marine gastropods of the genus Scalaria, or family Scalaridæ, having elongated spiral turreted shells, with rounded whorls, usually crossed by ribs or varices.
scalariform		Resembling a ladder in form or appearance; having transverse bars or markings like the rounds of a ladder; as, the scalariform cells and scalariform pits in some plants.
scalary	Obsolete	Resembling a ladder; formed with steps.
scalawag	Slang	A scamp; a scapegrace.
scald		To burn with hot liquid or steam; to pain or injure by contact with, or imersion in, any hot fluid; as, to scald the hand.
scalder		A Scandinavian poet; a scald.
scaldfish		A European flounder (Arnoglosus laterna, or Psetta arnoglossa); -- called also megrin, and smooth sole.
scaldic		Of or pertaining to the scalds of the Norsemen; as, scaldic poetry.
scale		The dish of a balance; hence, the balance itself; an instrument or machine for weighing; as, to turn the scale; -- chiefly used in the plural when applied to the whole instrument or apparatus for weighing.
scale-winged		Having the wings covered with small scalelike structures, as the lepidoptera; scaly-winged.
scaleback		Any one of numerous species of marine annelids of the family Polynoidæ, and allies, which have two rows of scales, or elytra, along the back.
scalebeam		The lever or beam of a balance; the lever of a platform scale, to which the poise for weighing is applied.
scaleboard		A thin veneer of leaf of wood used for covering the surface of articles of firniture, and the like.
scaled		Covered with scales, or scalelike structures; -- said of a fish, a reptile, a moth, etc.
scaleless		Destitute of scales.
scalene		(Geom.) (a) Having the sides and angles unequal; -- said of a triangle.
scalenohedral		Of or pertaining to a scalenohedron.
scalenohedron		A pyramidal form under the rhombohedral system, inclosed by twelve faces, each a scalene triangle.
scaler		One who, or that which, scales; specifically, a dentist's instrument for removing tartar from the teeth.
scaliness		The state of being scaly; roughness.
scaling		Adapted for removing scales, as from a fish; as, a scaling knife; adapted for removing scale, as from the interior of a steam boiler; as, a scaling hammer, bar, etc.
scaliola		Same as Scagliola.
scall	Obsolete	A scurf or scabby disease, especially of the scalp.
scalled	Obsolete	Scabby; scurfy; scall.
scallion		(Bot.) A kind of small onion (Allium Ascalonicum), native of Palestine; the eschalot, or shallot.
scallop		(Zoöl.) Any one of numerous species of marine bivalve mollusks of the genus Pecten and allied genera of the family Pectinidæ.
scalloped		Furnished with a scallop; made or done with or in a scallop.
scalloper		One who fishes for scallops.
scalloping		Fishing for scallops.
scalp		That part of the integument of the head which is usually covered with hair.
scalpel		A small knife with a thin, keen blade, -- used by surgeons, and in dissecting.
scalper		One who, or that which, scalps.
scalping		a. & n. from Scalp.
scalpriform		Shaped like a chisel; as, the scalpriform incisors of rodents.
scaly		Covered or abounding with scales; as, a scaly fish.
scaly-winged		Scale-winged.
scamble		To move awkwardly; to be shuffling, irregular, or unsteady; to sprawl; to shamble.
scambler		One who scambles.
scamblingly		In a scambling manner; with turbulence and noise; with bold intrusiveness.
scamell	English dialect	The female bar-tailed godwit.
scamillus		A sort of second plinth or block, below the bases of Ionic and Corinthian columns, generally without moldings, and of smaller size horizontally than the pedestal.
scammel	English dialect	The female bar-tailed godwit.
scammoniate		Made from scammony; as, a scammoniate aperient.
scammony		An inspissated sap obtained from the rot of the Convolvulus Scammonia, of a blackish gray color, a nauseous smell like that of old cheese, and a somewhat acrid taste.
scamp	Colloquial	A rascal; a swindler; a rogue.
scampavia		A long, low war galley used by the Neapolitans and Sicilians in the early part of the nineteenth century.
scamper		To run with speed; to run or move in a quick, hurried manner; to hasten away.
scamperer		One who scampers.
scampish		Of or like a scamp; knavish; as, scampish conduct.
scan		Specifically (Pros.), to go through with, as a verse, marking and distinguishing the feet of which it is composed; to show, in reading, the metrical structure of; to recite metrically.
scandal		Offense caused or experienced; reproach or reprobation called forth by what is regarded as wrong, criminal, heinous, or flagrant: opprobrium or disgrace.
scandalize		To offend the feelings of the conscience of (a person) by some action which is considered immoral or criminal; to bring shame, disgrace, or reproach upon.
scandalous		Giving offense to the conscience or moral feelings; exciting reprobation; calling out condemnation.
scandalously		In a manner to give offense; shamefully.
scandalousness		Quality of being scandalous.
scandent		Climbing.
scandia		A chemical earth, the oxide of scandium.
scandic		Of or pertaining to scandium; derived from, or containing, scandium.
scandinavian		Of or pertaining to Scandinavia, that is, Sweden, Norway, and Denmark. -- n.
scandium		A rare metallic element of the boron group, whose existence was predicated under the provisional name ekaboron by means of the periodic law…
scansion		The act of scanning; distinguishing the metrical feet of a verse by emphasis, pauses, or otherwise.
scansores		An artifical group of birds formerly regarded as an order.
scansorial		(a) Capable of climbing; as, the woodpecker is a scansorial bird; adapted for climbing; as, the scansorial foot.
scant		Not full, large, or plentiful; scarcely sufficient; less than is wanted for the purpose; scanty; meager; not enough; as, a scant allowance of provisions or water; a scant pattern of cloth for a garment.
scantily		In a scanty manner; not fully; not plentifully; sparingly; parsimoniously.
scantiness		Quality condition of being scanty.
scantle	Obsolete	To be deficient; to fail.
scantlet	Obsolete	A small pattern; a small quantity.
scantling		A piece of timber sawed or cut of a small size, as for studs, rails, etc.
scantly		In a scant manner; not fully or sufficiently; narrowly; penuriously.
scantness		The quality or condition of being scant; narrowness; smallness; insufficiency; scantiness.
scanty		Wanting amplitude or extent; narrow; small; not abundant. his dominions were very narrow and scanty.
scape		(Bot.) A peduncle rising from the ground or from a subterranean stem, as in the stemless violets, the bloodroot, and the like.
scape-wheel		the wheel in an escapement (as of a clock or a watch) into the teeth of which the pallets play.
scapegallows	Colloquial	One who has narrowly escaped the gallows for his crimes.
scapegoat		(Jewish Antiq.) A goat upon whose head were symbolically placed the sins of the people, after which he was suffered to escape into the wilderness.
scapegrace		A graceless, unprincipled person; one who is wild and reckless.
scapeless		Destitute of a scape.
scapement		Same as Escapement, 3.
scaphander		The case, or impermeable apparel, in which a diver can work while under water.
scaphism		An ancient mode of punishing criminals among the Persians, by confining the victim in a trough, with his head and limbs smeared with honey or the like, and exposed to the sun and to insects until he died.
scaphite		Any fossil cephalopod shell of the genus Scaphites, belonging to the Ammonite family and having a chambered boat-shaped shell.
scaphocephalic		Of, pertaining to, or affected with, scaphocephaly.
scaphocephaly		A deformed condition of the skull, in which the vault is narrow, clongated, and more or less boat-shaped.
scaphocerite		A flattened plate or scale attached to the second joint of the antennæ of many Crustacea.
scaphognathite		A thin leafike appendage (the exopodite) of the second maxilla of decapod crustaceans.
scaphoid		Resembling a boat in form; boat-shaped. -- n.
scapholunar		Of or pertaining to the scaphoid and lunar bones of the carpus. -- n.
scaphopoda		A class of marine cephalate Mollusca having a tubular shell open at both ends, a pointed or spadelike foot for burrowing, and many long, slender, prehensile oral tentacles.
scapiform		Resembling scape, or flower stm.
scapolite		A grayish white mineral occuring in tetragonal crystals and in cleavable masses.
scapple		(a) To work roughly, or shape without finishing, as stone before leaving the quarry.
scapula		(Anat.) The principal bone of the shoulder girdle in mammals; the shoulder blade.
scapular		Of or pertaining to the scapula or the shoulder Scapular arch (Anat.), the pectoral arch.
scapulary		(R.C.Ch.) (a) A loose sleeveless vestment falling in front and behind, worn by certain religious orders and devout persons.
scapulet		A secondary mouth fold developed at the base of each of the armlike lobes of the manubrium of many rhizostome medusæ.
scapulo-		A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the scapula or the shoulder; as, the scapulo- clavicular articulation, the articulation between the scapula and clavicle.
scapus		See 1st Scape.
scar		A mark in the skin or flesh of an animal, made by a wound or ulcer, and remaining after the wound or ulcer is healed; a cicatrix; a mark left by a previous injury; a blemish; a disfigurement.
scarab		Any one of numerous species of lamellicorn beetles of the genus Scarabæus, or family Scarabæidæ, especially the sacred, or Egyptian, species (Scarabæus sacer, and S.
scarabaeus		Same as Scarab.
scarabee		Any one of numerous species of lamellicorn beetles of the genus Scarabæus, or family Scarabæidæ, especially the sacred, or Egyptian, species (Scarabæus sacer, and S.
scaraboid		Of or pertaining to the family Scarabæidæ, an extensive group which includes the Egyptian scarab, the tumbleding, and many similar lamellicorn beetles.
scaramouch		A personage in the old Italian comedy (derived from Spain) characterized by great boastfulness and poltroonery; hence, a person of like characteristics; a buffoon.
scarce		Not plentiful or abundant; in small quantity in proportion to the demand; not easily to be procured; rare; uncommon.
scarcely		With difficulty; hardly; scantly; barely; but just.
scarcement		An offset where a wall or bank of earth, etc., retreats, leaving a shelf or footing.
scarceness		The quality or condition of being scarce; smallness of quantity in proportion to the wants or demands; deficiency; lack of plenty; short supply; penury; as, a scarcity of grain; a great scarcity of beauties.
scarcity		The quality or condition of being scarce; smallness of quantity in proportion to the wants or demands; deficiency; lack of plenty; short supply; penury; as, a scarcity of grain; a great scarcity of beauties.
scard	Obsolete	A shard or fragment.
scare	Slang	To frighten; to strike with sudden fear; to alarm.
scarecrow		Anything set up to frighten crows or other birds from cornfields; hence, anything terifying without danger.
scarefire	Obsolete	A fire causing alarm.
scarf		To dress with a scarf, or as with a scarf; to cover with a loose wrapping.
scarfskin		See Epidermis — (Anat.) The outer, nonsensitive layer of the skin; cuticle; scarfskin.
scarification		The act of scarifying.
scarificator		An instrument, principally used in cupping, containing several lancets moved simultaneously by a spring, for making slight incisions.
scarifier		One who scarifies.
scarify		To scratch or cut the skin of; esp. (Med.), to make small incisions in, by means of a lancet or scarificator, so as to draw blood from the smaller vessels without opening a large vein.
scariose		Thin, dry, membranous, and not green.
scarious		Thin, dry, membranous, and not green.
scarlatina		Scarlet fever. -- Scar`la*ti i*nous (# or #), a.
scarless		Free from scar.
scarlet		A deep bright red tinged with orange or yellow, -- of many tints and shades; a vivid or bright red color.
scarmage	Obsolete	A slight contest; a skirmish. See Skirmish.
scarmoge	Obsolete	A slight contest; a skirmish. See Skirmish.
scaroid		Of or pertaining to the Scaridæ, a family of marine fishes including the parrot fishes.
scarp		A band in the same position as the bend sinister, but only half as broad as the latter.
scarring		A scar; a mark.
scarry		Bearing scars or marks of wounds.
scarus		A Mediterranean food fish (Sparisoma scarus) od excellent quality and highly valued by the Romans; -- called also parrot fish.
scary	English dialect	Barren land having only a thin coat of grass.
scasely	Obsolete	Scarcely; hardly.
scat	English dialect	Go away; begone; away; -- chiefly used in driving off a cat.
scatch		A kind of bit for the bridle of a horse; -- called also scatchmouth.
scate		See Skate, for the foot.
scatebrous	Obsolete	Abounding with springs.
scath		Harm; damage; injury; hurt; waste; misfortune.
scathe		To do harm to; to injure; to damage; to waste; to destroy.
scathful		Harmful; doing damage; pernicious.
scathless		Unharmed.
scathly	Obsolete	Injurious; scathful.
scatt		Tribute.
scatter		To strew about; to sprinkle around; to throw down loosely; to deposit or place here and there, esp. in an open or sparse order.
scatter-brain		A giddy or thoughtless person; one incapable of concentration or attention.
scatter-brained		Giddy; thoughtless.
scattered		Dispersed; dissipated; sprinkled, or loosely spread.
scattergood		One who wastes; a spendthrift.
scattering		Going or falling in various directions; not united or agregated; divided among many; as, scattering votes.
scatteringly		In a scattering manner; dispersedly.
scatterling	Obsolete	One who has no fixed habitation or residence; a vagabond.
scaturient		Gushing forth; full to overflowing; effusive.
scaturiginous	Obsolete	Abounding with springs.
scaup	Scots	A bed or stratum of shellfish; scalp.
scauper		A tool with a semicircular edge, -- used by engravers to clear away the spaces between the lines of an engraving.
scaur		A precipitous bank or rock; a scar.
scavage		A toll duty formerly exacted of merchant strangers by mayors, sheriffs, etc., for goods shown or offered for sale within their precincts.
scavenge		To cleanse, as streets, from filth.
scavenger		A person whose employment is to clean the streets of a city, by scraping or sweeping, and carrying off the fifth.
scavenging		Act or process of expelling the exhaust gases from the cylinder by some special means, as, in many four-cycle engines, by utilizing the momentum of the exhaust gases in a long exhaust pipe.
scazon		A choliamb.
scelerat	Obsolete	A villian; a criminal.
scelestic	Obsolete	Evil; wicked; atrocious.
scelet	Obsolete	A mummy; a skeleton. olland.
scena		(a) A scene in an opera. (b) An accompanied dramatic recitative, interspersed with passages of melody, or followed by a full aria.
scenario		A preliminary sketch of the plot, or main incidents, of an opera.
scenary	Obsolete	Scenery.
scene		The structure on which a spectacle or play is exhibited; the part of a theater in which the acting is done, with its adjuncts and decorations; the stage.
sceneful		Having much scenery.
sceneman		The man who manages the movable scenes in a theater.
scenery		Assemblage of scenes; the scenes of a play; the disposition and arrangement of the scenes in which the action of a play, poem, etc., is laid; representation of place of action or occurence.
sceneshifter		One who moves the scenes in a theater; a sceneman.
scenic		Of or pertaining to scenery; of the nature of scenery; theatrical.
scenical		Of or pertaining to scenery; of the nature of scenery; theatrical.
scenograph		A perspective representation or general view of an object.
scenographic		Of or pertaining to scenography; drawn in perspective. -- Scen`o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.
scenographical		Of or pertaining to scenography; drawn in perspective. -- Scen`o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.
scenography		The art or act of representing a body on a perspective plane; also, a representation or description of a body, in all its dimensions, as it appears to the eye.
scent		To perceive by the olfactory organs; to smell; as, to scent game, as a hound does.
scentful		Full of scent or odor; odorous.
scentingly		By scent.
scentless		Having no scent.
scepsis		Skepticism; skeptical philosophy.
scepter		A staff or baton borne by a sovereign, as a ceremonial badge or emblem of authority; a royal mace.
scepterellate		Having a straight shaft with whorls of spines; -- said of certain sponge spicules.
scepterless		Having no scepter; without authority; powerless; as, a scepterless king.
sceptic		etc. See Skeptic, Skeptical, Skepticism, etc.
sceptical		etc. See Skeptic, Skeptical, Skepticism, etc.
scepticism		etc. See Skeptic, Skeptical, Skepticism, etc.
sceptral		Of or pertaining to a scepter; like a scepter.
sceptre		A staff or baton borne by a sovereign, as a ceremonial badge or emblem of authority; a royal mace.
sceptreless		Having no scepter; without authority; powerless; as, a scepterless king.
scern	Obsolete	To discern; to perceive.
schade	Obsolete	Shade; shadow.
schah		See Shah — the title of the supreme ruler in certain Eastern countries, especially Persia.
schappe		A silk yarn or fabric made out of carded spun silk.
schatchen		A person whose business is marriage brokage; a marriage broker, esp. among certain Jews.
schediasm		Cursory writing on a loose sheet.
schedule		A written or printed scroll or sheet of paper; a document; especially, a formal list or inventory; a list or catalogue annexed to a larger document, as to a will, a lease, a statute, etc. Syn. -- Catalogue; list…
scheelin	Obsolete	Scheelium.
scheelite		Calcium tungstate, a mineral of a white or pale yellowish color and of the tetragonal system of crystallization.
scheelium	Obsolete	The metal tungsten.
scheik		See Sheik — the head of an Arab family, or of a clan or a tribe; also, the chief magistrate of an Arab village.
schelly	English dialect	The powan.
schema		An outline or image universally applicable to a general conception, under which it is likely to be presented to the mind; as, five dots in a line are a schema of the number five…
schematic		Of or pertaining to a scheme or a schema.
schematism		(Astrol.) Combination of the aspects of heavenly bodies.
schematist		One given to forming schemes; a projector; a schemer.
schematize		To form a scheme or schemes.
scheme		A combination of things connected and adjusted by design; a system.
schemeful		Full of schemes or plans.
schemer		One who forms schemes; a projector; esp., a plotter; an intriguer.
scheming		Given to forming schemes; artful; intriguing. -- Schem"ing*ly, adv.
schemist		A schemer.
schene		An Egyptian or Persian measure of length, varying from thirthy- two to sixty stadia.
schenkbeer		A mild German beer.
scherbet		See Sherbet — a refreshing drink, common in the East, made of the juice of some fruit, diluted, sweetened, and flavored in various ways; as, orange sherbet; lemon sherbet; raspberry sherbet, etc.
scherif		See Sherif — a member of an Arab princely family descended from Mohammed through his son-in-law Ali and daughter Fatima.
scherzando		In a playful or sportive manner.
scherzo		A playful, humorous movement, commonly in 3-4 measure, which often takes the place of the old minuet and trio in a sonata or a symphony.
schesis		(Rhet.) A figure of speech whereby the mental habitude of an adversary or opponent is feigned for the purpose of arguing against him.
schetic	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to the habit of the body; constitutional.
schetical	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to the habit of the body; constitutional.
schiedam		Holland gin made at Schiedam in the Netherlands.
schiller		The peculiar bronzelike luster observed in certain minerals, as hypersthene, schiller spar, etc. It is due to the presence of minute inclusions in parallel position, and in sometimes of secondary origin.
schillerization		The act or process of producing schiller in a mineral mass.
schilling		Any one of several small German and Dutch coins, worth from about one and a half cents to about five cents.
schindylesis		A form of articulation in which one bone is received into a groove or slit in another.
schirrhus		See Scirrhus — (a) An indurated organ or part; especially, an indurated gland. (b) A cancerous tumor which is hard, translucent, of a gray or bluish color, and emits a creaking sound when incised.
schism		Division or separation; specifically (Eccl.), permanent division or separation in the Christian church; breach of unity among people of the same religious faith…
schisma		An interval equal to half a comma.
schismatic		Of or pertaining to schism; implying schism; partaking of the nature of schism; tending to schism; as, schismatic opinions or proposals.
schismatical		Same as Schismatic. -- Schismat ic*al*ness, n.
schismatize		To make part in schism; to make a breach of communion in the church.
schismless		Free from schism.
schist		Any crystalline rock having a foliated structure (see Foliation) and hence admitting of ready division into slabs or slates.
schistaceous		Of a slate color.
schistic		Schistose.
schistose		Of or pertaining to schist; having the structure of a schist.
schistosity		The quality or state of being schistose.
schistous		Of or pertaining to schist; having the structure of a schist.
schizo-		A combining form denoting division or cleavage; as, schizogenesis, reproduction by fission or cell division.
schizocarp		A dry fruit which splits at maturity into several closed one- seeded portions.
schizocoele		See Enterocoele — a perivisceral cavity which arises as an outgrowth or outgrowths from the digestive tract; distinguished from a schizocoele, which arises by a splitting of the mesoblast of the embryo.
schizocoelous		Pertaining to, or of the nature of, a schizocoele.
schizogenesis		reproduction by fission.
schizognath		Any bird with a schizognathous palate.
schizognathae		The schizognathous birds.
schizognathism		the condition of having a schizognathous palate.
schizognathous		Having the maxillo-palatine bones separate from each other and from the vomer, which is pointed in front, as in the gulls, snipes, grouse, and many other birds.
schizomycetes		An order of Schizophyta, including the so-called fission fungi, or bacteria.
schizonemertea		A group of nemerteans comprising those having a deep slit along each side of the head.
schizont		In certain Sporozoa, a cell formed by the growth of a sporozoite or merozoite (in a cell or corpuscle of the host) which segment by superficial cleavage, without encystment or conjugation, into merozoites.
schizopelmous		Having the two flexor tendons of the toes entirely separate, and the flexor hallicus going to the first toe only.
schizophyte		One of a class of vegetable organisms, in the classification of Cohn, which includes all of the inferior forms that multiply by fission, whether they contain chlorophyll or not.
schizopod		one of the Schizopoda.
schizopoda		A division of shrimplike Thoracostraca in which each of the thoracic legs has a long fringed upper branch (exopodite) for swimming.
schizopodous		Of or pertaining to a schizopod, or the Schizopoda.
schizorhinal		(Anat.) Having the nasal bones separate.
schlich		The finer portion of a crushed ore, as of gold, lead, or tin, separated by the water in certain wet processes.
schmelze		A kind of glass of a red or ruby color, made in Bohemia.
schnapps		Holland gin.
schneiderian		Discovered or described by C.
schnorrer		Among the Jews, a beggar.
scholar		One who attends a school; one who learns of a teacher; one under the tuition of a preceptor; a pupil; a disciple; a learner; a student.
scholarity	Obsolete	Scholarship..
scholarlike		Scholarly.
scholarly		Like a scholar, or learned person; showing the qualities of a scholar; as, a scholarly essay or critique. -- adv.
scholarship		The character and qualities of a scholar; attainments in science or literature; erudition; learning.
scholastic		Pertaining to, or suiting, a scholar, a school, or schools; scholarlike; as, scholastic manners or pride; scholastic learning.
scholastical		Scholastic.
scholastically		In a scholastic manner.
scholasticism		The method or subtitles the schools of philosophy; scholastic formality; scholastic doctrines or philosophy.
scholia		See Scholium — marginal anotation; an explanatory remark or comment; specifically, an explanatory comment on the text of a classic author by an early grammarian.
scholiast		A maker of scholia; a commentator or annotator.
scholiastic		Of or pertaining to a scholiast, or his pursuits.
scholiaze	Obsolete	To write scholia.
scholical	Obsolete	Scholastic. ales.
scholion		A scholium.
scholium		Marginal anotation; an explanatory remark or comment; specifically, an explanatory comment on the text of a classic author by an early grammarian.
scholy	Obsolete	A scholium.
school		A place for learned intercourse and instruction; an institution for learning; an educational establishment; a place for acquiring knowledge and mental training; as, the school of the prophets.
school-teacher		One who teaches or instructs a school. -- School"-teach`ing, n.
schoolbook		A book used in schools for learning lessons.
schoolboy		A boy belonging to, or attending, a school.
schooldame		A schoolmistress.
schoolery	Obsolete	Something taught; precepts; schooling. penser.
schoolfellow		One bred at the same school; an associate in school.
schoolgirl		A girl belonging to, or attending, a school.
schoolhouse		A house appropriated for the use of a school or schools, or for instruction.
schooling		Instruction in school; tuition; education in an institution of learning; act of teaching.
schoolmaid		A schoolgirl.
schoolman		One versed in the niceties of academical disputation or of school divinity.
schoolmaster		The man who presides over and teaches a school; a male teacher of a school.
schoolmate		A pupil who attends the same school as another.
schoolmistress		A woman who governs and teaches a school; a female school- teacher.
schoolroom		A room in which pupils are taught.
schoolship		A vessel employed as a nautical training school, in which naval apprentices receive their education at the expense of the state, and are trained for service as sailors.
schoolward		Toward school.
schooner		Originally, a small, sharp-built vessel, with two topsails on one or both masts and was called a topsail schooner.
schorl		Black tourmaline.
schorlaceous		Partaking of the nature and character of schorl; resembling schorl.
schorlous		Schorlaceous.
schorly		Pertaining to, or containing, schorl; as, schorly granite.
schottische		A Scotch round dance in 2-4 time, similar to the polka, only slower; also, the music for such a dance; -- not to be confounded with the Écossaise.
schottish		A Scotch round dance in 2-4 time, similar to the polka, only slower; also, the music for such a dance; -- not to be confounded with the Écossaise.
schreibersite		A mineral occurring in steel-gray flexible folia.
schrode		See Scrod — a young codfish, especially when cut open on the back and dressed.
schwanpan		Chinese abacus.
schweitzerkaese		Gruyère cheese.
schweitzerkase		Gruyère cheese.
schwenkfelder		A member of a religious sect founded by Kaspar von Schwenkfeld, a Silesian reformer who disagreed with Luther, especially on the deification of the body of Christ.
schwenkfeldian		A member of a religious sect founded by Kaspar von Schwenkfeld, a Silesian reformer who disagreed with Luther, especially on the deification of the body of Christ.
sciaenoid		Of or pertaining to the Sciænidæ, a family of marine fishes which includes the meagre, the squeteague, and the kingfish.
sciagraph		(Arch.) An old term for a vertical section of a building; -- called also sciagraphy.
sciagraphical		Pertaining to sciagraphy. -- Sci`a*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.
sciagraphy		The art or science of projecting or delineating shadows as they fall in nature.
sciamachy		See Sciomachy — a fighting with a shadow; a mock contest; an imaginary or futile combat.
sciascope		A device for determining the refractive state of the eye by observing the movements of the retinal lights and shadows. -- Ski*as co*py (#), n.
sciatheric	Obsolete	Belonging to a sundial.
sciatherical	Obsolete	Belonging to a sundial.
sciatic		Of or pertaining to the hip; in the region of, or affecting, the hip; ischial; ischiatic; as, the sciatic nerve, sciatic pains.
sciatica		Neuralgia of the sciatic nerve, an affection characterized by paroxysmal attacks of pain in the buttock, back of the thing, or in the leg or foot, following the course of the branches of the sciatic nerve.
sciatical		Sciatic.
sciatically		With, or by means of, sciatica.
scibboleth	Obsolete	Shibboleth.
science		Knowledge; lnowledge of principles and causes; ascertained truth of facts.
scient	Obsolete	Knowing; skillful.
scienter		Knowingly; willfully.
sciential		Pertaining to, or producing, science.
scientific		Of or pertaining to science; used in science; as, scientific principles; scientific apparatus; scientific observations.
scientifical		Scientific.
scientifically		In a scientific manner; according to the rules or principles of science.
scientist		One learned in science; a scientific investigator; one devoted to scientific study; a savant.
scilicet		To wit; namely; videlicet; -- often abbreviated to sc., or ss.
scillain		A glucoside extracted from squill (Scilla) as a light porous substance.
scillitin		A bitter principle extracted from the bulbs of the squill (Scilla), and probably consisting of a complex mixture of several substances.
scimitar		A saber with a much curved blade having the edge on the convex side, -- in use among Mohammedans, esp., the Arabs and persians.
scimiter		A saber with a much curved blade having the edge on the convex side, -- in use among Mohammedans, esp., the Arabs and persians.
scincoid		Of or pertaining to the family Scincidæ, or skinks. -- n.
scincoidea		A tribe of lizards including the skinks. See Skink.
scincoidian		Any one of numerous species of lizards of the family Scincidæ or tribe Scincoidea.
sciniph		Some kind of stinging or biting insect, as a flea, a gnat, a sandly, or the like.
scink	Obsolete	A skink.
scintilla		A spark; the least particle; an iota; a tittle.
scintillant		Emitting sparks, or fine igneous particles; sparkling.
scintillate		To emit sparks, or fine igneous particles.
scintillation		A spark of flash emitted in scintillating.
scintillous		Scintillant.
scintillously		In a scintillant manner.
sciography		See Sciagraphy — the art or science of projecting or delineating shadows as they fall in nature.
sciolism		The knowledge of a sciolist; superficial knowledge.
sciolist		One who knows many things superficially; a pretender to science; a smatterer.
sciolistic		Of or pertaining to sciolism, or a sciolist; partaking of sciolism; resembling a sciolist.
sciolous		Knowing superficially or imperfectly.
sciomachy		A fighting with a shadow; a mock contest; an imaginary or futile combat.
sciomancy		Divination by means of shadows.
scion		(Bot.) (a) A shoot or sprout of a plant; a sucker. (b) A piece of a slender branch or twig cut for grafting.
scioptic		Of or pertaining to an optical arrangement for forming images in a darkened room, usually called scioptic ball.
sciopticon		A kind of magic lantorn.
scioptics		The art or process of exhibiting luminous images, especially those of external objects, in a darkened room, by arrangements of lenses or mirrors.
scioptric		Scioptic.
sciot		Of or pertaining to the island Scio (Chio or Chios). -- n.
sciotheric		Of or pertaining to a sundial.
scious		Knowing; having knowledge.
scirrhoid		Resembling scirrhus.
scirrhosity		A morbid induration, as of a gland; stste of being scirrhous.
scirrhous		Proceeding from scirrhus; of the nature of scirrhus; indurated; knotty; as, scirrhous affections; scirrhous disease.
scirrhus	Obsolete	(a) An indurated organ or part; especially, an indurated gland. (b) A cancerous tumor which is hard, translucent, of a gray or bluish color, and emits a creaking sound when incised.
sciscitation	Obsolete	The act of inquiring; inquiry; demand.
scise	Obsolete	To cut; to penetrate.
scissel		The clippings of metals made in various mechanical operations.
scissible		Capable of being cut or divided by a sharp instrument. con.
scissil		See Scissel — the clippings of metals made in various mechanical operations.
scissile		Capable of being cut smoothly; scissible.
scission		The act of dividing with an instrument having a sharp edge.
scissiparity		Reproduction by fission.
scissor		To cut with scissors or shears; to prepare with the aid of scissors.
scissors	English dialect	A cutting instrument resembling shears, but smaller, consisting of two cutting blades with handles, movable on a pin in the center, by which they are held together.
scissors-tailed		Having the outer feathers much the longest, the others decreasing regularly to the median ones.
scissorsbill		See Skimmer — one who, or that which, skims; esp., a utensil with which liquids are skimmed.
scissorstail		A tyrant flycatcher (Milvulus forficatus) of the Southern United States and Mexico, which has a deeply forked tail.
scissure		A longitudinal opening in a body, made by cutting; a cleft; a fissure.
scitamineous		Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Scitamimeæ), mostly tropical herbs, including the ginger, Indian shot, banana, and the plants producing turmeric and arrowroot.
sciurine		Of or pertaining to the Squirrel family. -- n.
sciuroid		Resembling the tail of a squirrel; -- generally said of branches which are close and dense, or of spikes of grass like barley.
sciuromorpha		A tribe of rodents containing the squirrels and allied animals, such as the gophers, woodchucks, beavers, and others.
sciurus		A genus of reodents comprising the common squirrels.
sclaff	Scots	To scuff or shuffle along.
sclaundre	Obsolete	Slander.
sclav		Same as Slav.
sclave		Same as Slav.
sclavic		Same as Slavic.
sclavism		Same as Slavism.
sclavonian		Same as Slavonian.
sclavonic		Same as Slavonic.
sclender	Obsolete	Slender.
scleragogy	Obsolete	Severe discipline.
sclerema		Induration of the cellular tissue.
sclerenchyma		(Bot.) Vegetable tissue composed of short cells with thickened or hardened walls, as in nutshells and the gritty parts of a pear.
sclerenchymatous		Pertaining to, or composed of, sclerenchyma.
sclerenchyme		Sclerenchyma.
scleriasis		(a) A morbid induration of the edge of the eyelid. (b) Induration of any part, including scleroderma.
sclerite		A hard chitinous or calcareous process or corpuscle, especially a spicule of the Alcyonaria.
scleritis		See Sclerottis.
sclerobase		The calcareous or hornlike coral forming the central stem or axis of most compound alcyonarians; -- called also foot secretion.
scleroderm		(a) (Zoöl.) One of a tribe of plectognath fishes (Sclerodermi) having the skin covered with hard scales, or plates, as the cowfish and the trunkfish.
scleroderma		A disease of adults, characterized by a diffuse rigidity and hardness of the skin.
sclerodermata		The stony corals; the Madreporaria.
sclerodermic		(a) Having the integument, or skin, hard, or covered with hard plates.
sclerodermite		(a) The hard integument of Crustacea. (b) Sclerenchyma.
sclerodermous		(a) Having the integument, or skin, hard, or covered with hard plates.
sclerogen		The thickening matter of woody cells; lignin.
sclerogenous		Making or secreting a hard substance; becoming hard.
scleroid		Having a hard texture, as nutshells.
scleroma		Induration of the tissues. See Sclerma, Scleroderma, and Sclerosis.
sclerometer		An instrument for determining with accuracy the degree of hardness of a mineral.
sclerosed		Affected with sclerosis.
sclerosis		(Med.) Induration; hardening; especially, that form of induration produced in an organ by increase of its interstitial connective tissue.
scleroskeleton		That part of the skeleton which is developed in tendons, ligaments, and aponeuroses.
sclerotal		Sclerotic. -- n.
sclerotic		Hard; firm; indurated; -- applied especially in anatomy to the firm outer coat of the eyeball, which is often cartilaginous and sometimes bony.
sclerotical		Sclerotic.
sclerotitis		Inflammation of the sclerotic coat.
sclerotium		(Bot.) A hardened body formed by certain fungi, as by the Claviceps purpurea, which produced ergot.
sclerotome		One of the bony, cartilaginous, or membranous partitoins which separate the myotomes. -- Scler`o*tom"ic, a.
sclerous		Hard; indurated; sclerotic.
scoat	English dialect	To prop; to scotch.
scobby	English dialect	The chaffinch.
scobiform		Having the form of, or resembling, sawdust or raspings.
scobs		Raspings of ivory, hartshorn, metals, or other hard substance.
scoff		Derision; ridicule; mockery; derisive or mocking expression of scorn, contempt, or reproach.
scoffer		One who scoffs. 2 Pet. iii. 3.
scoffery		The act of scoffing; scoffing conduct; mockery.
scoffingly		In a scoffing manner.
scoke		Poke (Phytolacca decandra).
scolay	Obsolete	See Scoley — to go to school; to study.
scold		To find fault or rail with rude clamor; to brawl; to utter harsh, rude, boisterous rebuke; to chide sharply or coarsely; -- often with at; as, to scold at a servant.
scolder		One who scolds.
scolding		a. & n. from Scold, v.
scoldingly		In a scolding manner.
scolecida		Same as Helminthes.
scolecite		A zeolitic mineral occuring in delicate radiating groups of white crystals.
scolecomorpha		Same as Scolecida.
scolex		(a) The embryo produced directly from the egg in a metagenetic series, especially the larva of a tapeworm or other parasitic worm.
scoley	Obsolete	To go to school; to study.
scoliosis		A lateral curvature of the spine.
scolithus		A tubular structure found in Potsdam sandstone, and believed to be the fossil burrow of a marine worm.
scollop		See Scallop — (Zoöl.) Any one of numerous species of marine bivalve mollusks of the genus Pecten and allied genera of the family Pectinidæ.
scolopacine		Of or pertaining to the Scolopacidæ, or Snipe family.
scolopendra		(Zoöl.) A genus of venomous myriapods including the centipeds. See Centiped.
scolopendrine		Like or pertaining to the Scolopendra.
scolytid		Any one of numerous species of small bark-boring beetles of the genus Scolytus and allied genera.
scomber		A genus of acanthopterygious fishes which includes the common mackerel.
scomberoid		Same as Scombroid.
scombriformes		A division of fishes including the mackerels, tunnies, and allied fishes.
scombroid		Like or pertaining to the Mackerel family. -- n.
scomfish	Scots	To suffocate or stifle; to smother.
scomfit	Obsolete	Discomfit.
scomm	Obsolete	A bufoon.
sconce		A fortification, or work for defense; a fort.
sconcheon		A squinch.
scone	Scots	A cake, thinner than a bannock, made of wheat or barley or oat meal.
scoop		A large ladle; a vessel with a long handle, used for dipping liquids; a utensil for bailing boats.
scooper		One who, or that which scoops.
scoot	Colloquial	To walk fast; to go quickly; to run hastily away.
scoparin		A yellow gelatinous or crystalline substance found in broom (Cytisus scoparius) accompanying sparteïne.
scopate		Having the surface closely covered with hairs, like a brush.
scope		That at which one aims; the thing or end to which the mind directs its view; that which is purposed to be reached or accomplished; hence, ultimate design, aim, or purpose; intention; drift; object.
scopeline		Scopeloid.
scopeloid		Like or pertaining to fishes of the genus Scopelus, or family Scopelodæ, which includes many small oceanic fishes, most of which are phosphorescent. -- n.
scopiferous		Bearing a tuft of brushlike hairs.
scopiform		Having the form of a broom or besom.
scopiped		Same as Scopuliped.
scoppet	Obsolete	To lade or dip out.
scoptic	Obsolete	Jesting; jeering; scoffing.
scoptical	Obsolete	Jesting; jeering; scoffing.
scopula		(a) A peculiar brushlike organ found on the foot of spiders and used in the construction of the web.
scopuliped		Any species of bee which has on the hind legs a brush of hairs used for collecting pollen, as the hive bees and bumblebees.
scopulous	Obsolete	Full of rocks; rocky.
scorbutic		Of or pertaining to scurvy; of the nature of, or resembling, scurvy; diseased with scurvy; as, a scorbutic person; scorbutic complaints or symptoms. -- Scor*bu"tic*al*ly, adv.
scorbutical		Of or pertaining to scurvy; of the nature of, or resembling, scurvy; diseased with scurvy; as, a scorbutic person; scorbutic complaints or symptoms. -- Scor*bu"tic*al*ly, adv.
scorce	Obsolete	Barter. See Scorse.
scorch		To burn superficially; to parch, or shrivel, the surface of, by heat; to subject to so much heat as changes color and texture without consuming; as, to scorch linen.
scorching		Burning; parching or shriveling with heat. -- Scorch ing*ness, n.
score		A notch or incision; especially, one that is made as a tally mark; hence, a mark, or line, made for the purpose of account.
scorer		One who, or that which, scores.
scoria		The recrement of metals in fusion, or the slag rejected after the eduction of metallic ores; dross.
scoriac		Scoriaceous.
scoriaceous		Of or pertaining to scoria; like scoria or the recrement of metals; partaking of the nature of scoria.
scorie	English dialect	The young of any gull.
scorification		The act, process, or result of scorifying, or reducing to a slag; hence, the separation from earthy matter by means of a slag; as, the scorification of ores.
scorifier		One who, or that which, scorifies; specifically, a small flat bowl-shaped cup used in the first heating in assaying, to remove the earth and gangue, and to concentrate the gold and silver in a lead button.
scoriform		In the form of scoria.
scorify		To reduce to scoria or slag; specifically, in assaying, to fuse so as to separate the gangue and earthy material, with borax, lead, soda, etc., thus leaving the gold and silver in a lead button; hence, to separate from…
scorious		Scoriaceous.
scorn		Extreme and lofty contempt; haughty disregard; that disdain which aprings from the opinion of the utter meanness and unworthiness of an object.
scorner		One who scorns; a despiser; a contemner; specifically, a scoffer at religion.
scornful		Full of scorn or contempt; contemptuous; disdainful.
scorny	Obsolete	Deserving scorn; paltry.
scorodite		A leek-green or brownish mineral occurring in orthorhombic crystals.
scorpaenoid		Of or pertaining to the family Scorpænidæ, which includes the scorpene, the rosefish, the California rockfishes, and many other food fishes.
scorpene		A marine food fish of the genus Scorpæna, as the European hogfish (S. scrofa), and the California species (S. guttata).
scorper		Same as Scauper.
scorpio		(Astron.) (a) The eighth sign of the zodiac, which the sun enters about the twenty-third day of October, marked thus in almanacs.
scorpiodea		Same as Scorpiones.
scorpioid		Having the inflorescence curved or circinate at the end, like a scorpion's tail.
scorpioidal		Having the inflorescence curved or circinate at the end, like a scorpion's tail.
scorpion		(Zoöl.) Any one of numerous species of pulmonate arachnids of the order scorpiones, having a suctorial mouth, large claw-bearing palpi, and a caudal sting.
scorpiones		A division of arachnids comprising the scorpions.
scorpionidea		Same as Scorpiones.
scorpionwort		A leguminous plant (Ornithopus scorpides) of Southern Europe, having curved pods.
scorse	Obsolete	Barter; exchange; trade.
scortatory		Pertaining to lewdness or fornication; lewd.
scot	Obsolete	A name for a horse.
scot-free		Free from payment of scot; untaxed; hence, unhurt; clear; safe.
scotal		The keeping of an alehouse by an officer of a forest, and drawing people to spend their money for liquor, for fear of his displeasure.
scotale		The keeping of an alehouse by an officer of a forest, and drawing people to spend their money for liquor, for fear of his displeasure.
scotch	Low	Of or pertaining to Scotland, its language, or its inhabitants; Scottish.
scotch-hopper		Hopscotch.
scotching		Dressing stone with a pick or pointed instrument.
scotchman		(Naut.) A piece of wood or stiff hide placed over shrouds and other rigging to prevent chafe by the running gear.
scoter		Any one of several species of northern sea ducks of the genus Oidemia.
scoth	Obsolete	To clothe or cover up.
scotia	Poetic	A concave molding used especially in classical architecture.
scotist		A follower of (Joannes) Duns Scotus, the Franciscan scholastic (d. 1308), who maintained certain doctrines in philosophy and theology, in opposition to the Thomists, or followers of Thomas Aquinas, the Dominican scholastic.
scotograph		An instrument for writing in the dark, or without seeing.
scotoma		Scotomy.
scotomy		(Med.) Obscuration of the field of vision due to the appearance of a dark spot before the eye.
scotoscope	Obsolete	An instrument that discloses objects in the dark or in a faint light.
scots		Of or pertaining to the Scotch; Scotch; Scottish; as, Scots law; a pound Scots (1s. 8d.).
scotsman		See Scotchman — (Naut.) A piece of wood or stiff hide placed over shrouds and other rigging to prevent chafe by the running gear.
scottering	English dialect	The burning of a wad of pease straw at the end of harvest.
scotticism		An idiom, or mode of expression, peculiar to Scotland or Scotchmen.
scotticize		To cause to become like the Scotch; to make Scottish.
scottish		Of or pertaining to the inhabitants of Scotland, their country, or their language; as, Scottish industry or economy; a Scottish chief; a Scottish dialect.
scoundrel		A mean, worthless fellow; a rascal; a villain; a man without honor or virtue.
scoundreldom		The domain or sphere of scoundrels; scoundrels, collectively; the state, ideas, or practices of scoundrels.
scoundrelism		The practices or conduct of a scoundrel; baseness; rascality.
scour		To rub hard with something rough, as sand or Bristol brick, especially for the purpose of cleaning; to clean by friction; to make clean or bright; to cleanse from grease, dirt, etc., as articles of dress.
scourage		Refuse water after scouring.
scourer		One who, or that which, scours.
scourge		A lash; a strap or cord; especially, a lash used to inflict pain or punishment; an instrument of punishment or discipline; a whip.
scourger		One who scourges or punishes; one who afflicts severely.
scourse	Obsolete	See Scorse — barter; exchange; trade.
scouse		A sailor's dish.
scout		A person sent out to gain and bring in tidings; especially, one employed in war to gain information of the movements and condition of an enemy.
scovel		A mop for sweeping ovens; a malkin.
scow		A large flat-bottomed boat, having broad, square ends.
scowl		To wrinkle the brows, as in frowning or displeasure; to put on a frowning look; to look sour, sullen, severe, or angry.
scowlingly		In a scowling manner.
scrabble		To scrape, paw, or scratch with the hands; to proceed by clawing with the hands and feet; to scramble; as, to scrabble up a cliff or a tree.
scraber		(a) The Manx shearwater. (b) The black guillemot.
scraffle	English dialect	To scramble or struggle; to wrangle; also, to be industrious.
scrag		Something thin, lean, or rough; a bony piece; especially, a bony neckpiece of meat; hence, humorously or in contempt, the neck.
scrag-necked		Having a scraggy neck.
scragged		Rough with irregular points, or a broken surface; scraggy; as, a scragged backbone.
scraggedness		Quality or state of being scragged.
scraggily		in a scraggy manner.
scragginess		The quality or state of being scraggy; scraggedness.
scraggy		Rough with irregular points; scragged.
scragly		See Scraggy — rough with irregular points; scragged.
scramble		To clamber with hands and knees; to scrabble; as, to scramble up a cliff; to scramble over the rocks.
scrambler		One who scrambles; one who climbs on all fours.
scrambling		Confused and irregular; awkward; scambling. -- Scram"bling*ly, adv.
scranch	English dialect	To grind with the teeth, and with a crackling sound; to craunch.
scranky	Scots	Thin; lean.
scrannel		Slight; thin; lean; poor.
scranny	English dialect	Thin; lean; meager; scrawny; scrannel.
scrap		Something scraped off; hence, a small piece; a bit; a fragment; a detached, incomplete portion.
scrapbook		A blank book in which extracts cut from books and papers may be pasted and kept.
scrape		To rub over the surface of (something) with a sharp or rough instrument; to rub over with something that roughens by removing portions of the surface; to grate harshly over; to abrade; to make even…
scrapepenny		One who gathers and hoards money in trifling sums; a miser.
scraper		An instrument with which anything is scraped. Specifically: (a) An instrument by which the soles of shoes are cleaned from mud and the like, by drawing them across it.
scraping		The act of scraping; the act or process of making even, or reducing to the proper form, by means of a scraper.
scrappily		In a scrappy manner; in scraps.
scrapple		An article of food made by boiling together bits or scraps of meat, usually pork, and flour or Indian meal.
scrappy		Consisting of scraps; fragmentary; lacking unity or consistency; as, a scrappy lecture.
scrat	Obsolete	To scratch.
scratch		To rub and tear or mark the surface of with something sharp or ragged; to scrape, roughen, or wound slightly by drawing something pointed or rough across, as the claws, the nails, a pin, or the like.
scratchback		A toy which imitates the sound of tearing cloth, -- used by drawing it across the back of unsuspecting persons.
scratchbrush		A stiff wire brush for cleaning iron castings and other metal.
scratcher		One who, or that which, scratches; specifically (Zoöl.), any rasorial bird.
scratching		With the action of scratching.
scratchweed		Cleavers.
scratchwork		See Scratch coat.
scratchy		Characterized by scratches.
scrawl	Obsolete	See Crawl — to move slowly by drawing the body along the ground, as a worm; to move slowly on hands and kness; to creep.
scrawler		One who scrawls; a hasty, awkward writer.
scrawny		Meager; thin; rawboned; bony; scranny.
scray	English dialect	A tern; the sea swallow.
screable	Obsolete	Capable of being spit out.
screak		To utter suddenly a sharp, shrill sound; to screech; to creak, as a door or wheel.
scream		To cry out with a shrill voice; to utter a sudden, sharp outcry, or shrill, loud cry, as in fright or extreme pain; to shriek; to screech.
screamer		Any one of three species of South American birds constituting the family Anhimidæ, and the suborder Palamedeæ.
screaming		Uttering screams; shrieking.
scree	English dialect	A pebble; a stone; also, a heap of stones or rocky débris.
screech	English dialect	To utter a harsh, shrill cry; to make a sharp outcry, as in terror or acute pain; to scream; to shriek.
screechers		The picarian birds, as distinguished from the singing birds.
screechy		Like a screech; shrill and harsh.
screed		(Arch.) (a) A strip of plaster of the thickness proposed for the coat, applied to the wall at intervals of four or five feet, as a guide.
screen		Anything that separates or cuts off inconvience, injury, or danger; that which shelters or conceals from view; a shield or protection; as, a fire screen.
screenings		The refuse left after screening sand, coal, ashes, etc.
screw		A cylinder, or a cylindrical perforation, having a continuous rib, called the thread, winding round it spirally at a constant inclination, so as to leave a continuous spiral groove, between one turn and the next…
screw-cutting		Adapted for forming a screw by cutting; as, a screw-cutting lathe.
screw-driver		A tool for turning screws so as to drive them into their place.
screwer		One who, or that which, screws.
screwing		a. & n. from Screw, v. t.
scribable		Capable of being written, or of being written upon.
scribatious	Obsolete	Skillful in, or fond of, writing.
scribbet		A painter's pencil.
scribble		To card coarsely; to run through the scribling machine.
scribblement		A scribble. oster.
scribbler		One who scribles; a literary hack.
scribbling		The act or process of carding coarsely.
scribblingly		In a scribbling manner.
scribe		One who writes; a draughtsman; a writer for another; especially, an offical or public writer; an amanuensis or secretary; a notary; a copyist.
scriber		A sharp-pointed tool, used by joiners for drawing lines on stuff; a marking awl.
scribism		The character and opinions of a Jewish scribe in the time of Christ.
scrid		A screed; a shred; a fragment.
scriggle	English dialect	To wriggle.
scrim		A kind of light cotton or linen fabric, often woven in openwork patterns, -- used for curtains, etc,; -- called also India scrim.
scrimer	Obsolete	A fencing master.
scrimmage		Formerly, a skirmish; now, a general row or confused fight or struggle.
scrimp		To make too small or short; to limit or straiten; to put on short allowance; to scant; to contract; to shorten; as, to scrimp the pattern of a coat.
scrimping		a. & n. from Scrimp, v. t.
scrimpingly		In a scrimping manner.
scrimpness		The state of being scrimp.
scrimption	English dialect	A small portion; a pittance; a little bit.
scrimshaw		To ornament, as shells, ivory, etc., by engraving, and (usually) rubbing pigments into the incised lines.
scrine	Obsolete	A chest, bookcase, or other place, where writings or curiosities are deposited; a shrine.
scringe	English dialect	To cringe.
scrip		A small writing, certificate, or schedule; a piece of paper containing a writing.
scrippage	Obsolete	The contents of a scrip, or wallet.
script		(Print.) Type made in imitation of handwriting.
scriptorium		In an abbey or monastery, the room set apart for writing or copying manuscripts; in general, a room devoted to writing.
scriptory		Of or pertaining to writing; expressed in writing; used in writing; as, scriptory wills; a scriptory reed.
scriptural		Contained in the Scriptures; according to the Scriptures, or sacred oracles; biblical; as, a scriptural doctrine.
scripturalism		The quality or state of being scriptural; literal adherence to the Scriptures.
scripturalist		One who adheres literally to the Scriptures.
scripturally		In a scriptural manner.
scripturalness		Quality of being scriptural.
scripture		Anything written; a writing; a document; an inscription.
scripturian	Obsolete	A Scripturist.
scripturist		One who is strongly attached to, or versed in, the Scriptures, or who endeavors to regulate his life by them.
scrit	Obsolete	Writing; document; scroll.
scritch		A screech.
scrivener		A professional writer; one whose occupation is to draw contracts or prepare writings.
scrobicula		One of the smooth areas surrounding the tubercles of a sea urchin.
scrobicular		Pertaining to, or surrounding, scrobiculæ; as, scrobicular tubercles.
scrobiculate		Having numerous small, shallow depressions or hollows; pitted.
scrobiculated		Having numerous small, shallow depressions or hollows; pitted.
scrod	Dialect	A young codfish, especially when cut open on the back and dressed.
scrode	Dialect	A young codfish, especially when cut open on the back and dressed.
scrofula		A constitutional disease, generally hereditary, especially manifested by chronic enlargement and cheesy degeneration of the lymphatic glands, particularly those of the neck…
scrofulide		Any affection of the skin dependent on scrofula.
scrofulous		Pertaining to scrofula, or partaking of its nature; as, scrofulous tumors; a scrofulous habit of body.
scrog	English dialect	A stunted shrub, bush, or branch.
scroggy	English dialect	Abounding in scrog; also, twisted; stunted.
scroll		A roll of paper or parchment; a writing formed into a roll; a schedule; a list.
scrolled		Formed like a scroll; contained in a scroll; adorned with scrolls; as, scrolled work.
scrophularia		A genus of coarse herbs having small flowers in panicled cymes; figwort.
scrophulariaceous		Of or pertaining to a very large natural order of gamopetalous plants (Scrophulariaceæ, or Scrophularineæ), usually having irregular didynamous flowers and a two-celled pod.
scrotal		Of or pertaining to the scrotum; as, scrotal hernia.
scrotiform		Purse-shaped; pouch-shaped.
scrotocele		A rupture or hernia in the scrotum; scrotal hernia.
scrotum		The bag or pouch which contains the testicles; the cod.
scrouge	English dialect	To crowd; to squeeze.
scrow		A clipping from skins; a currier's cuttings.
scroyle	Obsolete	A mean fellow; a wretch. hak.
scrub		To rub hard; to wash with rubbing; usually, to rub with a wet brush, or with something coarse or rough, for the purpose of cleaning or brightening; as, to scrub a floor, a doorplate.
scrubbed		Dwarfed or stunted; scrubby.
scrubber		One who, or that which, scrubs; esp., a brush used in scrubbing.
scrubboard		A baseboard; a mopboard.
scrubby		Of the nature of scrub; small and mean; stunted in growth; as, a scrubby cur.
scrubstone	English dialect	A species of calciferous sandstone.
scrummage		See Scrimmage — formerly, a skirmish; now, a general row or confused fight or struggle.
scrumptious	Slang	Nice; particular; fastidious; excellent; fine.
scrunch		To scranch; to crunch.
scruple		A weight of twenty grains; the third part of a dram.
scrupler		One who scruples.
scrupulist	Obsolete	A scrupler.
scrupulize	Obsolete	To perplex with scruples; to regard with scruples.
scrupulosity		The quality or state of being scruppulous; doubt; doubtfulness respecting decision or action; caution or tenderness from the far of doing wrong or ofending; nice regard to exactness and propierty; precision.
scrupulous		Full ofscrupules; inclined to scruple; nicely doubtful; hesitating to determine or to act, from a fear of offending or of doing wrong.
scrutable		Discoverable by scrutiny, inquiry, or critical examination. r.
scrutation	Obsolete	Search; scrutiny.
scrutator		One who scrutinizes; a close examiner or inquirer.
scrutineer		A scrutinizer; specifically, an examiner of votes, as at an election.
scrutinize		To examine closely; to inspect or observe with critical attention; to regard narrowly; as, to scrutinize the measures of administration; to scrutinize the conduct or motives of individuals.
scrutinizer		One who scrutinizes.
scrutinous		Closely examining, or inquiring; careful; sctrict. -- Scru"ti*nous*ly, adv.
scrutiny		Close examination; minute inspection; critical observation.
scrutoire		A escritoire; a writing desk.
scruze	Obsolete	To squeeze, compress, crush, or bruise.
scry	Obsolete	To descry.
scud		To move swiftly; especially, to move as if driven forward by something.
scuddle		To run hastily; to hurry; to scuttle.
scudo		(a) A silver coin, and money of account, used in Italy and Sicily, varying in value, in different parts, but worth about 4 shillings sterling, or about 96 cents; also, a gold coin worth about the same.
scuff	English dialect	The back part of the neck; the scruff.
scuffle		To strive or struggle with a close grapple; to wrestle in a rough fashion.
scuffler		One who scuffles.
scug	English dialect	To hide.
sculk		See Skulk, Skulker.
sculker		See Skulk, Skulker.
scull		(Naut.) (a) A boat; a cockboat. See Sculler. (b) One of a pair of short oars worked by one person.
sculler		A boat rowed by one man with two sculls, or short oars.
scullery		A place where dishes, kettles, and culinary utensils, are cleaned and kept; also, a room attached to the kitchen, where the coarse work is done; a back kitchen.
scullion		A scalion.
scullionly	Obsolete	Like a scullion; base.
sculp	Obsolete	To sculpture; to carve; to engrave.
sculpin		(a) Any one of numerous species of marine cottoid fishes of the genus Cottus, or Acanthocottus, having a large head armed with sharp spines, and a broad mouth.
sculptile	Obsolete	Formed by carving; graven; as, sculptile images.
sculptor		One who sculptures; one whose occupation is to carve statues, or works of sculpture.
sculptress		A female sculptor.
sculptural		Of or pertaining to sculpture.
sculpture		The art of carving, cutting, or hewing wood, stone, metal, etc., into statues, ornaments, etc., or into figures, as of men, or other things; hence, the art of producing figures and groups, whether in plastic or hard materials.
sculpturesque		After the manner of sculpture; resembling, or relating to, sculpture.
scum		The extraneous matter or impurities which rise to the surface of liquids in boiling or fermentation, or which form on the surface by other means; also, the scoria of metals in a molten state; dross.
scumber	Obsolete	To void excrement.
scumble		To cover lighty, as a painting, or a drawing, with a thin wash of opaque color, or with color-crayon dust rubbed on with the stump, or to make any similar additions to the work, so as to produce a softened effect.
scumbling		(Fine Arts) (a) A mode of obtaining a softened effect, in painting and drawing, by the application of a thin layer of opaque color to the surface of a painting, or part of the surface, which is too bright in color…
scummer	Obsolete	To scumber.
scumming		(a) The act of taking off scum. (b) That which is scummed off; skimmings; scum; -- used chiefly in the plural.
scummy		Covered with scum; of the nature of scum.
scunner	Scots	To cause to loathe, or feel disgust at.
scup	Dialect	A swing.
scuppaug		See 2d Scup.
scupper		An opening cut through the waterway and bulwarks of a ship, so that water falling on deck may flow overboard; -- called also scupper hole.
scuppernong		An American grape, a form of Vitis vulpina, found in the Southern Atlantic States, and often cultivated.
scur	Obsolete	To move hastily; to scour.
scurf		Thin dry scales or scabs upon the body; especially, thin scales exfoliated from the cuticle, particularly of the scalp; dandruff.
scurff	English dialect	The bull trout.
scurfiness		Quality or state of being scurfy.
scurfy		Having or producing scurf; covered with scurf; resembling scurf.
scurrier		One who scurries.
scurrile		Such as befits a buffoon or vulgar jester; grossly opprobrious or loudly jocose in language; scurrilous; as, scurrile taunts.
scurrility		The quality or state of being scurrile or scurrilous; mean, vile, or obscene jocularity.
scurrilous		Using the low and indecent language of the meaner sort of people, or such as only the license of buffoons can warrant; as, a scurrilous fellow.
scurrit	English dialect	the lesser tern (Sterna minuta).
scurry		To hasten away or along; to move rapidly; to hurry; as, the rabbit scurried away.
scurvily		In a scurvy manner.
scurviness		The quality or state of being scurvy; vileness; meanness.
scurvy		Covered or affected with scurf or scabs; scabby; scurfy; specifically, diseased with the scurvy. lev. xxi. 18, 20.
scut		The tail of a hare, or of a deer, or other animal whose tail is short, sp. when carried erect; hence, sometimes, the animal itself.
scuta		See Scutum — (Zoöl.) (a) The second and largest of the four parts forming the upper surface of a thoracic segment of an insect.
scutage		Shield money; commutation of service for a sum of money. See Escuage.
scutal		Of or pertaining to a shield.
scutate		Buckler-shaped; round or nearly round.
scutch		To separate the woody fiber from (flax, hemp, etc.) by beating; to swingle.
scutcheon		An escutcheon; an emblazoned shield.
scutcheoned		Emblazoned on or as a shield.
scutcher		One who scutches.
scute		An old French gold coin of the value of 3s. 4d. sterling, or about 80 cents.
scutella		See Scutellum. See Scutellum, n., 2.
scutellate		(Zoöl.) Formed like a plate or salver; composed of platelike surfaces; as, the scutellated bone of a sturgeon.
scutellated		(Zoöl.) Formed like a plate or salver; composed of platelike surfaces; as, the scutellated bone of a sturgeon.
scutellation		the entire covering, or mode of arrangement, of scales, as on the legs and feet of a bird.
scutelliform		(Bot.) Having the form of a scutellum.
scutelliplantar		Having broad scutella on the front, and small scales on the posterior side, of the tarsus; -- said of certain birds.
scutellum		(Bot.) A rounded apothecium having an elevated rim formed of the proper thallus, the fructification of certain lichens.
scutibranch		Scutibranchiate. -- n.
scutibranchia		Same as Scutibranchiata.
scutibranchian		One of the Scutibranchiata.
scutibranchiata		An order of gastropod Mollusca having a heart with two auricles and one ventricle.
scutibranchiate		Having the gills protected by a shieldlike shell; of or pertaining to the Scutibranchiata. -- n.
scutiferous		Carrying a shield or buckler.
scutiform		Shield-shaped; scutate.
scutiger		Any species of chilopod myriapods of the genus Scutigera.
scutiped		Having the anterior surface of the tarsus covered with scutella, or transverse scales, in the form of incomplete bands terminating at a groove on each side; -- said of certain birds.
scutter	English dialect	To run quickly; to scurry; to scuttle.
scuttle		A broad, shallow basket.
scutum		(Zoöl.) (a) The second and largest of the four parts forming the upper surface of a thoracic segment of an insect.
scybala		Hardened masses of feces.
scye		Arm scye, a cutter's term for the armhole or part of the armhole of the waist of a garnment.
scyle	Obsolete	To hide; to secrete; to conceal.
scylla		A dangerous rock on the Italian coast opposite the whirpool Charybdis on the coast of Sicily, -- both personified in classical literature as ravenous monsters.
scyllaea		A genus of oceanic nudibranchiate mollusks having the small branched gills situated on the upper side of four fleshy lateral lobes, and on the median caudal crest.
scyllarian		One of a family (Scyllaridæ) of macruran Crustacea, remarkable for the depressed form of the body, and the broad, flat antennæ.
scyllite		A white crystalline substance of a sweetish taste, resembling inosite and metameric with dextrose.
scymetar		See Scimiter — a saber with a much curved blade having the edge on the convex side, -- in use among Mohammedans, esp., the Arabs and persians.
scypha		See Scyphus, 2 (b).
scyphiform		Cup-shaped.
scyphistoma		The young attached larva of Discophora in the stage when it resembles a hydroid, or actinian.
scyphobranchii		An order of fishes including the blennioid and gobioid fishes, and other related families.
scyphomedusa		Same as Acraspeda, or Discophora.
scyphomedusae		Same as Acraspeda, or Discophora.
scyphophori		An order of fresh-water fishes inhabiting tropical Africa.
scyphus		(Antiq.) A kind of large drinking cup, -- used by Greeks and Romans, esp. by poor folk.
scythe		An instrument for mowing grass, grain, or the like, by hand, composed of a long, curving blade, with a sharp edge, made fast to a long handle, called a snath, which is bent into a form convenient for use.
scythed		Armed scythes, as a chariot.
scytheman		One who uses a scythe; a mower.
scythestone		A stone for sharpening scythes; a whetstone.
scythewhet	Dialect	Wilson's thrush; -- so called from its note.
scythian		Of or pertaining to Scythia (a name given to the northern part of Asia, and Europe adjoining to Asia), or its language or inhabitants.
scytodermata		Same as Holothurioidea.
