sea		One of the larger bodies of salt water, less than an ocean, found on the earth's surface; a body of salt water of second rank, generally forming part of, or connecting with, an ocean or a larger sea; as, the Mediterranean Sea…
sea-blubber		A jellyfish.
sea-bordering		Bordering on the sea; situated beside the sea.
sea-born		Born of the sea; produced by the sea.
sea-built		Built at, in, or by the sea.
sea-ear		Any species of ear-shaped shells of the genus Haliotis. See Abalone.
sea-gait		A long, rolling swell of the sea.
sea-gate		A long, rolling swell of the sea.
sea-green		Of a beautiful bluish green color, like sea water on soundings.
sea-island		Of or pertaining to certain islands along the coast of South Carolina and Georgia; as, sea-island cotton, a superior cotton of long fiber produced on those islands.
sea-maid		The mermaid.
sea-mail		A gull; the mew.
sea-mell		The sea mew.
sea-orb		A globefish.
sea-pen		A pennatula.
sea-walled		Surrounded, bounded, or protected by the sea, as if by a wall.
seabeach		A beach lying along the sea.
seabeard		A green seaweed (Cladophora rupestris) growing in dense tufts.
seaboard		The seashore; seacoast.
seaboat		A boat or vessel adapted to the open sea; hence, a vessel considered with reference to her power of resisting a storm, or maintaining herself in a heavy sea; as, a good sea boat.
seabord		See Seaboard — the seashore; seacoast.
seabound		Bounded by the sea.
seacoast		The shore or border of the land adjacent to the sea or ocean.
seafarer		One who follows the sea as a business; a mariner; a sailor.
seafaring		Following the business of a mariner; as, a seafaring man.
seagirt		Surrounded by the water of the sea or ocean; as, a seagirt isle.
seagoing		Going upon the sea; especially, sailing upon the deep sea; -- used in distinction from coasting or river, as applied to vessels.
seah		A Jewish dry measure containing one third of an an ephah.
seak		Soap prepared for use in milling cloth.
seal		Any aquatic carnivorous mammal of the families Phocidæ and Otariidæ.
seal-brown		Of a rich dark brown color, like the fur of the fur seal after it is dyed.
sealer		One who seals; especially, an officer whose duty it is to seal writs or instruments, to stamp weights and measures, or the like.
sealskin		The skin of a seal; the pelt of a seal prepared for use, esp. of the fur seal; also, a garment made of this material.
seam		The fold or line formed by sewing together two pieces of cloth or leather.
seaman		A merman; the male of the mermaid.
seamanlike		Having or showing the skill of a practical seaman.
seamanship		The skill of a good seaman; the art, or skill in the art, of working a ship.
seamark		Any elevated object on land which serves as a guide to mariners; a beacon; a landmark visible from the sea, as a hill, a tree, a steeple, or the like.
seamed		Out of condition; not in good condition; -- said of a hawk.
seaming		(Fishing) The cord or rope at the margin of a seine, to which the meshes of the net are attached.
seamless		Without a seam.
seamster	Obsolete	One who sews well, or whose occupation is to sew.
seamstress		A woman whose occupation is sewing; a needlewoman.
seamstressy		The business of a seamstress.
seamy		Having a seam; containing seams, or showing them.
sean	English dialect	A seine. See Seine.
seance		A session, as of some public body; especially, a meeting of spiritualists to receive spirit communication, so called.
seannachie	Scots	A bard among the Highlanders of Scotland, who preserved and repeated the traditions of the tribes; also, a genealogist.
seapiece		A picture representing a scene at sea; a marine picture.
seapoy		See Sepoy — a native of India employed as a soldier in the service of a European power, esp. of Great Britain; an Oriental soldier disciplined in the European manner.
seaquake		A quaking of the sea.
sear		Dry; withered; no longer green; -- applied to leaves.
searce	Obsolete	A fine sieve.
searcer	Obsolete	One who sifts or bolts.
search		To look over or through, for the purpose of finding something; to examine; to explore; as, to search the city.
searchable		Capable of being searched.
searchableness		Quality of being searchable.
searcher	English dialect	One who, or that which, searhes or examines; a seeker; an inquirer; an examiner; a trier.
searching		Exploring thoroughly; scrutinizing; penetrating; trying; as, a searching discourse; a searching eye. -- Search ing*ness, n.
searchless		Impossible to be searched; inscrutable; impenetrable.
searchlight		(a) An apparatus for projecting a powerful beam of light of approximately parallel rays, usually devised so that it can be swiveled about.
searcloth		Cerecloth.
seared		Scorched; cauterized; hence, figuratively, insensible; not susceptible to moral influences.
searedness		The state of being seared or callous; insensibility.
seascape		A picture representing a scene at sea.
seashell		The shell of any marine mollusk.
seashore		The coast of the sea; the land that lies adjacent to the sea or ocean.
seasick		Affected with seasickness.
seasickness		The peculiar sickness, characterized by nausea and prostration, which is caused by the pitching or rolling of a vessel.
seaside		The land bordering on, or adjacent to, the sea; the seashore.
season		One of the divisions of the year, marked by alternations in the length of day and night, or by distinct conditions of temperature, moisture, etc., caused mainly by the relative position of the earth with respect to the sun.
seasonable		Occurring in good time, in due season, or in proper time for the purpose; suitable to the season; opportune; timely; as, a seasonable supply of rain.
seasonage	Obsolete	A seasoning. outh.
seasonal		Of or pertaining to the seasons.
seasoner		One who, or that which, seasons, or gives a relish; a seasoning.
seasoning		The act or process by which anything is seasoned.
seasonless		Without succession of the seasons.
seat		The place or thing upon which one sits; hence; anything made to be sat in or upon, as a chair, bench, stool, saddle, or the like.
seating		The act of providong with a seat or seats; as, the seating of an audience.
seatless		Having no seat.
seavy	English dialect	Overgrown with rushes.
seawan		The name used by the Algonquin Indians for the shell beads which passed among the Indians as money.
seawand		See Sea girdles.
seawant		The name used by the Algonquin Indians for the shell beads which passed among the Indians as money.
seaward		Directed or situated toward the sea.
seaware		Seaweed; esp., coarse seaweed. See Ware, and Sea girdles.
seaweed		Popularly, any plant or plants growing in the sea.
seawife		A European wrasse (Labrus vetula).
seaworthiness		The state or quality of being seaworthy, or able to resist the ordinary violence of wind and weather.
seaworthy		Fit for a voyage; worthy of being trusted to transport a cargo with safety; as, a seaworthy ship.
sebaceous		Pertaining to, or secreting, fat; composed of fat; having the appearance of fat; as, the sebaceous secretions of some plants, or the sebaceous humor of animals.
sebacic		Of or pertaining to fat; derived from, or resembling, fat; specifically, designating an acid (formerly called also sebic, and pyroleic, acid)…
sebat		The eleventh month of the ancient Hebrew year, approximately corresponding with February.
sebate		A salt of sebacic acid.
sebesten		The mucilaginous drupaceous fruit of two East Indian trees (Cordia Myxa, and C. latifolia), sometimes used medicinally in pectoral diseases.
sebic	Obsolete	See Sebacic — of or pertaining to fat; derived from, or resembling, fat; specifically, designating an acid (formerly called also sebic, and pyroleic, acid)…
sebiferous		(Bot.) Producing vegetable tallow.
sebiparous		Same as Sebiferous.
seborrhea		A morbidly increased discharge of sebaceous matter upon the skin; stearrhea.
secale		A genus of cereal grasses including rye.
secancy		A cutting; an intersection; as, the point of secancy of one line by another.
secant		Cutting; divivding into two parts; as, a secant line.
secede		To withdraw from fellowship, communion, or association; to separate one's self by a solemn act; to draw off; to retire; especially, to withdraw from a political or religious body.
seceder		One who secedes.
secern		(Physiol.) To secrete; as, mucus secerned in the nose.
secernent		Secreting; secretory.
secernment		The act or process of secreting.
secess	Obsolete	Retirement; retreat; secession.
secession		The act of seceding; separation from fellowship or association with others, as in a religious or political organization; withdrawal.
secessionism		The doctrine or policy of secession; the tenets of secession; the tenets of secessionists.
secessionist		One who upholds secession.
seche	Obsolete	To seek.
sechium		The edible fruit of a West Indian plant (Sechium edule) of the Gourd family.
seck		Barren; unprofitable. See Rent seck, under Rent.
seckel		A small reddish brown sweet and juicy pear.
secle	Obsolete	A century.
seclude		To shut up apart from others; to withdraw into, or place in, solitude; to separate from society or intercourse with others.
seclusion		The act of secluding, or the state of being secluded; separation from society or connection; a withdrawing; privacy; as, to live in seclusion.
seclusive		Tending to seclude; keeping in seclusion; secluding; sequestering.
second		Immediately following the first; next to the first in order of place or time; hence, occuring again; another; other.
second-class		Of the rank or degree below the best highest; inferior; second- rate; as, a second-class house; a second-class passage.
second-rate		Of the second size, rank, quality, or value; as, a second-rate ship; second-rate cloth; a second-rate champion.
second-sight		The power of discerning what is not visible to the physical eye, or of foreseeing future events, esp. such as are of a disastrous kind; the capacity of a seer; prophetic vision. he was seized with a fit of second-sight.
second-sighted		Having the power of second-sight.
secondarily		In a secondary manner or degree.
secondariness		The state of being secondary.
secondary		Suceeding next in order to the first; of second place, origin, rank, rank, etc.; not primary; subordinate; not of the first order or rate.
seconder		One who seconds or supports what another attempts, affirms, moves, or proposes; as, the seconder of an enterprise or of a motion.
secondhand		Not original or primary; received from another.
secondly		In the second place.
secondo		The second part in a concerted piece.
secre	Obsolete	Secret; secretive; faithful to a secret.
secrecy		The state or quality of being hidden; as, his movements were detected in spite of their secrecy.
secrely	Obsolete	Secretly.
secreness	Obsolete	Secrecy; privacy.
secret		Hidden; concealed; as, secret treasure; secret plans; a secret vow.
secretage		A process in which mercury, or some of its salts, is employed to impart the property of felting to certain kinds of furs.
secretarial		Of or pertaining to a secretary; befitting a secretary.
secretariat		The office of a secretary; the place where a secretary transacts business, keeps records, etc.
secretariate		The office of a secretary; the place where a secretary transacts business, keeps records, etc.
secretary		One who keeps, or is intrusted with, secrets.
secretaryship		The office, or the term of office, of a secretary.
secrete		To deposit in a place of hiding; to hide; to conceal; as, to secrete stolen goods; to secrete one's self.
secretion		The act of secreting or concealing; as, the secretion of dutiable goods.
secretist	Obsolete	A dealer in secrets.
secretitious		Parted by animal secretion; as, secretitious humors.
secretive		Tending to secrete, or to keep secret or private; as, a secretive disposition.
secretiveness		The quality of being secretive; disposition or tendency to conceal.
secretly		In a secret manner.
secretness		The state or quality of being secret, hid, or concealed.
secreto-motory		Causing secretion; -- said of nerves which go to glands and influence secretion.
secretory		Secreting; performing, or connected with, the office secretion; secernent; as, secretory vessels, nerves. -- n.
sect	Obsolete	A cutting; a scion.
sectant		One of the portions of space bounded by the three coordinate planes.
sectarian		Pertaining to a sect, or to sects; peculiar to a sect; bigotedly attached to the tenets and interests of a denomination; as, sectarian principles or prejudices.
sectarianism		The quality or character of a sectarian; devotion to the interests of a party; excess of partisan or denominational zeal; adherence to a separate church organization.
sectarianize		To imbue with sectarian feelings; to subject to the control of a sect.
sectarism	Obsolete	Sectarianism.
sectarist		A sectary.
sectary		A sectarian; a member or adherent of a sect; a follower or disciple of some particular teacher in philosophy or religion; one who separates from an established church; a dissenter.
sectator	Obsolete	A follower; a disciple; an adherent to a sect. Sir W.
sectile		Capable of being cut; specifically (Min.), capable of being severed by the knife with a smooth cut; -- said of minerals.
sectility		The state or quality of being sectile.
section		The act of cutting, or separation by cutting; as, the section of bodies.
sectional		Of or pertaining to a sections or distinct part of larger body or territory; local.
sectionalism		A disproportionate regard for the interests peculiar to a section of the country; local patriotism, as distinguished from national.
sectionality		The state or quality of being sectional; sectionalism.
sectionalize		To divide according to gepgraphical sections or local interests.
sectionally		In a sectional manner.
sectionize		To form into sections.
sectism		Devotion to a sect.
sectist		One devoted to a sect; a soetary.
sectiuncle		A little or petty sect.
sector		(Geom.) A part of a circle comprehended between two radii and the included arc.
sectoral		Of or pertaining to a sector; as, a sectoral circle.
sectorial		Adapted for cutting. -- n.
secular		Coming or observed once in an age or a century.
secularism		The state or quality of being secular; a secular spirit; secularity.
secularist		One who theoretically rejects every form of religious faith, and every kind of religious worship, and accepts only the facts and influences which are derived from the present life; also…
secularity		Supreme attention to the things of the present life; worldliness.
secularization		The act of rendering secular, or the state of being rendered secular; conversion from regular or monastic to secular; conversion from religious to lay or secular possession and uses; as, the secularization of church property.
secularize		To convert from regular or monastic into secular; as, to secularize a priest or a monk.
secularly		In a secular or worldly manner.
secularness		The quality or state of being secular; worldliness; worldly- minded-ness.
secund		Arranged on one side only, as flowers or leaves on a stalk.
secundate		To make prosperous.
secundation		Prosperity.
secundine		(Bot.) The second coat, or integument, of an ovule, lying within the primine.
secundo-geniture		A right of inheritance belonging to a second son; a property or possession so inherited.
securable		That may be secured.
secure		Free from fear, care, or anxiety; easy in mind; not feeling suspicion or distrust; confident.
securely		In a secure manner; without fear or apprehension; without danger; safely.
securement		The act of securing; protection.
secureness		The condition or quality of being secure; exemption from fear; want of vigilance; security.
securer		One who, or that which, secures.
securifera		The Serrifera.
securiform		Having the form of an ax hatchet.
securipalp		One of a family of beetles having the maxillary palpi terminating in a hatchet-shaped joint.
security		The condition or quality of being secure; secureness. Specifically: (a) Freedom from apprehension, anxiety, or care; confidence of power of safety; hence, assurance; certainty.
sedan		A portable chair or covered vehicle for carrying a single person, -- usually borne on poles by two men.
sedate		Undisturbed by passion or caprice; calm; tranquil; serene; not passionate or giddy; composed; staid; as, a sedate soul, mind, or temper.
sedation		The act of calming, or the state of being calm.
sedative		Tending to calm, moderate, or tranquilize; specifically (Med.), allaying irritability and irritation; assuaging pain.
sedent		Sitting; inactive; quiet.
sedentarily		In a sedentary manner.
sedentariness		Quality of being sedentary.
sedentary		Accustomed to sit much or long; as, a sedentary man.
sederunt		A sitting, as of a court or other body.
sedge		(Bot.) Any plant of the genus Carex, perennial, endogenous herbs, often growing in dense tufts in marshy places.
sedged		Made or composed of sedge.
sedgy		Overgrown with sedge.
sedilia		Seats in the chancel of a church near the altar for the officiating clergy during intervals of service.
sediment		The matter which subsides to the bottom, frrom water or any other liquid; settlings; lees; dregs.
sedimental		Sedimentary.
sedimentary		Of or pertaining to sediment; formed by sediment; containing matter that has subsided.
sedimentation		The act of depositing a sediment; specifically (Geol.), the deposition of the material of which sedimentary rocks are formed.
sedition		The raising of commotion in a state, not amounting to insurrection; conduct tending to treason, but without an overt act; excitement of discontent against the government, or of resistance to lawful authority.
seditionary		An inciter or promoter of sedition.
seditious		Of or pertaining to sedition; partaking of the nature of, or tending to excite, sedition; as, seditious behavior; seditious strife; seditious words.
sedlitz		Same as Seidlitz.
seduce		To draw aside from the path of rectitude and duty in any manner; to entice to evil; to lead astray; to tempt and lead to iniquity; to corrupt.
seducement		The means employed to seduce, as flattery, promises, deception, etc.; arts of enticing or corrupting.
seducer		One who, or that which, seduces; specifically, one who prevails over the chastity of a woman by enticements and persuasions.
seducible		Capable of being seduced; corruptible.
seducing		Seductive. -- Se*du"cing*ly, adv.
seduction		The act of seducing; enticement to wrong doing; specifically, the offense of inducing a woman to consent to unlawful sexual intercourse, by enticements which overcome her scruples…
seductive		Tending to lead astray; apt to mislead by flattering appearances; tempting; alluring; as, a seductive offer.
seductively		In a seductive manner.
seductress		A woman who seduces.
sedulity		The quality or state of being sedulous; diligent and assiduous application; constant attention; unremitting industry; sedulousness.
sedulous		Diligent in application or pursuit; constant, steady, and persevering in business, or in endeavors to effect an object; steadily industrious; assiduous; as, the sedulous bee.
sedum		A genus of plants, mostly perennial, having succulent leaves and cymose flowers; orpine; stonecrop.
see		Specifically: (a) The seat of episcopal power; a diocese; the jurisdiction of a bishop; as, the see of New York.
seecatch		A full-grown male fur seal.
seed		(Bot.) (a) A ripened ovule, consisting of an embryo with one or more integuments, or coverings; as, an apple seed; a currant seed.
seed-lac		A species of lac. See the Note under Lac.
seedbox		(a) A capsule. (b) A plant (Ludwigia alternifolia) which has somewhat cubical or box-shaped capsules.
seedcake		A sweet cake or cooky containing aromatic seeds, as caraway.
seedcod	English dialect	A seedlip.
seeder		One who, or that which, sows or plants seed.
seediness	Colloquial	The quality or state of being seedy, shabby, or worn out; a state of wretchedness or exhaustion.
seedless		Without seed or seeds.
seedling		A plant reared from the seed, as distinguished from one propagated by layers, buds, or the like.
seedlip	English dialect	A vessel in which a sower carries the seed to be scattered.
seedlop	English dialect	A vessel in which a sower carries the seed to be scattered.
seedman		Seedsman.
seedness	Obsolete	Seedtime.
seedsman		A sower; one who sows or scatters seed.
seedtime		The season proper for sowing.
seedy		Abounding with seeds; bearing seeds; having run to seeds.
seeing		(but originally a present participle).
seek		To go in search of; to look for; to search for; to try to find.
seek-no-further		A kind of choice winter apple, having a subacid taste; -- formerly called go-no-further.
seek-sorrow	Archaic	One who contrives to give himself vexation.
seeker		One who seeks; that which is used in seeking or searching.
seel		(Falconry) To close the eyes of (a hawk or other bird) by drawing through the lids threads which were fastened over the head.
seelily	Obsolete	In a silly manner.
seeling	Obsolete	The rolling or agitation of a ship in a sterm.
seely	Obsolete	See Silly — weak in intellect; destitute of ordinary strength of mind; foolish; witless; simple; as, a silly woman.
seem	Obsolete	To appear, or to appear to be; to have a show or semblance; to present an appearance; to look; to strike one's apprehension or fancy as being; to be taken as. Thou picture of what thou seem'st.
seemer		One who seems; one who carries or assumes an appearance or semblance. Hence shall we see, If power change purpose, what our seemers be.
seeming		Having a semblance, whether with or without reality; apparent; specious; befitting; as, seeming friendship; seeming truth.
seemingly		In appearance; in show; in semblance; apparently; ostensibly.
seemingness		Semblance; fair appearance; plausibility.
seemless	Obsolete	Unseemly.
seemlily	Obsolete	In a seemly manner.
seemliness		The quality or state of being seemly: comeliness; propriety.
seemly		Suited to the object, occasion, purpose, or character; suitable; fit; becoming; comely; decorous.
seemlyhed	Obsolete	Comely or decent appearance.
seen	Obsolete	of See — specifically: (a) The seat of episcopal power; a diocese; the jurisdiction of a bishop; as, the see of New York.
seep	Scots	To run or soak through fine pores and interstices; to ooze.
seepage	Scots	Water that seeped or oozed through a porous soil.
seepy		Oozy; -- applied to land under cultivation that is not well drained.
seer	English dialect	Sore; painful.
seeress		A female seer; a prophetess.
seerfish		A scombroid food fish of Maderia (Cybium Commersonii).
seerhand		A kind of muslin of a texture between nainsook and mull.
seership		The office or quality of a seer.
seersucker		A light fabric, originally made in the East Indies, of silk and linen, usually having alternating stripes, and a slightly craped or puckered surface; also, a cotton fabric of similar appearance.
seerwood	Obsolete	Dry wood.
seesaw		A play among children in which they are seated upon the opposite ends of a plank which is balanced in the middle, and move alternately up and down.
seet		Sate; sat.
seeth		imp. of Seethe — to decoct or prepare for food in hot liquid; to boil; as, to seethe flesh.
seethe		To decoct or prepare for food in hot liquid; to boil; as, to seethe flesh.
seether		A pot for boiling things; a boiler.
seg	English dialect	The gladen, and other species of Iris.
segar		See Cigar — a small roll of tobacco, used for smoking.
seggar		A case or holder made of fire clay, in which fine pottery is inclosed while baking in the kin.
segge	English dialect	The hedge sparrow.
segment		One of the parts into which any body naturally separates or is divided; a part divided or cut off; a section; a portion; as, a segment of an orange; a segment of a compound or divided leaf.
segmental		(Anat. & Zoöl.) (a) Of or pertaining to the segments of animals; as, a segmental duct; segmental papillæ.
segmentation		The act or process of dividing into segments; specifically (Biol.), a self-division into segments as a result of growth; cell cleavage; cell multiplication; endogenous cell formation.
segmented		Divided into segments or joints; articulated.
segnitude	Obsolete	Sluggishness; dullness; inactivity.
segnity	Obsolete	Sluggishness; dullness; inactivity.
segno		A sign. See Al segno, and Dal segno.
sego		A liliaceous plant (Calochortus Nuttallii) of Western North America, and its edible bulb; -- so called by the Ute Indians and the Mormons.
segregate		Separate; select.
segregation		The act of segregating, or the state of being segregated; separation from others; a parting.
seiches		Local oscillations in level observed in the case of some lakes, as Lake Geneva.
seid		A descendant of Mohammed through his daughter Fatima and nephew Ali.
seidlitz		Of or pertaining to Seidlitz, a village in Bohemia.
seigh		obs. imp. sing. of See.
seigneurial		Of or pertaining to the lord of a manor; manorial.
seignior		A lord; the lord of a manor.
seigniorage		Something claimed or taken by virtue of sovereign prerogative; specifically, a charge or toll deducted from bullion brought to a mint to be coined…
seignioral		Of or pertaining to a seignior; seigneurial.
seignioralty		The territory or authority of a seignior, or lord.
seigniorial		Same as Seigneurial.
seigniorize	Obsolete	To lord it over.
seigniory		The power or authority of a lord; dominion.
seine		A large net, one edge of which is provided with sinkers, and the other with floats.
seiner		One who fishes with a seine.
seining		Fishing with a seine.
seint	Obsolete	A girdle.
seintuary	Obsolete	Sanctuary.
seirfish		Same as Seerfish.
seirospore		One of several spores arranged in a chain as in certain algæ of the genus Callithamnion.
seise		See Seize — to fall or rush upon suddenly and lay hold of; to gripe or grasp suddenly; to reach and grasp.
seisin		See Seizin — (Law) Possession; possession of an estate of froehold.
seismal		Of or pertaining to an earthquake; caused by an earthquake.
seismic		Of or pertaining to an earthquake; caused by an earthquake.
seismogram		The trace or record of an earth tremor, made by means of a seismograph.
seismograph		An apparatus for registering the shocks and undulatory motions of earthquakes.
seismographic		Of or pertaining to a seismograph; indicated by a seismograph.
seismography		A writing about, or a description of, earthquakes.
seismological		Of or pertaining to seismology. -- Seis`mo*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
seismology		The science of earthquakes.
seismometer		An instrument for measuring the direction, duration, and force of earthquakes and like concussions.
seismometric		Of or pertaining to seismometry, or seismometer; as, seismometric instruments; seismometric measurements.
seismometry		The mensuration of such phenomena of earthquakes as can be expressed in numbers, or by their relation to the coördinates of space.
seismoscope		A seismometer.
seity		Something peculiar to one's self.
seizable		That may be seized.
seize		To fall or rush upon suddenly and lay hold of; to gripe or grasp suddenly; to reach and grasp.
seizer		One who, or that which, seizes.
seizin		(Law) Possession; possession of an estate of froehold.
seizing		The act of taking or grasping suddenly.
seizor		One who seizes, or takes possession.
seizure		The act of seizing, or the state of being seized; sudden and violent grasp or gripe; a taking into possession; as, the seizure of a thief, a property, a throne, etc.
sejant		Sitting, as a lion or other beast.
sejeant		Sitting, as a lion or other beast.
sejein	Obsolete	To separate.
sejunction	Obsolete	The act of disjoining, or the state of being disjoined.
sejungible	Obsolete	Capable of being disjoined.
sekes		A place in a pagan temple in which the images of the deities were inclosed.
selachian		One of the Selachii. See Illustration in Appendix.
selachii		An order of elasmobranchs including the sharks and rays; the Plagiostomi.
selachoidei		Same as Selachii.
selachostomi		A division of ganoid fishes which includes the paddlefish, in which the mouth is armed with small teeth.
selaginella		A genus of cryptogamous plants resembling Lycopodia, but producing two kinds of spores; also, any plant of this genus.
selah		A word of doubtful meaning, occuring frequently in the Psalms; by some, supposed to signify silence or a pause in the musical performance of the song.
selcouth	Obsolete	Rarely known; unusual; strange. wondered much at his so selcouth case.
seld	Obsolete	Rare; uncommon; unusual.
seldom	Archaic	Rarely; not often; not frequently.
seldomness		Rareness.
seldseen	Obsolete	Seldom seen.
seldshewn	Obsolete	Rarely shown or exhibited.
select		Taken from a number by preferance; picked out as more valuable or exellent than others; of special value or exellence; nicely chosen; selected; choice.
selectedly		With care and selection.
selection		The act of selecting, or the state of being selected; choice, by preference.
selective		Selecting; tending to select.
selectman		One of a board of town officers chosen annually in the New England States to transact the general public business of the town, and have a kind of executive authority.
selectness		The quality or state of being select.
selector		One who selects.
selenate		A salt of selenic acid; -- formerly called also seleniate.
selenhydric		Of, pertaining to, or designating, hydrogen selenide, H2Se, regarded as an acid analogous to sulphydric acid.
selenic		Of or pertaining to selenium; derived from, or containing, selenium; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a higher valence as contrasted with selenious compounds.
selenide		A binary compound of selenium, or a compound regarded as binary; as, ethyl selenide.
seleniferous		Containing, or impregnated with, selenium; as, seleniferous pyrites.
selenio-		A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting the presence of selenium or its compounds; as, selenio-phosphate, a phosphate having selenium in place of all, or a part, of the oxygen.
selenious		Of, pertaining to, or containing, selenium; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a lower valence as contrasted with selenic compounds.
selenite		A salt of selenious acid.
selenitic		Of or pertaining to selenite; resembling or containing selenite.
selenitical		Of or pertaining to selenite; resembling or containing selenite.
selenium		A nonmetallic element of the sulphur group, and analogous to sulphur in its compounds.
seleniuret	Obsolete	A selenide.
seleniureted	Passing out of use	Combined with selenium as in a selenide; as, seleniureted hydrogen.
selenocentric		As seen or estimated from the center of the moon; with the moon central.
selenographer		One skilled in selenography.
selenographic		Of or pertaining to selenography.
selenographical		Of or pertaining to selenography.
selenographist		A selenographer.
selenography		The science that treats of the physical features of the moon; - - corresponding to physical geography in respect to the earth.
selenology		That branch of astronomy which treats of the moon. -- Sel`e*no*log"i*cal, a.
selenonium		A hypothetical radical of selenium, analogous to sulphonium.
self		The individual as the object of his own reflective consciousness; the man viewed by his own cognition as the subject of all his mental phenomena, the agent in his own activities, the subject of his own feelings…
self-abased		Humbled by consciousness of inferiority, unworthiness, guilt, or shame.
self-abasement		Degradation of one's self by one's own act.
self-abasing		Lowering or humbling one's self.
self-abhorrence		Abhorrence of one's self.
self-abnegation		Self-denial; self-renunciation; self-sacrifice.
self-abuse		The abuse of one's own self, powers, or faculties.
self-accused		Accused by one's self or by one's conscience.
self-acting		Acting of or by one's self or by itself; -- said especially of a machine or mechanism which is made to perform of or for itself what is usually done by human agency; automatic; as, a self-acting feed apparatus…
self-action		Action by, or originating in, one's self or itself.
self-active		Acting of one's self or of itself; acting without depending on other agents.
self-activity		The quality or state of being self-active; self-action.
self-adjusting		Capable of assuming a desired position or condition with relation to other parts, under varying circumstances, without requiring to be adjusted by hand; -- said of a piece in machinery.
self-admiration		Admiration of one's self.
self-affairs	Obsolete	One's own affairs; one's private business.
self-affrighted		Frightened at or by one's self.
self-aggrandizement		The aggrandizement of one's self.
self-annihilated		Annihilated by one's self.
self-annihilation		Annihilation by one's own acts; annihilation of one's desires.
self-applause		Applause of one's self.
self-applying		Applying to or by one's self.
self-approving		Approving one's own action or character by one's own judgment.
self-asserting		asserting one's self, or one's own rights or claims; hence, putting one's self forward in a confident or assuming manner.
self-assertion		The act of asserting one's self, or one's own rights or claims; the quality of being self-asserting.
self-assertive		Disposed to self-assertion; self-asserting.
self-assumed		Assumed by one's own act, or without authority.
self-assured		Assured by or of one's self; self-reliant; complacent.
self-banished		Exiled voluntarily.
self-begotten		Begotten by one's self, or one's own powers.
self-binder		A reaping machine containing mechanism for binding the grain into sheaves.
self-born		Born or produced by one's self.
self-centered		Centered in itself, or in one's self.
self-centering		Centering in one's self.
self-centration		The quality or state of being self-centered.
self-centred		Centered in itself, or in one's self.
self-centring		Centering in one's self.
self-charity	Obsolete	Self-love.
self-color		A color not mixed or variegated.
self-colored		Being of a single color; -- applied to flowers, animals, and textile fabrics.
self-command		Control over one's own feelings, temper, etc.; self-control.
self-commune		Self-communion.
self-communicative		Imparting or communicating by its own powers.
self-communion		Communion with one's self; thoughts about one's self.
self-complacency		The quality of being self-complacent.
self-complacent		Satisfied with one's own character, capacity, and doings; self- satisfied.
self-conceit		Conceit of one's self; an overweening opinion of one's powers or endowments.
self-conceited		Having an overweening opinion of one's own powers, attainments; vain; conceited. -- Self`-con*ceit"ed*ness, n.
self-concern		Concern for one's self.
self-condemnation		Condemnation of one's self by one's own judgment.
self-confidence		The quality or state of being self-confident; self-reliance.
self-confident		Confident of one's own strength or powers; relying on one's judgment or ability; self-reliant. -- Self`-con"fi*dent*ly, adv.
self-conjugate		Having the two things that are conjugate parts of the same figure; as, self-conjugate triangles.
self-conscious		Conscious of one's self as an object of the observation of others; as, the speaker was too self-conscious.
self-consciousness		The quality or state of being self-conscious.
self-considering		Considering in one's own mind; deliberating.
self-consistency		The quality or state of being self-consistent.
self-consistent		Consistent with one's self or with itself; not deviation from the ordinary standard by which the conduct is guided; logically consistent throughout; having each part consistent with the rest.
self-consuming		Consuming one's self or itself.
self-contained		Having self-control; reserved; uncommunicative; wholly engrossed in one's self.
self-contradiction		The act of contradicting one's self or itself; repugnancy in conceptions or in terms; a proposition consisting of two members, one of which contradicts the other; as, to be and not to be at the same time is a self-contradiction.
self-contradictory		Contradicting one's self or itself.
self-control		Control of one's self; restraint exercised over one's self; self-command.
self-convicted		Convicted by one's own consciousness, knowledge, avowal, or acts.
self-conviction		The act of convicting one's self, or the state of being self- convicted.
self-created		Created by one's self; not formed or constituted by another.
self-culture		Culture, training, or education of one's self by one's own efforts.
self-deceit		The act of deceiving one's self, or the state of being self- deceived; self-deception.
self-deceived		Deceived or misled respecting one's self by one's own mistake or error.
self-deception		Self-deceit.
self-defence		See Self-defense — the act of defending one's own person, property, or reputation.
self-defense		The act of defending one's own person, property, or reputation.
self-defensive		Defending, or tending to defend, one's own person, property, or reputation.
self-degradation		The act of degrading one's self, or the state of being so degraded.
self-delation		Accusation of one's self.
self-delusion		The act of deluding one's self, or the state of being thus deluded.
self-denial		The denial of one's self; forbearing to gratify one's own desires; self-sacrifice.
self-denying		Refusing to gratify one's self; self-sacrificing. -- Self`-de*ny"ing*ly, adv.
self-dependent		Dependent on one's self; self-depending; self-reliant.
self-depending		Depending on one's self.
self-depraved		Corrupted or depraved by one's self.
self-destroyer		One who destroys himself; a suicide.
self-destruction		The destruction of one's self; self-murder; suicide.
self-destructive		Destroying, or tending to destroy, one's self or itself; rucidal.
self-determination		Determination by one's self; or, determination of one's acts or states without the necessitating force of motives; -- applied to the voluntary or activity.
self-determining		Capable of self-determination; as, the self-determining power of will.
self-devised		Devised by one's self.
self-devoted		Devoted in person, or by one's own will.
self-devotement		Self-devotion.
self-devotion		The act of devoting one's self, or the state of being self- devoted; willingness to sacrifice one's own advantage or happiness for the sake of others; self-sacrifice.
self-devouring		Devouring one's self or itself.
self-diffusive		Having power to diffuse itself; diffusing itself.
self-discipline		Correction or government of one's self for the sake of improvement.
self-distrust		Want of confidence in one' self; diffidence.
self-educated		Educated by one's own efforts, without instruction, or without pecuniary assistance from others.
self-elective		Having the right of electing one's self, or, as a body, of electing its own members.
self-enjoyment		Enjoyment of one's self; self-satisfaction.
self-esteem		The holding a good opinion of one's self; self-complacency.
self-estimation		The act of estimating one's self; self-esteem.
self-evidence		The quality or state of being self-evident.
self-evident		Evident without proof or reasoning; producing certainty or conviction upon a bare presentation to the mind; as, a self-evident proposition or truth. -- Self`-ev"i*dent*ly, adv.
self-evolution		Evolution of one's self; development by inherent quality or power.
self-exaltation		The act of exalting one's self, or the state of being so exalted.
self-examinant		One who examines himself; one given to self-examination.
self-examination		An examination into one's own state, conduct, and motives, particularly in regard to religious feelings and duties.
self-excite		To energize or excite (the field magnets of a dynamo) by induction from the residual magnetism of its cores, leading all or a part of the current thus produced through the field-magnet coils.
self-existence		Inherent existence; existence possessed by virtue of a being's own nature, and independent of any other being or cause; -- an attribute peculiar to God.
self-existent		Existing of or by himself,independent of any other being or cause; -- as, God is the only self-existent being.
self-explaining		Explaining itself; capable of being understood without explanation.
self-exposure		The act of exposing one's self; the state of being so exposed.
self-fertilization		The fertilization of a flower by pollen from the same flower and without outer aid; autogamy.
self-fertilized		Fertilized by pollen from the same flower.
self-glorious		Springing from vainglory or vanity; vain; boastful.
self-government		The act of governing one's self, or the state of being governed by one's self; self-control; self-command.
self-gratulation		Gratulation of one's self.
self-hardening		Designating, or pert. to, any of various steels that harden when heated to above a red heat and cooled in air, usually in a blast of cold air with moderate rapidity, without quenching.
self-heal		A blue-flowered labiate plant (Brunella vulgaris); the healall.
self-healing		Having the power or property of healing itself.
self-help		The act of aiding one's self, without depending on the aid of others.
self-homicide		The act of killing one's self; suicide.
self-ignorance		Ignorance of one's own character, powers, and limitations.
self-ignorant		Ignorant of one's self.
self-imparting		Imparting by one's own, or by its own, powers and will.
self-importance		An exaggerated estimate of one's own importance or merit, esp. as manifested by the conduct or manners; self-conceit.
self-important		Having or manifesting an exaggerated idea of one's own importance or merit.
self-imposed		Voluntarily taken on one's self; as, self-imposed tasks.
self-imposture		Imposture practiced on one's self; self-deceit.
self-indignation		Indignation at one's own character or actions.
self-induction		Induction in a circuit due to the action of one portion of a current upon an adjacent portion during periods of varying current strength.
self-indulgence		Indulgence of one's appetites, desires, or inclinations; -- the opposite of self-restraint, and self-denial.
self-indulgent		Indulging one's appetites, desires, etc., freely.
self-interest		Private interest; the interest or advantage of one's self.
self-interested		Particularly concerned for one's own interest or happiness.
self-involution		Involution in one's self; hence, abstraction of thought; reverie.
self-justifier		One who excuses or justifies himself.
self-kindled		Kindled of itself, or without extraneous aid or power.
self-knowing		Knowing one's self, or one's own character, powers, and limitations.
self-knowledge		Knowledge of one's self, or of one's own character, powers, limitations, etc.
self-life		Life for one's self; living solely or chiefly for one's own pleasure or good.
self-love		The love of one's self; desire of personal happiness; tendency to seek one's own benefit or advantage.
self-luminous		Possessing in itself the property of emitting light.
self-made		Made by one's self.
self-mettle	Obsolete	Inborn mettle or courage; one's own temper.
self-motion		Motion given by inherent power, without external impulse; spontaneus or voluntary motion.
self-moved		Moved by inherent power., without the aid of external impulse.
self-moving		Moving by inherent power, without the aid of external impulse.
self-murder		Suicide.
self-murderer		A suicide.
self-neglecting		A neglecting of one's self, or of one's own interests.
self-opinion		Opinion, especially high opinion, of one's self; an overweening estimate of one's self or of one's own opinion.
self-opinioned		Having a high opinion of one's self; opinionated; conceited.
self-originating		Beginning wwith, or springing from, one's self.
self-partiality		That partiality to himself by which a man overrates his own worth when compared with others.
self-perplexed		Perplexed by doubts originating in one's own mind.
self-posited		Disposed or arranged by an action originating in one's self or in itself.
self-positing		The act of disposing or arranging one's self or itself.
self-possessed		Composed or tranquill in mind, manner, etc.; undisturbed.
self-possession		The possession of one's powers; calmness; self-command; presence of mind; composure.
self-praise		Praise of one's self.
self-preservation		The preservation of one's self from destruction or injury.
self-propagating		Propagating by one's self or by itself.
self-registering		Registering itself; -- said of any instrument so contrived as to record its own indications of phenomena, whether continuously or at stated times, as at the maxima and minima of variations; as…
self-regulated		Regulated by one's self or by itself.
self-regulative		Tending or serving to regulate one's self or itself.
self-reliance		Reliance on one's own powers or judgment; self-trust.
self-reliant		Reliant upon one's self; trusting to one's own powers or judgment.
self-renunciation		The act of renouncing, or setting aside, one's own wishes, claims, etc.; self-sacrifice.
self-repellency		The quality or state of being self-repelling.
self-repelling		Made up of parts, as molecules or atoms, which mutually repel each other; as, gases are self-repelling.
self-repetition		Repetition of one's self or of one's acts; the saying or doing what one has already said or done.
self-reproach		The act of reproaching one's self; censure by one's own conscience.
self-reproached		Reproached by one's own conscience or judgment.
self-reproaching		Reproaching one's self. -- Self`-re*proach"ing*ly, adv.
self-reproof		The act of reproving one's self; censure of one's conduct by one's own judgment.
self-reproved		Reproved by one's own conscience or one's own sense of guilt.
self-reproving		Reproving one's self; reproving by consciousness of guilt.
self-reprovingly		In a self-reproving way.
self-repugnant		Self-contradictory; inconsistent.
self-repulsive		Self-repelling.
self-respect		Respect for one's self; regard for one's character; laudable self-esteem.
self-restrained		Restrained by one's self or itself; restrained by one's own power or will.
self-restraint		Restraint over one's self; self-control; self-command.
self-reverence		A reverent respect for one's self.
self-righteous		Righteous in one's own esteem; pharisaic.
self-righteousness		The quality or state of being self-righteous; pharisaism.
self-sacrifice		The act of sacrificing one's self, or one's interest, for others; self-devotion.
self-sacrificing		Yielding up one's own interest, ffeelings, etc; sacrificing one's self.
self-satisfaction		The quality or state of being self-satisfied.
self-satisfied		Satisfied with one's self or one's actions; self-complacent.
self-satisfying		Giving satisfaction to one's self.
self-seeker		One who seeks only his own interest, advantage, or pleasure.
self-seeking		Seeking one's own interest or happiness; selfish.
self-slaughter		Suicide.
self-starter		A mechanism (usually one operated by electricity, compressed air, a spring, or an explosive gas), attached to an internal- combustion engine, as on an automobile…
self-sufficiency		The quality or state of being self-sufficient.
self-sufficient		Sufficient for one's self without external aid or coöperation.
self-sufficing		Sufficing for one's self or for itself, without needing external aid; self-sufficient. -- Self`-suf*fi"cing*ness, n.
self-suspended		Suspended by one's self or by itself; balanced.
self-suspicious		Suspicious or distrustful of one's self.
self-taught		Taught by one's own efforts.
self-tormentor		One who torments himself.
self-torture		The act of inflicting pain on one's self; pain inflicted on one's self.
self-trust		Faith in one's self; self-reliance.
self-uned	Obsolete	One with itself; separate from others.
self-view		A view if one's self; specifically, carefulness or regard for one's own interests
self-will		One's own will, esp. when opposed to that of others; obstinacy.
self-willed		Governed by one's own will; not yielding to the wishes of others; obstinate.
self-willedness		Obstinacy.
self-worship		The idolizing of one's self; immoderate self-conceit.
self-wrong		Wrong done by a person himself.
selfhood		Existence as a separate self, or independent person; conscious personality; individuality.
selfish		Caring supremely or unduly for one's self; regarding one's own comfort, advantage, etc., in disregard, or at the expense, of those of others.
selfishly		In a selfish manner; with regard to private interest only or chiefly.
selfishness		The quality or state of being selfish; exclusive regard to one's own interest or happiness; that supreme self-love or self- preference which leads a person to direct his purposes to the advancement of his own interest, power…
selfism		Concentration of one's interests on one's self; self-love; selfishness.
selfist		A selfish person.
selfless		Having no regard to self; unselfish.
selflessness		Quality or state of being selfless.
selfness	Obsolete	Selfishness.
selfsame		Precisely the same; the very same; identical.
selion	Obsolete	A short piece of land in arable ridges and furrows, of uncertain quantity; also, a ridge of land lying between two furrows.
seljuckian		A member of the family of Seljuk; an adherent of that family, or subject of its government; (pl.) the dynasty of Turkish sultans sprung from Seljuk.
seljukian		Of or pertaining to Seljuk, a Tartar chief who embraced Mohammedanism, and began the subjection of Western Asia to that faith and rule; of or pertaining to the dynasty founded by him…
sell		To transfer to another for an equivalent; to give up for a valuable consideration; to dispose of in return for something, especially for money.
sellanders		See Sallenders — an eruption on the hind leg of a horse.
sellenders		See Sallenders — an eruption on the hind leg of a horse.
seller		One who sells.
seltzo-gene		A gazogene.
selvage		The edge of cloth which is woven in such a manner as to prevent raveling.
selvaged		Having a selvage.
selvagee		A skein or hank of rope yarns wound round with yarns or marline, -- used for stoppers, straps, etc.
selvas		Vast woodland plains of South America.
selve	Obsolete	Self; same.
selvedge		The edge of cloth which is woven in such a manner as to prevent raveling.
selvedged		Having a selvage.
selves		pl. of Self — the individual as the object of his own reflective consciousness; the man viewed by his own cognition as the subject of all his mental phenomena, the agent in his own activities…
semaeostomata		A division of Discophora having large free mouth lobes.
semaphore		A signal telegraph; an apparatus for giving signals by the disposition of lanterns, flags, oscillating arms, etc.
semaphoric		Of or pertaining to a semaphore, or semaphores; telegraphic.
semaphorical		Of or pertaining to a semaphore, or semaphores; telegraphic.
semaphorically		By means a semaphore.
semaphorist		One who manages or operates a semaphore.
semasiology		The science of meanings or sense development (of words); the explanation of the development and changes of the meanings of words. --Se*ma`si*o*log"ic*al (#), a.
sematic		Significant; ominous; serving as a warning of danger; --applied esp. to the warning colors or forms of certain animals.
sematology		The doctrine of signs as the expression of thought or reasoning; the science of indicating thought by signs.
sematrope		An instrument for signaling by reflecting the rays of the sun in different directions.
semblable	Obsolete	Like; similar; resembling.
semblably	Obsolete	In like manner.
semblance		Seeming; appearance; show; figure; form.
semblant		Seeming, rather than real; apparent.
semblative	Obsolete	Resembling.
semble	Obsolete	(Law) It seems; -- chiefly used impersonally in reports and judgments to express an opinion in reference to the law on some point not necessary to be decided, and not intended to be definitely settled in the cause.
sembling		The practice of attracting the males of Lepidoptera or other insects by exposing the female confined in a cage.
seme		Sprinkled or sown; -- said of field, or a charge, when strewed or covered with small charges.
semeiography		A description of the signs of disease.
semeiological		Of or pertaining to the science of signs, or the systematic use of signs; as, a semeiological classification of the signs or symptoms of disease; a semeiological arrangement of signs used as signals.
semeiology		The science or art of signs. Specifically: (a) (Med.) The science of the signs or symptoms of disease; symptomatology.
semeiotic		Relating to signs or indications; pertaining to the language of signs, or to language generally as indicating thought.
semeiotics		Semeiology.
semele		A daughter of Cadmus, and by Zeus mother of Bacchus.
semen		(Physiol.) The seed or fecundating fluid of male animals; sperm.
semeniferous		Seminiferous.
semester		A period of six months; especially, a term in a college or uneversity which divides the year into two terms.
semi-		A prefix signifying half, and sometimes partly or imperfectly; as, semiannual, half yearly; semitransparent, imperfectly transparent.
semi-arian		A member of a branch of the Arians which did not acknowledge the Son to be consubstantial with the Father, that is, of the same substance, but admitted him to be of a like substance with the Father, not by nature…
semi-arianism		The doctrines or tenets of the Semi-Arians.
semi-christianized		Half Christianized.
semi-diesel		Designating an internal-combustion engine of a type resembling the Diesel engine in using as fuel heavy oil which is injected in a spray just before the end of the compression stroke and is fired without electrical ignition.
semi-pelagian		A follower of John Cassianus, a French monk (died about 448), who modified the doctrines of Pelagius, by denying human merit, and maintaining the necessity of the Spirit's influence, while, on the other hand…
semi-pelagianism		The doctrines or tenets of the Semi-Pelagians.
semi-saxon		Half Saxon; -- specifically applied to the language intermediate between Saxon and English, belonging to the period 1150- 1250.
semiacid		Slightly acid; subacid.
semiacidified		Half acidified.
semiadherent		Adherent part way.
semiamplexicaul		Partially amplexicaul; embracing the stem half round, as a leaf.
semiangle		The half of a given, or measuring, angle.
semiannual		Half-yearly.
semiannually		Every half year.
semiannular		Having the figure of a half circle; forming a semicircle.
semiaxis		One half of the axis of an
semibarbarian		Half barbarous; partially civilized. -- n.
semibarbaric		Half barbarous or uncivilized; as, semibarbaric display.
semibarbarism		The quality or state of being half barbarous or uncivilized.
semibarbarous		Half barbarous.
semibreve		A note of half the time or duration of the breve; -- now usually called a whole note.
semibrief		A semibreve.
semibull		A bull issued by a pope in the period between his election and coronation.
semicalcareous		Half or partially calcareous; as, a semicalcareous plant.
semicalcined		Half calcined; as, semicalcined iron.
semicastrate		To deprive of one testicle. -- Sem`i*cas*tra"tion,n.
semicentennial		Of or pertaining to half of a century, or a period of fifty years; as, a semicentennial commemoration.
semichaotic		Partially chaotic.
semichorus		A half chorus; a passage to be sung by a selected portion of the voices, as the female voices only, in contrast with the full choir.
semicircle		(a) The half of a circle; the part of a circle bounded by its diameter and half of its circumference.
semicircled		Semicircular.
semicircular		Having the form of half of a circle.
semicirque		A semicircular hollow or opening among trees or hills.
semicolon		The punctuation mark indicating a separation between parts or members of a sentence more distinct than that marked by a comma.
semicolumn		A half column; a column bisected longitudinally, or along its axis.
semicolumnar		Like a semicolumn; flat on one side and round on the other; imperfectly columnar.
semicompact		Half compact; imperfectly indurated.
semiconscious		Half conscious; imperfectly conscious.
semicope	Obsolete	A short cope, or an inferier kind of cope.
semicrystalline		Half crystalline; -- said of certain cruptive rocks composed partly of crystalline, partly of amorphous matter.
semicubical		Of or pertaining to the square root of the cube of a quantity.
semicubium		A half bath, or one that covers only the lewer extremities and the hips; a sitz-bath; a half bath, or hip bath.
semicupium		A half bath, or one that covers only the lewer extremities and the hips; a sitz-bath; a half bath, or hip bath.
semicylindric		Half cylindrical.
semicylyndrical		Half cylindrical.
semideistical		Half deisticsl; bordering on deism.
semidemiquaver		A demisemiquaver; a thirty-second note.
semidetached		Half detached; partly distinct or separate.
semidiameter		Half of a diameter; a right line, or the length of a right line, drawn from the center of a circle, a sphere, or other curved figure, to its circumference or periphery; a radius.
semidiapason		An imperfect octave.
semidiapente		An imperfect or diminished fifth.
semidiaphaneity		Half or imperfect transparency; translucency.
semidiaphanous		Half or imperfectly transparent; translucent.
semidiatessaron		An imperfect or diminished fourth.
semiditone		A lesser third, having its terms as 6 to 5; a hemiditone.
semidiurnal		Pertaining to, or accomplished in, half a day, or twelve hours; occurring twice every day.
semidome		A roof or ceiling covering a semicircular room or recess, or one of nearly that shape, as the apse of a church, a niche, or the like.
semidouble		An office or feast celebrated with less solemnity than the double ones.
semifable		That which is part fable and part truth; a mixture of truth and fable.
semiflexed		Half bent.
semifloret		See Semifloscule — a floscule, or florest, with its corolla prolonged into a strap-shaped petal; -- called also semifloret.
semifloscular		Semiflosculous.
semifloscule		A floscule, or florest, with its corolla prolonged into a strap-shaped petal; -- called also semifloret.
semiflosculous		Having all the florets ligulate, as in the dandelion.
semifluid		Imperfectly fluid. -- n.
semiform		A half form; an imperfect form.
semiformed		Half formed; imperfectly formed; as, semiformed crystals.
semiglutin		A peptonelike body, insoluble in alcohol, formed by boiling collagen or gelatin for a long time in water.
semihistorical		Half or party historical.
semihoral		Half-hourly.
semiindurated		Imperfectly indurated or hardened.
semilapidified		Imperfectly changed into stone.
semilens		The half of a lens divided along a plane passing through its axis.
semilenticular		Half lenticular or convex; imperfectly resembling a lens.
semiligneous		Half or partially ligneous, as a stem partly woody and partly herbaceous.
semiliquid		Half liquid; semifluid.
semiliquidity		The quality or state of being semiliquid; partial liquidity.
semilogical		Half logical; partly logical; said of fallacies.
semilor		A yellowish alloy of copper and zinc. See Simplor.
semilunar		Shaped like a half moon.
semilunary		Semilunar.
semilunate		Semilunar.
semilune		The half of a lune.
semimetal	Obsolete	An element possessing metallic properties in an inferior degree and not malleable, as arsenic, antimony, bismuth, molybdenum, uranium, etc.
semimetallic		Of or pertaining to a semimetal; possessing metallic properties in an inferior degree; resembling metal.
semimonthly		Coming or made twice in a month; as, semimonthly magazine; a semimonthly payment. -- n.
semimute		Having the faculty of speech but imperfectly developed or partially lost.
seminal		Pertaining to, containing, or consisting of, seed or semen; as, the seminal fluid.
seminality		The quality or state of being seminal.
seminar		A group of students engaged, under the guidance of an instructor, in original research in a particular line of study, and in the exposition of the results by theses, lectures, etc.; -- called also seminary.
seminarian		A member of, or one educated in, a seminary; specifically, an ecclesiastic educated for the priesthood in a seminary.
seminarist		A member of, or one educated in, a seminary; specifically, an ecclesiastic educated for the priesthood in a seminary.
seminary		A place of education, as a scool of a high grade, an academy, college, or university.
seminate		To sow; to spread; to propagate.
semination		(Bot.) Natural dispersion of seeds.
semined	Obsolete	Thickly covered or sown, as with seeds.
seminiferous		Seed-bearing; producing seed; pertaining to, or connected with, the formation of semen; as, seminiferous cells or vesicles.
seminific		Forming or producing seed, or the male generative product of animals or of plants.
seminifical		Forming or producing seed, or the male generative product of animals or of plants.
seminification		Propagation from seed.
seminist		A believer in the old theory that the newly created being is formed by the admixture of the seed of the male with the supposed seed of the female.
seminoles		A tribe of Indians who formerly occupied Florida, where some of them still remain.
seminose		A carbohydrate of the glucose group found in the thickened endosperm of certain seeds, and extracted as yellow sirup having a sweetish-bitter taste.
seminude		Partially nude; half naked.
seminymph		The pupa of insects which undergo only a slight change in passing to the imago state.
semioccasionally	Colloquial	Once in a while; on rare occasions.
semiofficial		Half official; having some official authority or importance; as, a semiofficial statement. -- Sem`i*of*fi"cial*ly, adv.
semiography		A description of the signs of disease.
semiological		Same as Semeiography, Semeiology, Semeiological.
semiologioal		Of or pertaining to the science of signs, or the systematic use of signs; as, a semeiological classification of the signs or symptoms of disease; a semeiological arrangement of signs used as signals.
semiology		The science or art of signs. Specifically: (a) (Med.) The science of the signs or symptoms of disease; symptomatology.
semiopacous		Semiopaque.
semiopal		A variety of opal not possessing opalescence.
semiopaque		Half opaque; only half transparent.
semiorbicular		Having the shape of a half orb or sphere.
semiotic		Relating to signs or indications; pertaining to the language of signs, or to language generally as indicating thought.
semiotics		Semeiology.
semioval		Half oval.
semiovate		Half ovate.
semioxygenated		Combined with oxygen only in part.
semipagan		Half pagan.
semipalmate		Having the anterior toes joined only part way down with a web; half-webbed; as, a semipalmate bird or foot.
semipalmated		Having the anterior toes joined only part way down with a web; half-webbed; as, a semipalmate bird or foot.
semiparabola		One branch of a parabola, being terminated at the principal vertex of the curve.
semiped		A half foot in poetry.
semipedal		Containing a half foot.
semipellucid		Half clear, or imperfectly transparent; as, a semipellucid gem.
semipellucidity		The qualiti or state of being imperfectly transparent.
semipenniform		Half or partially penniform; as, a semipenniform muscle.
semipermanent		Half or partly permanent.
semiperspicuous		Half transparent; imperfectly clear; semipellucid.
semiphlogisticated		Partially impregnated with phlogiston.
semiplume		A feather which has a plumelike web, with the shaft of an ordinary feather.
semiprecious		Somewhat precious; as, semiprecious stones or metals.
semiproof	Obsolete	Half proof; evidence from the testimony of a single witness.
semiquadrate		An aspect of the planets when distant from each other the half of a quadrant, or forty-five degrees, or one sign and a half.
semiquartile		An aspect of the planets when distant from each other the half of a quadrant, or forty-five degrees, or one sign and a half.
semiquaver		A note of half the duration of the quaver; -- now usually called a sixsteenth note.
semiquintile		An aspect of the planets when distant from each other half of the quintile, or thirty-six degrees.
semiradial		Half radial.
semirecondite		Half hidden or half covered; said of the head of an insect when half covered by the shield of the thorax.
semiring		One of the incomplete rings of the upper part of the bronchial tubes of most birds.
semisavage		Half savage.
semisextile		An aspect of the planets when they are distant from each other the twelfth part of a circle, or thirty degrees.
semisolid		Partially solid.
semisoun	Obsolete	A half sound; a low tone.
semispheric		Having the figure of a half sphere.
semispherical		Having the figure of a half sphere.
semispheroidal		Formed like a half spheroid.
semisteel		Puddled steel.
semita		A fasciole of a spatangoid sea urchin.
semitangent		The tangent of half an arc.
semite		One belonging to the Semitic race.
semiterete		Half terete.
semitertian		Having the characteristics of both a tertian and a quotidian intermittent. -- n.
semitic		Of or pertaining to Shem or his descendants; belonging to that division of the Caucasian race which includes the Arabs, Jews, and related races.
semitism		A Semitic idiom; a word of Semitic origin.
semitone		Half a tone; -- the name commonly applied to the smaller intervals of the diatonic scale.
semitonic		Of or pertaining to a semitone; consisting of a semitone, or of semitones.
semitontine		Lit., half-tontine; -- used to designate a form of tontine life insurance.
semitransept		The half of a transept; as, the north semitransept of a church.
semitranslucent		Slightly clear; transmitting light in a slight degree.
semitransparency		Imperfect or partial transparency.
semitransparent		Half or imperfectly transparent.
semiverticillate		Partially verticillate.
semivif	Obsolete	Only half alive.
semivitreous		Partially vitreous.
semivitrification		The quality or state of being semivitrified.
semivitrified		Half or imperfectly vitrified; partially converted into glass.
semivocal		Of or pertaining to a semivowel; half cocal; imperfectly sounding.
semivowel		(a) A sound intermediate between a vowel and a consonant, or partaking of the nature of both, as in the English w and y.
semiweekly		Coming, or made, or done, once every half week; as, a semiweekly newspaper; a semiweekly trip. -- n.
semolella		See Semolina — the fine, hard parts of wheat, rounded by the attrition of the millstones, -- used in cookery.
semolina		The fine, hard parts of wheat, rounded by the attrition of the millstones, -- used in cookery.
semolino		Same as Semolina.
semoule		Same as Semolina.
sempervirent		Always fresh; evergreen.
sempervive		The houseleek.
sempervivum		A genus of fleshy-leaved plants, of which the houseleek (Sempervivum tectorum) is the commonest species.
sempiternal		Of neverending duration; everlasting; endless; having beginning, but no end.
sempiterne	Obsolete	Sempiternal.
sempiternity		Future duration without end; the relation or state of being sempiternal.
sempre		Always; throughout; as, sempre piano, always soft.
sempster	Obsolete	A seamster.
sempstress		A seamstress.
sempstressy		Seamstressy.
semster	Obsolete	A seamster.
semuncia		A Roman coin equivalent to one twenty-fourth part of a Roman pound.
sen	Obsolete	A Japanese coin, worth about one half of a cent.
senary		Of six; belonging to six; containing six.
senate		An assembly or council having the highest deliberative and legislative functions.
senator		(O.Eng.Law) A member of the king's council; a king's councilor.
senatorial		Of or pertaining to a senator, or a senate; becoming to a senator, or a senate; as, senatorial duties; senatorial dignity.
senatorially		In a senatorial manner.
senatorian		Senatorial.
senatorious	Obsolete	Senatorial.
senatorship		The office or dignity of a senator.
senatusconsult		A decree of the Roman senate.
send		To cause to go in any manner; to dispatch; to commission or direct to go; as, to send a messenger.
sendal		A light thin stuff of silk.
sender		One who sends.
senecas		A tribe of Indians who formerly inhabited a part of Western New York.
senecio		A very large genus of composite plants including the groundsel and the golden ragwort.
senectitude		Old age.
senega		Seneca root.
senegal		Gum senegal. See under Gum.
senegin		A substance extracted from the rootstock of the Polygala Senega (Seneca root), and probably identical with polygalic acid.
senescence		The state of growing old; decay by time.
senescent		Growing old; decaying with the lapse of time.
seneschal		An officer in the houses of princes and dignitaries, in the Middle Ages, who had the superintendence of feasts and domestic ceremonies; a steward.
seneschalship		The office, dignity, or jurisdiction of a seneschal.
senge	Obsolete	To singe.
sengreen		The houseleek.
senhor		A Spanish title of courtesy corresponding to the English Mr. or Sir; also, a gentleman.
senhora		A Spanish title of courtesy given to a lady; Mrs.; Madam; also, a lady.
senhorita		A Spanish title of courtesy given to a young lady; Miss; also, a young lady.
senile		Of or pertaining to old age; proceeding from, or characteristic of, old age; affected with the infirmities of old age; as, senile weakness.
senility		The quality or state of being senile; old age.
senior		More advanced than another in age; prior in age; elder; hence, more advanced in dignity, rank, or office; superior; as, senior member; senior counsel.
seniority		The quality or state of being senior.
seniorize		To exercise authority; to rule; to lord it.
seniory	Obsolete	Seniority.
senna		(Med.) The leaves of several leguminous plants of the genus Cassia. (C. acutifolia.
sennachy		See Seannachie — a bard among the Highlanders of Scotland, who preserved and repeated the traditions of the tribes; also, a genealogist.
sennet	Obsolete	A signal call on a trumpet or cornet for entrance or exit on the stage.
sennight	Archaic	The space of seven nights and days; a week.
sennit		(Naut.) A braided cord or fabric formed by plaiting together rope yarns or other small stuff.
senocular		Having six eyes.
senonian		In european geology, a name given to the middle division of the Upper Cretaceous formation.
senor		A Spanish title of courtesy corresponding to the English Mr. or Sir; also, a gentleman.
senora		A Spanish title of courtesy given to a lady; Mrs.; Madam; also, a lady.
senorita		A Spanish title of courtesy given to a young lady; Miss; also, a young lady.
sensate		To feel or apprehend more or less distinctly through a sense, or the senses; as, to sensate light, or an odor.
sensated		Felt or apprehended through a sense, or the senses.
sensation		(Physiol.) An impression, or the consciousness of an impression, made upon the central nervous organ, through the medium of a sensory or afferent nerve or one of the organs of sense; a feeling, or state of consciousness…
sensational		Of or pertaining to sensation; as, sensational nerves.
sensationalism		(Metaph.) The doctrine held by Condillac, and by some ascribed to Locke, that our ideas originate solely in sensation, and consist of sensations transformed; sensualism; -- opposed to intuitionalism, and rationalism.
sensationalist		(Metaph.) An advocate of, or believer in, philosophical sensationalism.
sense		(Physiol.) A faculty, possessed by animals, of perceiving external objects by means of impressions made upon certain organs (sensory or sense organs) of the body, or of perceiving changes in the condition of the body; as…
senseful		Full of sense, meaning, or reason; reasonable; judicious.
senseless		Destitute of, deficient in, or contrary to, sense; without sensibility or feeling; unconscious; stupid; foolish; unwise; unreasonable.
sensibility		(Physiol.) The quality or state of being sensible, or capable of sensation; capacity to feel or perceive.
sensible		Capable of being perceived by the senses; apprehensible through the bodily organs; hence, also, perceptible to the mind; making an impression upon the sense, reason, or understanding; sensible resistance.
sensibleness		The quality or state of being sensible; sensibility; appreciation; capacity of perception; susceptibility.
sensibly		In a sensible manner; so as to be perceptible to the senses or to the mind; appreciably; with perception; susceptibly; sensitively.
sensifacient		Converting into sensation.
sensiferous		Exciting sensation; conveying sensation.
sensific		Exciting sensation.
sensificatory		Susceptible of, or converting into, sensation; as, the sensificatory part of a nervous system.
sensigenous		Causing or exciting sensation.
sensism		Same as Sensualism, 2 & 3.
sensist		One who, in philosophy, holds to sensism.
sensitive		Having sense of feeling; possessing or exhibiting the capacity of receiving impressions from external objects; as, a sensitive soul.
sensitivity		The quality or state of being sensitive; -- used chiefly in science and the arts; as, the sensitivity of iodized silver.
sensitize		To render sensitive, or susceptible of being easily acted on by the actinic rays of the sun; as, sensitized paper or plate.
sensitizer		An agent that sensitizes.
sensitometer		An instrument or apparatus for comparing and grading the sensitiveness of plates, films, etc., as a screen divided into squares of different shades or colors, from which a picture is made on the plate to be tested.
sensitory		See Sensory — same as Sensorium.
sensive	Obsolete	Having sense or sensibility; sensitive.
sensor		Sensory; as, the sensor nerves.
sensori-volitional		Concerned both in sensation and volition; -- applied to those nerve fibers which pass to and from the cerebro-spinal axis, and are respectively concerned in sensation and volition.
sensorial		Of or pertaining to the sensorium; as, sensorial faculties, motions, powers.
sensorium		The seat of sensation; the nervous center or centers to which impressions from the external world must be conveyed before they can be perceived; the place where external impressions are localized, and transformed into sensations…
sensory		Same as Sensorium.
sensual		Pertaining to, consisting in, or affecting, the sense, or bodily organs of perception; relating to, or concerning, the body, in distinction from the spirit.
sensualism		The condition or character of one who is sensual; subjection to sensual feelings and appetite; sensuality.
sensualist		One who is sensual; one given to the indulgence of the appetites or senses as the means of happiness.
sensualistic		Adopting or teaching the doctrines of sensualism.
sensuality		The quality or state of being sensual; devotedness to the gratification of the bodily appetites; free indulgence in carnal or sensual pleasures; luxuriousness; voluptuousness; lewdness.
sensualization		The act of sensualizing, or the state of being sensualized.
sensualize		To make sensual; to subject to the love of sensual pleasure; to debase by carnal gratifications; to carnalize; as, sensualized by pleasure.
sensually		In a sensual manner.
sensualness		Sensuality; fleshliness.
sensuism		Sensualism.
sensuosity		The quality or state of being sensuous; sensuousness.
sensuous		Of or pertaining to the senses, or sensible objects; addressing the senses; suggesting pictures or images of sense.
sent	Obsolete	See Scent, v. & n.
sentence		(a) An opinion; a decision; a determination; a judgment, especially one of an unfavorable nature.
sentencer		One who pronounced a sentence or condemnation.
sentential		Comprising sentences; as, a sentential translation.
sententially		In a sentential manner.
sententiarist		A sententiary.
sententiary		One who read lectures, or commented, on the Sentences of Peter Lombard, Bishop of Paris (1159-1160), a school divine.
sententiosity	Obsolete	The quality or state of being sententious.
sententious		Abounding with sentences, axioms, and maxims; full of meaning; terse and energetic in expression; pithy; as, a sententious style or discourse; sententious truth.
sentery	Obsolete	A sentry.
sentience		The quality or state of being sentient; esp., the quality or state of having sensation.
sentiency		The quality or state of being sentient; esp., the quality or state of having sensation.
sentient		Having a faculty, or faculties, of sensation and perception.
sentiently		In a sentient or perceptive way.
sentiment		A thought prompted by passion or feeling; a state of mind in view of some subject; feeling toward or respecting some person or thing; disposition prompting to action or expression.
sentimental		Inclined to sentiment; having an excess of sentiment or sensibility; indulging the sensibilities for their own sake; artificially or affectedly tender; -- often in a reproachful sense.
sentimentalism		The quality of being sentimental; the character or behavior of a sentimentalist; sentimentality.
sentimentalist		One who has, or affects, sentiment or fine feeling.
sentimentality		The quality or state of being sentimental.
sentimentalize		To regard in a sentimental manner; as, to sentimentalize a subject.
sentimentally		In a sentimental manner.
sentine	Obsolete	A place for dregs and dirt; a sink; a sewer.
sentinel		One who watches or guards; specifically (Mil.), a soldier set to guard an army, camp, or other place, from surprise, to observe the approach of danger, and give notice of it; a sentry.
sentisection		Painful vivisection; -- opposed to callisection.
sentry		(Mil.) A soldier placed on guard; a sentinel.
senza		Without; as, senza stromenti, without instruments.
seor		A Spanish title of courtesy corresponding to the English Mr. or Sir; also, a gentleman.
seora		A Spanish title of courtesy given to a lady; Mrs.; Madam; also, a lady.
seorita		A Spanish title of courtesy given to a young lady; Miss; also, a young lady.
sepal		A leaf or division of the calyx.
sepaled		Having one or more sepals.
sepaline		Relating to, or having the nature of, sepals.
sepalody		The metamorphosis of other floral organs into sepals or sepaloid bodies.
sepaloid		Like a sepal, or a division of a calyx.
sepalous		Having, or relating to, sepals; -- used mostly in composition. See under Sepal.
separability		Quality of being separable or divisible; divisibility; separableness.
separable		Capable of being separated, disjoined, disunited, or divided; as, the separable parts of plants; qualities not separable from the substance in which they exist. -- Sep a*ra*bly, adv.
separate		To disunite; to divide; to disconnect; to sever; to part in any manner.
separatical		Of or pertaining to separatism in religion; schismatical.
separating		Designed or employed to separate.
separation		The act of separating, or the state of being separated, or separate. Specifically: (a) Chemical analysis.
separatism		The character or act of a separatist; disposition to withdraw from a church; the practice of so withdrawing.
separatist		One who withdraws or separates himself; especially, one who withdraws from a church to which he has belonged; a seceder from an established church; a dissenter; a nonconformist; a schismatic; a sectary.
separatistic		Of or pertaining to separatists; characterizing separatists; schismatical.
separative		Causing, or being to cause, separation.
separator		One who, or that which, separates. Specifically: (a) (Steam Boilers) A device for depriving steam of particles of water mixed with it.
separatory		(Chem.) An apparatus used in separating, as a separating funnel.
separatrix		The decimal point; the dot placed at the left of a decimal fraction, to separate it from the whole number which it follows.
sepawn	Dialect	See Supawn — boiled Indian meal; hasty pudding; mush.
sepelible	Obsolete	Admitting of burial.
sephardic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, the Jews (the Sephardim, also called Spanish or Portuguese Jews) descended from Jewish families driven from Spain by the Inquisition.
sephardim		Jews who are descendants of the former Jews of Spain and Portugal.
sephen		A large sting ray of the genus Trygon, especially T. sephen of the Indian Ocean and the Red Sea.
sepia		(Zoöl.) (a) The common European cuttlefish. (b) A genus comprising the common cuttlefish and numerous similar species.
sepic		Of or pertaining to sepia; done in sepia; as, a sepic drawing.
sepidaceous		Like or pertaining to the cuttlefishes of the genus Sepia.
sepiment		Something that separates; a hedge; a fence.
sepiolite		Meerschaum. See Meerschaum.
sepiostare		The bone or shell of cuttlefish. See Illust. under Cuttlefish.
sepon	Dialect	See Supawn — boiled Indian meal; hasty pudding; mush.
sepose	Obsolete	To set apart.
seposit	Obsolete	To set aside; to give up.
seposition	Obsolete	The act of setting aside, or of giving up.
sepoy		A native of India employed as a soldier in the service of a European power, esp. of Great Britain; an Oriental soldier disciplined in the European manner.
seppuku		Same as Hara-kiri.
sepsin		A soluble poison (ptomaine) present in putrid blood.
sepsis		The poisoning of the system by the introduction of putrescent material into the blood.
sept		A clan, tribe, or family, proceeding from a common progenitor; -- used especially of the ancient clans in Ireland.
septaemia		Septicæmia.
septal		Of or pertaining to a septum or septa, as of a coral or a shell.
septane		See Heptane — any one of several isometric hydrocarbons, C7H16, of the paraffin series (nine are possible, four are known); -- so called because the molecule has seven carbon atoms.
septangle		A figure which has seven angles; a heptagon.
septangular		Heptagonal.
septarium		A flattened concretionary nodule, usually of limestone, intersected within by cracks which are often filled with calcite, barite, or other minerals.
septate		Divided by partition or partitions; having septa; as, a septate pod or shell.
september		The ninth month of the year, containing thurty days.
septemberer		A Setembrist.
septembrist		An agent in the massacres in Paris, committed in patriotic frenzy, on the 22d of September, 1792.
septemfluous		Flowing sevenfold; divided into seven streams or currents.
septempartite		Divided nearly to the base into seven parts; as, a septempartite leaf.
septemtrioun	Obsolete	Septentrion.
septemvir		One of a board of seven men associated in some office.
septemvirate		The office of septemvir; a government by septimvirs.
septenary		Consisting of, or relating to, seven; as, a septenary number.
septenate		Having parts in sevens; heptamerous.
septennate		A period of seven years; as, the septennate during which the President of the French Republic holds office.
septennial		Lasting or continuing seven years; as, septennial parliaments.
septennially		Once in seven years.
septentrial		Septentrional.
septentrio		The constellation Ursa Major.
septentrion		The north or northern regions.
septentrional		Of or pertaining to the north; northern.
septentrionality		Northerliness.
septentrionally		Northerly.
septentrionate		To tend or point toward the north; to north.
septet		A set of seven persons or objects; as, a septet of singers.
septette		A set of seven persons or objects; as, a septet of singers.
septfoil		(Bot.) A European herb, the tormentil. See Tormentil.
septi-		A combining form meaning seven; as, septifolious, seven-leaved; septi-lateral, seven-sided.
septic		Of the seventh degree or order. -- n. (Alg.) A quantic of the seventh degree.
septicaemia		A poisoned condition of the blood produced by the absorption into it of septic or putrescent material; blood poisoning.
septical		Having power to promote putrefaction.
septically		In a septic manner; in a manner tending to promote putrefaction.
septicidal		Dividing the partitions; -- said of a method of dehiscence in which a pod splits through the partitions and is divided into its component carpels.
septicity		Tendency to putrefaction; septic quality.
septifarious		Turned in seven different ways.
septiferous		Bearing a partition; -- said of the valves of a capsule.
septifluous		Flowing in seven streams; septemfluous.
septifolious		Having seven leaves.
septiform		Having the form of a septum.
septifragal		Breaking from the partitions; -- said of a method of dehiscence in which the valves of a pod break away from the partitions, and these remain attached to the common axis.
septilateral		Having seven sides; as, a septilateral figure.
septillion		According to the French method of numeration (which is followed also in the United States), the number expressed by a unit with twenty-four ciphers annexed.
septimole		A group of seven notes to be played in the time of four or six.
septinsular		Consisting of seven islands; as, the septinsular republic of the Ionian Isles.
septisyllable		A word of seven syllables.
septoic		See Heptoic — pertaining to, or derived from, heptane; as, heptoic acid.
septomaxillary		Of or pertaining to the nasal septum and the maxilla; situated in the region of these parts. -- n.
septuagenarian		A person who is seventy years of age; a septuagenary.
septuagenary		Consisting of seventy; also, seventy years old. -- n.
septuagesima		The third Sunday before Lent; -- so called because it is about seventy days before Easter.
septuagesimal		Consisting of seventy days, years, etc.; reckoned by seventies.
septuagint		A Greek version of the Old Testament; -- so called because it was believed to be the work of seventy (or rather of seventy-two) translators.
septuary		Something composed of seven; a week.
septulate		Having imperfect or spurious septa.
septulum		A little septum; a division between small cavities or parts.
septum		A wall separating two cavities; a partition; as, the nasal septum.
septuor		A septet.
septuple		Seven times as much; multiplied by seven; sevenfold.
sepulcher		The place in which the dead body of a human being is interred, or a place set apart for that purpose; a grave; a tomb.
sepulchral		Of or pertaining to burial, to the grave, or to monuments erected to the memory of the dead; as, a sepulchral stone; a sepulchral inscription.
sepulchre		The place in which the dead body of a human being is interred, or a place set apart for that purpose; a grave; a tomb.
sepulture		The act of depositing the dead body of a human being in the grave; burial; interment.
sequacious		Inclined to follow a leader; following; attendant.
sequaciousness		Quality of being sequacious.
sequacity		Quality or state of being sequacious; sequaciousness.
sequel		That which follows; a succeeding part; continuation; as, the sequel of a man's advantures or history.
sequela		One who, or that which, follows. Specifically: (a) An adherent, or a band or sect of adherents.
sequence		The state of being sequent; succession; order of following; arrangement.
sequent		Following; succeeding; in continuance.
sequential		Succeeding or following in order. -- Se*quen"tial*ly, adv.
sequester		(Law) To separate from the owner for a time; to take from parties in controversy and put into the possession of an indifferent person; to seize or take possession of, as property belonging to another…
sequestered		Retired; secluded.
sequestrable		Capable of being sequestered; subject or liable to sequestration.
sequestral		Of or pertaining to a sequestrum.
sequestrate		To sequester.
sequestration		The state of being separated or set aside; separation; retirement; seclusion from society.
sequestrator		(a) One who sequesters property, or takes the possession of it for a time, to satisfy a demand out of its rents or profits.
sequestrum		A portion of dead bone which becomes separated from the sound portion, as in necrosis.
sequin		An old gold coin of Italy and Turkey.
sequoia		A genus of coniferous trees, consisting of two species, Sequoia Washingtoniana, syn.
sequoiene		A hydrocarbon (C13H10) obtained in white fluorescent crystals, in the distillation products of the needles of the California (Sequoia gigantea).
serac		A pinnacle of ice among the crevasses of a glacier; also, one of the blocks into which a glacier breaks on a steep grade.
seraglio		The palace of the Grand Seignior, or Turkish sultan, at Constantinople, inhabited by the sultan himself, and all the officers and dependents of his court.
serai		A palace; a seraglio; also, in the East, a place for the accommodation of travelers; a caravansary, or rest house.
seralbumen		Serum albumin.
serang		The boatswain of a Lascar or East Ondian crew.
serape		A blanket or shawl worn as an outer garment by the Spanish Americans, as in Mexico.
seraph		One of an order of celestial beings, each having three pairs of wings.
seraphic		Of or pertaining to a seraph; becoming, or suitable to, a seraph; angelic; sublime; pure; refined. -- Se*raph ic*al*ness, n.
seraphical		Of or pertaining to a seraph; becoming, or suitable to, a seraph; angelic; sublime; pure; refined. -- Se*raph ic*al*ness, n.
seraphicism		The character, quality, or state of a seraph; seraphicalness.
seraphim		The Hebrew plural of Seraph.
seraphina		A seraphine.
seraphine		A wind instrument whose sounding parts are reeds, consisting of a thin tongue of brass playing freely through a slot in a plate.
serapis		An Egyptian deity, at first a symbol of the Nile, and so of fertility; later, one of the divinities of the lower world.
seraskier		A general or commander of land forces in the Turkish empire; especially, the commander-in-chief of minister of war.
seraskierate		The office or authority of a seraskier.
serbonian		Relating to the lake of Serbonis in Egypt, which by reason of the sand blowing into it had a deceptive appearance of being solid land, but was a bog.
sere	Obsolete	Dry; withered; no longer green; -- applied to leaves.
serein		A mist, or very fine rain, which sometimes falls from a clear sky a few moments after sunset.
serenade		(a) Music sung or performed in the open air at nights; -- usually applied to musical entertainments given in the open air at night, especially by gentlemen, in a spirit of gallantry, under the windows of ladies.
serenader		One who serenades.
serenata		A piece of vocal music, especially one on an amoreus subject; a serenade.
serenate		A piece of vocal music, especially one on an amoreus subject; a serenade.
serene		Bright; clear; unabscured; as, a serene sky.
serenely		In a serene manner; clearly.
sereneness		Serenity.
serenitude	Obsolete	Serenity.
serenity		The quality or state of being serene; clearness and calmness; quietness; stillness; peace.
serf		A servant or slave employed in husbandry, and in some countries attached to the soil and transferred with it, as formerly in Russia.
serfage		The state or condition of a serf.
serfdom		The state or condition of a serf.
serfhood		Serfage.
serfism		Serfage.
serge		A woolen twilled stuff, much used as material for clothing for both sexes.
sergeancy		The office of a sergeant; sergeantship.
sergeant		Formerly, in England, an officer nearly answering to the more modern bailiff of the hundred; also, an officer whose duty was to attend on the king, and on the lord high steward in court, to arrest traitors and other offenders.
sergeantcy		Same as Sergeancy.
sergeantry		See Sergeanty — tenure of lands of the crown by an honorary kind of service not due to any lord, but to the king only.
sergeantship		The office of sergeant.
sergeanty		Tenure of lands of the crown by an honorary kind of service not due to any lord, but to the king only.
serial		Of or pertaining to a series; consisting of a series; appearing in successive parts or numbers; as, a serial work or publication.
seriality		The quality or state of succession in a series; sequence.
serially		In a series, or regular order; in a serial manner; as, arranged serially; published serially.
seriate		Arranged in a series or succession; pertaining to a series. -- Se"ri*ate*ly, adv.
seriatim		In regular order; one after the other; severally.
seriation		Arrangement or position in a series.
sericeous		Of or pertaining to silk; consisting of silk; silky.
sericin		A gelatinous nitrogenous material extracted from crude silk and other similar fiber by boiling water; -- called also silk gelatin.
sericite		A kind of muscovite occuring in silky scales having a fibrous structure.
sericterium		A silk gland, as in the silkworms.
sericulture		The raising of silkworms.
seriema		A large South American bird (Dicholophus, or Cariama cristata) related to the cranes.
series		A number of things or events standing or succeeding in order, and connected by a like relation; sequence; order; course; a succession of things; as, a continuous series of calamitous events.
serigraph		An autographic device to test the strength of raw silk.
serin		A European finch (Serinus hortulanus) closely related to the canary.
serine		A white crystalline nitrogenous substance obtained by the action of dilute sulphuric acid on silk gelatin.
serio-comic		Having a mixture of seriousness and sport; serious and comical.
serio-comical		Having a mixture of seriousness and sport; serious and comical.
serious		Grave in manner or disposition; earnest; thoughtful; solemn; not light, gay, or volatile.
seriph		See Ceriph — one of the fine lines of a letter, esp. one of the fine cross strokes at the top and bottom of letters.
serjeant		See Sergeant, Sergeantcy, etc. Serjeant-at-arms. See Sergeant- at-arms, under Sergeant.
serjeantcy		See Sergeant, Sergeantcy, etc. Serjeant-at-arms. See Sergeant- at-arms, under Sergeant.
sermocination	Obsolete	The making of speeches or sermons; sermonizing.
sermocinator	Obsolete	One who makes sermons or speeches.
sermon		Specifically, a discourse delivered in public, usually by a clergyman, for the purpose of religious instruction and grounded on some text or passage of Scripture.
sermoneer		A sermonizer.
sermoner		A preacher; a sermonizer.
sermonet		A short sermon.
sermonic		Like, or appropriate to, a sermon; grave and didactic.
sermonical		Like, or appropriate to, a sermon; grave and didactic.
sermoning	Obsolete	The act of discoursing; discourse; instruction; preaching.
sermonish		Resembling a sermon.
sermonist		See Sermonizer — one who sermonizes.
sermonize		To inculcate rigid rules.
sermonizer		One who sermonizes.
serolin		(a) A peculiar fatty substance found in the blood, probably a mixture of fats, cholesterin, etc. (b) A body found in fecal matter and thought to be formed in the intestines from the cholesterin of the bile…
seron		Same as Ceroon.
seroon		Same as Ceroon.
serosity		The quality or state of being serous.
serotherapy		(a) Serum-therapy. (b) The whey cure.
serotine		The European long-eared bat (Vesperugo serotinus).
serotinous		Appearing or blossoming later in the season than is customary with allied species.
serous		(a) Thin; watery; like serum; as the serous fluids. (b) Of or pertaining to serum; as, the serous glands, membranes, layers.
serow		The thar.
serpens		A constellation represented as a serpent held by Serpentarius.
serpent		(Zoöl.) Any reptile of the order Ophidia; a snake, especially a large snake.
serpent-tongued		Having a forked tongue, like a serpent.
serpentaria		The fibrous aromatic root of the Virginia snakeroot (Aristolochia Serpentaria).
serpentarius		A constellation on the equator, lying between Scorpio and Hercules; -- called also Ophiuchus.
serpentiform		Having the form of a serpent.
serpentigenous		Bred of a serpent.
serpentine		Resembling a serpent; having the shape or qualities of a serpent; subtle; winding or turning one way and the other, like a moving serpent; anfractuous; meandering; sinuous; zigzag; as, serpentine braid.
serpentinely		In a serpentine manner.
serpentinian		See 2d Ophite.
serpentinize		To convert (a magnesian silicate) into serpentine. -- Ser`pen*tin`i*za"tion, n.
serpentinous		Relating to, or like, serpentine; as, a rock serpentinous in character.
serpentize		To turn or bend like a serpent, first in one direction and then in the opposite; to meander; to wind; to serpentine.
serpentry		A winding like a serpent's.
serpet	Obsolete	A basket.
serpette		A pruning knife with a curved blade.
serpiginous		Creeping; -- said of lesions which heal over one portion while continuing to advance at another.
serpigo		A dry, scaly eruption on the skin; especially, a ringworm.
serpolet		Wild thyme.
serpula		Any one of numerous species of tubicolous annelids of the genus Serpula and allied genera of the family Serpulidæ.
serpulian		A serpula.
serpulidan		A serpula.
serpulite		A fossil serpula shell.
serr	Obsolete	To crowd, press, or drive together.
serranoid		Any fish of the family Serranidæ, which includes the striped bass, the black sea bass, and many other food fishes. -- a.
serrate		Notched on the edge, like a saw.
serrated		Notched on the edge, like a saw.
serration		Condition of being serrate; formation in the shape of a saw.
serratirostral		Having a toothed bill, like that of a toucan.
serrator		The ivory gull (Larus eburneus).
serrature		A notching, like that between the teeth of a saw, in the edge of anything.
serricated		Covered with fine silky down.
serricorn		Having serrated antenn Any one of a numerous tribe of beetles (Serricornia).
serried		Crowded; compact; dense; pressed together.
serrifera		A division of Hymenoptera comprising the sawflies.
serrirostres		Same as Lamellirostres.
serrous	Obsolete	Like the teeth off a saw; jagged.
serrula		The red-breasted merganser.
serrulate		Finely serrate; having very minute teeth.
serrulated		Finely serrate; having very minute teeth.
serrulation		The state of being notched minutely, like a fine saw.
serry		To crowd; to press together.
sertularia		A genus of delicate branching hydroids having small sessile hydrothecæ along the sides of the branches.
sertularian		Any species of Sertularia, or of Sertularidæ, a family of hydroids having branched chitinous stems and simple sessile hydrothecæ.
serum		(a) The watery portion of certain animal fluids, as blood, milk, etc. (b) A thin watery fluid, containing more or less albumin, secreted by the serous membranes of the body, such as the pericardium and peritoneum.
serum-therapy		The treatment of disease by the injection of blood serum from immune animals.
servable		Capable of being served.
servage	Obsolete	Serfage; slavery; servitude.
serval		An African wild cat (Felis serval) of moderate size.
servaline		Related to, or resembling, the serval.
servant		One who serves, or does services, voluntarily or on compulsion; a person who is employed by another for menial offices, or for other labor, and is subject to his command…
servantess	Obsolete	A maidservant.
servantry		A body of servants; servants, collectively.
serve		To work for; to labor in behalf of; to exert one's self continuously or statedly for the benefit of; to do service for; to be in the employment of, as an inferior, domestic, serf, slave, hired assistant, official helper, etc.…
server		One who serves.
servian		Of or pertaining to Servia, a kingdom of Southern Europe. -- n.
service		A name given to several trees and shrubs of the genus Pyrus, as Pyrus domestica and P. torminalis of Europe, the various species of mountain ash or rowan tree, and the American shad bush (see Shad bush, under Shad).
serviceable		Doing service; promoting happiness, interest, advantage, or any good; useful to any end; adapted to any good end use; beneficial; advantageous..
serviceage	Obsolete	Servitude.
servient	Obsolete	Subordinate.
serviette		A table napkin.
servile		Of or pertaining to a servant or slave; befitting a servant or a slave; proceeding from dependence; hence, meanly submissive; slavish; mean; cringing; fawning; as, servile flattery; servile fear; servile obedience.
servilely		In a servile manner; slavishly.
servileness		Quality of being servile; servility.
servility		The quality or state of being servile; servileness.
serving		a & n. from Serve.
servite		One of the order of the Religious Servants of the Holy Virgin, founded in Florence in 1223.
servitor		One who serves; a servant; an attendant; one who acts under another; a follower or adherent.
servitorship		The office, rank, or condition of a servitor.
servitude		The state of voluntary or compulsory subjection to a master; the condition of being bound to service; the condition of a slave; slavery; bondage; hence, a state of slavish dependence.
serviture	Obsolete	Servants, collectively.
servitute	Obsolete	Servitude.
servo-motor		A relay apparatus; specif.: (a) An auxiliary motor, regulated by a hand lever, for quickly and easily moving the reversing gear of a large marine engine into any desired position indicated by that of the hand lever…
serye	Obsolete	A series.
sesame		Either of two annual herbaceous plants of the genus Sesamum (S.
sesamoid		Resembling in shape the seeds of sesame.
sesamoidal		Sesamoid.
sesban		A leguminous shrub (Sesbania aculeata) which furnishes a fiber used for making ropes.
sesqui-		A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting that three atoms or equivalents of the substance to the name of which it is prefixed are combined with two of some other element or radical; as, sesquibromide, sesquicarbonate…
sesquialter		Sesquialteral.
sesquialtera		A stop on the organ, containing several ranks of pipes which reënforce some of the high harmonics of the ground tone, and make the sound more brilliant.
sesquialteral		Once and a half times as great as another; having the ratio of one and a half to one.
sesquialterate		Once and a half times as great as another; having the ratio of one and a half to one.
sesquialterous		Sesquialteral.
sesquibasic		Containing, or acting as, a base in the proportions of a sesqui compound.
sesquiduplicate		Twice and a half as great (as another thing); having the ratio of two and a half to one.
sesquioxide		An oxide containing three atoms of oxygen with two atoms (or radicals) of some other substance; thus, alumina, Al2O3 is a sesquioxide.
sesquipedal		Measuring or containing a foot and a half; as, a sesquipedalian pygmy; -- sometimes humorously applied to long words.
sesquipedalian		Measuring or containing a foot and a half; as, a sesquipedalian pygmy; -- sometimes humorously applied to long words.
sesquipedalianism		Sesquipedality.
sesquipedalism		Sesquipedality.
sesquipedality		The quality or condition of being sesquipedal.
sesquiplicate		Subduplicate of the triplicate; -- a term applied to ratios; thus, a and a' are in the sesquiplicate ratio of b and b', when a is to a' as the square root of the cube of b is to the square root of the cube of b'…
sesquisalt		A salt derived from a sesquioxide base, or made up on the proportions of a sesqui compound.
sesquisulphide		A sulphide, analogous to a sesquioxide, containing three atoms of sulphur to two of the other ingredient; -- formerly called also sesquisulphuret; as, orpiment, As2S3 is arsenic sesquisulphide.
sesquitertial		Sesquitertian.
sesquitertian		Having the ratio of one and one third to one (as 4 : 3).
sesquitertianal		Having the ratio of one and one third to one (as 4 : 3).
sesquitone		A minor third, or interval of three semitones.
sess	Obsolete	To lay a tax upon; to assess.
sessa	Obsolete	Hurry; run.
sessile		Attached without any sensible projecting support.
sessile-eyed		Having eyes which are not elevated on a stalk; -- opposed to stalk-eyed.
session		The actual sitting of a court, council, legislature, etc., or the actual assembly of the members of such a body, for the transaction of business.
sessional		Of or pertaining to a session or sessions.
sesspool		Same as Cesspool.
sesterce		A Roman coin or denomination of money, in value the fourth part of a denarius, and originally containing two asses and a half, afterward four asses, -- equal to about two pence sterling, or four cents.
sestet		(Mus.) A piece of music composed for six voices or six instruments; a sextet; -- called also sestuor.
sestetto		A sestet.
sestine		See Sextain — a stanza of six lines; a sestine.
sestuor		A sestet.
set		To cause to sit; to make to assume a specified position or attitude; to give site or place to; to place; to put; to fix; as, to set a house on a stone foundation; to set a book on a shelf; to set a dish on a table…
set-fair		In plastering, a particularly good troweled surface.
set-off		That which is set off against another thing; an offset.
set-stitched		Stitched according to a formal pattern.
set-to	Colloquial	A contest in boxing, in an argument, or the like.
seta		(Biol.) Any slender, more or less rigid, bristlelike organ or part; as the hairs of a caterpillar, the slender spines of a crustacean, the hairlike processes of a protozoan…
setaceous		Set with, or consisting of, bristles; bristly; as, a stiff, setaceous tail.
setback		(Arch.) Offset, n., 4.
setbolt		An iron pin, or bolt, for fitting planks closely together.
setdown		The humbling of a person by act or words, especially by a retort or a reproof; the retort or the reproof which has such effect.
setee		See 2d Settee.
seten		obs. imp. pl. of Sit.
setewale	Obsolete	See Cetewale — same as Zedoary.
setfoil		See Septfoil — (Bot.) A European herb, the tormentil. See Tormentil.
sethen	Obsolete	See Since — from a definite past time until now; as, he went a month ago, and I have not seen him since.
sethic		See Sothic — of or pertaining to Sothis, the Egyptian name for the Dog Star; taking its name from the Dog Star; canicular.
setiferous		Producing, or having one or more, bristles.
setiform		Having the form or structure of setæ.
setiger		An annelid having setæ; a chætopod.
setigerous		Covered with bristles; having or bearing a seta or setæ; setiferous; as, setigerous glands; a setigerous segment of an annelid; specifically (Bot.), tipped with a bristle.
setim		See Shittim — the wood of the shittah tree.
setiparous		Producing setæ; -- said of the organs from which the setæ of annelids arise.
setireme		A swimming leg (of an insect) having a fringe of hairs on the margin.
setness		The quality or state of being set; formality; obstinacy.
seton		A few silk threads or horsehairs, or a strip of linen or the like, introduced beneath the skin by a knife or needle, so as to form an issue; also, the issue so formed.
setose		Thickly set with bristles or bristly hairs.
setous		Thickly set with bristles or bristly hairs.
setout		A display, as of plate, equipage, etc.; that which is displayed.
sett		See Set, n., 2 (e) and 3.
settee		A long seat with a back, -- made to accommodate several persons at once.
setter		One who, or that which, sets; -- used mostly in composition with a noun, as typesetter; or in combination with an adverb, as a setter on (or inciter), a setter up, a setter forth.
setterwort		The bear's-foot (Helleborus foetidus); -- so called because the root was used in settering, or inserting setons into the dewlaps of cattle.
setting		The act of one who, or that which, sets; as, the setting of type, or of gems; the setting of the sun; the setting (hardening) of moist plaster of Paris; the setting (set) of a current.
settle		A bench; especially, a bench with a high back.
settledness		The quality or state of being settled; confirmed state.
settlement		The act of setting, or the state of being settled. Specifically: -
settler		One who settles, becomes fixed, established, etc.
settling		The act of one who, or that which, settles; the act of establishing one's self, of colonizing, subsiding, adjusting, etc.
setula		A small, short hair or bristle; a small seta.
setule		A setula.
setulose		Having small bristles or setæ.
setwall	Obsolete	A plant formerly valued for its restorative qualities (Valeriana officinalis, or V.
seven		One more than six; six and one added; as, seven days make one week.
seven-shooter	Colloquial	A firearm, esp. a pistol, with seven barrels or chambers for cartridges, or one capable of firing seven shots without reloading.
seven-thirties		A name given to three several issues of United States Treasury notes, made during the Civil War, in denominations of $50 and over, bearing interest at the rate of seven and three tenths (thirty hundredths) per cent annually.
seven-up		The game of cards called also all fours, and old sledge.
sevenfold		Repeated seven times; having seven thicknesses; increased to seven times the size or amount.
sevennight		A week; any period of seven consecutive days and nights. See Sennight.
sevenscore		Seven times twenty, that is, a hundred and forty.
seventeen		One more than sixteen; ten and seven added; as, seventeen years.
seventeenth		Next in order after the sixteenth; coming after sixteen others.
seventh		Next in order after the sixth;; coming after six others.
seventhly		In the seventh place.
seventieth		Next in order after the sixty-ninth; as, a man in the seventieth year of his age.
seventy		Seven times ten; one more than sixty-nine.
seventy-four		A naval vessel carrying seventy-four guns.
sever		To separate, as one from another; to cut off from something; to divide; to part in any way, especially by violence, as by cutting, rending, etc.; as, to sever the head from the body.
severable		Capable of being severed.
several		Separate; distinct; particular; single.
severality	Obsolete	Each particular taken singly; distinction.
severalize	Obsolete	To distinguish.
severally		Separately; distinctly; apart from others; individually.
severalty		A state of separation from the rest, or from all others; a holding by individual right.
severance		The act of severing, or the state of being severed; partition; separation.
severe		Serious in feeeling or manner; sedate; grave; austere; not light, lively, or cheerful.
severity		The quality or state of being severe. Specifically: -- (a) Gravity or austerity; extreme strictness; rigor; harshness; as, the severity of a reprimand or a reproof; severity of discipline or government; severity of penalties.
severy		A bay or compartment of a vaulted ceiling.
sevocation	Obsolete	A calling aside.
sew		To unite or fasten together by stitches, as with a needle and thread.
sewage		The contents of a sewer or drain; refuse liquids or matter carried off by sewers
sewe	Obsolete	To perform the duties of a sewer. See 3d Sewer.
sewel		A scarecrow, generally made of feathers tied to a string, hung up to prevent deer from breaking into a place.
sewellel		A peculiar gregarious burrowing rodent (Haplodon rufus), native of the coast region of the Northwestern United States.
sewen		A British trout usually regarded as a variety (var.
sewer		One who sews, or stitches.
sewerage		The system of sewers in a city, town, etc.; the general drainage of a city or town by means of sewers.
sewin		Same as Sewen.
sewing		The act or occupation of one who sews.
sewster	Obsolete	A seamstress.
sex		The distinguishing peculiarity of male or female in both animals and plants; the physical difference between male and female; the assemblage of properties or qualities by which male is distinguished from female.
sex-		A combining form meaning six; as, sexdigitism; sexennial.
sexagenarian		A person who is sixty years old.
sexagenary		Pertaining to, or designating, the number sixty; poceeding by sixties; sixty years old.
sexagesima		The second Sunday before Lent; -- so called as being about the sixtieth day before Easter.
sexagesimal		Pertaining to, or founded on, the number sixty.
sexangle		A hexagon.
sexangled		Having six angles; hexagonal.
sexangular		Having six angles; hexagonal.
sexangularly		Hexagonally.
sexavalent		See Sexivalent — hexavalent.
sexdigitism		The state of having six fingers on a hand, or six toes on a foot.
sexdigitist		One who has six fingers on a hand, or six toes on a foot.
sexed		Belonging to sex; having sex; distinctively male of female; as, the sexed condition.
sexenary		Proceeding by sixes; sextuple; -- applied especially to a system of arithmetical computation in which the base is six.
sexennial		Lasting six years, or happening once in six years. -- n.
sexennially		Once in six years.
sexfid		Six-cleft; as, a sexfid calyx or nectary.
sexifid		Six-cleft; as, a sexfid calyx or nectary.
sexisyllabic		Having six syllables.
sexisyllable		A word of six syllables.
sexivalent		Hexavalent.
sexless		Having no sex.
sexlocular		Having six cells for seeds; six-celled; as, a sexlocular pericarp.
sexly		Pertaining to sex.
sexradiate		Having six rays; -- said of certain sponge spicules. See Illust. of Spicule.
sext		(a) The office for the sixth canonical hour, being a part of the Breviary.
sextain		A stanza of six lines; a sestine.
sextans		(Astron.) A constellation on the equator south of Leo; the Sextant.
sextant		(Math.) The sixth part of a circle.
sextary	Obsolete	An ancient Roman liquid and dry measure, about equal to an English pint.
sextet		See Sestet — (Mus.) A piece of music composed for six voices or six instruments; a sextet; -- called also sestuor.
sextetto		See Sestet — (Mus.) A piece of music composed for six voices or six instruments; a sextet; -- called also sestuor.
sexteyn	Obsolete	A sacristan.
sextic		Of the sixth degree or order. -- n. (Alg.) A quantic of the sixth degree.
sextile		Measured by sixty degrees; fixed or indicated by a distance of sixty degrees.
sextillion		According to the method of numeration (which is followed also in the United States), the number expressed by a unit with twenty-one ciphers annexed.
sexto		A book consisting of sheets each of which is folded into six leaves.
sextodecimo		Having sixteen leaves to a sheet; of, or equal to, the size of one fold of a sheet of printing paper when folded so as to make sixteen leaves, or thirty-two pages; as, a sextodecimo volume.
sextolet		A double triplet; a group of six equal notes played in the time of four.
sexton		An under officer of a church, whose business is to take care of the church building and the vessels, vestments, etc., belonging to the church, to attend on the officiating clergyman…
sextoness		A female sexton; a sexton's wife.
sextonry	Obsolete	Sextonship.
sextonship		The office of a sexton.
sextry	Obsolete	See Sacristy — a apartment in a church where the sacred utensils, vestments, etc., are kept; a vestry.
sextuple		Six times as much; sixfold.
sexual		Of or pertaining to sex, or the sexes; distinguishing sex; peculiar to the distinction and office of male or female; relating to the distinctive genital organs of the sexes; proceeding from, or based upon, sex; as…
sexualist		One who classifies plants by the sexual method of Linnæus.
sexuality		The quality or state of being distinguished by sex.
sexualize		To attribute sex to.
sexually		In a sexual manner or relation.
sey		of See — specifically: (a) The seat of episcopal power; a diocese; the jurisdiction of a bishop; as, the see of New York.
seye		of See — specifically: (a) The seat of episcopal power; a diocese; the jurisdiction of a bishop; as, the see of New York.
seyen		of See — specifically: (a) The seat of episcopal power; a diocese; the jurisdiction of a bishop; as, the see of New York.
seyh		of See — specifically: (a) The seat of episcopal power; a diocese; the jurisdiction of a bishop; as, the see of New York.
seynd		of Senge, to singe.
seynt	Obsolete	A gridle. See 1st Seint.
