shab	Obsolete	The itch in animals; also, a scab.	
shabbily		In a shabby manner.	
shabbiness		The quality or state of being sghabby.	
shabble	Scots	A kind of crooked sword or hanger.	
shabby		Torn or worn to rage; poor; mean; ragged.	
shabrack		The saddlecloth or housing of a cavalry horse.	Turkish çaprak.
shack	English dialect	To feed in stubble, or upon waste corn.	
shackatory	Obsolete	A hound.	
shackle		Something which confines the legs or arms so as to prevent their free motion; specifically, a ring or band inclosing the ankle or wrist, and fastened to a similar shackle on the other leg or arm, or to something else…	
shacklock	Obsolete	A sort of shackle.	
shackly	Colloquial	Shaky; rickety.	
shad		Any one of several species of food fishes of the Herring family.	
shad-spirit		See Shadbird (a)	
shad-waiter		A lake whitefish; the roundfish. See Roundfish.	
shadbird	English dialect	(a) The American, or Wilson's, snipe. See under Snipe.	
shadd		Rounded stones containing tin ore, lying at the surface of the ground, and indicating a vein.	
shadde		obs. imp. of Shed.	
shaddock		A tree (Citrus decumana) and its fruit, which is a large species of orange; -- called also forbidden fruit, and pompelmous.	
shade		Comparative obscurity owing to interception or interruption of the rays of light; partial darkness caused by the intervention of something between the space contemplated and the source of light.	Old English sceadu.
shadeful		Full of shade; shady.	
shadeless		Being without shade; not shaded.	
shader		One who, or that which, shades.	
shadily		In a shady manner.	
shading		That filling up which represents the effect of more or less darkness, expressing rotundity, projection, etc., in a picture or a drawing.	
shadoof		A machine, resembling a well sweep, used in Egypt for raising water from the Nile for irrigation.	Egyptian Arabic شادوف.
shadow		Shade within defined limits; obscurity or deprivation of light, apparent on a surface, and representing the form of the body which intercepts the rays of light; as, the shadow of a man, of a tree, or of a tower.	Middle English schadowe.
shadowiness		The quality or state of being shadowy.	
shadowing		Shade, or gradation of light and color; shading.	
shadowish	Obsolete	Shadowy; vague.	
shadowless		Having no shadow.	
shadowy		Full of shade or shadows; causing shade or shadow.	
shadrach		A mass of iron on which the operation of smelting has failed of its intended effect; -- so called from Shadrach, one of the three Hebrews who came forth unharmed from the fiery furnace of Nebuchadnezzar.	
shady		Abounding in shade or shades; overspread with shade; causing shade.	
shaffle	Obsolete	To hobble or limp; to shuffle.	
shaffler	Obsolete	A hobbler; one who limps; a shuffer.	
shafiite		A member of one of the four sects of the Sunnites, or Orthodox Mohammedans; -- so called from its founder, Mohammed al-Shafeï.	
shaft		The slender, smooth stem of an arrow; hence, an arrow.	Old English sceaft.
shafted		Furnished with a shaft, or with shafts; as, a shafted arch.	
shafting		Shafts, collectivelly; a system of connected shafts for communicating motion.	
shaftman	Obsolete	A measure of about six inches.	
shaftment	Obsolete	A measure of about six inches.	Middle English schaftmonde, from Old English sceaftmund.
shag		Coarse hair or nap; rough, woolly hair.	Old English sceacga.
shag-haired		Having shaggy hair.	
shag-rag	Colloquial	The unkempt and ragged part of the community.	
shagbark		A rough-barked species of hickory (Carya alba), its nut.	
shagebush	Obsolete	A sackbut.	
shagged		Shaggy; rough.	Old English sceacgede.
shagginess		The quality or state of being shaggy; roughness; shaggedness.	
shaggy		Rough with long hair or wool.	
shagreen		A kind of untanned leather prepared in Russia and the East, from the skins of horses, asses, and camels, and grained so as to be covered with small round granulations.	
shagreened		Made or covered with the leather called shagreen.	
shah		The title of the supreme ruler in certain Eastern countries, especially Persia.	Persian شاه, from Pahlavi 𐭬𐭫𐭪𐭠.
shahin		A large and swift Asiatic falcon (Falco pregrinator) highly valued in falconry.	
shaik		See Sheik — the head of an Arab family, or of a clan or a tribe; also, the chief magistrate of an Arab village.	
shail	Obsolete	To walk sidewise.	
shaitan	Colloquial	Among Mohammedans: (a) An evil spirit; the evil one; the devil. (b) One of bad disposition; a fiend.	Arabic شيطان.
shake		To cause to move with quick or violent vibrations; to move rapidly one way and the other; to make to tremble or shiver; to agitate.	
shakedown		A temporary substitute for a bed, as one made on the floor or on chairs; -- perhaps originally from the shaking down of straw for this purpose.	
shakefork	Obsolete	A fork for shaking hay; a pitchfork.	
shaken		Caused to shake; agitated; as, a shaken bough.	
shaker		A person or thing that shakes, or by means of which something is shaken.	
shakeress		A female Shaker.	
shakerism		Doctrines of the Shakers.	
shakespearean		Of, pertaining to, or in the style of, Shakespeare or his works.	
shakiness		Quality of being shaky.	
shakings		Deck sweepings, refuse of cordage, canvas, etc. Ham.	
shako		A kind of military cap or headress.	
shakudo		An alloy of copper, invented by the Japanese, having a very dark blue color approaching black.	
shaky		Shaking or trembling; as, a shaky spot in a marsh; a shaky hand.	
shale		Etym: (Geol.) A fine-grained sedimentary rock of a thin, laminated, and often friable, structure.	
shall		As an auxiliary, shall indicates a duty or necessity whose obligation is derived from the person speaking; as, you shall go; he shall go; that is, I order or promise your going.	Old English sculan.
shalli		See Challis — a soft and delicate woolen, or woolen and silk, fabric, for ladies' dresses.	
shallon		An evergreen shrub (Gaultheria Shallon) of Northwest America; also, its fruit.	
shalloon		A thin, loosely woven, twilled worsted stuff.	
shallop		A boat. thrust the shallop from the floating strand.	French chaloupe.
shallot		A small kind of onion (Allium Ascalonicum) growing in clusters, and ready for gathering in spring; a scallion, or eschalot.	French échalote.
shallow		Not deep; having little depth; shoal.	
shallow-bodied		Having a moderate depth of hold; -- said of a vessel.	
shallow-brained		Weak in intellect; foolish; empty-headed.	
shallow-hearted		Incapable of deep feeling.	
shallow-pated		Shallow-brained.	
shallow-waisted		Having a flush deck, or with only a moderate depression amidships; -- said of a vessel.	
shallowly		In a shallow manner.	
shallowness		Quality or state of being shallow.	
shalm	Obsolete	See Shawm — a wind instrument of music, formerly in use, supposed to have resembled either the clarinet or the hautboy in form.	
shalt		2d per. sing. of Shall.	
shaly		Resembling shale in structure.	
sham		That which deceives expectation; any trick, fraud, or device that deludes and disappoint; a make-believe; delusion; imposture, humbug.	
shama		A saxicoline singing bird (Kittacincla macroura) of India, noted for the sweetness and power of its song.	
shaman		A priest of Shamanism; a wizard among the Shamanists.	German Schamane.
shamanic		Of or pertaining to Shamanism.	
shamanism		The type of religion which once prevalied among all the Ural- Altaic peoples (Tungusic, Mongol, and Turkish), and which still survives in various parts of Northern Asia.	
shamanist		An adherent of Shamanism.	
shamble		(Mining) One of a succession of niches or platforms, one above another, to hold ore which is thrown successively from platform to platform, and thus raised to a higher level.	
shambling		Characterized by an awkward, irregular pace; as, a shambling trot; shambling legs.	
shame		A painful sensation excited by a consciousness of guilt or impropriety, or of having done something which injures reputation, or of the exposure of that which nature or modesty prompts us to conceal.	Old English scamian.
shame-proof		Shameless.	
shamefaced		Easily confused or put out of countenance; diffident; bashful; modest.	
shamefast	Archaic	Modest; shamefaced. -- Shame fast*ness, n. See Shamefaced.	Old English scamfæst.
shameful		Bringing shame or disgrace; injurious to reputation; disgraceful.	
shameless		Destitute of shame; wanting modesty; brazen-faced; insensible to disgrace.	
shamer		One who, or that which, disgraces, or makes ashamed.	
shammer		One who shams; an impostor.	
shammy		A soft, pliant leather, prepared originally from the skin of the chamois, but now made also from the skin of the sheep, goat, kid, deer, and calf.	
shamois		See Shammy — a soft, pliant leather, prepared originally from the skin of the chamois, but now made also from the skin of the sheep, goat, kid, deer, and calf.	
shamoy		See Shammy — a soft, pliant leather, prepared originally from the skin of the chamois, but now made also from the skin of the sheep, goat, kid, deer, and calf.	
shamoying		A process used in preparing certain kinds of leather, which consists in frizzing the skin, and working oil into it to supply the place of the astringent (tannin, alum, or the like) ordinarily used in tanning.	
shampoo		To press or knead the whole surface of the body of (a person), and at the same time to stretch the limbs and joints, in connection with the hot bath.	Hindi चाँपो.
shampooer		One who shampoos.	
shamrock		A trifoliate plant used as a national emblem by the Irish.	Irish seamrog.
shandrydan		A jocosely depreciative name for a vehicle.	
shandygaff		A mixture of strong beer and ginger beer.	
shanghai	Slang	To intoxicate and ship (a person) as a sailor while in this condition.	Mandarin Chinese 上海.
shank		See Chank — the east Indian name for the large spiral shell of several species of sea conch much used in making bangles, esp. Turbinella pyrum.	Middle English shanke, from Old English sceanca.
shankbeer		See Schenkbeer — a mild German beer.	
shanked		Having a shank.	
shanker		See Chancre — a venereal sore or ulcer; specifically, the initial lesion of true syphilis, whether forming a distinct ulcer or not; -- called also hard chancre, indurated chancre, and Hunterian chancre.	
shanny	Colloquial	The European smooth blenny (Blennius pholis).	
shanty	English dialect	Jaunty; showy.	French chantier, from Latin cantherius.
shapable		That may be shaped. 2.	
shape		To form or create; especially, to mold or make into a particular form; to give proper form or figure to.	Middle English shapen.
shapeless		Destitute of shape or regular form; wanting symmetry of dimensions; misshapen; -- opposed to Ant: shapely. -- Shape"less*ness, n.	
shapeliness		The quality or state of being shapely.	
shapely		Well-formed; having a regular shape; comely; symmetrical.	
shaper		One who shapes; as, the shaper of one's fortunes.	
shapoo		The oörial.	
shaps		Chaparajos.	
shard		A piece or fragment of an earthen vessel, or a like brittle substance, as the shell of an egg or snail.	
shard-borne		Borne on shards or scaly wing cases.	
sharded		Having elytra, as a beetle.	
shardy		Having, or consisting of, shards.	
share		The part (usually an iron or steel plate) of a plow which cuts the ground at the bottom of a furrow; a plowshare.	Middle English schare.
sharebeam		The part of the plow to which the share is attached.	
sharebone		The public bone.	
sharebroker		A broker who deals in railway or other shares and securities.	
shareholder		One who holds or owns a share or shares in a joint fund or property.	
sharer		One who shares; a participator; a partaker; also, a divider; a distributer.	
sharewort		A composite plant (Aster Tripolium) growing along the seacoast of Europe.	
shark		(Zoöl.) Any one of numerous species of elasmobranch fishes of the order Plagiostomi, found in all seas.	
sharker		One who lives by sharking.	
sharking		Petty rapine; trick; also, seeking a livelihood by shifts and dishonest devices.	
sharock		An East Indian coin of the value of 12	
sharp		Having a very thin edge or fine point; of a nature to cut or pierce easily; not blunt or dull; keen.	Old English scearp.
sharp-cut		Cut sharply or definitely, or so as to make a clear, well- defined impression, as the lines of an engraved plate, and the like; clear-cut; hence, having great distinctness; well-defined; clear.	
sharp-set		Eager in appetite or desire of gratification; affected by keen hunger; ravenous; as, an eagle or a lion sharp-set.	
sharp-sighted		Having quick or acute sight; -- used literally and figuratively. -- Sharp`-sight`ed*ness, n.	
sharp-witted		Having an acute or nicely discerning mind.	
sharpen		To make sharp. Specifically: (a) To give a keen edge or fine point to; to make sharper; as, to sharpen an ax, or the teeth of a saw.	
sharper		A person who bargains closely, especially, one who cheats in bargains; a swinder; also, a cheating gamester.	
sharpie	Dialect	A long, sharp, flat-bottomed boat, with one or two masts carrying a triangular sail.	
sharpling	English dialect	A stickleback.	
sharply		In a sharp manner,; keenly; acutely.	
sharpness		The quality or condition of being sharp; keenness; acuteness.	
sharpsaw	English dialect	The great titmouse; -- so called from its harsh call notes.	
sharpshooter		One skilled in shooting at an object with exactness; a good marksman.	
sharpshooting		A shooting with great precision and effect; hence, a keen contest of wit or argument.	
sharptail		(a) The pintail duck. (b) The pintail grouse, or prairie chicken.	
shash	Obsolete	The scarf of a turban.	
shasta		A mountain peak, etc., in California.	
shaster		A treatise for authoritative instruction among the Hindoos; a book of institutes; especially, a treatise explaining the Vedas.	
shastra		A treatise for authoritative instruction among the Hindoos; a book of institutes; especially, a treatise explaining the Vedas.	
shathmont	Scots	A shaftment.	
shatter		To break at once into many pieces; to dash, burst, or part violently into fragments; to rend into splinters; as, an explosion shatters a rock or a bomb; too much steam shatters a boiler; an oak is shattered by lightning.	Middle English scateren.
shatter-brained		Disordered or wandering in intellect; hence, heedless; wild.	
shatter-pated		Disordered or wandering in intellect; hence, heedless; wild.	
shattery		Easily breaking into pieces; not compact; loose of texture; brittle; as, shattery spar.	
shave		To cut or pare off from the surface of a body with a razor or other edged instrument; to cut off closely, as with a razor; as, to shave the beard.	Old English sceafa.
shaveling		A man shaved; hence, a monk, or other religious; -- used in contempt.	
shaver		One who shaves; one whose occupation is to shave.	
shaving		The act of one who, or that which, shaves; specifically, the act of cutting off the beard with a razor.	
shaw	Scots	pl. The leaves and tops of vegetables, as of potatoes, turnips, etc. Jamieson.	
shawfowl		The representation or image of a fowl made by fowlers to shoot at.	
shawl		A square or oblong cloth of wool, cotton, silk, or other textile or netted fabric, used, especially by women, as a loose covering for the neck and shoulders.	Persian شال.
shawm		A wind instrument of music, formerly in use, supposed to have resembled either the clarinet or the hautboy in form.	
shawnees		A tribe of North American Indians who occupied Western New York and part of Ohio, but were driven away and widely dispersed by the Iroquois.	
shay	English dialect	A chaise.	
she		This or that female; the woman understood or referred to; the animal of the female sex, or object personified as feminine, which was spoken of.	Middle English sche.
sheading		A tithing, or division, in the Isle of Man, in which there is a coroner, or chief constable.	
sheaf		A quantity of the stalks and ears of wheat, rye, or other grain, bound together; a bundle of grain or straw.	Old English sceaf.
sheafy		Pertaining to, or consisting of, a sheaf or sheaves; resembling a sheaf.	
sheal	Scots	Same as Sheeling.	
shealing	Obsolete	The outer husk, pod, or shell, as of oats, pease, etc.; sheal; shell.	
shear		To cut, clip, or sever anything from with shears or a like instrument; as, to shear sheep; to shear cloth.	Old English scieran.
shearbill		The black skimmer. See Skimmer.	
sheard	Obsolete	See Shard — a piece or fragment of an earthen vessel, or a like brittle substance, as the shell of an egg or snail.	
shearer		One who shears.	
shearing		The act or operation of clipping with shears or a shearing machine, as the wool from sheep, or the nap from cloth.	
shearling		A sheep but once sheared.	
shearman		One whose occupation is to shear cloth.	
shearn	Obsolete	Dung; excrement.	
shears		A cutting instrument. Specifically: (a) An instrument consisting of two blades, commonly with bevel edges, connected by a pivot, and working on both sides of the material to be cut, -- used for cutting cloth and other substances.	
sheartail		(a) The common tern. (b) Any one of several species of humming birds of the genus Thaumastura having a long forked tail.	
shearwater		Any one of numerous species of long-winged oceanic birds of the genus Puffinus and related genera.	
sheatfish		A European siluroid fish (Silurus glanis) allied to the cat- fishes.	
sheath		A case for the reception of a sword, hunting knife, or other long and slender instrument; a scabbard.	Old English sceaþ.
sheath-winged		Having elytra, or wing cases, as a beetle.	
sheathbill		Either one of two species of birds composing the genus Chionis, and family Chionidæ, native of the islands of the Antarctic.seas.	
sheathe		To put into a sheath, case, or scabbard; to inclose or cover with, or as with, a sheath or case.	
sheathed		Povided with, or inclosed in, sheath.	
sheather		One who sheathes.	
sheathfish		Same as Sheatfish.	
sheathing		from Sheathe.	
sheathless		Without a sheath or case for covering; unsheathed.	
sheathy		Forming or resembling a sheath or case.	
sheave		A wheel having a groove in the rim for a rope to work in, and set in a block, mast, or the like; the wheel of a pulley.	
sheaved	Obsolete	Made of straw.	
shebander		A harbor master, or ruler of a port, in the East Indies.	
shebang	Slang	A jocosely depreciative name for a dwelling or shop.	
shebeen		A low public house; especially, a place where spirits and other excisable liquors are illegally and privately sold.	
shechinah		See Shekinah — the visible majesty of the Divine Presence, especially when resting or dwelling between the cherubim on the mercy seat, in the Tabernacle, or in the Temple of Solomon…	
shecklaton	Obsolete	A kind of gilt leather. See Checklaton.	
shed		A slight or temporary structure built to shade or shelter something; a structure usually open in front; an outbuilding; a hut; as, a wagon shed; a wood shed.	Middle English sheden.
shedder		One who, or that which, sheds; as, a shedder of blood; a shedder of tears.	
shedding		The act of shedding, separating, or casting off or out; as, the shedding of blood.	
sheelfa	English dialect	The chaffinch; -- so named from its call note.	
sheeling	Scots	A hut or small cottage in an expessed or a retired place (as on a mountain or at the seaside) such as is used by shepherds, fishermen, sportsmen, etc.; a summer cottage; also, a shed.	
sheely		Same as Sheelfa.	
sheen	Poetic	Bright; glittering; radiant; fair; showy; sheeny.	Middle English shene, from Old English sciene.
sheenly		Brightly.	
sheeny		Bright; shining; radiant; sheen.	
sheep		(Zoöl.) Any one of several species of ruminants of the genus Ovis, native of the higher mountains of both hemispheres, but most numerous in Asia.	Old English sceap.
sheep-faced		Over-bashful; sheepish.	
sheep-headed		Silly; simple-minded; stupid.	
sheep-shearer		One who shears, or cuts off the wool from, sheep.	
sheep-shearing		Act of shearing sheep.	
sheepback		A rounded knoll of rock resembling the back of a sheep. -- produced by glacial action.	
sheepberry		The edible fruit of a small North American tree of the genus Viburnum (V.	
sheepbite	Obsolete	To bite or nibble like a sheep; hence, to practice petty thefts.	
sheepbiter	Obsolete	One who practices petty thefts.	
sheepcot		A small inclosure for sheep; a pen; a fold.	
sheepcote		A small inclosure for sheep; a pen; a fold.	
sheepfold		A fold or pen for sheep; a place where sheep are collected or confined.	
sheephook		A hook fastened to pole, by which shepherds lay hold on the legs or necks of their sheep; a shepherd's crook.	
sheepish		Like a sheep; bashful; over-modest; meanly or foolishly diffident; timorous to excess.	
sheepmaster		A keeper or feeder of sheep; also, an owner of sheep. 2 Kings iii. 4.	
sheeprack		The starling.	
sheepshank		A hitch by which a rope may be temporarily shortened.	
sheepshead		A large and valuable sparoid food fish (Archosargus, or Diplodus, probatocephalus) found on the Atlantic coast of the United States.	
sheepskin		The skin of a sheep; or, leather prepared from it.	
sheepsplit		A split of a sheepskin; one of the thin sections made by splitting a sheepskin with a cutting knife or machine.	
sheepy		Resembling sheep; sheepish.	
sheer		Bright; clear; pure; unmixed.	Old Norse skírr.
sheerly	Obsolete	At once; absolutely.	
sheerwater		The shearwater.	
sheet		In general, a large, broad piece of anything thin, as paper, cloth, etc.; a broad, thin portion of any substance; an expanded superficies.	
sheetful		Enough to fill a sheet; as much as a sheet can hold.	
sheeting		Cotton or linen cloth suitable for bed sheets.	
sheik		The head of an Arab family, or of a clan or a tribe; also, the chief magistrate of an Arab village.	Arabic شيخ.
sheil		See Sheeling — a hut or small cottage in an expessed or a retired place (as on a mountain or at the seaside) such as is used by shepherds, fishermen, sportsmen, etc.; a summer cottage; also, a shed.	
sheiling		See Sheeling — a hut or small cottage in an expessed or a retired place (as on a mountain or at the seaside) such as is used by shepherds, fishermen, sportsmen, etc.; a summer cottage; also, a shed.	
sheitan	Colloquial	Among Mohammedans: (a) An evil spirit; the evil one; the devil. (b) One of bad disposition; a fiend.	
shekel		An ancient weight and coin used by the Jews and by other nations of the same stock.	
shekinah		The visible majesty of the Divine Presence, especially when resting or dwelling between the cherubim on the mercy seat, in the Tabernacle, or in the Temple of Solomon; -- a term used in the Targums and by the later Jews…	
sheld	English dialect	Variegated; spotted; speckled; piebald.	
sheldafle		A chaffinch.	
sheldaple		A chaffinch.	
sheldfowl	English dialect	The common sheldrake.	
sheldrake		(Zoöl.) Any one of several species of large Old World ducks of the genus Tadorna and allied genera, especially the European and Asiatic species.	
shelduck		The sheldrake.	
shelf		(Arch.) A flat tablet or ledge of any material set horizontally at a distance from the floor, to hold objects of use or ornament.	
shelfy		Abounding in shelves; full of dangerous shallows.	
shell		A hard outside covering, as of a fruit or an animal. Specifically: (a) The covering, or outside part, of a nut; as, a hazelnut shell.	Middle English schelle.
shell-lac		See the Note under 2d Lac.	
shellac		See the Note under 2d Lac.	
shellapple		See Sheldafle — a chaffinch.	
shellbark		A species of hickory (Carya alba) whose outer bark is loose and peeling; a shagbark; also, its nut.	
shelled		Having a shell.	
sheller		One who, or that which, shells; as, an oyster sheller; a corn sheller.	
shellfish		Any aquatic animal whose external covering consists of a shell, either testaceous, as in oysters, clams, and other mollusks, or crustaceous, as in lobsters and crabs.	
shelling		Groats; hulled oats.	
shellproof		Capable of resisting bombs or other shells; bombproof.	
shellwork		Work composed of shells, or adorned with them.	
shelly		Abounding with shells; consisting of shells, or of a shell.	
shelter		That which covers or defends from injury or annoyance; a protection; a screen.	
shelterless		Destitute of shelter or protection.	
sheltery		Affording shelter.	
sheltie		A Shetland pony.	
shelty		A Shetland pony.	
shelve		To furnish with shelves; as, to shelve a closet or a library.	
shelving		Sloping gradually; inclining; as, a shelving shore.	
shelvy		Sloping gradually; shelving.	
shemite		A descendant of Shem.	
shemitic		Of or pertaining to Shem, the son of Noah, or his descendants. See Semitic.	
shemitish		Of or pertaining to Shem, the son of Noah, or his descendants. See Semitic.	
shemitism		See Semitism — a semitic idiom; a word of Semitic origin.	
shend	Obsolete	To injure, mar, spoil, or harm.	Middle English shenden, from Old English scendan.
shendful	Obsolete	Destructive; ruinous; disgraceful. -- Shend"ful*ly, adv.	
shendship	Obsolete	Harm; ruin; also, reproach; disgrace.	
shent	Obsolete	obs. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Shend, for shendeth.	
sheol		The place of departed spirits; Hades; also, the grave.	
shepen	Obsolete	A stable; a shippen.	
shepherd		A man employed in tending, feeding, and guarding sheep, esp. a flock grazing at large.	Old English sceaphierde.
shepherdess		A woman who tends sheep; hence, a rural lass.	
shepherdia		A genus of shrubs having silvery scurfy leaves, and belonging to the same family as Elæagnus; also, any plant of this genus.	
shepherdish		Resembling a shepherd; suiting a shepherd; pastoral.	
shepherdism		Pastoral life or occupation.	
shepherdling		A little shepherd.	
shepherdly		Resembling, or becoming to, a shepherd; pastoral; rustic.	
shepster	Obsolete	A seamstress.	
sherardize		To subject to the process of vapor galvanizing (which see, below).	
sherbet		A refreshing drink, common in the East, made of the juice of some fruit, diluted, sweetened, and flavored in various ways; as, orange sherbet; lemon sherbet; raspberry sherbet, etc.	Turkish şerbet, from Arabic شربة.
sherd		A fragment; -- now used only in composition, as in potsherd. See Shard.	Middle English sherd, from Old English sceard.
shereef		A member of an Arab princely family descended from Mohammed through his son-in-law Ali and daughter Fatima.	
sheriat		The sacred law of the Turkish empire.	
sherif		A member of an Arab princely family descended from Mohammed through his son-in-law Ali and daughter Fatima.	
sheriff		The chief officer of a shire or county, to whom is intrusted the execution of the laws, the serving of judicial writs and processes, and the preservation of the peace.	Old English scīrġerēfa.
sheriffalty		The office or jurisdiction of sheriff. See Shrievalty.	
sheriffdom		The office or jurisdiction of sheriff. See Shrievalty.	
sheriffry		The office or jurisdiction of sheriff. See Shrievalty.	
sheriffship		The office or jurisdiction of sheriff. See Shrievalty.	
sheriffwick		The office or jurisdiction of sheriff. See Shrievalty.	
shern	Obsolete	See Shearn — dung; excrement.	
sherry		A Spanish light-colored dry wine, made in Andalusia.	
sherryvallies	Dialect	Trousers or overalls of thick cloth or leather, buttoned on the outside of each leg, and generally worn to protect other trousers when riding on horseback.	
shet	Obsolete	To shut.	
shete	Obsolete	To shoot.	
sheth		The part of a plow which projects downward beneath the beam, for holding the share and other working parts; -- also called standard, or post.	
shew	Obsolete	See Show — to exhibit or present to view; to place in sight; to display; -- the thing exhibited being the object, and often with an indirect object denoting the person or thing seeing or beholding…	
shewbread		See Showbread — bread of exhibition; loaves to set before God; -- the term used in translating the various phrases used in the Hebrew and Greek to designate the loaves of bread which the priest of the week…	
shewel	Obsolete	A scarecrow.	
shewer		One who shews. See Shower.	
shewn		p. p. of Shew.	
shiah		Same as Shiite.	
shibboleth		A word which was made the criterion by which to distinguish the Ephraimites from the Gileadites.	Hebrew שבולת.
shicer		An unproductive mine; a duffer.	
shide	English dialect	A thin board; a billet of wood; a splinter.	Middle English shide.
shie		See Shy, to throw.	
shied		imp. & p. p. of Shy.	
shiel	Scots	A sheeling.	
shield		A broad piece of defensive armor, carried on the arm, -- formerly in general use in war, for the protection of the body.	Old English scieldan.
shield-bearer		One who, or that which, carries a shield.	
shielddrake		A sheldrake.	
shieldless		Destitute of a shield, or of protection. -- Shield less*ness, n.	
shieldtail		Any species of small burrowing snakes of the family Uropeltidæ, native of Ceylon and Southern Asia.	
shieling	Scots	A hut or shelter for shepherds of fishers. See Sheeling.	
shift		To change the place of; to move or remove from one place to another; as, to shift a burden from one shoulder to another; to shift the blame.	Old English sciftan.
shiftable		Admitting of being shifted.	
shifter		One who, or that which, shifts; one who plays tricks or practices artifice; a cozener.	
shiftiness		The quality or state of being shifty.	
shifting		Changing in place, position, or direction; varying; variable; fickle; as, shifting winds; shifting opinions or principles.	
shiftingly		In a shifting manner.	
shiftless		Destitute of expedients, or not using successful expedients; characterized by failure, especially by failure to provide for one's own support, through negligence or incapacity; hence, lazy; improvident; thriftless; as…	
shifty		Full of, or ready with, shifts; fertile in expedients or contrivance.	
shiite		A member of that branch of the Mohammedans to which the Persians belong.	
shikaree		A sportsman; esp., a native hunter.	
shikari		A sportsman; esp., a native hunter.	
shilfa	English dialect	The chaffinch; -- so named from its call note.	
shill	Obsolete	To shell.	
shill-i-shall-i		In an irresolute, undecided, or hesitating manner.	
shillalah		An oaken sapling or cudgel; any cudgel; -- so called from Shillelagh, a place in Ireland of that name famous for its oaks.	
shillelah		An oaken sapling or cudgel; any cudgel; -- so called from Shillelagh, a place in Ireland of that name famous for its oaks.	
shilling		A silver coin, and money of account, of Great Britain and its dependencies, equal to twelve pence, or the twentieth part of a pound, equivalent to about twenty-four cents of the United States currency.	Old English scilling.
shilly-shally		In an irresolute, undecided, or hesitating manner.	
shiloh		A word used by Jacob on his deathbed, and interpreted variously, as or as the city or as "Rest."	
shily		See Shyly — in a shy or timid manner; not familiarly; with reserve.	
shim		A kind of shallow plow used in tillage to break the ground, and clear it of weeds.	
shimmer		To shine with a tremulous or intermittent light; to shine faintly; to gleam; to glisten; to glimmer.	
shimmering		A gleam or glimmering.	
shimmy	Colloquial	A chemise.	
shin		The front part of the leg below the knee; the front edge of the shin bone; the lower part of the leg; the shank.	Old English scinu.
shindle	Obsolete	A shingle; also, a slate for roofing.	
shindy		Hockey; shinney.	
shine		To emit rays of light; to give light; to beam with steady radiance; to exhibit brightness or splendor; as, the sun shines by day; the moon shines by night.	Middle English schinen.
shiner	Slang	That which shines. Specifically: (a) A luminary. (b) A bright piece of money.	
shiness		See Shyness — the quality or state of being shy.	
shingle		Round, water-worn, and loose gravel and pebbles, or a collection of roundish stones, such as are common on the seashore and elsewhere.	Middle English scincle, from Latin scindula.
shingler		One who shingles.	
shingles		A kind of herpes (Herpes zoster) which spreads half way around the body like a girdle, and is usually attended with violent neuralgic pain.	Latin cingulus.
shingling		The act of covering with shingles; shingles, collectively; a covering made of shingles.	
shingly		Abounding with shingle, or gravel.	
shinhopple		The hobblebush.	
shining		Emitting light, esp. in a continuous manner; radiant; as, shining lamps; also, bright by the reflection of light; as, shining armor.	
shiningness		Brightness.	
shinney		The game of hockey; -- so called because of the liability of the players to receive blows on the shin.	
shinplaster		Formerly, a jocose term for a bank note greatly depreciated in value; also, for paper money of a denomination less than a dollar.	
shintiism		One of the two great systems of religious belief in Japan.	
shintiyan		A kind of wide loose drawers or trousers worn by women in Mohammedan countries.	
shinto		One of the two great systems of religious belief in Japan.	
shintoist		An adherent of Shintoism.	
shinty		A Scotch game resembling hockey; also, the club used in the game.	
shintyan		A kind of wide loose drawers or trousers worn by women in Mohammedan countries.	
shiny		Bright; luminous; clear; unclouded.	
ship		Any large seagoing vessel.	Middle English ship.
ship-rigged		Rigged like a ship, that is, having three masts, each with square sails.	
shipboard		A ship's side; hence, by extension, a ship; -- found chiefly in adverbial phrases; as, on shipboard; a shipboard.	
shipbuilder		A person whose occupation is to construct ships and other vessels; a naval architect; a shipwright.	
shipbuilding		Naval architecturel the art of constructing ships and other vessels.	
shipful		As much or as many as a ship will hold; enough to fill a ship.	
shipholder		A shipowner.	
shipless		Destitute of ships.	
shiplet		A little ship.	
shipload		The load, or cargo, of a ship.	
shipman	Obsolete	A seaman, or sailor.	Middle English schipman, from Old English scipmann.
shipmaster		The captain, master, or commander of a ship.	
shipmate		One who serves on board of the same ship with another; a fellow sailor.	
shipment		The act or process of shipping; as, he was engaged in the shipment of coal for London; an active shipment of wheat from the West.	
shipowner		Owner of a ship or ships.	
shippen	Obsolete	A stable; a cowhouse.	
shipper		One who sends goods from one place to another not in the same city or town, esp. one who sends goods by water.	
shipping		Relating to ships, their ownership, transfer, or employment; as, shiping concerns.	
shippo		Cloisonné enamel on a background of metal or porcelain.	
shippon	English dialect	A cowhouse; a shippen.	Old English scypen.
shipshape		Arranged in a manner befitting a ship; hence, trim; tidy; orderly.	
shipworm		Any long, slender, worm-shaped bivalve mollusk of Teredo and allied genera.	
shipwreck		The breaking in pieces, or shattering, of a ship or other vessel by being cast ashore or driven against rocks, shoals, etc., by the violence of the winds and waves.	Middle English schip-wracke, from Old English scipwræc.
shipwright		One whose occupation is to construct ships; a builder of ships or other vessels.	
shipyard		A yard, place, or inclosure where ships are built or repaired.	
shiraz		A kind of Persian wine; -- so called from the place whence it is brought.	
shire		A portion of Great Britain originally under the supervision of an earl; a territorial division, usually identical with a county, but sometimes limited to a smaller district; as, Wiltshire, Yorkshire, Richmondshire, Hallamshire.	Old English scir.
shirk		To procure by petty fraud and trickery; to obtain by mean solicitation.	
shirker		One who shirks.	
shirky	Colloquial	Disposed to shirk.	
shirley		The bullfinch.	
shirr		A series of close parallel runnings which are drawn up so as to make the material between them set full by gatherings; -- called also shirring, and gauging.	
shirred		(Sewing) Made or gathered into a shirr; as, a shirred bonnet.	
shirt		A loose under-garment for the upper part of the body, made of cotton, linen, or other material; -- formerly used of the under- garment of either sex, now commonly restricted to that worn by men and boys.	Old English scyrte.
shirting		Cloth, specifically cotton cloth, suitable for making shirts.	
shirtless		Not having or wearing a shirt.	
shist		See Shist, Schistose.	
shistose		See Shist, Schistose.	
shittah		A tree that furnished the precious wood of which the ark, tables, altars, boards, etc., of the Jewish tabernacle were made; -- now believed to have been the wood of the Acacia Seyal, which is hard, fine grained…	Hebrew שטה.
shittim		The wood of the shittah tree.	
shittle	Obsolete	A shuttle.	
shittlecock	Obsolete	A shuttlecock.	
shittleness	Obsolete	Instability; inconstancy.	
shive		A thin piece or fragment; specifically, one of the scales or pieces of the woody part of flax removed by the operation of breaking.	
shiver		One of the small pieces, or splinters, into which a brittle thing is broken by sudden violence; -- generally used in the plural.	
shiver-spar		A variety of calcite, so called from its slaty structure; -- called also slate spar.	
shiveringly		In a shivering manner.	
shivery		Tremulous; shivering.	
shizoku		The Japanese warrior gentry or middle class, formerly called samurai; also, any member of this class.	
shoad		A train of vein material mixed with rubbish; fragments of ore which have become separated by the action of water or the weather, and serve to direct in the discovery of mines.	Middle English shode.
shoading		The tracing of veins of metal by shoads.	
shoal		A great multitude assembled; a crowd; a throng; -- said especially of fish; as, a shoal of bass.	Old English sceald.
shoaliness		The quality or state of being shoaly; little depth of water; shallowness.	
shoaling		Becoming shallow gradually.	
shoaly		Full of shoals, or shallow places.	
shoar		A prop. See 3d Shore.	
shoat		A young hog.	
shock		A pile or assemblage of sheaves of grain, as wheat, rye, or the like, set up in a field, the sheaves varying in number from twelve to sixteen; a stook.	
shock-head		Shock-headed.	
shock-headed		Having a thick and bushy head of hair.	
shockdog		See 7th Shock, 1.	
shocking		Causing to shake or tremble, as by a blow; especially, causing to recoil with horror or disgust; extremely offensive or disgusting.	
shoddy		A fibrous material obtained by or tearing into fibers, refuse woolen goods, old stockings, rags, druggets, etc. See Mungo.	
shoddyism	Colloquial	The quality or state of being shoddy. See the Note under Shoddy, n.	
shode	Obsolete	The parting of the hair on the head.	
shoder		A package of gold beater's skins in which gold is subjected to the second process of beating.	
shoding		See Shoad, Shoading.	
shoe		A covering for the human foot, usually made of leather, having a thick and somewhat stiff sole and a lighter top.	Middle English shoo, from Old English scoh.
shoebill		A large African wading bird (Balæniceps rex) allied to the storks and herons, and remarkable for its enormous broad swollen bill.	
shoeblack		One who polishes shoes.	
shoefly		(Railroading) A contrivance for throwing the track temporarily to one side for convenience in filling washouts or effecting other repairs.	
shoehorn		A curved piece of polished horn, wood, or metal used to facilitate the entrance of the foot into a shoe.	
shoeing-horn		A curved piece of polished horn, wood, or metal used to facilitate the entrance of the foot into a shoe.	
shoeless		Destitute of shoes.	
shoemaker		One whose occupation it is to make shoes and boots.	
shoemaking		The business of a shoemaker.	
shoer		One who fits shoes to the feet; one who furnishes or puts on shoes; as, a shoer of horses.	
shog		A shock; a jog; a violent concussion or impulse.	Middle English schoggen.
shoggle	Obsolete	To joggle.	
shogun		A title originally conferred by the Mikado on the military governor of the eastern provinces of Japan.	Japanese 将軍.
shogunate		The office or dignity of a Shogun.	
shola		See Sola.	
shole	Obsolete	A plank fixed beneath an object, as beneath the rudder of a vessel, to protect it from injury; a plank on the ground under the end of a shore or the like.	
shonde	Obsolete	Harm; disgrace; shame.	
shone		imp. & p. p. of Shine.	
shoo		Begone; away; -- an expression used in frightening away animals, especially fowls.	
shooi	English dialect	The Richardson's skua (Stercorarius parasiticus);- so called from its cry.	
shook		imp. & obs. or poet. p. p. of Shake. (a) A set of staves and headings sufficient in number for one hogshead, cask, barrel, or the like, trimmed, and bound together in compact form.	
shoon	Archaic	pl. of Shoe — a covering for the human foot, usually made of leather, having a thick and somewhat stiff sole and a lighter top.	
shoop		imp. of Shape — to form or create; especially, to mold or make into a particular form; to give proper form or figure to.	
shoot		An inclined plane, either artificial or natural, down which timber, coal, etc., are caused to slide; also, a narrow passage, either natural or artificial, in a stream, where the water rushes rapidly; esp., a channel…	
shooter		One who shoots, as an archer or a gunner.	
shooting		The act of one who, or that which, shoots; as, the shooting of an archery club; the shooting of rays of light.	
shooty		Sprouting or coming up freely and regularly.	
shop		imp. of Shape — to form or create; especially, to mold or make into a particular form; to give proper form or figure to.	Middle English shoppe, from Old English sceoppa.
shopboard		A bench or board on which work is performed; a workbench.	
shopbook		A book in which a tradesman keeps his accounts.	
shopboy		A boy employed in a shop.	
shopen		p. p. of Shape — to form or create; especially, to mold or make into a particular form; to give proper form or figure to.	
shopgirl		A girl employed in a shop.	
shopkeeper		A trader who sells goods in a shop, or by retail; -- in distinction from one who sells by wholesale.	
shoplifter		One who steals anything in a shop, or takes goods privately from a shop; one who, under pretense of buying goods, takes occasion to steal.	
shoplifting		Larceny committed in a shop; the stealing of anything from a shop.	
shoplike		Suiting a shop; vulgar.	
shopmaid		A shopgirl.	
shopman		One who serves in a shop; a salesman.	
shopper		One who shops.	
shoppish		Having the appearance or qualities of a shopkeeper, or shopman.	
shoppy	Colloquial	Abounding with shops.	
shopshift	Obsolete	The trick of a shopkeeper; deception.	
shopwalker		One who walks about in a shop as an overseer and director.	
shopwoman		A woman employed in a shop.	
shopworn		Somewhat worn or damaged by having been kept for a time in a shop.	
shorage		Duty paid for goods brought on shore.	
shore	Obsolete	imp. of Shear — to cut, clip, or sever anything from with shears or a like instrument; as, to shear sheep; to shear cloth.	
shoreless		Having no shore or coast; of indefinite or unlimited extent; as, a shoreless ocean.	
shoreling		See Shorling — the skin of a sheen after the fleece is shorn off, as distinct from the morling, or skin taken from the dead sheep; also, a sheep of the first year's shearing.	
shorer		One who, or that which, shores or props; a prop; a shore.	
shoreward		Toward the shore.	
shoring		The act of supporting or strengthening with a prop or shore.	
shorl		See Schorl, Schorlaceous.	
shorlaceous		See Schorl, Schorlaceous.	
shorling	English dialect	The skin of a sheen after the fleece is shorn off, as distinct from the morling, or skin taken from the dead sheep; also, a sheep of the first year's shearing.	
shorn		p. p. of Shear — to cut, clip, or sever anything from with shears or a like instrument; as, to shear sheep; to shear cloth.	
short		Not long; having brief length or linear extension; as, a short distance; a short piece of timber; a short flight.	Middle English short.
short-breathed		Having short-breath, or quick respiration.	
short-circuit		To join, as the electrodes of a battery or dynamo or any two points of a circuit, by a conductor of low resistance.	
short-dated		Having little time to run from the date.	
short-handed		Short of, or lacking the regular number of, servants or helpers.	
short-jointed		Having short intervals between the joints; -- said of a plant or an animal, especially of a horse whose pastern is too short.	
short-lived		Not living or lasting long; being of short continuance; as, a short-lived race of beings; short-lived pleasure; short-lived passion.	
short-spoken	Colloquial	Speaking in a quick or short manner; hence, gruff; curt.	
short-waisted		Having a short waist.	
short-winded		Affected with shortness of breath; having a quick, difficult respiration, as dyspnoic and asthmatic persons.	
short-wited		Having little wit; not wise; having scanty intellect or judgment.	
shortage		Amount or extent of deficiency, as determined by some requirement or standard; as, a shortage in money accounts.	
shortcake		An unsweetened breakfast cake shortened with butter or lard, rolled thin, and baked.	
shortclothes		Coverings for the legs of men or boys, consisting of trousers which reach only to the knees, -- worn with long stockings.	
shortcoming		The act of falling, or coming short; as: (a) The failure of a crop, or the like.	
shorten		To make short or shorter in measure, extent, or time; as, to shorten distance; to shorten a road; to shorten days of calamity.	
shortener		One who, or that which, shortens.	
shortening		The act of making or becoming short or shorter.	
shorthand		A compendious and rapid method or writing by substituting characters, abbreviations, or symbols, for letters, words, etc.; short writing; stenography.	
shorthead		A sucking whale less than one year old; -- so called by sailors.	
shorthorn		One of a breed of large, heavy domestic cattle having short horns.	
shortly		In a short or brief time or manner; soon; quickly.	
shortness		The quality or state of being short; want of reach or extension; brevity; deficiency; as, the shortness of a journey; the shortness of the days in winter; the shortness of an essay; the shortness of the memory…	
shortsighted		Not able to see far; nearsighted; myopic. See Myopic, and Myopia.	
shortstop		The player stationed in the field bewtween the second and third bases.	
shortwing		Any one of several species of small wrenlike Asiatic birds having short wings and a short tail.	
shory	Obsolete	Lying near the shore.	
shoshones		A linguistic family or stock of North American Indians, comprising many tribes, which extends from Montana and Idaho into Mexico.	
shot		The act of shooting; discharge of a firearm or other weapon which throws a missile.	Old English sceot.
shot-clog		A person tolerated only because he pays the shot, or reckoning, for the rest of the company, otherwise a mere clog on them.	
shot-free	Obsolete	Not to be injured by shot; shot-proof.	
shot-proof		Impenetrable by shot.	
shote		Etym: A young hog; a shoat.	
shotgun		A light, smooth-bored gun, often double-barreled, especially designed for firing small shot at short range, and killing small game.	
shots	English dialect	The refuse of cattle taken from a drove.	
shotted		Loaded with shot.	
shotten		Having ejected the spawn; as, a shotten herring.	
shough		A shockdog. See Shoo.	
should		Used as an auxiliary verb, to express a conditional or contingent act or state, or as a supposition of an actual fact; also, to express moral obligation (see Shall); e. g.: they should have come last week; if I should go…	Old English sceolde.
shoulder		(Anat.) The joint, or the region of the joint, by which the fore limb is connected with the body or with the shoulder girdle; the projection formed by the bones and muscles about that joint.	Middle English sholder.
shoulder-shotten		Sprained in the shoulder, as a horse.	
shouldered		Having shoulders; -- used in composition; as, a broad- shouldered man.	
shout		To utter a sudden and loud outcry, as in joy, triumph, or exultation, or to attract attention, to animate soldiers, etc. Shouting of the men and women eke.	Middle English shouten.
shouter		One who shouts.	
shove		To drive along by the direct and continuous application of strength; to push; especially, to push (a body) so as to make it move along the surface of another body; as, to shove a boat on the water…	Old English scufan.
shoveboard		The same as Shovelboard.	
shovegroat		The same as Shovelboard.	
shovel	Colloquial	An implement consisting of a broad scoop, or more or less hollow blade, with a handle, used for lifting and throwing earth, coal, grain, or other loose substances.	Middle English shovele.
shovel-nosed		Having a broad, flat nose; as, the shovel-nosed duck, or shoveler.	
shovelard	English dialect	Shoveler.	
shovelbill		The shoveler.	
shovelboard		A board on which a game is played, by pushing or driving pieces of metal or money to reach certain marks; also, the game itself.	
shoveler		One who, or that which, shovels.	
shovelful		As much as a shovel will hold; enough to fill a shovel.	
shovelhead		A shark (Sphryna tiburio) allied to the hammerhead, and native of the warmer parts of the Atlantic and Pacific oceans; -- called also bonnet shark.	
shovelnose		(a) The common sand shark. See under Snad. (b) A small California shark (Heptranchias maculatus), which is taken for its oil.	
shoven		p. p. of Shove — to drive along by the direct and continuous application of strength; to push; especially, to push (a body) so as to make it move along the surface of another body; as…	
show		To exhibit or present to view; to place in sight; to display; -- the thing exhibited being the object, and often with an indirect object denoting the person or thing seeing or beholding; as, to show a house; show your colors…	Middle English schewen.
showbread		Bread of exhibition; loaves to set before God; -- the term used in translating the various phrases used in the Hebrew and Greek to designate the loaves of bread which the priest of the week placed before the Lord on the golden…	
shower		One who shows or exhibits.	Middle English shour, from Old English scur.
showerful		Full of showers.	
showeriness		Quality of being showery.	
showerless		Rainless; freo from showers.	
showery		Raining in showers; abounding with frequent showers of rain.	
showily		In a showy manner; pompously; with parade.	
showiness		The quality or state of being showy; pompousness; great parade; ostentation.	
showing		Appearance; display; exhibition.	
showish		Showy; ostentatious.	
showman		One who exhibits a show; a proprietor of a show.	
shown		p. p. of Show — to exhibit or present to view; to place in sight; to display; -- the thing exhibited being the object, and often with an indirect object denoting the person or thing seeing or beholding…	
showroom		A room or apartment where a show is exhibited.	
shrag	Obsolete	A twig of a tree cut off.	
shragger	Obsolete	One who lops; one who trims trees.	
shram	English dialect	To cause to shrink or shrivel with cold; to benumb.	
shrank		imp. of Shrink — to wrinkle, bend, or curl; to shrivel; hence, to contract into a less extent or compass; to gather together; to become compacted.	
shrap	Obsolete	A place baited with chaff to entice birds.	
shrape	Obsolete	A place baited with chaff to entice birds.	
shrapnel		Applied as an appellation to a kind of shell invented by Gen.	
shred		A long, narrow piece cut or torn off; a strip.	Old English screade.
shredcook	English dialect	The fieldfare; -- so called from its harsh cry before rain.	
shredding		The act of cutting or tearing into shreds.	
shreddy		Consisting of shreds.	
shredless		Having no shreds; without a shred.	
shrew		Originally, a brawling, turbulent, vexatious person of either sex, but now restricted in use to females; a brawler; a scold.	Old English screawa.
shrewd		Artful; wily; cunning; arch.	Middle English shrewe.
shrewish		having the qualities of a shrew; having a scolding disposition; froward; peevish.	
shrewmouse		A shrew; especially, the erd shrew.	
shriek		To utter a loud, sharp, shrill sound or cry, as do some birds and beasts; to scream, as in a sudden fright, in horror or anguish.	Middle English scrycke.
shrieker		One who utters a shriek.	
shrieval		Of or pertaining to a sheriff.	
shrievalty		The office, or sphere of jurisdiction, of a sheriff; sheriffalty.	
shrieve	Obsolete	A sheriff.	
shrift		Confession made to a priest, and the absolution consequent upon it.	
shright	Obsolete	imp. & p. p. of Shriek.	
shrike		Any one of numerous species of oscinine birds of the family Laniidæ, having a strong hooked bill, toothed at the tip.	
shrill	Obsolete	Acute; sharp; piercing; having or emitting a sharp, piercing tone or sound; -- said a sound, or of that which produces a sound.	Middle English shrille.
shrill-gorged		Having a throat which produces a shrill note.	
shrill-tongued		Having a shrill voice.	
shrillness		The quality or state of being shrill.	
shrilly	Poetic	In a shrill manner; acutely; with a sharp sound or voice.	
shrimp		(Zoöl.) (a) Any one of numerous species of macruran Crustacea belonging to Crangon and various allied genera, having a slender body and long legs.	
shrimper		One who fishes for shrimps.	
shrine		A case, box, or receptacle, especially one in which are deposited sacred relics, as the bones of a saint.	Middle English shryne.
shrink		To wrinkle, bend, or curl; to shrivel; hence, to contract into a less extent or compass; to gather together; to become compacted.	
shrinkage		The act of shrinking; a contraction into less bulk or measurement.	
shrinker		One who shrinks; one who withdraws from danger.	
shrinking		from Shrink.	
shrinkingly		In a shrinking manner.	
shrivalty		Shrievalty.	
shrive		To hear or receive the confession of; to administer confession and absolution to; -- said of a priest as the agent.	Old English scrifan.
shrivel		To draw, or be drawn, into wrinkles; to shrink, and form corrugations; as, a leaf shriveles in the hot sun; the skin shrivels with age; -- often with up.	
shriven		p. p. of Shrive — to hear or receive the confession of; to administer confession and absolution to; -- said of a priest as the agent.	
shriver		One who shrives; a confessor.	
shriving		Shrift; confession.	
shroff		A banker, or changer of money.	
shroffage		The examination of coins, and the separation of the good from the debased.	
shrood	English dialect	To trim; to lop.	
shropshire		An English breed of black-faced hornless sheep similar to the Southdown, but larger, now extensively raised in many parts of the world.	
shroud		That which clothes, covers, conceals, or protects; a garment.	Old English scrūd.
shroud-laid		Composed of four strands, and laid right-handed with a heart, or center; -- said of rope.	
shrouded		Provided with a shroud or shrouds.	
shrouding		The shrouds. See Shroud, n., 7.	
shroudless		Without a shroud.	
shroudy		Affording shelter.	
shrove	Obsolete	imp. of Shrive — to hear or receive the confession of; to administer confession and absolution to; -- said of a priest as the agent.	
shrovetide		The days immediately preceding Ash Widnesday, especially the period between the evening before Quinguagesima Sunday and the morning of Ash Wednesday.	
shroving	Obsolete	The festivity of Shrovetide.	
shrow	Obsolete	A shrew.	
shrowd	English dialect	See Shrood — to trim; to lop.	
shrub	Obsolete	A liquor composed of vegetable acid, especially lemon juice, and sugar, with spirit to preserve it.	Arabic شراب.
shrubbery		A place where shrubs are planted.	
shrubbiness		Quality of being shrubby.	
shrubby		Of the nature of a shrub; resembling a shrub.	
shrubless		having no shrubs.	
shruff	Obsolete	Rubbish. Specifically: (a) Dross or refuse of metals. (b) Light, dry wood, or stuff used for fuel.	
shrug		To draw up or contract (the shoulders), especially by way of expressing dislike, dread, doubt, or the like.	
shrunken		from Shrink.	
shuck		A shell, husk, or pod; especially, the outer covering of such nuts as the hickory nut, butternut, peanut, and chestnut.	
shucker		One who shucks oysters or clams	
shudder		To tremble or shake with fear, horrer, or aversion; to shiver with cold; to quake.	
shudderingly		In a shuddering manner.	
shude		The husks and other refuse of rice mills, used to adulterate oil cake, or linseed cake.	
shuffle		To shove one way and the other; to push from one to another; as, to shuffle money from hand to hand.	
shuffleboard		See Shovelboard — a board on which a game is played, by pushing or driving pieces of metal or money to reach certain marks; also, the game itself.	
shufflecap		,.A play performed by shaking money in a hat or cap.	
shuffler		One who shuffles.	
shufflewing	English dialect	The hedg sparrow.	
shuffling		Moving with a dragging, scraping step.	
shug	English dialect	To writhe the body so as to produce friction against one's clothes, as do those who have the itch.	
shun		To avoid; to keep clear of; to get out of the way of; to escape from; to eschew; as, to shun rocks, shoals, vice.	Old English scunian.
shunless		Not to be shunned; inevitable; unavoidable.	
shunt		To turn off to one side; especially, to turn off, as a grain or a car upon a side track; to switch off; to shift.	
shunter		A person employed to shunt cars from one track to another.	
shunting		(a) (Railroads) Switching; as, shunting engine, yard, etc. (b) (Finance) Arbitrage conducted between certain local markets without the necessity of the exchange involved in foreign arbitrage.	
shut		To close so as to hinder ingress or egress; as, to shut a door or a gate; to shut one's eyes or mouth.	Middle English shutten.
shute		Same as Chute, or Shoot.	
shutter		One who shuts or closes.	
shuttered		Furnished with shutters.	
shuttle		An instrument used in weaving for passing or shooting the thread of the woof from one side of the cloth to the other between the threads of the warp.	Old English scytel.
shuttlecock		A cork stuck with feathers, which is to be struck by a battledoor in play; also, the play itself.	
shuttlecork		See Shuttlecock — a cork stuck with feathers, which is to be struck by a battledoor in play; also, the play itself.	
shuttlewise		Back and forth, like the movement of a shuttle.	
shwan-pan		See Schwan-pan.	
shy		Easily frightened; timid; as, a shy bird.	Middle English shy, from Old English sceoh.
shyly		In a shy or timid manner; not familiarly; with reserve.	
shyness		The quality or state of being shy.	
shyster	Slang	A trickish knave; one who carries on any business, especially legal business, in a mean and dishonest way.	
