si		A syllable applied, in solmization, to the note B; more recently, to the seventh tone of any major diatonic scale.	
siaga		The ahu, or jairou.	
sialogogue		An agent which promotes the flow of saliva.	
siamang		A gibbon (Hylobates syndactylus), native of Sumatra.	Malay (macrolanguage siamang.
siamese		Of or pertaining to Siam, its native people, or their language.	
sib	Obsolete	A blood relation.	Middle English sib, from Old English sibb.
sibbens		A contagious disease, endemic in Scotland, resembling the yaws.	
siberian		Of or pertaining to Siberia, a region comprising all northern Asia and belonging to Russia; as, a Siberian winter. -- n.	
sibilance		The quality or state of being sibilant; sibilation.	
sibilancy		The quality or state of being sibilant; sibilation.	
sibilant		Making a hissing sound; uttered with a hissing sound; hissing; as, s, z, sh, and zh, are sibilant elementary sounds. -- n.	Latin sibilans.
sibilate		To pronounce with a hissing sound, like that of the letter s; to mark with a character indicating such pronunciation.	Latin sibilatus.
sibilation		Utterance with a hissing sound; also, the sound itself; a hiss.	Latin sibilatio.
sibilatory		Hissing; sibilant.	
sibilous		Having a hissing sound; hissing; sibilant.	Latin sibilus.
sibyl		A female fortune teller; a pythoness; a prophetess.	Latin Sibylla, from Greek Σίβυλλα.
sibylist		One who believes in a sibyl or the sibylline prophecies.	
sibylline		Pertaining to the sibyls; uttered, written, or composed by sibyls; like the productions of sibyls.	
sicamore		See Sycamore — (a) A large tree (Ficus Sycomorus) allied to the common fig. It is found in Egypt and Syria, and is the sycamore, or sycamine, of Scripture.	
sicca		A seal; a coining die; -- used adjectively to designate the silver currency of the Mogul emperors, or the Indian rupee of 192 grains.	
siccation		The act or process of drying.	Latin siccatio.
siccative		Drying; causing to dry. -- n.	Latin siccativus.
siccific		Causing dryness.	
siccity	Obsolete	Dryness; aridity; destitution of moisture.	Latin siccitas.
sice		The number six at dice.	French six, from Latin sex.
sicer	Obsolete	A strong drink; cider.	Latin sicera.
sicilian		Of or pertaining to Sicily or its inhabitants.	
siciliano		A Sicilian dance, resembling the pastorale, set to a rather slow and graceful melody in 12-8 or 6-8 measure; also, the music to the dance.	
sicilienne		A kind of rich poplin.	French sicilien.
sick		Affected with disease of any kind; ill; indisposed; not in health. See the Synonym under Illness.	Middle English sek.
sick-brained		Disordered in the brain.	
sicken		To make sick; to disease.	
sickening		Causing sickness; specif., causing surfeit or disgust; nauseating. -- Sick"en*ing*ly, adv.	
sicker	English dialect	To percolate, trickle, or ooze, as water through a crack.	Middle English siker, from Old English sicer.
sickerly	Obsolete	Surely; securely.	
sickerness	Obsolete	The quality or state of being sicker, or certain.	
sickish		Somewhat sick or diseased.	
sickle		A reaping instrument consisting of a steel blade curved into the form of a hook, and having a handle fitted on a tang.	Old English sicol.
sicklebill		(a) Any one of three species of humming birds of the genus Eutoxeres, native of Central and South America.	
sickled		Furnished with a sickle.	
sickleman		One who uses a sickle; a reaper.	
sickler		One who uses a sickle; a sickleman; a reaper.	
sickless		Free from sickness.	
sicklewort		(a) A plant of the genus Coronilla (C. scorpioides); -- so named from its curved pods.	
sicklied		Made sickly. See Sickly, v.	
sickliness		The quality or state of being sickly.	
sickly		Somewhat sick; disposed to illness; attended with disease; as, a sickly body.	
sickness		The quality or state of being sick or diseased; illness; sisease or malady.	
sicle	Obsolete	A shekel.	
sida		A genus of malvaceous plants common in the tropics.	
siddow	Obsolete	Soft; pulpy.	
side		The margin, edge, verge, or border of a surface; especially (when the thing spoken of is somewhat oblong in shape), one of the longer edges as distinguished from the shorter edges, called ends…	Old English side, from Proto-Germanic sithon.
side-slip		See Skid, below.	
side-taking		A taking sides, as with a party, sect, or faction.	
side-wheel		Having a paddle wheel on each side; -- said of steam vessels; as, a side-wheel steamer.	
sideboard		A piece of dining-room furniture having compartments and shelves for keeping or displaying articles of table service.	
sidebone		A morbid growth or deposit of bony matter and at the sides of the coronet and coffin bone of a horse.	
sided		Having (such or so many) sides; -- used in composition; as, one-sided; many-sided.	
sideflash		A disruptive discharge between a conductor traversed by an oscillatory current of high frequency (as lightning) and neighboring masses of metal, or between different parts of the same conductor.	
sidehill		The side or slope of a hill; sloping ground; a descent.	
sideling		Sidelong; on the side; laterally; also, obliquely; askew.	Middle English sidlyng.
sidelong		Laterally; obliquely; in the direction of the side.	
sidepiece		The jamb, or cheek, of an opening in a wall, as of door or window.	
sider	Obsolete	One who takes a side.	
sideral		Relating to the stars.	
siderated	Obsolete	Planet-struck; blasted.	Latin sideratus.
sideration	Obsolete	The state of being siderated, or planet-struck; esp., blast in plants; also, a sudden and apparently causeless stroke of disease, as in apoplexy or paralysis.	
sidereal		Relating to the stars; starry; astral; as, sidereal astronomy.	Latin sidereus.
siderealize		To elevate to the stars, or to the region of the stars; to etherealize.	
sidereous	Obsolete	Sidereal.	Latin sidereus.
siderite		(Min.) (a) Carbonate of iron, an important ore of iron occuring generally in cleavable masses, but also in rhombohedral crystals.	
siderographic		Of or pertaining to siderography; executed by engraved plates of steel; as, siderographic art; siderographic impressions.	
siderographical		Of or pertaining to siderography; executed by engraved plates of steel; as, siderographic art; siderographic impressions.	
siderographist		One skilled in siderography.	
siderography		The art or practice of steel engraving; especially, the process, invented by Perkins, of multiplying facsimiles of an engraved steel plate by first rolling over it, when hardened, a soft steel cylinder…	
siderolite		A kind of meteorite. See under Meteorite.	
sideromancy		Divination by burning straws on red-hot iron, and noting the manner of their burning.	
sideroscope		An instrument for detecting small quantities of iron in any substance by means of a very delicate combination of magnetic needles.	
siderosis		A sort of pneumonia occuring in iron workers, produced by the inhalation of particles of iron.	
siderostat		An apparatus consisting essentially of a mirror moved by clockwork so as to throw the rays of the sun or a star in a fixed direction; -- a more general term for heliostat.	
sideroxylon		A genus of tropical sapotaceous trees noted for their very hard wood; ironwood.	
sidesaddle		A saddle for women, in which the rider sits with both feet on one side of the animal mounted.	
sidesman		A party man; a partisan.	
sidetrack		(Railroads) To transfer to a siding from a main line of track.	
sidewalk		A walk for foot passengers at the side of a street or road; a foot pavement.	
sideways		Toward the side; sidewise.	
sidewinder		(Zoöl.) See Horned rattler, under Horned.	
sidewise		On or toward one side; laterally; sideways.	
siding		Attaching one's self to a party.	
sidle		To go or move with one side foremost; to move sidewise; as, to sidle through a crowd or narrow opening.	
siege		The sitting of an army around or before a fortified place for the purpose of compelling the garrison to surrender; the surrounding or investing of a place by an army, and approaching it by passages and advanced works…	Middle English sege.
siegework		A temporary fort or parallel where siege guns are mounted.	
sienite		See Syenite — (a) Orig., a rock composed of quartz, hornblende, and feldspar, anciently quarried at Syene, in Upper Egypt, and now called granite.	
sienitic		See Syenitic — relating to Syene; as, Syenitic inscriptions.	
sienna		Clay that is colored red or brown by the oxides of iron or manganese, and used as a pigment.	Italian terra di Sienna.
siennese		Of or pertaining to Sienna, a city of Italy.	
sierra		A ridge of mountain and craggy rocks, with a serrated or irregular outline; as, the Sierra Nevada.	
siesta		A short sleep taken about the middle of the day, or after dinner; a midday nap.	Spanish siesta, from Latin sexta.
sieur		Sir; -- a title of respect used by the French.	
sieva		A small variety of the Lima bean (Phaseolus lunatus).	
sieve		A utensil for separating the finer and coarser parts of a pulverized or granulated substance from each other.	Old English sife.
sifac		The white indris of Madagascar.	
sifflement	Obsolete	The act of whistling or hissing; a whistling sound; sibilation.	
sifilet		The six-shafted bird of paradise. See Paradise bird, under Paradise.	
sift		To separate with a sieve, as the fine part of a substance from the coarse; as, to sift meal or flour; to sift powder; to sift sand or lime.	
sifter		One who, or that which, sifts.	
sigaultian		Pertaining to Sigault, a French physician. See Symphyseotomy.	
sigger	English dialect	Same as Sicker.	
sigh		To inhale a larger quantity of air than usual, and immediately expel it; to make a deep single audible respiration, especially as the result or involuntary expression of fatigue, exhaustion, grief, sorrow, or the like.	Middle English sihen, from Old English sīcan.
sigh-born		Sorrowful; mournful.	
sigher		One who sighs.	
sighing		Uttering sighs; grieving; lamenting. -- Sigh"ing*ly, adv.	
sight		The act of seeing; perception of objects by the eye; view; as, to gain sight of land.	Old English sihþ.
sight-hole		A hole for looking through; a peephole.	
sight-seeing		Engaged in, or given to, seeing sights; eager for novelties or curiosities.	
sight-seer		One given to seeing sights or noted things, or eager for novelties or curiosities.	
sight-shot		Distance to which the sight can reach or be thrown.	
sighted		Having sight, or seeing, in a particular manner; -- used in composition; as, long-sighted, short-sighted, quick-sighted, sharp- sighted, and the like.	
sightful	Obsolete	Easily or clearly seen; distinctly visible; perspicuous.	
sightfulness	Obsolete	The state of being sightful; perspicuity.	
sighting		from Sight, v. t.	
sightless		Wanting sight; without sight; blind.	
sightliness		The state of being sightly; comeliness; conspicuousness.	
sightly		Pleasing to the sight; comely.	
sightproof		Undiscoverable to sight.	
sightsman		One who reads or performs music readily at first sight.	
sigil		A seal; a signature.	Latin sigillum.
sigillaria		Little images or figures of earthenware exposed for sale, or given as presents, on the last two days of the Saturnalia; hence, the last two, or the sixth and seventh, days of the Saturnalia.	
sigillarid		One of an extinct family of cryptagamous trees, including the genus Sigillaria and its allies.	
sigillated		Decorated by means of stamps; -- said of pottery.	
sigillative		Fit to seal; belonging to a seal; composed of wax.	
sigla		The signs, abbreviations, letters, or characters standing for words, shorthand, etc., in ancient manuscripts, or on coins, medals, etc. W.	
sigma		The Greek letter S, or s).	
sigmodont		Any one of a tribe (Sigmodontes) of rodents which includes all the indigenous rats and mice of America.	
sigmoid		Curved in two directions, like the letter S, or the Greek s.	Greek σιγμοειδής.
sigmoidal		Curved in two directions, like the letter S, or the Greek s.	
sigmoidally		In a sigmoidal manner.	
sign		That by which anything is made known or represented; that which furnishes evidence; a mark; a token; an indication; a proof.	Old French signer, from Latin signare.
signable		Suitable to be signed; requiring signature; as, a legal document signable by a particular person.	
signal		A sign made for the purpose of giving notice to a person of some occurence, command, or danger; also, a sign, event, or watchword, which has been agreed upon as the occasion of concerted action.	Old French segnal, from Latin signalis.
signalist		One who makes signals; one who communicates intelligence by means of signals.	
signality	Obsolete	The quality or state of being signal or remarkable.	
signalize		To make signal or eminent; to render distinguished from what is common; to distinguish.	
signally		In a signal manner; eminently.	
signalman		A man whose business is to manage or display signals; especially, one employed in setting the signals by which railroad trains are run or warned.	
signalment		The act of signaling, or of signalizing; hence, description by peculiar, appropriate, or characteristic marks.	
signate		Having definite color markings.	
signation	Obsolete	Sign given; marking.	Latin signatio.
signatory		Signing; joining or sharing in a signature; as, signatory powers.	Latin signatorius.
signature		A sign, stamp, or mark impressed, as by a seal.	French signature, from Latin signatura.
signaturist	Obsolete	One who holds to the doctrine of signatures impressed upon objects, indicative of character or qualities.	
signboard		A board, placed on or before a shop, office, etc., on which ssome notice is given, as the name of a firm, of a business, or the like.	
signer		One who signs or subscribes his name; as, a memorial with a hundred signers.	
signet		A seal; especially, in England, the seal used by the sovereign in sealing private letters and grants that pass by bill under the sign manual; -- called also privy signet.	Latin signetum.
signeted		Stamped or marked with a signet.	
signifer	Obsolete	Bearing signs.	
significance		The quality or state of being significant.	Latin significantia.
significancy		The quality or state of being significant.	
significant		Fitted or designed to signify or make known somethingl having a meaning; standing as a sign or token; expressive or suggestive; as, a significant word or sound; a significant look.	Latin significans.
significantly		In a significant manner.	
significate		One of several things signified by a common term.	
signification		The act of signifying; a making known by signs or other means.	Latin significatio.
significative		Betokening or representing by an external sign.	
significator		One who, or that which, signifies.	
significatory		Significant. -- n.	Latin significatorius.
significavit		Formerly, a writ issuing out of chancery, upon certificate given by the ordinary, of a man's standing excommunicate by the space of forty days, for the laying him up in prison till he submit himself to the authority of the church.	
signify		To show by a sign; to communicate by any conventional token, as words, gestures, signals, or the like; to announce; to make known; to declare; to express; as, a signified his desire to be present.	
signior		Sir; Mr. The English form and pronunciation for the Italian Signor and the Spanish Señor.	
signiorize	Obsolete	To exercise dominion over; to lord it over.	
signiorship		State or position of a signior.	
signiory		Same as Seigniory.	
signor		Sir; Mr; -- a title of address or respect among the Italians.	Italian signor.
signora		Madam; Mrs; -- a title of address or respect among the Italians.	
signore		Sir; Mr; -- a title of address or respect among the Italians.	
signorina		Miss; -- a title of address among the Italians.	
signpost		A post on which a sign hangs, or on which papers are placed to give public notice of anything.	
sik	Obsolete	Such. See Such.	
sike	Obsolete	Such. See Such.	
siker	Obsolete	Sure; certain; trusty.	Middle English siker, from Old English sicer.
sikerly	Obsolete	Surely; securely.	
sikerness	Obsolete	The quality or state of being sicker, or certain.	
sikhs		A religious sect noted for warlike traits, founded in the Punjab at the end of the 15th century.	
silage		Short for Ensilage.	
sile	English dialect	To strain, as fresh milk.	Middle English silen.
silence		The state of being silent; entire absence of sound or noise; absolute stillness.	Old French silence.
silencer		(a) The muffler of an internal-combustion engine. (b) Any of various devices to silence the humming noise of telegraph wires.	
silene		A genus of caryophyllaceous plants, usually covered with a viscid secretion by which insects are caught; catchfly.	
silent		Free from sound or noise; absolutely still; perfectly quiet.	
silentiary		One appointed to keep silence and order in court; also, one sworn not to divulge secre	
silentious		Habitually silent; taciturn; reticent.	
silently		In a silent manner.	
silentness		State of being silent; silence.	
silenus		See Wanderoo — a large monkey (Macacus silenus) native of Malabar.	
silesia		A kind of linen cloth, originally made in Silesia, a province of Prussia.	
silesian		Of or pertaining to Silesia. -- n.	
silex		Silica, SiO2 as found in nature, constituting quarz, and most sands and sandstones.	Latin silex.
silhouette		A representation of the outlines of an object filled in with a black color; a profile portrait in black, such as a shadow appears to be.	French silhouette.
silica		Silicon dioxide, SiO	Irish silex.
silicate		A salt of silicic acid.	
silicated		Combined or impregnated with silicon or silica; as, silicated hydrogen; silicated rocks.	
silicatization		Silicification.	
silicea		Same as Silicoidea.	
siliceous		Of or pertaining to silica; containing silica, or partaking of its nature.	
silicic		Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, silica; specifically, designating compounds of silicon; as, silicic acid.	Latin silex.
silicicalcareous		Consisting of silica and calcareous matter.	
silicide		A binary compound of silicon, or one regarded as binary.	
siliciferous		Producing silica; united with silica.	
silicification		Thae act or process of combining or impregnating with silicon or silica; the state of being so combined or impregnated; as, the silicification of wood.	
silicified		Combined or impregnated with silicon or silica, especially the latter; as, silicified wood.	
silicify		To convert into, or to impregnate with, silica, or with the compounds of silicon.	
silicioidea		Same as Silicoidea.	
silicious		See Siliceous — of or pertaining to silica; containing silica, or partaking of its nature.	
silicispongiae		Same as Silicoidea.	
silicited	Obsolete	Silicified.	
silicium		See Silicon — a nonmetalic element analogous to carbon.	Latin silicium.
siliciureted	Passing out of use	Combined or impregnated with silicon.	
silicle		A seed vessel resembling a silique, but about as broad as it is long. See Silique.	
silico-		A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting the presence of silicon or its compounds; as, silicobenzoic, silicofluoride, etc.	
silicofluoric		Containing, or composed of, silicon and fluorine; especially, denoting the compounds called silicofluorides.	
silicofluoride		A fluosilicate; a salt of silicofluoric acid.	
silicoidea		An extensive order of Porifera, which includes those that have the skeleton composed mainly of siliceous fibers or spicules.	
silicon		A nonmetalic element analogous to carbon.	
silicotungstic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, any one of a series of double acids of silicon and tungsten, known in the free state, and also in their salts (called silicotungstates).	
silicula		A silicle.	
silicule		A silicle.	
siliculose		(Bot.) Bearing silicles; pertaining to, or resembling, silicles.	
siliginose	Obsolete	Made of fine wheat.	
siling	Obsolete	from Sile to strain.	
siliqua		A weight of four grains; a carat; -- a term used by jewelers, and refiners of gold.	
silique		An oblong or elongated seed vessel, consisting of two valves with a dissepiment between, and opening by sutures at either margin.	
siliquiform		Having the form of a silique.	
siliquosa		A Linnæan order of plants including those which bear siliques.	
siliquose		Bearing siliques; as, siliquose plants; pertaining to, or resembling, siliques; as, siliquose capsules.	
siliquous		Bearing siliques; as, siliquose plants; pertaining to, or resembling, siliques; as, siliquose capsules.	
silk		The fine, soft thread produced by various species of caterpillars in forming the cocoons within which the worm is inclosed during the pupa state, especially that produced by the larvæ of Bombyx mori.	Old English sioloc.
silk-stocking		Wearing silk stockings (which among men were formerly worn chiefly by the luxurious or aristocratic); hence, elegantly dressed; aristocratic; luxurious; -- chiefly applied to men…	
silken		Of or pertaining to silk; made of, or resembling, silk; as, silken cloth; a silken veil.	Middle English silken, from Old English seolcen.
silkiness		The quality or state of being silky or silken; softness and smoothness.	
silkman		A dealer in silks; a silk mercer.	
silkness	Obsolete	Silkiness.	
silkweed		Any plant of the genera Asclepias and Acerates whose seed vessels contain a long, silky down; milkweed.	
silkworm		The larva of any one of numerous species of bombycid moths, which spins a large amount of strong silk in constructing its cocoon before changing to a pupa.	
silky		Of or pertaining to silk; made of, or resembling, silk; silken; silklike; as, a silky luster.	
sill	English dialect	The basis or foundation of a thing; especially, a horizontal piece, as a timber, which forms the lower member of a frame, or supports a structure; as, the sills of a house, of a bridge, of a loom, and the like.	Middle English sille.
sillabub		A dish made by mixing wine or cider with milk, and thus forming a soft curd; also, sweetened cream, flavored with wine and beaten to a stiff froth.	
sillily		In a silly manner; foolishly.	
sillimanite		Same as Fibrolite.	
silliness		The quality or state of being silly.	
sillock		The pollock, or coalfish.	
sillon		A work raised in the middle of a wide ditch, to defend it.	French sillon.
silly		Weak in intellect; destitute of ordinary strength of mind; foolish; witless; simple; as, a silly woman.	
sillyhow	Obsolete	A caul. See Caul, n., 3.	
silo		A pit or vat for packing away green fodder for winter use so as to exclude air and outside moisture.	Spanish silo, from Latin sirum.
silt		Mud or fine earth deposited from running or standing water.	Middle English cylte.
silty		Full of silt; resembling silt.	
silundum		A form of silicon carbide, produced in the electric furnace, possessing great hardness, and high electrical resistance, and not subject to oxidation below 2880º F., or 1600º C.	
silure		A fish of the genus Silurus, as the sheatfish; a siluroid.	
silurian		Of or pertaining to the country of the ancient Silures; -- a term applied to the earliest of the Paleozoic eras, and also to the strata of the era, because most plainly developed in that country.	
siluridan		Any fish of the family Silurid or of the order Siluroidei.	
siluroid		Belonging to the Siluroidei, or Nematognathi, an order of fishes including numerous species, among which are the American catfishes and numerous allied fresh-water species of the Old World…	
siluroidei		An order of fishes, the Nematognathi.	
silurus		A genus of large malacopterygious fishes of the order Siluroidei.	
silva		(a) The forest trees of a region or country, considered collectively. (b) A description or history of the forest trees of a country.	Latin silva.
silvan	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to woods; composed of woods or groves; woody.	Latin sylvanus.
silvanite		See Sylvanite — a mineral, a telluride of gold and silver, of a steel-gray, silver-white, or brass-yellow color.	
silvas		Vast woodland plains of South America.	
silvate		Same as Sylvate.	
silver		(Chem.) A soft white metallic element, sonorous, ductile, very malleable, and capable of a high degree of polish.	Middle English silver.
silver-gray		Having a gray color with a silvery luster; as, silver-gray hair.	
silverback		The knot.	
silverberry		A tree or shrub (Elæagnus argentea) with silvery foliage and fruit.	
silverbill		An Old World finch of the genus Minia, as the M.	
silverboom		See Leucadendron — a genus of evergreen shrubs from the Cape of Good Hope, having handsome foliage.	
silverfin		A small North American fresh-water cyprinoid fish (Notropis Whipplei).	
silverfish		(a) The tarpum. (b) A white variety of the goldfish.	
silveriness		The state of being silvery.	
silvering		The art or process of covering metals, wood, paper, glass, etc., with a thin film of metallic silver, or a substance resembling silver; also, the firm do laid on; as, the silvering of a glass speculum.	
silverite	Colloquial	One who favors the use or establishment of silver as a monetary standard; -- so called by those who favor the gold standard.	
silverize		To cover with silver.	
silverless		Having no silcver; hence, without money; impecunious.	
silverling	Obsolete	A small silver coin.	
silverly		Like silver in appearance or in sound.	
silvern	Archaic	Made of silver.	
silversides		Any one of several species of small fishes of the family Atherinidæ, having a silvery stripe along each side of the body.	
silversmith		One whose occupation is to manufacture utensils, ornaments, etc., of silver; a worker in silver.	
silverspot		Any one of numerous species of butterflies of the genus Argynnis and allied genera, having silvery spots on the under side of the wings.	
silverware		Dishes, vases, ornaments, and utensils of various sorts, made of silver.	
silverweed		A perennial rosaceous herb (Potentilla Anserina) having the leaves silvery white beneath.	
silvery		Resembling, or having the luster of, silver; grayish white and lustrous; of a mild luster; bright.	
silvics		The science treating of the life of trees in the forest.	
silviculture		See Sylviculture — the cultivation of forest trees for timber or other purposes; forestry; arboriculture.	
simagre	Obsolete	A grimace.	French simagrée.
simar		A woman's long dress or robe; also light covering; a scarf.	French simarre, from Italian cimarra.
simarre		See Simar — a woman's long dress or robe; also light covering; a scarf.	
simblot		The harness of a drawloom.	French simbleau.
simia		A Linnæan genus of Quadrumana which included the types of numerous modern genera.	
simial		Simian; apelike.	
simian		Of or pertaining to the family Simiadæ, which, in its widest sense, includes all the Old World apes and monkeys; also, apelike. -- n.	Latin simia, from Greek σιμός.
similar		Exactly corresponding; resembling in all respects; precisely like.	French similaire.
similarity		The quality or state of being similar; likeness; resemblance; as, a similarity of features.	
similarly		In a similar manner.	
similary	Obsolete	Similar.	
similative		Implying or indicating likeness or resemblance.	
simile		A word or phrase by which anything is likened, in one or more of its aspects, to something else; a similitude; a poetical or imaginative comparison.	
similiter		The technical name of the form by which either party, in pleading, accepts the issue tendered by his opponent; -- called sometimes a joinder in issue.	
similitude		The quality or state of being similar or like; resemblance; likeness; similarity; as, similitude of substance.	Old French similitude.
similitudinary	Obsolete	Involving or expressing similitude.	
similize		To liken; to compare; as, to similize a person, thing, or act.	
similor		An alloy of copper and zinc, resembling brass, but of a golden color.	
simious		Of or pertaining to the Simian.	
simitar		See Scimiter — a saber with a much curved blade having the edge on the convex side, -- in use among Mohammedans, esp., the Arabs and persians.	
simmer		To boil gently, or with a gentle hissing; to begin to boil.	
simnel		A kind of rich plum cake, eaten especially on Mid-Lent Sunday.	
simon-pure		Genuine; true; real; authentic; -- a term alluding to the comedy character Simon Pure, who is impersonated by another and is obliged to prove himself to be the	
simoniac		One who practices simony, or who buys or sells preferment in the church.	
simoniacal		Of or pertaining to simony; guilty of simony; consisting of simony. -- Sim"o*ni`a*cal*ly, adv.	
simonial	Obsolete	Simoniacal.	
simonian		One of the followers of Simon Magus; also, an adherent of certain heretical sects in the early Christian church.	
simonious	Obsolete	Simoniacal.	
simonist		One who practices simony.	
simony		The crime of buying or selling ecclesiastical preferment; the corrupt presentation of any one to an ecclesiastical benefice for money or reward.	Old French simonie, from Latin simonia.
simoom		A hot, dry, suffocating, dust-laden wind, that blows occasionally in Arabia, Syria, and neighboring countries, generated by the extreme heat of the parched deserts or sandy plains.	Arabic سموم.
simoon		A hot, dry, suffocating, dust-laden wind, that blows occasionally in Arabia, Syria, and neighboring countries, generated by the extreme heat of the parched deserts or sandy plains.	
simous		Having a very flat or snub nose, with the end turned up.	
simpai		A long-tailed monkey (Semnopitchecus melalophus) native of Sumatra.	
simper		To smile in a silly, affected, or conceited manner.	
simperer		One who simpers.	
simpering		from Simper, v.	
simperingly		In a simpering manner.	
simple		Single; not complex; not infolded or entangled; uncombined; not compounded; not blended with something else; not complicated; as, a simple substance; a simple idea; a simple sound; a simple machine; a simple problem; simple tasks.	Middle English simple.
simple-hearted		Sincere; inguenuous; guileless.	
simple-minded		Artless; guileless; simple-hearted; undesigning; unsuspecting; devoid of duplicity.	
simpleness		The quality or state of being simple; simplicity.	
simpler		One who collects simples, or medicinal plants; a herbalist; a simplist.	
simpless	Obsolete	Simplicity; silliness.	French simplesse.
simpleton		A person of weak intellect; a silly person.	
simplician	Obsolete	One who is simple.	
simplicity		The quality or state of being simple, unmixed, or uncompounded; as, the simplicity of metals or of earths.	Old French simplicite, from Latin simplicitas.
simplification		The act of simplifying.	
simplify		To make simple; to make less complex; to make clear by giving the explanation for; to show an easier or shorter process for doing or making.	
simplist		One skilled in simples, or medicinal plants; a simpler.	
simplistic		Of or pertaining to simples, or a simplist.	
simplity	Obsolete	Simplicity.	
simploce		See Symploce — the repetition of a word or phrase at the beginning and another at the end of successive clauses; as, Justice came down from heaven to view the earth; Justice returned to heaven…	
simply		In a simple manner or state; considered in or by itself; without addition; along; merely; solely; barely. make that now good or evil, … which otherwise of itself were not simply the one or the other.	
simulacher	Obsolete	See Simulacrum — a likeness; a semblance; a mock appearance; a sham; -- now usually in a derogatory sense.	
simulachre	Obsolete	See Simulacrum — a likeness; a semblance; a mock appearance; a sham; -- now usually in a derogatory sense.	
simulacrum		A likeness; a semblance; a mock appearance; a sham; -- now usually in a derogatory sense.	
simular	Obsolete	One who pretends to be what he is not; one who, or that which, simulates or counterfeits something; a pretender.	
simulate		Feigned; pretended.	Latin simulatus.
simulation		The act of simulating, or assuming an appearance which is feigned, or not true; -- distinguished from dissimulation, which disguises or conceals what is true.	
simulator		One who simulates, or feigns.	
simulatory		Simulated, or capable of being simulated.	
simultaneity		The quality or state of being simultaneous; simultaneousness.	
simultaneous		Existing, happening, or done, at the same time; as, simultaneous events. -- Si`mul*ta ne*ous*ness, n.	Latin simultaneus.
simulty	Obsolete	Private grudge or quarrel; as, domestic simulties.	
sin		Transgression of the law of God; disobedience of the divine command; any violation of God's will, either in purpose or conduct; moral deficiency in the character; iniquity; as, sins of omission and sins of commission.	Middle English sinne.
sinaic		Of or pertaining to Mount Sinai; given or made at Mount Sinai; as, the Sinaitic law.	
sinaitic		Of or pertaining to Mount Sinai; given or made at Mount Sinai; as, the Sinaitic law.	
sinalbin		A glucoside found in the seeds of white mustard (Brassica alba, formerly Sinapis alba), and extracted as a white crystalline substance.	
sinamine		A bitter white crystalline nitrogenous substance, obtained indirectly from oil of mustard and ammonia; -- called also allyl melamine.	
sinapate		A salt of sinapic acid.	
sinapic		Of or pertaining to sinapine; specifically, designating an acid (C11H12O5) related to gallic acid, and obtained by the decomposition of sinapine, as a white crystalline substance.	
sinapine		An alkaloid occuring in the seeds of mustard.	Latin sinapi, from Greek σίναπι.
sinapis		A disused generic name for mustard; -- now called Brassica.	
sinapisin	Obsolete	A substance extracted from mustard seed and probably identical with sinalbin.	
sinapism		A plaster or poultice composed principally of powdered mustard seed, or containing the volatile oil of mustard seed.	
sinapoleic		Of or pertaining to mustard oil; specifically, designating an acid of the oleic acid series said to occur in mistard oil.	
sinapoline		A nitrogenous base, CO.(NH.C3H5)2, related to urea, extracted from mustard oil, and also produced artifically, as a white crystalline substance; -- called also diallyl urea.	
sincaline		Choline.	
since		From a definite past time until now; as, he went a month ago, and I have not seen him since.	Middle English syns.
sincere		Pure; unmixed; unadulterated.	Middle French sincère, from Latin sincerus.
sincerely		In a sincere manner. Specifically: (a) Purely; without alloy.	
sincereness		Same as Sincerity.	
sincerity		The quality or state of being sincere; honesty of mind or intention; freedom from simulation, hypocrisy, disguise, or false pretense; sincereness.	Middle French sincérité.
sinch		A saddle girth made of leather, canvas, woven horsehair, or woven grass.	
sincipital		Of or pertaining to the sinciput; being in the region of the sinciput.	
sinciput		(Anat.) The fore part of the head.	
sindi		A native of Sind, India, esp. one of the native Hindoo stock.	
sindon		(Surg.) A small rag or pledget introduced into the hole in the cranium made by a trephine.	
sine		(a) The length of a perpendicular drawn from one extremity of an arc of a circle to the diameter drawn through the other extremity.	Latin sinus.
sinecural		Of or pertaining to a sinecure; being in the nature of a sinecure.	
sinecure		An ecclesiastical benefice without the care of souls.	
sinecurism		The state of having a sinecure.	
sinecurist		One who has a sinecure.	
sinew		(Anat.) A tendon or tendonous tissue. See Tendon.	Middle English sinewe.
sinew-shrunk		Having the sinews under the belly shrunk by excessive fatigue.	
sinewed		Furnished with sinews; as, a strong-sinewed youth.	
sinewiness		Quality of being sinewy.	
sinewless		Having no sinews; hence, having no strength or vigor.	
sinewy		Well braced with, or as if with, sinews; nervous; vigorous; strong; firm; tough; as, the sinewy Ajax.	
sinful		Tainted with, or full of, sin; wicked; iniquitous; criminal; unholy; as, sinful men; sinful thoughts.	Middle English sinful.
sing		To utter sounds with musical inflections or melodious modulations of voice, as fancy may dictate, or according to the notes of a song or tune, or of a given part (as alto, tenor, etc.) in a chorus or concerted piece.	Middle English singen, from Old English singan.
sing-sing		The kob.	
singe		To burn slightly or superficially; to burn the surface of; to burn the ends or outside of; as, to singe the hair or the skin.	Middle English sengen, from Old English sengan.
singer		One who, or that which, singes. Specifically: (a) One employed to singe cloth.	
singeress	Obsolete	A songstress.	
singhalese		Same as Cingalese.	
singing		from Sing, v.	
singingly		With sounds like singing; with a kind of tune; in a singing tone.	
single		One only, as distinguished from more than one; consisting of one alone; individual; separate; as, a single star.	Middle English sengle, from Old French sengle, from Latin singulus.
single-acting		Having simplicity of action; especially (Mach.), acting or exerting force during strokes in one direction only; -- said of a reciprocating engine, pump, etc.	
single-breasted		Lapping over the breast only far enough to permit of buttoning, and having buttons on one edge only; as, a single-breasted coast.	
single-foot		An irregular gait of a horse; -- called also single-footed pace. See Single, v. i.	
single-handed		Having but one hand, or one workman; also, alone; unassisted.	
single-hearted		Having an honest heart; free from duplicity. -- Sin ed*ly, adv.	
single-minded		Having a single purpose; hence, artless; guileless; single- hearted.	
single-surfaced		Having one surface; -- said specif. of aëroplanes or aërocurves that are covered with fabric, etc., on only one side.	
singleness		The quality or state of being single, or separate from all others; the opposite of doubleness, complication, or multiplicity.	
singles		See Single, n., 2.	
singlestick		(a) In England and Scotland, a cudgel used in fencing or fighting; a backsword.	
singlet	English dialect	An unlined or undyed waistcoat; a single garment; -- opposed to doublet.	
singleton		In certain games at cards, as whist, a single card of any suit held at the deal by a player; as, to lead a singleton.	
singletree		The pivoted or swinging bar to which the traces of a harnessed horse are fixed; a whiffletree.	
singly		Individually; particularly; severally; as, to make men singly and personally good.	
singsong		A drawling or monotonous tone, as of a badly executed song.	
singspiel		A dramatic work, partly in dialogue and partly in song, of a kind popular in Germany in the latter part of the 18th century.	
singster	Obsolete	A songstress.	
singular		(Logic) Existing by itself; single; individual.	Middle English singuler.
singularist	Obsolete	One who affects singularity.	
singularity		The quality or state of being singular; some character or quality of a thing by which it is distinguished from all, or from most, others; peculiarity.	Old French singularite, from Latin singularitas.
singularize		To make singular or single; to distinguish.	
singularly		In a singular manner; in a manner, or to a degree, not common to others; extraordinarily; as, to be singularly exact in one's statements; singularly considerate of others.	
singult	Obsolete	A sigh or sobbing; also, a hiccough.	Latin singultus.
singultous		Relating to, or affected with, hiccough.	
singultus		Hiccough.	
sinic		Of or pertaining to the Chinese and allied races; Chinese.	
sinical		Of or pertaining to a sine; employing, or founded upon, sines; as, a sinical quadrant.	
sinicism		Anything peculiar to the Chinese; esp., a Chinese peculiarity in manners or customs.	
sinigrin		A glucoside found in the seeds of black mustard (Brassica nigra, formerly Sinapis nigra) It resembles sinalbin, and consists of a potassium salt of myronic acid.	
sinister		On the left hand, or the side of the left hand; left; -- opposed to dexter, or right.	Middle English sinistre, from Old French sinistra, from Latin sinestra.
sinister-handed	Obsolete	Left-handed; hence, unlucky.	
sinisterly		In a sinister manner.	
sinistrad		Toward the left side; sinistrally.	
sinistral		Of or pertaining to the left, inclining to the left; sinistrous; - - opposed to dextral.	
sinistrality		The quality or state of being sinistral.	
sinistrally		Toward the left; in a sinistral manner.	
sinistrin		A mucilaginous carbohydrate, resembling achroödextrin, extracted from squill as a colorless amorphous substance; -- so called because it is levorotatory.	
sinistrorsal		Rising spirally from right to left (of the spectator); sinistrorse.	Latin sinistrorsus.
sinistrorse		Turning to the left (of the spectator) in the ascending line; - - the opposite of dextrorse.	
sinistrous		Being on the left side; inclined to the left; sinistral.	
sinistrously		In a sinistrous manner; perversely; wrongly; unluckily.	
sink		To fall by, or as by, the force of gravity; to descend lower and lower; to decline gradually; to subside; as, a stone sinks in water; waves rise and sink; the sun sinks in the west.	Old English sincan.
sinker		One who, or that which, sinks. Specifically: (a) A weight on something, as on a fish line, to sink it.	
sinking		from Sink.	
sinless		Free from sin.	
sinner		One who has sinned; especially, one who has sinned without repenting; hence, a persistent and incorrigible transgressor; one condemned by the law of God.	
sinneress	Obsolete	A woman who sins.	
sinnet		See Sennit — (Naut.) A braided cord or fabric formed by plaiting together rope yarns or other small stuff.	
sinological		Relating to the Chinese language or literature.	
sinologist		A sinilogue.	
sinologue		A student of Chinese; one versed in the Chinese language, literature, and history.	Latin Sinae, from Arabic الصين, from Sanskrit चीन.
sinology		That branch of systemized knowledge which treats of the Chinese, their language, literature, etc.	
sinoper		Sinople.	
sinopia		A red pigment made from sinopite.	Italian sinopia.
sinopis		A red pigment made from sinopite.	
sinopite		A brickred ferruginous clay used by the ancients for red paint.	
sinople		Ferruginous quartz, of a blood-red or brownish red color, sometimes with a tinge of yellow.	Old French sinople, from Latin Sinopis, from Greek Σινωπίς.
sinque	Obsolete	See Cinque — five; the number five in dice or cards.	
sinsring		Same as Banxring.	
sinter		Dross, as of iron; the scale which files from iron when hammered; -- applied as a name to various minerals.	German Sinter.
sinto		See Shinto, etc.	
sintoc		A kind of spice used in the East Indies, consisting of the bark of a species of Cinnamomum.	
sintoism		See Shinto, etc.	
sintoist		See Shinto, etc.	
sintu		See Shinto, etc.	
sinuate		Having the margin alternately curved inward and outward; having rounded lobes separated by rounded sinuses; sinuous; wavy.	Latin sinuatus.
sinuated		Same as Sinuate.	
sinuation		A winding or bending in and out.	
sinuose		Sinuous.	
sinuosity		Quality or state of being sinuous.	
sinuous		Bending in and out; of a serpentine or undulating form; winding; crooked. -- Sin"u*ous*ly, adv.	
sinupalliate		Having a pallial sinus. See under Sinus.	
sinus		A bay of the sea; a recess in the shore.	Latin sinus.
sinusoid		The curve whose ordinates are proportional to the sines of the abscissas, the equation of the curve being y = a sin x.	
sinusoidal		Of or pertaining to a sinusoid; like a sinusoid.	
siogoon		See Shogun — a title originally conferred by the Mikado on the military governor of the eastern provinces of Japan.	
siogoonate		See Shogunate — the office or dignity of a Shogun.	
sioux		See Dakotas — an extensive race or stock of Indians, including many tribes, mostly dwelling west of the Mississippi River; -- also, in part, called Sioux.	
sip		To drink or imbibe in small quantities; especially, to take in with the lips in small quantities, as a liquid; as, to sip tea.	Middle English sippen.
sipage	Scots	Water that seeped or oozed through a porous soil. See Seepage.	
sipe	Scots	To run or soak through fine pores and interstices; to ooze.	
siphilis		Syphilis.	
siphoid		A siphon bottle. See under Siphon, n.	
siphon		A device, consisting of a pipe or tube bent so as to form two branches or legs of unequal length, by which a liquid can be transferred to a lower level, as from one vessel to another, over an intermediate elevation…	Greek σίφων.
siphonage		The action of a siphon.	
siphonal		Of or pertaining to a siphon; resembling a siphon.	
siphonarid		Any one of numerous species of limpet-shaped pulmonate gastropods of the genus Siphonaria.	
siphonata		A tribe of bivalve mollusks in which the posterior mantle border is prolonged into two tubes or siphons.	
siphonate		Having a siphon or siphons.	
siphonet		One of the two dorsal tubular organs on the hinder part of the abdomen of aphids.	
siphonia		A former name for a euphorbiaceous genus (Hevea) of South American trees, the principal source of caoutchouc.	
siphoniata		Same as Siphonata.	
siphonic		Of or pertaining to a siphon.	
siphonifer		Any cephalopod having a siphonate shell.	
siphoniferous		Siphon-bearing, as the shell of the nautilus and other cephalopods.	
siphonium		A bony tube which, in some birds, connects the tympanium with the air chambers of the articular piece of the mandible.	
siphonobranchiata		A tribe of gastropods having the mantle border, on one or both sides, prolonged in the form of a spout through which water enters the gill cavity.	
siphonobranchiate		Having a siphon, or siphons, to convey water to the gills; belonging or pertaining to the Siphonobranchiata. -- n.	
siphonoglyphe		A gonidium.	
siphonophora		An order of pelagic Hydrozoa including species which form complex free-swimming communities composed of numerous zooids of various kinds, some of which act as floats or as swimming organs, others as feeding or nutritive zooids…	
siphonophoran		Belonging to the Siphonophora. -- n.	
siphonophore		One of the Siphonophora.	
siphonopoda		A division of Scaphopoda including those in which the foot terminates in a circular disk.	
siphonostomata		(a) A tribe of parasitic copepod Crustacea including a large number of species that are parasites of fishes, as the lerneans.	
siphonostomatous		(a) Having the front edge of the aperture of the shell prolonged in the shape of a channel for the protection of the siphon; -- said of certain gastropods.	
siphonostome		(a) Any parasitic entomostracan of the tribe Siphonostomata. (b) A siphonostomatous shell.	
siphorhinal		Having tubular nostrils, as the petrels.	
siphorhinian		A siphorhinal bird.	
siphuncle		The tube which runs through the partitions of chambered cephalopod shells.	
siphuncled		Having a siphuncle; siphunculated.	
siphuncular		Of or pertaining to the siphuncle.	
siphunculated		Having a siphuncle.	
sipid	Obsolete	Having a taste or flavorl savory; sapid.	
sipper		One whi sips.	
sippet		A small sop; a small, thin piece of toasted bread soaked in milk, broth, or the like; a small piece of toasted or fried bread cut into some special shape and used for garnishing.	
sipple	Obsolete	To sip often.	
sippling	Obsolete	Sipping often.	
sipunculacea		A suborder of Gephyrea, including those which have the body unarmed and the intestine opening anteriorly.	
sipunculoid		Pertaining to the Sipunculoidea. -- n.	
sipunculoidea		(a) Same as Gephyrea. (b) In a restricted sense, same as Sipunculacea.	
sipy		Oozy; -- applied to land under cultivation that is not well drained.	
sir		A title prefixed to the Christian name of a knight or a baronet.	Middle English sir, from Old French sire, from Latin senior.
siraskier		See Seraskier — a general or commander of land forces in the Turkish empire; especially, the commander-in-chief of minister of war.	
siraskierate		See Seraskierate — the office or authority of a seraskier.	
sirbonian		See Serbonian — relating to the lake of Serbonis in Egypt, which by reason of the sand blowing into it had a deceptive appearance of being solid land, but was a bog.	
sircar		A Hindoo clerk or accountant.	
sirdar		A native chief in Hindostan; a headman.	
sire		A tittle of respect formerly used in speaking to elders and superiors, but now only in addressing a sovereign.	Old French sire, from Latin senior.
siredon		The larval form of any salamander while it still has external gills; especially, one of those which, like the axolotl (Amblystoma Mexicanum), sometimes lay eggs while in this larval state…	Latin Siredones.
siren		An enticing, dangerous woman.	
sirene		See Siren, 6.	Bulgarian сирене.
sirenia		An order of large aquatic herbivorous mammals, including the manatee, dugong, rytina, and several fossil genera.	
sirenian		Any species of Sirenia.	
sirenical		Like, or appropriate to, a siren; fascinating; deceptive.	
sirenize		To use the enticements of a siren; to act as a siren; to fascinate.	
siriasis	Obsolete	(a) A sunstroke. (b) The act of exposing to a sun bath.	
sirius		The Dog Star. See Dog Star.	
sirkeer		Any one of several species of Asiatic cuckoos of the genus Taccocua, as the Bengal sirkeer (T. sirkee).	
sirloin		A loin of beef, or a part of a loin.	
sirname		See Surname — a name or appellation which is added to, or over and above, the baptismal or Christian name, and becomes a family name.	
siroc	Poetic	See Sirocco — an oppressive, relaxing wind from the Libyan deserts, chiefly experienced in Italy, Malta, and Sicily.	
sirocco		An oppressive, relaxing wind from the Libyan deserts, chiefly experienced in Italy, Malta, and Sicily.	
sirrah		A term of address implying inferiority and used in anger, contempt, reproach, or disrespectful familiarity, addressed to a man or boy, but sometimes to a woman.	
sirt	Obsolete	A quicksand.	
sirup		A thick and viscid liquid made from the juice of fruits, herbs, etc., boiled with sugar.	French sirop, from Arabic شراب.
siruped		Moistened, covered, or sweetened with sirup, or sweet juice.	
sirupy		Like sirup, or partaking of its qualities.	
sirvente		A peculiar species of poetry, for the most part devoted to moral and religious topics, and commonly satirical, -- often used by the troubadours of the Middle Ages.	French sirvente.
sis	Obsolete	A colloquial abbreviation of Sister.	
siscowet		A large, fat variety of the namaycusa found in Lake Superior; - - called also siskawet, siskiwit.	French ciscoette, from Ojibwa siscowet.
sise	Obsolete	An assize.	
sisel		The suslik.	
siser	Obsolete	Cider. See Sicer.	
siserara	English dialect	A hard blow.	
siserary	English dialect	A hard blow.	
siskin		(a) A small green and yellow European finch (Spinus spinus, or Carduelis spinus); -- called also aberdevine.	
siskiwit		The siscowet.	
sismograph		See Seismograph — an apparatus for registering the shocks and undulatory motions of earthquakes.	
sismometer		See Seismometer — an instrument for measuring the direction, duration, and force of earthquakes and like concussions.	
siss	Colloquial	To make a hissing sound; as, a flatiron hot enough to siss when touched with a wet finger.	
sissoo		A leguminous tree (Dalbergia Sissoo) of the northern parts of India; also, the dark brown compact and durable timber obtained from it.	
sist		(Scots Law) To stay, as judicial proceedings; to delay or suspend; to stop.	
sister		A female who has the same parents with another person, or who has one of them only.	Middle English sister.
sister-in-law		The sister of one's husband or wife; also, the wife of one's brother; sometimes, the wife of one's husband's or wife's brother.	
sisterhood		The state or relation of being a sister; the office or duty of a sister.	
sistering	Obsolete	Contiguous.	
sisterly		Like a sister; becoming a sister, affectionate; as, sisterly kindness; sisterly remorse.	
sistine		Of or pertaining to Pope Sixtus.	
sistren	Obsolete	Sisters.	Middle English sistren.
sistrum		An instrument consisting of a thin metal frame, through which passed a number of metal rods, and furnished with a handle by which it was shaken and made to rattle.	Latin sistrum, from Greek σείστρον.
sisyphean		Relating to Sisyphus; incessantly recurring; as, Sisyphean labors.	
sisyphus		A king of Corinth, son of Æolus, famed for his cunning.	
sit		obs. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Sit, for sitteth.	Old English sittan.
site		The place where anything is fixed; situation; local position; as, the site of a city or of a house.	
sited	Obsolete	Having a site; situated. sited was in fruitful soil.	
sitfast		Fixed; stationary; immovable.	
sith	Obsolete	Since; afterwards; seeing that.	
sithed	Obsolete	Scythed.	
sitheman	Obsolete	A mower.	
sithen	Obsolete	Since; afterwards. See 1st Sith.	Old English siþþan.
sithence	Obsolete	Since. See Sith, and Sithen.	
sithens	Obsolete	Since. See Sith, and Sithen.	
siththen	Obsolete	See Sithen — since; afterwards. See 1st Sith.	
sitology		A treatise on the regulation of the diet; dietetics.	
sitophobia		A version to food; refusal to take nourishment.	
sitten		p. p. of Sit, for sat.	
sitter		One who sits; esp., one who sits for a portrait or a bust.	
sittine		Of or pertaining to the family Sittidæ, or nuthatches.	
sitting		Being in the state, or the position, of one who, or that which, sits.	
situate		Having a site, situation, or location; being in a relative position; permanently fixed; placed; located; as, a town situated, or situate, on a hill or on the seashore.	Latin situatus.
situated		Having a site, situation, or location; being in a relative position; permanently fixed; placed; located; as, a town situated, or situate, on a hill or on the seashore.	
situation		Manner in which an object is placed; location, esp. as related to something else; position; locality site; as, a house in a pleasant situation.	French situation, from Latin situatio.
situs		The method in which the parts of a plant are arranged; also, the position of the parts.	Latin situs.
siva		One of the triad of Hindoo gods.	
sivan		The third month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year; -- supposed to correspond nearly with our month of June.	
sivatherium		A genus of very large extinct ruminants found in the Tertiary formation of India.	
siver	Obsolete	To simmer.	
sivvens		See Sibbens — a contagious disease, endemic in Scotland, resembling the yaws.	
siwin		Same as Sewen.	
six		One more than five; twice three; as, six yards.	
six-footer	Colloquial	One who is six feet tall.	
six-shooter	Colloquial	A pistol or other firearm which can be fired six times without reloading especially, a six-chambered revolver.	
sixfold		Six times repeated; six times as much or as many.	
sixpence		An English silver coin of the value of six pennies; half a shilling, or about twelve cents.	
sixpenny		Of the value of, or costing, sixpence; as, a sixpenny loaf.	
sixscore		Six times twenty; one hundred and twenty.	
sixteen		Six and ten; consisting of six and ten; fifteen and one more.	
sixteenmo		See Sextodecimo — having sixteen leaves to a sheet; of, or equal to, the size of one fold of a sheet of printing paper when folded so as to make sixteen leaves, or thirty-two pages; as, a sextodecimo volume.	
sixteenth		Sixth after the tenth; next in order after the fifteenth.	
sixth		First after the fifth; next in order after the fifth.	
sixthly		In the sixth place.	
sixtieth		Next in order after the fifty-ninth.	
sixty		Six times ten; fifty-nine and one more; threescore.	Old English sixtig.
sixty-fourth		Constituting or being one of sixty-four equal parts into which a thing is divided.	
sizable		Of considerable size or bulk.	
sizar		One of a body of students in the universities of Cambridge (Eng.) and Dublin, who, having passed a certain examination, are exempted from paying college fees and charges.	
sizarship		The position or standing of a sizar.	
size		A thin, weak glue used in various trades, as in painting, bookbinding, paper making, etc.	Middle English sise, from Old French cise.
sized		Adjusted according to size.	
sizel		Same as Scissel, 2.	
sizer		See Sizar — one of a body of students in the universities of Cambridge (Eng.) and Dublin, who, having passed a certain examination, are exempted from paying college fees and charges.	
siziness		The quality or state of being sizy; viscousness.	
sizing		Act of covering or treating with size.	
sizy		Sizelike; viscous; glutinous; as, sizy blood.	
sizzle	English dialect	To make a hissing sound; to fry, or to dry and shrivel up, with a hissing sound.	
sizzling		from Sizzle.	
