skaddle	Obsolete	Hurt; damage.	
skaddon	English dialect	The larva of a bee.	
skag		An additional piece fastened to the keel of a boat to prevent lateral motion.	
skain	Obsolete	See Skein. See Skean.	
skainsmate	Obsolete	A messmate; a companion.	
skaith	Scots	See Scatch — a kind of bit for the bridle of a horse; -- called also scatchmouth.	
skald		See 5th Scald.	Old Norse skald.
skaldic		See Scaldic — of or pertaining to the scalds of the Norsemen; as, scaldic poetry.	
skall	Obsolete	To scale; to mount.	
skar	English dialect	Wild; timid; shy.	
skare	English dialect	Wild; timid; shy.	
skart	English dialect	The shag.	
skat		A three-handed card game played with 32 cards, of which two constitute the skat (sense 2), or widow.	
skate		A metallic runner with a frame shaped to fit the sole of a shoe, -- made to be fastened under the foot, and used for moving rapidly on ice.	
skater		One who skates.	
skatol		A constituent of human fæces formed in the small intestines as a product of the putrefaction of albuminous matter.	
skayles	Obsolete	Skittles.	
skean		A knife or short dagger, esp. that in use among the Highlanders of Scotland.	
skedaddle	Slang	To betake one's self to flight, as if in a panic; to flee; to run away.	
skee		A long strip of wood, curved upwards in front, used on the foot for sliding.	
skeed		See Skid — a shoe or clog, as of iron, attached to a chain, and placed under the wheel of a wagon to prevent its turning when descending a steep hill; a drag; a skidpan; also, by extension…	
skeel	English dialect	A shallow wooden vessel for holding milk or cream.	Old Norse skjóla.
skeelduck	English dialect	The common European sheldrake.	
skeelgoose	English dialect	The common European sheldrake.	
skeet		A scoop with a long handle, used to wash the sides of a vessel, and formerly to wet the sails or deck.	
skeg		(Naut.) The after part of the keel of a vessel, to which the rudder is attached.	
skegger		The parr.	
skein		A quantity of yarn, thread, or the like, put up together, after it is taken from the reel, -- usually tied in a sort of knot.	Old English skeyne.
skeine		See Skean — a knife or short dagger, esp. that in use among the Highlanders of Scotland.	
skelder	Obsolete	To deceive; to cheat; to trick.	
skeldrake		(a) The common European sheldrake. (b) The oyster catcher.	
skelet		A skeleton. See Scelet.	
skeletal		Pertaining to the skeleton.	
skeletogenous		Forming or producing parts of the skeleton.	
skeletology		That part of anatomy which treats of the skeleton; also, a treatise on the skeleton.	
skeleton		(Anat.) (a) The bony and cartilaginous framework which supports the soft parts of a vertebrate animal.	Greek σκελετός.
skeletonize		To prepare a skeleton of; also, to reduce, as a leaf, to its skeleton.	
skeletonizer		Any small moth whose larva eats the parenchyma of leaves, leaving the skeleton; as, the apple-leaf skeletonizer.	
skellum	Obsolete	A scoundrel.	Danish schelm, from German Schelm.
skelly	English dialect	To squint.	
skelp	English dialect	A blow; a smart stroke.	
skelter	Colloquial	To run off helter-skelter; to hurry; to scurry; -- with away or off.	
sken	English dialect	To squint.	
skene		See Skean — a knife or short dagger, esp. that in use among the Highlanders of Scotland.	Greek σκηνή.
skep	Obsolete	A coarse round farm basket.	
skeptic		One who is yet undecided as to what is true; one who is looking or inquiring for what is true; an inquirer after facts or reasons.	
skeptical		Of or pertaining to a sceptic or skepticism; characterized by skepticism; hesitating to admit the certainly of doctrines or principles; doubting of everything.	
skepticism		An undecided, inquiring state of mind; doubt; uncertainty.	
skepticize		To doubt; to pretend to doubt of everything.	
skerry	Scots	A rocky isle; an insulated rock.	
sketch		An outline or general delineation of anything; a first rough or incomplete draught or plan of any design; especially, in the fine arts…	Dutch schets, from Italian schizzo, from Latin schedium, from Greek σχέδιος.
sketchbook		A book of sketches or for sketches.	
sketcher		One who sketches.	
sketchily		In a sketchy or incomplete manner.	
sketchiness		The quality or state of being sketchy; lack of finish; incompleteness.	
sketchy		Containing only an outline or rough form; being in the manner of a sketch; incomplete.	
skew		Awry; obliquely; askew.	Old French escuer.
skewbald		Marked with spots and patches of white and some color other than black; -- usually distinguished from piebald, in which the colors are properly white and black.	
skewer		A pin of wood or metal for fastening meat to a spit, or for keeping it in form while roasting.	
ski		Same as Skee.	Norwegian ski, from Old Norse skíð.
skiagraph		See Sciagraph, Sciagraphy, etc.	
skiagraphy		See Sciagraph, Sciagraphy, etc.	
skiascope		A device for determining the refractive state of the eye by observing the movements of the retinal lights and shadows. -- Ski*as co*py (#), n.	
skid		A shoe or clog, as of iron, attached to a chain, and placed under the wheel of a wagon to prevent its turning when descending a steep hill; a drag; a skidpan; also, by extension, a hook attached to a chain…	
skiddaw	English dialect	The black guillemot.	
skidder		(a) One that skids logs. (b) An engine for hauling the cable used in skidding logs.	
skidpan		See Skid, n.,	
skied		imp. & p. p. of Sky, v. t.	
skieldrake		(a) The common European sheldrake. (b) The oyster catcher.	
skiey		See Skyey — like the sky; ethereal; being in the sky.	
skiff		A small, light boat.	Middle French esquif, from Italian schifo, from Old French eschiver.
skiffling		Rough dressing by knocking off knobs or projections; knobbing.	
skilder	English dialect	To beg; to pilfer; to skelder.	
skilful		See Skilful.	Middle English skilful.
skill		The familiar knowledge of any art or science, united with readiness and dexterity in execution or performance, or in the application of the art or science to practical purposes; power to discern and execute…	Middle English skilen.
skill-less		Wanting skill.	
skilled		Having familiar knowledge united with readiness and dexterity in its application; familiarly acquainted with; expert; skillful; -- often followed by in; as, a person skilled in drawing or geometry.	
skillet		A small vessel of iron, copper, or other metal, with a handle, used for culinary purpose, as for stewing meat.	Old French escuelette.
skillful		Possessed of, or displaying, skill; knowing and ready; expert; well-versed; able in management; as, a skillful mechanic; -- often followed by at, in, or of; as, skillful at the organ; skillful in drawing.	Middle English skilful.
skilligalee		A kind of thin, weak broth or oatmeal porridge, served out to prisoners and paupers in England; also, a drink made of oatmeal, sugar, and water, sometimes used in the English navy or army.	
skilling	English dialect	A bay of a barn; also, a slight addition to a cottage.	
skilts	Dialect	A kind of large, coarse, short trousers formerly worn.	
skilty	English dialect	The water rail.	
skim		To clear (a liquid) from scum or substance floating or lying thereon, by means of a utensil that passes just beneath the surface; as, to skim milk; to skim broth.	Middle English skimmen.
skimback	Dialect	The quillback.	
skimble-scamble	Colloquial	Rambling; disorderly; unconnected.	
skimitry		See Skimmington — a word employed in the phrase, To ride Skimmington; that is to ride on a horse with a woman, but behind her, facing backward, carrying a distaff…	
skimmer		One who, or that which, skims; esp., a utensil with which liquids are skimmed.	
skimmerton		See Skimmington — a word employed in the phrase, To ride Skimmington; that is to ride on a horse with a woman, but behind her, facing backward, carrying a distaff…	
skimming		The act of one who skims.	
skimmingly		In a skimming manner.	
skimmington		A word employed in the phrase, To ride Skimmington; that is to ride on a horse with a woman, but behind her, facing backward, carrying a distaff, and accompanied by a procession of jeering neighbors making mock music…	
skimp	English dialect	To make insufficient allowance for; to scant; to scrimp.	
skin		(Anat.) The external membranous integument of an animal.	Middle English skinn, from Old Norse skinn.
skin-deep		Not deeper than the skin; hence, superficial.	
skinbound		Having the skin adhering closely and rigidly to the flesh; hidebound.	
skinch		To give scant measure; to squeeze or pinch in order to effect a saving.	
skinflint		A penurious person; a miser; a niggard.	
skinful		As much as a skin can hold.	
skink	Obsolete	Any one of numerous species of regularly scaled harmless lizards of the family Scincidæ, common in the warmer parts of all the continents.	Latin scincus, from Greek σκίνκος.
skinker		One who serves liquor; a tapster.	
skinless		Having no skin, or a very thin skin; as, skinless fruit.	
skinner		One who deals in skins, pelts, or hides.	
skinniness		Quality of being skinny.	
skinny		Consisting, or chiefly consisting, of skin; wanting flesh.	
skip		A basket on wheels, used in cotton factories.	
skipjack		(Zoöl.) An elater; a snap bug, or snapping beetle.	
skipper		One who, or that which, skips.	
skippet	Obsolete	A small boat; a skiff.	
skippingly		In a skipping manner; by skips, or light leaps.	
skirl	English dialect	To utter in a shrill tone; to scream.	
skirlcock		The missel thrush; -- so called from its harsh alarm note.	
skirlcrake		The turnstone.	
skirling	English dialect	A shrill cry or sound; a crying shrilly; a skirl.	
skirmish		To fight slightly or in small parties; to engage in a skirmish or skirmishes; to act as skirmishers.	
skirmisher		One who skirmishes. Specifically: pl. (Mil.) Soldiers deployed in loose order, to cover the front or flanks of an advancing army or a marching column.	
skirr	Archaic	To ramble over in order to clear; to scour.	
skirret		An umbelliferous plant (Sium, or Pimpinella, Sisarum).	
skirrhus		See Scirrhus — (a) An indurated organ or part; especially, an indurated gland. (b) A cancerous tumor which is hard, translucent, of a gray or bluish color, and emits a creaking sound when incised.	
skirt		The lower and loose part of a coat, dress, or other like garment; the part below the waist; as, the skirt of a coat, a dress, or a mantle.	Old Norse skyrta.
skirting		(Arch.) A skirting board.	
skit	English dialect	To cast reflections on; to asperse.	
skitter		To move or pass (something) over a surface quickly so that it touches only at intervals; to skip.	
skittish		Easily frightened; timorous; shy; untrustworthy; as, a skittish colt.	
skittle		Pertaining to the game of skittles.	
skittle-dog		The piked dogfish.	
skittles		An English game resembling ninepins, but played by throwing wooden disks, instead of rolling balls, at the pins.	
skitty	English dialect	A rail; as, the water rail (called also skitty cock, and skitty coot); the spotted crake (Porzana maruetta), and the moor hen.	
skive		The iron lap used by diamond polishers in finishing the facets of the gem.	
skiver		An inferior quality of leather, made of split sheepskin, tanned by immersion in sumac, and dyed.	
skiving		The act of paring or splitting leather or skins.	
sklere	Obsolete	To shelter; to cover.	
skolecite		See Scolecite — a zeolitic mineral occuring in delicate radiating groups of white crystals.	
skolezite		See Scolecite — a zeolitic mineral occuring in delicate radiating groups of white crystals.	
skonce		See Sconce — a fortification, or work for defense; a fort.	
skopster	English dialect	The saury.	
skoptsy		See Raskolnik — one of the separatists or dissenters from the established or Greek church in Russia.	
skorodite		See Scorodite — a leek-green or brownish mineral occurring in orthorhombic crystals.	
skout		A guillemot.	
skowitz		The silver salmon.	
skreen	Obsolete	See Screen — anything that separates or cuts off inconvience, injury, or danger; that which shelters or conceals from view; a shield or protection; as, a fire screen.	
skrike	Obsolete	To shriek.	
skrimmage		See Scrimmage — formerly, a skirmish; now, a general row or confused fight or struggle.	
skrimp		See Scrimp — to make too small or short; to limit or straiten; to put on short allowance; to scant; to contract; to shorten; as, to scrimp the pattern of a coat.	
skringe		See Scringe — to cringe.	
skrite	English dialect	The skrike.	
skua		Any jager gull; especially, the Megalestris skua; -- called also boatswain.	Faroese skúgvur, from English skúfr.
skue		See Skew — awry; obliquely; askew.	
skulk		To hide, or get out of the way, in a sneaking manner; to lie close, or to move in a furtive way; to lurk.	Middle English skulken.
skulker		One who, or that which, skulks.	
skulkingly		In a skulking manner.	
skull		(Anat.) The skeleton of the head of a vertebrate animal, including the brain case, or cranium, and the bones and cartilages of the face and mouth.	
skullcap		A cap which fits the head closely; also, formerly, a headpiece of iron sewed inside of a cap for protection.	
skullfish		A whaler's name for a whale more than two years old.	
skulpin		See Sculpin — (a) Any one of numerous species of marine cottoid fishes of the genus Cottus, or Acanthocottus, having a large head armed with sharp spines, and a broad mouth.	
skun		See Scum — the extraneous matter or impurities which rise to the surface of liquids in boiling or fermentation, or which form on the surface by other means; also…	
skunk	Colloquial	Any one of several species of American musteline carnivores of the genus Mephitis and allied genera.	
skunkball		The surf duck.	
skunkhead		(a) The surf duck. (b) A duck (Camptolaimus Labradorus) which formerly inhabited the Atlantic coast of New England.	
skunkish		Like the skunk, especially in odor.	
skunktop		The surf duck.	
skunkweed		Skunk cabbage.	
skurry		See Scurry — to hasten away or along; to move rapidly; to hurry; as, the rabbit scurried away.	
skute	Obsolete	A boat; a small vessel.	
skutterudite		A mineral of a bright metallic luster and tin-white to pale lead-gray color.	
sky		The apparent arch, or vault, of heaven, which in a clear day is of a blue color; the heavens; the firmament; -- sometimes in the plural.	
sky-blue		Having the blue color of the sky; azure; as, a sky-blue stone.	
sky-high	Colloquial	, adv. & a.	
skyed	Poetic & r	Surrounded by sky.	
skyey		Like the sky; ethereal; being in the sky.	
skyish		Like the sky, or approaching the sky; lofty; ethereal.	
skylark		A lark that mounts and sings as it files, especially the common species (Alauda arvensis) found in Europe and in some parts of Asia, and celebrated for its melodious song; -- called also sky laverock.	
skylarking	Colloquial	The act of running about the rigging of a vessel in sport; hence, frolicking; scuffing; sporting; carousing.	
skylight		A window placed in the roof of a building, in the ceiling of a room, or in the deck of a ship, for the admission of light from above.	
skyman	Slang	An aëronaut.	
skyrocket		A rocket that ascends high and burns as it flies; a species of fireworks.	
skysail		The sail set next above the royal. See Illust. under Sail.	
skyscraper	Rare	(a) (Naut.) (1) A skysail of a triangular form. (2) A name for the one of the fancy sails alleged to have been sometimes set above the skysail.	
skyward		Toward the sky.	
