slab		A thin piece of anything, especially of marble or other stone, having plane surfaces.	Middle English sclabbe.
slab-sided	Colloquial	Having flat sides; hence, tall, or long and lank.	
slabber		To let saliva or some liquid fall from the mouth carelessly, like a child or an idiot; to drivel; to drool.	Middle English slaberen, from Middle Dutch slabberen.
slabberer		One who slabbers, or drools; hence, an idiot.	
slabbery		Like, or covered with, slabber or slab; slippery; sloppy.	
slabbiness		Quality of being slabby.	
slabbing		Adapted for forming slabs, or for dressing flat surfaces.	
slabby		Thick; viscous.	
slack	English dialect	Small coal; also, coal dust; culm.	
slacken		To become slack; to be made less tense, firm, or rigid; to decrease in tension; as, a wet cord slackens in dry weather.	
slackly		In a slack manner.	
slackness		The quality or state of being slack.	
slade	Obsolete	A little dell or valley; a flat piece of low, moist ground.	Middle English slade, from Old English slæd.
slag		The dross, or recrement, of a metal; also, vitrified cinders.	Swedish slagg.
slaggy		Of or pertaining to slag; resembling slag; as, slaggy cobalt.	
slaie		A weaver's reed; a sley.	
slake		To allay; to quench; to extinguish; as, to slake thirst.	Middle English slaken.
slakeless		Not capable of being slaked.	
slakin		Slacken.	
slam		To shut with force and a loud noise; to bang; as, he slammed the door.	
slam-bang	Colloquial	With great violence; with a slamming or banging noise.	
slamkin	Obsolete	A slut; a slatternly woman.	
slammerkin	Obsolete	A slut; a slatternly woman.	
slander		A false tale or report maliciously uttered, tending to injure the reputation of another; the malicious utterance of defamatory reports; the dissemination of malicious tales or suggestions to the injury of another.	
slanderer		One who slanders; a defamer; a calumniator.	
slanderous		Given or disposed to slander; uttering slander.	
slang	Archaic	imp. of Sling — an instrument for throwing stones or other missiles, consisting of a short strap with two strings fastened to its ends, or with a string fastened to one end and a light stick to the other.	
slang-whanger	Colloquial	One who uses abusive slang; a ranting partisan.	
slanginess		Quality of being slangy.	
slangy		Of or pertaining to slang; of the nature of slang; disposed to use slang.	
slank		imp. & p. p. of Slink.	
slant		To be turned or inclined from a right line or level; to lie obliquely; to slope.	
slanting		Oblique; sloping. -- Slant"ing*ly, adv.	
slantly		In an inclined direction; obliquely; slopingly.	
slantwise		In an inclined direction; obliquely; slopingly.	
slap	Colloquial	A blow, esp. one given with the open hand, or with something broad.	
slapdash	Colloquial	In a bold, careless manner; at random.	
slape	English dialect	Slippery; smooth; crafty; hypocritical.	
slapeface	English dialect	A soft-spoken, crafty hypocrite.	
slapjack	Dialect	A flat batter cake cooked on a griddle; a flapjack; a griddlecake.	
slapper		One who, or that which, slaps.	
slapping	Slang	Very large; monstrous; big.	
slash		To cut by striking violently and at random; to cut in long slits.	
slashed		Marked or cut with a slash or slashes; deeply gashed; especially, having long, narrow openings, as a sleeve or other part of a garment, to show rich lining or under vesture.	
slasher		A machine for applying size to warp yarns.	
slashy	English dialect	Wet and dirty; slushy.	
slat		A thin, narrow strip or bar of wood or metal; as, the slats of a window blind.	
slatch		(a) The period of a transitory breeze. (b) An interval of fair weather.	
slate		(Min.) An argillaceous rock which readily splits into thin plates; argillite; argillaceous schist.	Old French esclate.
slate-color		A dark bluish gray color.	
slate-gray		Of a dark gray, like slate.	
slater		One who lays slates, or whose occupation is to slate buildings.	
slating		The act of covering with slate, slates, or a substance resembling slate; the work of a slater.	
slatt		A slab of stone used as a veneer for coarse masonry.	
slatter		To be careless, negligent, or aswkward, esp. with regard to dress and neatness; to be wasteful.	
slattern		A woman who is negligent of her dress or house; one who is not neat and nice.	
slatternliness		The quality or state of being slatternly; slovenliness; untidiness.	
slatternly		Resembling a slattern; sluttish; negligent; dirty. -- adv.	
slatterpouch	Obsolete	A dance or game played by boys, requiring active exercise.	
slatting		Slats, collectively.	
slaty		Resembling slate; having the nature, appearance, or properties, of slate; composed of thin parallel plates, capable of being separated by splitting; as, a slaty color or texture.	
slaughter		The act of killing. Specifically: (a) The extensive, violent, bloody, or wanton destruction of life; carnage.	Old Norse slátr.
slaughterer		One who slaughters.	
slaughterhouse		A house where beasts are butchered for the market.	
slaughterman		One employed in slaughtering.	
slaughterous		Destructive; murderous.	
slav		One of a race of people occupying a large part of Eastern and Northern Europe, including the Russians, Bulgarians, Roumanians, Servo-Croats, Slovenes, Poles, Czechs, Wends or Sorbs, Slovaks, etc.	
slave		See Slav — one of a race of people occupying a large part of Eastern and Northern Europe, including the Russians, Bulgarians, Roumanians, Servo-Croats, Slovenes, Poles, Czechs, Wends or Sorbs…	
slaveborn		Born in slavery.	
slaveholder		One who holds slaves.	
slaveholding		Holding persons in slavery.	
slaveocracy		See Slavocracy — the persons or interest formerly representing slavery politically, or wielding political power for the preservation or advancement of slavery.	
slaver		A vessel engaged in the slave trade; a slave ship.	
slaverer		A driveler; an idiot.	
slavering		Drooling; defiling with saliva. -- Slav"er*ing*ly, adv.	
slavery		The condition of a slave; the state of entire subjection of one person to the will of another.	
slavey	Colloquial	A maidservant.	
slavic		Slavonic. -- n.	
slavish		Of or pertaining to slaves; such as becomes or befits a slave; servile; excessively laborious; as, a slavish life; a slavish dependance on the great. -- Slav ish*ness, n.	
slavism		The common feeling and interest of the Slavonic race.	
slavocracy		The persons or interest formerly representing slavery politically, or wielding political power for the preservation or advancement of slavery.	
slavonian		Of or pertaining to Slavonia, or its inhabitants.	
slavonic		Of or pertaining to Slavonia, or its inhabitants.	
slavophil		One, not being a Slav, who is interested in the development and prosperity of that race.	
slavophile		One, not being a Slav, who is interested in the development and prosperity of that race.	
slaw		Sliced cabbage served as a salad, cooked or uncooked. p. p. of Slee, to slay.	
slawen		p. p. of Slee, to slay.	
slay		To put to death with a weapon, or by violence; hence, to kill; to put an end to; to destroy.	Middle English sleen, from Old English slean.
slayer		One who slays; a killer; a murderer; a destrroyer of life.	
slazy		See Sleazy — wanting firmness of texture or substance; thin; flimsy; as, sleazy silk or muslin.	
sle	Obsolete	To slay.	
sleave		(a) The knotted or entangled part of silk or thread. (b) Silk not yet twisted; floss; -- called also sleave silk.	
sleaved		Raw; not spun or wrought; as, sleaved thread or silk.	
sleaziness		Quality of being sleazy.	
sleazy		Wanting firmness of texture or substance; thin; flimsy; as, sleazy silk or muslin.	
sled		A vehicle on runners, used for conveying loads over the snow or ice; -- in England called sledge.	Middle English sledde.
sledding		The state of the snow which admits of the running of sleds; as, the sledding is good.	
sledge		A strong vehicle with low runners or low wheels; or one without wheels or runners, made of plank slightly turned up at one end, used for transporting loads upon the snow, ice, or bare ground; a sled.	
slee	Obsolete	To slay.	
sleek		Having an even, smooth surface; smooth; hence, glossy; as, sleek hair.	
sleekly		In a sleek manner; smoothly.	
sleekness		The quality or state of being sleek; smoothness and glossiness of surface.	
sleeky		Of a sleek, or smooth, and glossy appearance.	
sleep		imp. of Sleep — to take rest by a suspension of the voluntary exercise of the powers of the body and mind, and an apathy of the organs of sense; to slumber.	Middle English slepen, from Old English slæpan.
sleep-at-noon		A plant (Tragopogon pratensis) which closes its flowers at midday; a kind of goat's beard.	
sleep-charged		Heavy with sleep.	
sleeper		One who sleeps; a slumberer; hence, a drone, or lazy person.	
sleepful		Strongly inclined to sleep; very sleepy. -- Sleep"ful*ness, n.	
sleepily		In a sleepy manner; drowsily.	
sleepiness		The quality or state of being sleepy.	
sleeping		from Sleep.	
sleepish		Disposed to sleep; sleepy; drowsy.	
sleepless		Having no sleep; wakeful.	
sleepmarken		See 1st Hag, 4.	
sleepwaker		On in a state of magnetic or mesmeric sleep.	
sleepwaking		The state of one mesmerized, or in a partial and morbid sleep.	
sleepwalker		One who walks in his sleep; a somnambulist.	
sleepwalking		Walking in one's sleep.	
sleepy		Drowsy; inclined to, or overcome by, sleep.	
sleepyhead		A sleepy person.	
sleer	Obsolete	A slayer.	
sleet		The part of a mortar extending from the chamber to the trunnions.	
sleetch	Scots	Mud or slime, such as that at the bottom of rivers.	
sleetiness		The state of being sleety.	
sleety		Of or pertaining to sleet; characterized by sleet; as, a sleety storm; sleety weather.	
sleeve		See Sleave, untwisted thread.	Middle English sleve, from Old English sliefe.
sleeved		Having sleeves; furnished with sleeves; -- often in composition; as, long-sleeved.	
sleevefish		A squid.	
sleevehand	Obsolete	The part of a sleeve nearest the hand; a cuff or wristband.	
sleeveless	Obsolete	Wanting a cover, pretext, or palliation; unreasonable; profitless; bootless; useless.	
sleid		To sley, or prepare for use in the weaver's sley, or slaie.	
sleighing		The state of the snow or ice which admits of running sleighs.	
sleight		An artful trick; sly artifice; a feat so dexterous that the manner of performance escapes observation.	Old Norse slœgð.
sleightful	Obsolete	Cunning; dexterous.	
sleightly	Obsolete	Cunningly.	
sleighty	Obsolete	Cunning; sly.	
slender		Small or narrow in proportion to the length or the height; not thick; slim; as, a slender stem or stalk of a plant.	Middle English slendre.
slent	Obsolete	See Slant — to be turned or inclined from a right line or level; to lie obliquely; to slope.	
slep		imp. of Sleep — to take rest by a suspension of the voluntary exercise of the powers of the body and mind, and an apathy of the organs of sense; to slumber.	
slepez		A burrowing rodent (Spalax typhlus), native of Russia and Asia Minor.	Russian слепец.
slept		imp. & p. p. of Sleep.	
sleuth	Scots	The track of man or beast as followed by the scent.	Old English slæwþ.
sleuthhound		A hound that tracks animals by the scent; specifically, a bloodhound.	
slew		imp. of Slay. See Slue.	Irish slua, from Middle Irish (900-1200 slúagh, from Old Irish slóg.
slewed	Slang	Somewhat drunk.	
slewth	Obsolete	Sloth; idleness.	
sley		A guideway in a knitting machine.	
slibber	Obsolete	Slippery.	
slice		A thin, broad piece cut off; as, a slice of bacon; a slice of cheese; a slice of bread.	Middle English slice.
slicer		One who, or that which, slices; specifically, the circular saw of the lapidary.	
slich		See Schlich — the finer portion of a crushed ore, as of gold, lead, or tin, separated by the water in certain wet processes.	
slick		See Schlich — the finer portion of a crushed ore, as of gold, lead, or tin, separated by the water in certain wet processes.	
slicken	English dialect	Sleek; smooth.	
slickens	Dialect	The pulverized matter from a quartz mill, or the lighter soil of hydraulic mines.	
slickensides		The smooth, striated, or partially polished surfaces of a fissure or seam, supposed to have been produced by the sliding of one surface on another.	
slicker		That which makes smooth or sleek. Specifically: (a) A kind of burnisher for leather.	
slicking		pl. (Min.) Narrow veins of ore.	
slickness		The state or quality of being slick; smoothness; sleekness.	
slid		imp. & p. p. of Slide.	
slidden		p. p. of Slide — to move along the surface of any body by slipping, or without walking or rolling; to slip; to glide; as, snow slides down the mountain's side.	
slidder	Obsolete	To slide with interruption.	Middle English slyderen.
slidderly	Obsolete	Slippery.	
sliddery	Obsolete	Slippery.	Middle English sliderye.
slide		To move along the surface of any body by slipping, or without walking or rolling; to slip; to glide; as, snow slides down the mountain's side.	Middle English sliden, from Old English slidan.
slidegroat	Obsolete	The game of shovelboard.	
slider		One who, or that which, slides; especially, a sliding part of an instrument or machine.	
slideway		A way along which something slides.	
sliding		That slides or slips; gliding; moving smoothly.	
slidometer		An instrument for indicating and recording shocks to railway cars occasioned by sudden stopping.	
slight		Not decidedly marked; not forcible; inconsiderable; unimportant; insignificant; not severe; weak; gentle; -- applied in a great variety of circumstances; as, a slight (i. e., feeble) effort; a slight (i. e.…	Old English sliht.
slighten	Obsolete	To slight.	
slighter		One who slights.	
slightful	Obsolete	See Sleightful — cunning; dexterous.	
slighting		Characterized by neglect or disregard.	
slightingly		In a slighting manner.	
slightly		In a slight manner.	
slightness		The quality or state of being slight; slenderness; feebleness; superficiality; also, formerly, negligence; indifference; disregard.	
slikensides		Same as Slickensides.	
slily		See Slyly — in a sly manner; shrewdly; craftily.	
slim	English dialect	Worthless; bad.	Dutch slim, from Middle Dutch slim.
slime		Soft, moist earth or clay, having an adhesive quality; viscous mud.	Old English slim.
slimily		In a slimy manner.	
sliminess		The quality or state of being slimy.	
slimly		In a state of slimness; in a slim manner; slenderly.	
slimness		The quality or state of being slim.	
slimsy	Colloquial	Flimsy; frail.	
slimy		Of or pertaining to slime; resembling slime; of the nature of slime; viscous; glutinous; also, covered or daubed with slime; yielding, or abounding in, slime.	
sliness		See Slyness — the quality or state of being sly.	
sling		An instrument for throwing stones or other missiles, consisting of a short strap with two strings fastened to its ends, or with a string fastened to one end and a light stick to the other.	
slinger		One who slings, or uses a sling.	
slink		To creep away meanly; to steal away; to sneak.	Old English slincan.
slinky	English dialect	Thin; lank.	
slip		To move along the surface of a thing without bounding, rolling, or stepping; to slide; to glide.	Old English slype.
slip-on	Scots	A kind of overcoat worn upon the shoulders in the manner of a cloak.	
slipboard		A board sliding in grooves.	
slipes		Sledge runners on which a skip is dragged in a mine.	
slipknot		knot which slips along the rope or line around which it is made.	
slippage		The act of slipping; also, the amount of slipping.	
slipper		One who, or that which, slips.	
slippered		Wearing slippers.	
slipperily		In a slippery manner.	
slipperiness		The quality of being slippery.	
slipperness	Obsolete	Slipperiness.	
slipperwort		See Calceolaria — a genus of showy herbaceous or shrubby plant, biought from South America; slipperwort.	
slippery		Having the quality opposite to adhesiveness; allowing or causing anything to slip or move smoothly, rapidly, and easily upon the surface; smooth; glib; as, oily substances render things slippery.	
slippiness		Slipperiness.	
slippy		Slippery.	
slipshod		Wearing shoes or slippers down at the heel.	
slipshoe		A slipper.	
slipskin	Obsolete	Evasive.	
slipslop		Weak, poor, or flat liquor; weak, profitless discourse or writing.	
slipstring	Obsolete	One who has shaken off restraint; a prodigal.	
slipthrift	Obsolete	A spendthrift.	
slish	Colloquial	A cut; as, slish and slash.	
slit		To cut lengthwise; to cut into long pieces or strips; as, to slit iron bars into nail rods; to slit leather into straps.	
slit-shell		Any species of Pleurotomaria, a genus of beautiful, pearly, spiral gastropod shells having a deep slit in the outer lip.	
slither	English dialect	To slide; to glide.	Middle English slitheren.
slitter		One who, or that which, slits.	
slitting		from Slit.	
slive	English dialect	To sneak.	Middle English sliven, from Old English slifan.
sliver		To cut or divide into long, thin pieces, or into very small pieces; to cut or rend lengthwise; to slit; as, to sliver wood.	Middle English sliver.
sloakan		A species of seaweed. See 3d Laver.	
sloam		A layer of earth between coal seams.	
sloat		A narrow piece of timber which holds together large pieces; a slat; as, the sloats of a cart.	
slobber		See Slabber — to let saliva or some liquid fall from the mouth carelessly, like a child or an idiot; to drivel; to drool.	
slobberer		One who slobbers.	
slobbery		Wet; sloppy, as land.	
slock	Obsolete	To quench; to allay; to slake. See Slake.	
slocken	Obsolete	To quench; to allay; to slake. See Slake.	Old Norse slokna.
slocking		from Slock.	
sloe		A small, bitter, wild European plum, the fruit of the blackthorn (Prunus spinosa); also, the tree itself.	Old English slah.
slog		To hit hard, esp. with little attention to aim or the like, as in cricket or boxing; to slug.	
slogan		The war cry, or gathering word, of a Highland clan in Scotland; hence, any rallying cry.	
slogger		A hard hitter; a slugger.	
sloggy	Obsolete	Sluggish.	
sloke		See Sloakan — a species of seaweed. See 3d Laver.	
sloo		A slough; a run or wet place. See 2d Slough, 2.	
sloom	English dialect	Slumber.	
sloomy	English dialect	Sluggish; slow.	
sloop		A vessel having one mast and fore-and-aft rig, consisting of a boom-and-gaff mainsail, jibs, staysail, and gaff topsail.	Dutch sloep, from Middle Dutch slœpen.
slop		Water or other liquid carelessly spilled or thrown aboyt, as upon a table or a floor; a puddle; a soiled spot.	
slope		An oblique direction; a line or direction including from a horizontal line or direction; also, sometimes, an inclination, as of one line or surface to another.	
slopeness		State of being slope.	
slopewise	Obsolete	Obliquely.	
sloping		Inclining or inclined from the plane of the horizon, or from a horizontal or other right line; oblique; declivous; slanting. -- Slop"ing*ly, adv.	
sloppiness		The quality or state of being sloppy; muddiness.	
sloppy		Wet, so as to spatter easily; wet, as with something slopped over; muddy; plashy; as, a sloppy place, walk, road.	
slopseller		One who sells slops, or ready-made clothes. See 4th Slop, 3.	
slopshop		A shop where slops. or ready-made clothes, are sold.	
slopwork		The manufacture of slops, or cheap ready-made clothing; also, such clothing; hence, hasty, slovenly work of any kind.	
slopy		Sloping; inclined.	
slosh		See Slush, Slushy.	
sloshy		See Slush, Slushy.	
slot		A broad, flat, wooden bar; a slat or sloat.	Old French esclot, from Old Norse slóð.
sloth		Slowness; tardiness.	Middle English slouthe.
slothful		Addicted to sloth; inactive; sluggish; lazy; indolent; idle.	
slothhound		See Sleuthhound — a hound that tracks animals by the scent; specifically, a bloodhound.	
slotted		Having a slot.	
slotting		The act or process of making slots, or mortises.	
slouch		A hanging down of the head; a drooping attitude; a limp appearance; an ungainly, clownish gait; a sidewise depression or hanging down, as of a hat brim.	Old Norse slókr.
slouching		Hanging down at the side; limp; drooping; without firmness or shapeliness; moving in an ungainly manner.	
slouchy	Colloquial	Slouching.	
slough		A place of deep mud or mire; a hole full of mire.	Old English sloh.
sloughing		The act of casting off the skin or shell, as do insects and crustaceans; ecdysis.	
sloughy		Full of sloughs, miry.	
sloven		A man or boy habitually negligent of neathess and order; -- the correlative term to slattern, or slut.	
slovenliness		The quality or state of being slovenly.	
slovenly		Having the habits of a sloven; negligent of neatness and order, especially in dress.	
slovenness	Obsolete	Slovenliness.	
slovenry	Obsolete	Slovenliness.	
slow		Moving a short space in a relatively long time; not swift; not quick in motion; not rapid; moderate; deliberate; as, a slow stream; a slow motion.	Old English slaw.
slow-witted		Dull of apprehension; not possessing quick intelligence.	
slowback		A lubber; an idle fellow; a loiterer.	
slowh		imp. of Slee,to slay.	
slowhound		A sleuthhound.	
slowly		In a slow manner; moderately; not rapidly; not early; not rashly; not readly; tardly.	
slowness		The quality or state of being slow.	
slows		Milk sickness.	
slowworm		A lecertilian reptile; the blindworm.	Middle English sloworm, from Old English slāwyrm.
sloyd		Lit., skilled mechanical work, such as that required in wood carving; trade work; hence, a system (usually called the sloyd system) of manual training in the practical use of the tools and materials used in the trades…	Swedish slöjd.
slub		A roll of wool slightly twisted; a rove; -- called also slubbing.	
slubber		To do lazily, imperfectly, or coarsely.	
slubberdegullion	Low	A mean, dirty wretch.	
slubberingly	Low	In a slovenly, or hurried and imperfect, manner.	
slubbing		from Slub.	
sludge		Mud; mire; soft mud; slush.	
sludger		A bucket for removing mud from a bored hole; a sand pump.	
sludy		Miry; slushy.	
slue		A slough; a run or wet place. See 2d Slough, 2.	
slug		A drone; a slow, lazy fellow; a sluggard.	
slug-horn		An erroneous form of the Scotch word slughorne, or sloggorne, meaning slogan.	
slugabed		One who indulges in lying abed; a sluggard.	
sluggard		A person habitually lazy, idle, and inactive; a drone.	
sluggardize		To make lazy.	
sluggardy		The state of being a sluggard; sluggishness; sloth.	
slugger		One who strikes heavy blows; hence, a boxer; a prize fighter.	
sluggish		Habitually idle and lazy; slothful; dull; inactive; as, a sluggish man.	
sluggy	Obsolete	Sluggish.	
slugs		Half-roasted ore.	
slugworm		Any caterpillar which has the general appearance of a slug, as do those of certain moths belonging to Limacodes and allied genera, and those of certain sawflies.	
sluice		An artifical passage for water, fitted with a valve or gate, as in a mill stream, for stopping or regulating the flow; also, a water gate of flood gate.	Old French escluse, from Latin exclusa.
sluiceway		An artificial channel into which water is let by a sluice; specifically, a trough constructed over the bed of a stream, so that logs, lumber, or rubbish can be floated down to some convenient place of delivery.	
sluicy		Falling copiously or in streams, as from a sluice.	
slum		A foul back street of a city, especially one filled with a poor, dirty, degraded, and often vicious population; any low neighborhood or dark retreat; -- usually in the plural; as, Westminster slums are haunts for theives.	
slumber		To sleep; especially, to sleep lightly; to doze.	Middle English slomren.
slumberer		One who slumbers; a sleeper.	
slumberingly		In a slumbering manner.	
slumberless		Without slumber; sleepless.	
slumberous		Inviting slumber; soporiferous.	
slumbrous		Slumberous.	
slumgum		The impure residue, consisting of cocoons, propolis, etc., remaining after the wax is extracted from honeycombs.	
slumming		Visiting slums.	
slump	Scots	The gross amount; the mass; the lump.	
slumpy	English dialect	Easily broken through; boggy; marshy; swampy.	
slung		imp. & p. p. of Sling.	
slunk		imp. & p. p. of Slink.	
slur		To cover over; to disguise; to conceal; to pass over lightly or with little notice.	Middle English slore.
slurred		Marked with a slur; performed in a smooth, gliding style, like notes marked with a slur.	
slush		A mixture of snow and water; half-melted snow.	
slushy		Abounding in slush; characterized by soft mud or half-melted snow; as, the streets are slushy; the snow is slushy.	
slut		An untidy woman; a slattern.	
sluthhound		Sleuthhound.	
sluttery		The qualities and practices of a slut; sluttishness; slatternlines.	
sluttish		Like a slut; untidy; indecently negligent of cleanliness; disorderly; as, a sluttish woman.	
sly		Dexterous in performing an action, so as to escape notice; nimble; skillful; cautious; shrewd; knowing; -- in a good sense.	Middle English sly.
slyboots		A humerous appellation for a sly, cunning, or waggish person.	
slyly		In a sly manner; shrewdly; craftily.	
slyness		The quality or state of being sly.	
slype		A narrow passage between two buildings, as between the transept and chapter house of a monastery.	
