smack		A small sailing vessel, commonly rigged as a sloop, used chiefly in the coasting and fishing trade.
smacking		A sharp, quick noise; a smack.
small		Having little size, compared with other things of the same kind; little in quantity or degree; diminutive; not large or extended in dimension; not great; not much; inconsiderable; as, a small man; a small river.
smallage		A biennial umbelliferous plant (Apium graveolens) native of the seacoats of Europe and Asia.
smallclothes		A man's garment for the hips and thighs; breeches. See Breeches.
smallish		Somewhat small.
smallness		The quality or state of being small.
smallpox		A contagious, constitutional, febrile disease characterized by a peculiar eruption; variola.
smalls		See Small, n., 2, 3.
smallsword		A light sword used for thrusting only; especially, the sword worn by civilians of rank in the eighteenth century.
smally		In a small quantity or degree; with minuteness.
smalt		A deep blue pigment or coloring material used in various arts.
smalt-blue		Deep blue, like smalt.
smaltine		A tin-white or gray mineral of metallic luster.
smaltite		A tin-white or gray mineral of metallic luster.
smaragd	Obsolete	The emerald.
smaragdine		Of or pertaining to emerald; resembling emerald; of an emerald green.
smaragdite		A green foliated kind of amphibole, observed in eclogite and some varietis of gabbro.
smart		To feel a lively, pungent local pain; -- said of some part of the body as the seat of irritation; as, my finger smarts; these wounds smart.
smarten	Colloquial	To make smart or spruce; -- usually with up.
smartle	English dialect	To waste away.
smartly		In a smart manner.
smartness		The quality or state of being smart.
smartweed		An acrid plant of the genus Polygonum (P.
smash		A breaking or dashing to pieces; utter destruction; wreck.
smasher		One who, or that which, smashes or breaks things to pieces.
smatch	Obsolete	Taste; tincture; smack.
smatter		To talk superficially or ignorantly; to babble; to chatter.
smatterer		One who has only a slight, superficial knowledge; a sciolist.
smattering		A slight, superficial knowledge of something; sciolism.
smear		To overspread with anything unctuous, viscous, or adhesive; to daub; as, to smear anything with oil.
smearcase	Dialect	Cottage cheese.
smeared		Having the color mark ings ill defined, as if rubbed; as, the smeared dagger moth (Apatela oblinita).
smeary		Tending to smear or soil; adhesive; viscous.
smeath	English dialect	The smew.
smectite		A hydrous silicate of alumina, of a greenish color, which, in certain states of humidity, appears transparent and almost gelatinous.
smee	English dialect	(a) The pintail duck. (b) The widgeon. (c) The poachard. (d) The smew.
smeeth	Obsolete	To smoke; to blacken with smoke; to rub with soot.
smegma		The matter secreted by any of the sebaceous glands. Specifically: (a) The soapy substance covering the skin of newborn infants.
smegmatic		Being of the nature of soap; soapy; cleansing; detersive.
smeir		A salt glaze on pottery, made by adding common salt to an earthenware glaze.
smell		To perceive by the olfactory nerves, or organs of smell; to have a sensation of, excited through the nasal organs when affected by the appropriate materials or qualities; to obtain the scent of; as, to smell a rose…
smell-feast		One who is apt to find and frequent good tables; a parasite; a sponger.
smell-less		Destitute of smell; having no odor.
smeller		One who smells, or perceives by the sense of smell; one who gives out smell.
smelling		The act of one who smells.
smelt		of Smell — to perceive by the olfactory nerves, or organs of smell; to have a sensation of, excited through the nasal organs when affected by the appropriate materials or qualities…
smelter		One who, or that which, smelts.
smeltery		A house or place for smelting.
smeltie	English dialect	A fish, the bib.
smelting		a. & n. from Smelt.
smerk	Obsolete	See Smirk — to smile in an affected or conceited manner; to smile with affected complaisance; to simper.
smerky	Obsolete	Smart; jaunty; spruce. See Smirk, a.
smerlin		A small loach.
smew	Dialect	(a) small European merganser (Mergus albellus) which has a white crest; -- called also smee, smee duck, white merganser, and white nun.
smicker	Obsolete	To look amorously or wantonly; to smirk.
smickering	Obsolete	Amorous glance or inclination.
smicket	Obsolete	A woman's under-garment; a smock.
smickly	Obsolete	Smugly; finically.
smiddy	English dialect	A smithy.
smift		A match for firing a charge of powder, as in blasting; a fuse.
smight	Obsolete	To smite.
smilacin		See Parrilin.
smilax		(a) A genus of perennial climbing plants, usually with a prickly woody stem; green brier, or cat brier.
smile		To express amusement, pleasure, moderate joy, or love and kindness, by the features of the face; to laugh silently.
smileless		Not having a smile.
smiler		One who smiles.
smilet		A little smile.
smilingly		In a smiling manner.
smilingness		Quality or state of being smiling.
smilodon		An extinct genus of saber-toothed tigers. See Mach.
smilt	Obsolete	To melt.
sminthurid		Any one of numerous small species of springtails, of the family Sminthurid, -- usually found on flowers.
smirch		To smear with something which stains, or makes dirty; to smutch; to begrime; to soil; to sully.
smirk		To smile in an affected or conceited manner; to smile with affected complaisance; to simper.
smirkingly		With smirking; with a smirk.
smirky		Smirk; smirking.
smit		imp. & p. p. of Smite.
smite		To strike; to inflict a blow upon with the hand, or with any instrument held in the hand, or with a missile thrown by the hand; as, to smite with the fist, with a rod, sword, spear, or stone.
smiter		One who smites.
smith		One who forgess with the hammer; one who works in metals; as, a blacksmith, goldsmith, silversmith, and the like.
smithcraft		The art or occupation of a smith; smithing.
smither	English dialect	Light, fine rain.
smithereens	Colloquial	Fragments; atoms; smithers.
smithery		Work done by a smith; smithing.
smithing		The act or art of working or forging metals, as iron, into any desired shape.
smithsonian		Of or pertaining to the Englishman J.L.M.
smithsonite		Native zinc carbonate.
smithy		The workshop of a smith, esp. a blacksmith; a smithery; a stithy.
smitt		Fine clay or ocher made up into balls, used for marking sheep.
smitten		p. p. of Smite — to strike; to inflict a blow upon with the hand, or with any instrument held in the hand, or with a missile thrown by the hand; as, to smite with the fist, with a rod, sword, spear…
smittle	English dialect	To infect.
smittlish	Scots	Infectious; catching.
smock	English dialect	A blouse; a smoock frock.
smock-faced		Having a feminine countenance or complexion; smooth-faced; girlish.
smockless		Wanting a smock.
smokable		Capable of being smoked; suitable or ready to be smoked; as, smokable tobacco.
smoke		The visible exhalation, vapor, or substance that escapes, or expelled, from a burning body, especially from burning vegetable matter, as wood, coal, peat, or the like.
smoke-dry		To dry by or in smoke.
smokehouse		A building where meat or fish is cured by subjecting it to a dense smoke.
smokejack		A contrivance for turning a spit by means of a fly or wheel moved by the current of ascending air in a chimney.
smokeless		Making or having no smoke.
smoker		One who dries or preserves by smoke.
smokestack		A chimney; esp., a pipe serving as a chimney, as the pipe which carries off the smoke of a locomotive, the funnel of a steam vessel, etc.
smokily		In a smoky manner.
smokiness		The quality or state of being smoky.
smoking		from Smoke.
smoky		Emitting smoke, esp. in large quantities or in an offensive manner; fumid; as, smoky fires.
smolder		To burn and smoke without flame; to waste away by a slow and supressed combustion.
smoldering		Being in a state of suppressed activity; quiet but not dead.
smolderingness		The state of smoldering.
smoldry	Obsolete	Smoldering; suffocating; smothery.
smolt		A young salmon two or three years old, when it has acquired its silvery color.
smooch		See Smutch — a stain; a dirty spot.
smoor	Obsolete	To suffocate or smother.
smooth		Having an even surface, or a surface so even that no roughness or points can be perceived by the touch; not rough; as, smooth glass; smooth porcelain.
smooth-chinned		Having a smooth chin; beardless.
smooth-spoken		Speaking smoothly; plausible; flattering; smooth-tongued.
smooth-tongued		Having a smooth tongue; plausible; flattering.
smoothbore		Having a bore of perfectly smooth surface; -- distinguished from rifled. -- n.
smoothen	Obsolete	To make smooth.
smoother		One who, or that which, smooths.
smoothly		In a smooth manner.
smoothness		Quality or state of being smooth.
smore	Obsolete	To smother. See Smoor.
smorsato		Growing gradually fainter and softer; dying away; morendo.
smorzando		Growing gradually fainter and softer; dying away; morendo.
smote		imp. (and rare p. p.) of Smite.
smoterlich	Obsolete	Dirty foul.
smother		To destroy the life of by suffocation; to deprive of the air necessary for life; to cover up closely so as to prevent breathing; to suffocate; as, to smother a child.
smotheriness		The quality or state of being smothery.
smotheringly		In a smothering manner.
smothery		Tending to smother; stifling.
smouch	Obsolete	To kiss closely.
smoulder		To burn and smoke without flame; to waste away by a slow and supressed combustion.
smouldering		Being in a state of suppressed activity; quiet but not dead.
smoulderingness		The state of smoldering.
smouldry	Obsolete	Smoldering; suffocating; smothery.
smudge		A suffocating smoke.
smudginess		The quality or state of being smudged, soiled, or blurred.
smug	Obsolete	Studiously neat or nice, especially in dress; spruce; affectedly precise; smooth and prim.
smuggle		To import or export secretly, contrary to the law; to import or export without paying the duties imposed by law; as, to smuggle lace.
smuggler		One who smuggles.
smugly		In a smug manner.
smugness		The quality or state of being smug.
smut		Foul matter, like soot or coal dust; also, a spot or soil made by such matter.
smutch		A stain; a dirty spot.
smutty		Soiled with smut; smutted.
smyrniot		Of or pertaining to Smyrna. -- n.
