snack		A share; a part or portion; -- obsolete, except in the colloquial phrase, to go snacks, i. e., to share.	Middle Dutch snacken.
snacket	English dialect	See Snecket — a door latch, or sneck.	
snacot		A pipefish of the genus Syngnathus. See Pipefish.	
snaffle		A kind of bridle bit, having a joint in the part to be placed in the mouth, and rings and cheek pieces at the ends, but having no curb; -- called also snaffle bit.	
snag		A stump or base of a branch that has been lopped off; a short branch, or a sharp or rough branch; a knot; a protuberance.	Old Norse snagi.
snagged		Full of snags; snaggy.	
snaggy		Full of snags; full of short, rough branches or sharp points; abounding with knots.	
snail		(Zoöl.) (a) Any one of numerous species of terrestrial air-breathing gastropods belonging to the genus Helix and many allied genera of the family Helicidæ.	
snail-like		Like or suiting a snail; as, snail-like progress.	
snail-paced		Slow-moving, like a snail.	
snailfish		See Sea snail (a).	
snake		Any species of the order Ophidia; an ophidian; a serpent, whether harmless or venomous.	Middle English snake, from Old English snaca.
snakebird		Any one of four species of aquatic birds of the genus Anhinga or Plotus.	
snakefish		(a) The band fish. (b) The lizard fish.	
snakehead		A loose, bent-up end of one of the strap rails, or flat rails, formerly used on American railroads.	
snakeneck		The snakebird, 1.	
snakeroot		Any one of several plants of different genera and species, most of which are (or were formerly) reputed to be efficacious as remedies for the bites of serpents; also, the roots of any of these.	
snakestone		A kind of hone slate or whetstone obtained in Scotland.	
snakeweed		(a) A kind of knotweed (Polygonum Bistorta). (b) The Virginia snakeroot.	
snakewood		(a) An East Indian climbing plant (Strychnos colubrina) having a bitter taste, and supposed to be a remedy for the bite of the hooded serpent.	
snakish		Having the qualities or characteristics of a snake; snaky.	
snaky		Of or pertaining to a snake or snakes; resembling a snake; serpentine; winding.	
snap		To break at once; to break short, as substances that are brittle.	
snapdragon		(Bot.) (a) Any plant of the scrrophulariaceous genus Antirrhinum, especially the cultivated A. majus, whose showy flowers are fancifully likened to the face of a dragon.	
snape		To bevel the end of a timber to fit against an inclined surface.	
snaphance	Obsolete	A spring lock for discharging a firearm; also, the firearm to which it is attached.	
snaphead		A hemispherical or rounded head to a rivet or bolt; also, a swaging tool with a cavity in its face for forming such a rounded head.	
snapper		One who, or that which, snaps; as, a snapper up of trifles; the snapper of a whip.	
snapping		a. & n. from Snap, v.	
snappish		Apt to snap at persons or things; eager to bite; as, a snapping cur.	
snappy	Colloquial	Snappish.	
snapsack	Obsolete	A knapsack.	
snapshot		Commonly Snap shot. (a) A quick offhand shot, made without deliberately taking aim over the sights.	
snapweed		See Impatiens — a genus of plants, several species of which have very beautiful flowers; -- so called because the elastic capsules burst when touched, and scatter the seeds with considerable force.	
snar	Obsolete	To snarl.	
snare		A contrivance, often consisting of a noose of cord, or the like, by which a bird or other animal may be entangled and caught; a trap; a gin.	
snarer		One who lays snares, or entraps.	
snarl		To form raised work upon the outer surface of (thin metal ware) by the repercussion of a snarling iron upon the inner surface.	Middle English snarlen.
snarler		One who snarls; a surly, growling animal; a grumbling, quarrelsome fellow.	
snarling		from Snarl, v.	
snary		Resembling, or consisting of, snares; entangling; insidious.	
snast	Obsolete	The snuff, or burnt wick, of a candle.	
snatch		To take or seize hastily, abruptly, or without permission or ceremony; as, to snatch a loaf or a kiss.	
snatcher		One who snatches, or takes abruptly.	
snatchingly		By snatching; abruptly.	
snath		The handle of a scythe; a snead.	
snathe	English dialect	To lop; to prune.	
snattock	English dialect	A chip; a alice.	
snead		A snath.	
sneak		To creep or steal (away or about) privately; to come or go meanly, as a person afraid or ashamed to be seen; as, to sneak away from company. imp. & p. p.	
sneak-cup	Obsolete	One who sneaks from his cups; one who balks his glass.	
sneaker		One who sneaks.	
sneakiness		The quality of being sneaky.	
sneaking		Marked by cowardly concealment; deficient in openness and courage; underhand; mean; crouching. -- Sneak ing*ness, n.	
sneaksby	Obsolete	A paltry fellow; a sneak.	
sneaky		Like a sneak; sneaking.	
sneap	Obsolete	To check; to reprimand; to rebuke; to chide.	Middle English snaipen, from Old Norse snepya.
sneath		See Snath — the handle of a scythe; a snead.	
sneathe		See Snath — the handle of a scythe; a snead.	
sneb	Obsolete	To reprimand; to sneap.	
sneck	Scots	To fasten by a hatch; to latch, as a door.	
snecket	English dialect	A door latch, or sneck.	
sned	English dialect	To lop; to snathe. See Snath.	
sneed		See Snath — the handle of a scythe; a snead.	
sneer		To show contempt by turning up the nose, or by a particular facial expression.	
sneerer		One who sneers.	
sneerful	Obsolete	Given to sneering.	
sneeringly		In a sneering manner.	
sneeze	Colloquial	To emit air, chiefly through the nose, audibly and violently, by a kind of involuntary convulsive force, occasioned by irritation of the inner membrane of the nose.	Middle English snesen.
sneezeweed		A yellow-flowered composite plant (Helenium autumnale) the odor of which is said to cause sneezing.	
sneezewood		The wood of a South African tree. See Neishout.	
sneezewort		A European herbaceous plant (Achillea Ptarmica) allied to the yarrow, having a strong, pungent smell.	
sneezing		The act of violently forcing air out through the nasal passages while the cavity of the mouth is shut off from the pharynx by the approximation of the soft palate and the base of the tongue.	
snell	Archaic or prov	Active; brisk; nimble; quick; sharp.	
snet	Obsolete	The fat of a deer.	
snew	Obsolete	To snow; to abound.	
snib	Obsolete	To check; to sneap; to sneb.	
snick		A small cut or mark.	
snicker		To laugh slyly; to laugh in one's sleeve.	
snide	Slang	Tricky; deceptive; contemptible; as, a snide lawyer; snide goods.	
snider		A breech-loading rifle formerly used in the British service; -- so called from the inventor.	
sniff		To draw air audibly up the nose; to snuff; -- sometimes done as a gesture of suspicion, offense, or contempt.	
sniffing		A rapid inspiratory act, in which the mouth is kept shut and the air drawn in through the nose.	
sniffle	English dialect	To snuffle, as one does with a catarrh.	
snift	English dialect	Slight snow; sleet.	
snifting		from Snift.	
snig	English dialect	To chop off; to cut.	
snigg	English dialect	A small eel.	
snigger		See Snicker — to laugh slyly; to laugh in one's sleeve.	
sniggle		To fish for eels by thrusting the baited hook into their holes or hiding places.	
snip		To cut off the nip or neb of, or to cut off at once with shears or scissors; to clip off suddenly; to nip; hence, to break off; to snatch away.	
snip-snap		A tart dialogue with quick replies.	
snipe		(Zoöl.) Any one of numerous species of limicoline game birds of the family Scolopacidæ, having a long, slender, nearly straight beak.	
snipebill		A plane for cutting deep grooves in moldings.	
snipefish		(a) The bellows fish. (b) A long, slender deep-sea fish (Nemichthys scolopaceus) with a slender beak.	
snippack	English dialect	The common snipe.	
snipper		One who snips.	
snipper-snaper	Colloquial	A small, insignificant fellow.	
snippet		A small part or piece.	
snippety		Ridiculously small; petty.	
snipy		Like a snipe.	
snite	Obsolete	A snipe.	Old English snitan.
snithe	English dialect	Sharp; piercing; cutting; -- applied to the wind.	Middle English snithen, from Old English sniþan.
snithy	English dialect	Sharp; piercing; cutting; -- applied to the wind.	
snivel		To run at the nose; to make a snuffling noise.	
sniveler		One who snivels, esp. one who snivels habitually.	
snively		Running at the nose; sniveling pitiful; whining.	
snob		A vulgar person who affects to be better, richer, or more fashionable, than he really is; a vulgar upstart; one who apes his superiors.	
snobbery		The quality of being snobbish; snobbishness.	
snobbish		Of or pertaining to a snob; characteristic of, or befitting, a snob; vulgarly pretentious. -- Snob"bish*ly, adv.	
snobbishness		Vulgar affectation or ostentation; mean admiration of mean things; conduct or manners of a snob.	
snobbism		Snobbery.	
snobby		Snobbish.	
snobling		A little snob.	
snobocracy		Snobs, collectively.	
snod	Obsolete	A fillet; a headband; a snood.	
snoff		A short candle end used for igniting a fuse.	
snood	Scots	The fillet which binds the hair of a young unmarried woman, and is emblematic of her maiden character.	Old English snod.
snooded		Wearing or having a snood.	
snook	Obsolete	To lurk; to lie in ambush. (a) A large perchlike marine food fish (Centropomus undecimalis) found both on the Atlantic and Pacific coasts of tropical America; -- called also ravallia, and robalo.	Dutch snoek.
snooze	Colloquial	A short sleep; a nap.	
snore		To breathe with a rough, hoarse, nasal voice in sleep.	Middle English snoren.
snorer		One who snores.	
snoring		The act of respiring through the open mouth so that the currents of inspired and expired air cause a vibration of the uvula and soft palate, thus giving rise to a sound more or less harsh.	
snort		To force the air with violence through the nose, so as to make a noise, as do high-spirited horsed in prancing and play.	
snorter		One who snorts.	
snot	Low	Mucus secreted in, or discharged from, the nose.	Old English gesnot.
snotter	English dialect	To snivel; to cry or whine.	
snottery	Obsolete	Filth; abomination.	
snotty		Foul with snot; hence, mean; dirty. -- Snort ti*ness, n.	
snout		The long, projecting nose of a beast, as of swine.	
snouty		Resembling a beast's snout.	
snow		A square-rigged vessel, differing from a brig only in that she has a trysail mast close abaft the mainmast, on which a large trysail is hoisted.	Middle English snow.
snow-blind		Affected with blindness by the brilliancy of snow. -- Snow"-blind`ness, n.	
snow-bound		Enveloped in, or confined by, snow.	
snow-broth		Snow and water mixed, or snow just melted; very cold liquor.	
snow-capped		Having the top capped or covered with snow; as, snow-capped mountains.	
snow-white		White as snow; very white.	
snowball		A round mass of snow pressed or roller together, or anything resembling such a mass.	Middle English snowball.
snowberry		A name of several shrubs with white berries; as, the Symphoricarpus racemosus of the Northern United States, and the Chiococca racemosa of Florida and tropical America.	
snowbird	English dialect	(a) An arctic finch (Plectrophenax, or Plectrophanes, nivalis) common, in winter, both in Europe and the United States, and often appearing in large flocks during snowstorms.	
snowcap		A very small humming bird (Microchæra albocoronata) native of New Grenada.	
snowdrift		A bank of drifted snow.	
snowdrop		A bulbous plant (Galanthus nivalis) bearing white flowers, which often appear while the snow is on the ground.	
snowflake		A flake, or small filmy mass, of snow.	
snowfleck		See Snowbird, 1.	
snowl	Dialect	The hooded merganser.	
snowless		Destitute of snow.	
snowplough		An implement operating like a plow, but on a larger scale, for clearing away the snow from roads, railways, etc.	
snowplow		An implement operating like a plow, but on a larger scale, for clearing away the snow from roads, railways, etc.	
snowshed		A shelter to protect from snow, esp. a long roof over an exposed part of a railroad.	
snowshoe		A slight frame of wood three or four feet long and about one third as wide, with thongs or cords stretched across it, and having a support and holder for the foot; -- used by persons for walking on soft snow.	
snowshoeing		Traveling on snowshoes.	
snowshoer		One who travels on snowshoes; an expert in using snowshoes.	
snowslip		A large mass or avalanche of snow which slips down the side of a mountain, etc.	
snowstorm		A storm with falling snow.	
snowy		White like snow.	Old English snawig.
snub		To clip or break off the end of; to check or stunt the growth of; to nop.	
snub-nosed		Having a short, flat nose, slightly turned up; as, the snub- nosed eel.	
snudge	Obsolete	To lie snug or quiet.	
snuff		The part of a candle wick charred by the flame, whether burning or not.	
snuffbox		A small box for carrying snuff about the person.	
snuffer		One who snuffs.	
snuffers		An instrument for cropping and holding the snuff of a candle.	
snuffingly		In a snuffing manner.	
snuffle		To speak through the nose; to breathe through the nose when it is obstructed, so as to make a broken sound.	
snuffler		One who snuffles; one who uses cant.	
snuffy		Soiled with snuff.	
snug		Close and warm; as, an infant lies snug.	
snuggery	Colloquial	A snug, cozy place.	
snuggle		To move one way and the other so as to get a close place; to lie close for comfort; to cuddle; to nestle.	
snugly		In a snug manner; closely; safely.	
snugness		The quality or state of being snug.	
sny		An upward bend in a piece of timber; the sheer of a vessel.	
snying		A curved plank, placed edgewise, to work in the bows of a vessel.	
