so		In that manner or degree; as, indicated (in any way), or as implied, or as supposed to be known.	Middle English so.
so-called		So named; called by such a name (but perhaps called thus with doubtful propriety).	
so-so		Neither very good nor very bad; middling; passable; tolerable; indifferent.	
soak		To cause or suffer to lie in a fluid till the substance has imbibed what it can contain; to macerate in water or other liquid; to steep, as for the purpose of softening or freshening; as, to soak cloth; to soak bread…	Middle English soken, from Old English socian.
soakage		The act of soaking, or the state of being soaked; also, the quantity that enters or issues by soaking.	
soaker		One who, or that which, soaks.	
soaking		Wetting thoroughly; drenching; as, a soaking rain. -- Soak"ing*ly, adv.	
soaky		Full of moisture; wet; soppy.	
soal	Obsolete	(Zoöl.) See Sole, the fish.	Middle English sol.
soam		A chain by which a leading horse draws a plow.	
soap	Colloquial	A substance which dissolves in water, thus forming a lather, and is used as a cleansing agent.	Middle English sope.
soapfish		Any serranoid fish of the genus Rhypticus; -- so called from the soapy feeling of its skin.	
soapiness		Quality or state of being soapy.	
soaproot		A perennial herb (Gypsophila Struthium) the root of which is used in Spain as a substitute for soap.	
soapstone		See Steatite, and Talc.	
soapsuds		Suds made with soap.	
soapwort		A common plant (Saponaria officinalis) of the Pink family; -- so called because its bruised leaves, when agitated in water, produce a lather like that from soap.	
soapy		Resembling soap; having the qualities of, or feeling like, soap; soft and smooth.	
soar		To fly aloft, as a bird; to mount upward on wings, or as on wings.	French s'essorer.
soaring		from Soar. -- Soar"ing*ly, adv.	
soavemente		Sweetly.	
sob		The act of sobbing; a convulsive sigh, or inspiration of the breath, as in sorrow.	
sobbing		A series of short, convulsive inspirations, the glottis being suddenly closed so that little or no air enters into the lungs.	
sober		Temperate in the use of spirituous liquors; habitually temperate; as, a sober man.	Old French sobre, from Latin sobrius.
sober-minded		Having a disposition or temper habitually sober. -- So"ber-mind`ed*ness, n.	
soberize		To sober.	
soberly	Obsolete	In a sober manner; temperately; cooly; calmly; gravely; seriously.	
soberness		The quality or state of being sober.	
soboles		(a) A shoot running along under ground, forming new plants at short distances.	
soboliferous		Producing soboles. See Illust. of Houseleek.	
sobranje		The unicameral national assembly of Bulgaria, elected for a term of five years by universal suffrage of adult males.	
sobriety		Habitual soberness or temperance as to the use of spirituous liquors; as, a man of sobriety.	
sobriquet		An assumed name; a fanciful epithet or appellation; a nickname.	French sobriquet, from Middle French soubriquet.
soc		An exclusive privilege formerly claimed by millers of grrinding all the corn used within the manor or township which the mill stands.	
socage		A tenure of lands and tenements by a certain or determinate service; a tenure distinct from chivalry or knight's service, in which the obligations were uncertain.	Middle English sokage, from Anglo-Norman socage.
socager		A tennant by socage; a socman.	
sociability		The quality of being sociable; sociableness.	
sociable		Capable of being, or fit to be, united in one body or company; associable.	
sociableness		The quality of being sociable.	
sociably		In a sociable manner.	
social		Of or pertaining to society; relating to men living in society, or to the public as an aggregate body; as, social interest or concerns; social pleasure; social benefits; social happiness; social duties.	Middle French social, from Latin socialis.
socialism		A theory or system of social reform which contemplates a complete reconstruction of society, with a more just and equitable distribution of property and labor.	
socialist		One who advocates or practices the doctrines of socialism.	
socialistic		Pertaining to, or of the nature of, socialism.	
sociality		The quality of being social; socialness.	Latin socialitas.
socialize		To render social.	
socially		In a social manner; sociably.	
socialness		The quality or state of being social.	
sociate	Obsolete	Associated.	
societarian		Of or pertaining to society; social.	
societary		Societarian.	
society		The relationship of men to one another when associated in any way; companionship; fellowship; company.	Old French societé, from Latin societas.
socinian		Of or pertaining to Socinus, or the Socinians.	
socinianism		The tenets or doctrines of Faustus Socinus, an Italian theologian of the sixteenth century, who denied the Trinity, the deity of Christ, the personality of the Devil, the native and total depravity of man…	
socinianize		To cause to conform to Socinianism; to regulate by, or imbue with, the principles of Socinianism.	
sociologic		Of or pertaining to sociology, or social science. -- So`ci*o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.	
sociological		Of or pertaining to sociology, or social science. -- So`ci*o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.	
sociologist		One who treats of, or devotes himself to, the study of sociology.	
sociology		That branch of philosophy which treats of the constitution, phenomena, and development of human society; social science.	French sociologie.
sock		The shoe worn by actors of comedy in ancient Greece and Rome, -- used as a sumbol of comedy, of the comic drams, as distinguished from tragedy, which is symbolized by the buskin.	
sockdolager	Slang	That which finishes or ends a matter; a settler; a poser, as a heavy blow, a conclusive answer, and the like.	
socket		An opening into which anything is fitted; any hollow thing or place which receives and holds something else; as, the sockets of the teeth.	Anglo-Norman soket.
socketed		Having a socket.	
sockless		Destitute of socks or shoes.	
socky	English dialect	Wet; soaky.	
socle		(a) A plain block or plinth forming a low pedestal; any base; especially, the base of a statue, column, or the like.	French socle, from Italian zoccolo, from Latin socculus.
socman		One who holds lands or tenements by socage; a socager.	
socmanry		Tenure by socage.	
socome		A custom of tenants to grind corn at the lord's mill.	
socotrine		Of or pertaining to Socotra, an island in the Indian Ocean, on the east coast of Africa. -- n.	
socratic		Of or pertaining to Socrates, the Grecian sage and teacher. (b. c. 469-399), or to his manner of teaching and philosophizing.	
socratical		Of or pertaining to Socrates, the Grecian sage and teacher. (b. c. 469-399), or to his manner of teaching and philosophizing.	
socratically		In the Socratic method.	
socratism		The philosophy or the method of Socrates.	
socratist		A disciple or follower of Socrates.	
sod	English dialect	The rock dove. imp. of Seethe.	
soda	Colloquial	(a) Sodium oxide or hydroxide. (b) Popularly, sodium carbonate or bicarbonate.	Italian soda.
sodaic		Pertaining to, or containing, soda.	
sodalite		A mineral of a white to blue or gray color, occuring commonly in dodecahedrons, also massive.	
sodality		(R.C.Ch.) Specifically, a lay association for devotion or for charitable purposes.	
sodamide		A greenish or reddish crystalline substance, NaNH2, obtained by passing ammonia over heated sodium.	
sodden		Boiled; seethed; also, soaked; heavy with moisture; saturated; as, sodden beef; sodden bread; sodden fields.	
sodden-witted		Heavy; dull.	
soddy		Consisting of sod; covered with sod; turfy.	
soder		See Solder — a metal or metallic alloy used when melted for uniting adjacent metallic edges or surfaces; a metallic coment.	
sodger	Dialect	Var. of Soldier.	
sodic		Of or pertaining to sodium; containing sodium.	
sodio-		A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting the presence of sodium or one of its compounds.	
sodium		A common metallic element of the alkali group, in nature always occuring combined, as in common salt, in albite, etc. It is isolated as a soft, waxy, white, unstable metal…	
sodomite		An inhabitant of Sodom.	
sodomitical		Pertaining to, or of the nature of, sodomy. -- Sod`om*it"ic*al*ly, adv.	
sodomy		Carnal copulation in a manner against nature; buggery.	
soe	Obsolete	A large wooden vessel for holding water; a cowl.	
soever		A word compounded of so and ever, used in composition with who, what, where, when, how, etc., and indicating any out of all possible or supposable persons, things, places, times, ways…	
sofa		A long seat, usually with a cushioned bottom, back, and ends; - - much used as a comfortable piece of furniture.	
soffit		The under side of the subordinate parts and members of buildings, such as staircases, entablatures, archways, cornices, or the like.	French soffite, from Italian soffitto, from Latin sufficius.
sofi		Same as Sufi.	
sofism		Same as Sufism.	
soft		Easily yielding to pressure; easily impressed, molded, or cut; not firm in resisting; impressible; yielding; also, malleable; -- opposed to Ant: hard; as, a soft bed; a soft peach; soft earth; soft wood or metal.	Middle English softe, from Old English softe.
soft-finned		Having the fin rays cartilaginous or flexible; without spines; -- said of certain fishes.	
soft-headed		Weak in intellect.	
soft-hearted		Having softness or tenderness of heart; susceptible of pity or other kindly affection; gentle; meek. -- Soft"-heart`ed*ness, n.	
soft-shell		Having a soft or fragile shell.	
soft-shelled		Having a soft or fragile shell.	
soft-spoken		Speaking softly; having a mild or gentle voice; hence, mild; affable.	
softa		Any one attached to a Mohammedan mosque, esp. a student of the higher branches of theology in a mosque school.	
soften		To make soft or more soft. Specifically: -- (a) To render less hard; -- said of matter.	
softener		One who, or that which, softens.	
softening		from Soften, v.	
softish		Somewhat soft.	
softling		A soft, effeminate person; a voluptuary.	
softly		In a soft manner.	Middle English softely.
softner		See Softener — one who, or that which, softens.	
softness		The quality or state of being soft; -- opposed to Ant: hardness, and used in the various specific senses of the adjective.	
soger	Dialect	Var. of Soldier.	
sogginess		The quality or state of being soggy; soddenness; wetness.	
soggy		Filled with water; soft with moisture; sodden; soaked; wet; as, soggy land or timber.	
soho		Ho; -- a word used in calling from a distant place; a sportsman's halloo.	
soi-disant		Calling himself; self-styled; pretended; would-be.	
soil		To feed, as cattle or horses, in the barn or an inclosure, with fresh grass or green food cut for them, instead of sending them out to pasture; hence (such food having the effect of purging them)…	Middle English soilen.
soiliness		Stain; foulness.	
soilless		Destitute of soil or mold.	
soilure		Stain; pollution.	Old French soilleure.
soily	Obsolete	Dirty; soiled.	
soiree		An evening party; -- distinguished from levee, and matinée.	French soirée.
soja		An Asiatic leguminous herb (Glycine Soja) the seeds of which are used in preparing the sauce called soy.	
sojer	Dialect	Var. of Soldier.	
sojourn		To dwell for a time; to dwell or live in a place as a temporary resident or as a stranger, not considering the place as a permanent habitation; to delay; to tarry.	Old French sojor.
sojourner		One who sojourns.	
sojourning		The act or state of one who sojourns.	
sojournment		Temporary residence, as that of a stranger or a traveler.	
soke		One of the small territorial divisions into which Lincolnshire, England, is divided.	Middle English soke.
sokeman		See Socman — one who holds lands or tenements by socage; a socager.	
sokemanry		See Socmanry — tenure by socage.	
soken	Obsolete	Great sooken had this miller, out of doubt.	
soko		An African anthropoid ape, supposed to be a variety of the chimpanzee.	
sol		(Alchem.) Gold; -- so called from its brilliancy, color, and value.	Old French sol, from Latin solidus.
sol-fa		To sing the notes of the gamut, ascending or descending; as, do or ut, re, mi, fa, sol, la, si, do, or the same in reverse order.	
sola		See Solus — alone; -- chiefly used in stage directions, and the like.	
solace		Comfort in grief; alleviation of grief or anxiety; also, that which relieves in distress; that which cheers or consoles; relief.	Old French solas, from Latin solacium.
solacement		The act of solacing, or the state of being solaced; also, that which solaces.	
solacious	Obsolete	Affording solace; as, a solacious voice.	
solanaceous		Of or pertaining to plants of the natural order Solanaceæ, of which the nightshade (Solanum) is the type.	
soland		A solan goose.	
solander		See Sallenders — an eruption on the hind leg of a horse.	
solania		Solanine.	
solanicine		An alkaloid produced by the action of hydrochloric acid on solanidine, as a tasteless yellow crystalline substance.	
solanidine		An alkaloid produced by the decomposition of solanine, as a white crystalline substance having a harsh bitter taste.	
solanine		A poisonous alkaloid glucoside extracted from the berries of common nightshade (Solanum nigrum), and of bittersweet, and from potato sprouts, as a white crystalline substance having an acrid, burning taste…	
solano		A hot, oppressive wind which sometimes blows in the Mediterranean, particularly on the eastern coast of Spain.	
solanoid		Resembling a potato; -- said of a kind of cancer.	
solanum		A genus of plants comprehending the potato (S. tuberosum), the eggplant (S. melongena, and several hundred other species; nightshade.	
solar		Of or pertaining to the sun; proceeding from the sun; as, the solar system; solar light; solar rays; solar influence.	Old English soler.
solarium		An apartment freely exposed to the sun; anciently, an apartment or inclosure on the roof of a house; in modern times, an apartment in a hospital, used as a resort for convalescents.	Latin solarium.
solarization		Injury of a photographic picture caused by exposing it for too long a time to the sun's light in the camera; burning; excessive insolation.	
solarize		To injure by too long exposure to the light of the sun in the camera; to burn.	
solatium		Anything which alleviates or compensates for suffering or loss; a compensation; esp., an additional allowance, as for injured feelings.	
sold	Obsolete	imp. & p. p. of Sell.	French solde.
soldan	Obsolete	A sultan.	
soldanel		A plant of the genus Soldanella, low Alpine herbs of the Primrose family.	
soldanrie		The country ruled by a soldan, or sultan.	
solder		A metal or metallic alloy used when melted for uniting adjacent metallic edges or surfaces; a metallic coment.	Middle English solderen, from Old French solder, from Latin solido.
solderer		One who solders.	
soldering		from Solder, v. t.	
soldier		One who is engaged in military service as an officer or a private; one who serves in an army; one of an organized body of combatants.	Middle English soudeour.
soldieress	Obsolete	A female soldier.	
soldiering		The act of serving as a soldier; the state of being a soldier; the occupation of a soldier.	
soldierlike		Like a soldier; soldierly.	
soldierly		Like or becoming a real soldier; brave; martial; heroic; honorable; soldierlike.	
soldiership		Military qualities or state; martial skill; behavior becoming a soldier.	
soldierwood		A showy leguminous plant (Calliandra purpurea) of the West Indies.	
soldiery		A body of soldiers; soldiers, collectivelly; the military.	
soldo		A small Italian coin worth a sou or a cent; the twentieth part of a lira.	Italian soldo, from Latin ''[[soldus]], from [[solidus]]''.
sole		(a) Any one of several species of flatfishes of the genus Solea and allied genera of the family Soleidæ, especially the common European species (Solea vulgaris), which is a valuable food fish.	Middle English sole.
solecism		An impropriety or incongruity of language in the combination of words or parts of a sentence; esp., deviation from the idiom of a language or from the rules of syntax.	
solecist		One who commits a solecism.	
solecistic		Solecistical.	
solecistical		Pertaining to, or involving, a solecism; incorrect.	
solecistically		In a solecistic manner.	
solecize		To commit a solecism.	
solely		Singly; alone; only; without another; as, to rest a cause solely one argument; to rely solelyn one's own strength.	
solemn		Marked with religious rites and pomps; enjoined by, or connected with, religion; sacred.	Middle English solemne, from Old French solempne, from Latin solempnis.
solemness		Solemnness.	
solemnity		A rite or ceremony performed with religious reverence; religious or ritual ceremony; as, the solemnity of a funeral, a sacrament.	Middle English solemnity.
solemnizate		To solemnize; as, to solemnizate matrimony.	
solemnization		The act of solemnizing; celebration; as, the solemnization of a marriage.	
solemnize		To perform with solemn or ritual ceremonies, or according to legal forms.	
solemnizer		One who solemnizes.	
solemnly		In a solemn manner; with gravity; seriously; formally.	
solemnness		The state or quality of being solemn; solemnity; impressiveness; gravity; as, the solemnness of public worship.	
solempne	Obsolete	Solemn; grand; stately; splendid; magnificent.	
solen		(Med.) A cradle, as for a broken limb. See Cradle, 6.	
solenacean		Any species of marine bivalve shells belonging to the family Solenidæ.	
solenaceous		Of or pertaining to the solens or family Solenidæ.	
soleness		The state of being sole, or alone; singleness.	Middle English solnes.
solenette		A small European sole (Solea minuta).	
solenoconcha		Same as Scaphopoda.	
solenodon		Either one of two species of singular West Indian insectivores, allied to the tenrec.	
solenogastra		An order of lowly organized Mollusca belonging to the Isopleura.	
solenoglyph		Pertaining to the Selenoglypha. See Ophidia. -- n.	
solenoglypha		A suborder of serpents including those which have tubular erectile fangs, as the viper and rattlesnake.	
solenoid		An electrodynamic spiral having the conjuctive wire turned back along its axis, so as to neutralize that component of the effect of the current which is due to the length of the spiral…	
solenostomi		A tribe of lophobranch fishes having a tubular snout.	
soleplate		(a) A bedplate; as, the soleplate of a steam engine. (b) The plate forming the back of a waterwheel bucket.	
soler		A loft or garret. See Solar, n.	
solere		A loft or garret. See Solar, n.	
solert	Obsolete	Skillful; clever; crafty.	
solertiousness	Obsolete	The quality or state of being solert.	
soleship		The state of being sole, or alone; soleness.	
solfanaria		A sulphur mine.	
solfatara		A volcanic area or vent which yields only sulphur vapors, steam, and the like.	
solfeggiare		To sol-fa. See Sol-fa, v. i.	
solfeggio		The system of arranging the scale by the names do, re, mi, fa, sol, la, si, by which singing is taught; a singing exercise upon these syllables.	
solferino		A brilliant deep pink color with a purplish tinge, one of the dyes derived from aniline; -- so called from Solferino in Italy, where a battle was fought about the time of its discovery.	
soli		pl. of Solo — a tune, air, strain, or a whole piece, played by a single person on an instrument, or sung by a single voice.	
solicit		To ask from with earnestness; to make petition to; to apply to for obtaining something; as, to solicit person for alms.	Middle French solliciter, from Latin sollicitare.
solicitant		One who solicits.	Latin solicitans.
solicitate	Obsolete	Solicitous.	
solicitation		The act of soliciting; earnest request; persistent asking; importunity.	French solicitation.
solicitor		One who solicits.	
solicitor-general		The second law officer in the government of Great Britain; also, a similar officer under the United States government, who is associated with the attorney-general; also, the chief law officer of some of the States.	
solicitous		Disposed to solicit; eager to obtain something desirable, or to avoid anything evil; concerned; anxious; careful.	Latin solicitus.
solicitress		A woman who solicits.	
solicitude		The state of being solicitous; uneasiness of mind occasioned by fear of evil or desire good; anxiety.	
solid		Having the constituent parts so compact, or so firmly adhering, as to resist the impression or penetration of other bodies; having a fixed form; hard; firm; compact; -- opposed to fluid and liquid or to plastic, like clay…	Old French solide, from Latin solidus.
solid-drawn		Drawn out from a heated solid bar, as by a process of spiral rolling which first hollows the bar and then expands the cavity by forcing the bar over a pointed mandrel fixed in front of the rolls; - - said of a weldless tube.	
solidago		A genus of yellow-flowered composite perennial herbs; golden- rod.	
solidare	Obsolete	A small piece of money.	
solidarity		An entire union or consolidation of interests and responsibilities; fellowship; community.	French solidarité.
solidary		Having community of interests and responsibilities.	
solidate	Obsolete	To make solid or firm.	
solidifiable		Capable of being solidified.	
solidification		Act of solidifying, or state of being solidified.	French solidification.
solidify		To make solid or compact.	French solidifier.
solidism		The doctrine that refers all diseases to morbid changes of the solid parts of the body.	
solidist		An advocate of, or believer in, solidism.	
solidity		The state or quality of being solid; density; consistency, -- opposed to fluidity; compactness; fullness of matter, -- opposed to openness or hollowness; strength; soundness, -- opposed to weakness or instability…	Latin soliditas.
solidly		In a solid manner; densely; compactly; firmly; truly.	
solidness		State or quality of being solid; firmness; compactness; solidity, as of material bodies.	
solidungula		A tribe of ungulates which includes the horse, ass, and related species, constituting the family Equidæ.	
solidungular		Solipedous.	
solidungulate		Same as Soliped.	
solidungulous		Solipedous.	
solifidian		One who maintains that faith alone, without works, is sufficient for justification; -- opposed to nullifidian.	
solifidianism		The state of Solifidians.	
soliform		Like the sun in form, appearance, or nature; resembling the sun.	
solifugae		A division of arachnids having large, powerful fangs and a segmented abdomen; -- called also Solpugidea, and Solpugides.	
soliloquize		To utter a soliloquy; to talk to one's self.	
soliloquy		The act of talking to one's self; a discourse made by one in solitude to one's self; monologue.	
soliped		A mammal having a single hoof on each foot, as the horses and asses; a solidungulate.	
solipedous		Having single hoofs.	
solipsism		(Ethics) Egotism.	
solisequious		Following the course of the sun; as, solisequious plants.	
solitaire		A person who lives in solitude; a recluse; a hermit.	
solitarian	Obsolete	A hermit; a solitary.	
solitariety	Obsolete	The state of being solitary; solitariness.	
solitarily		In a solitary manner; in solitude; alone.	
solitariness		Condition of being solitary.	
solitary		Living or being by one's self; having no companion present; being without associates; single; alone; lonely.	
solitude		state of being alone, or withdrawn from society; a lonely life; loneliness.	Old French solitude.
solivagant		Wandering alone.	
solivagous		Solivagant.	
sollar		(Mining) A platform in a shaft, especially one of those between the series of ladders in a shaft.	
sollein	Obsolete	Sullen; sad.	
solleret		A flexible steel shoe (or one of the plates forming such a shoe), worn with mediæval armor.	French soleret.
solmization		The act of sol-faing.	
solo		A tune, air, strain, or a whole piece, played by a single person on an instrument, or sung by a single voice.	
soloist		One who sings or plays a solo.	
solomon		One of the kings of Israel, noted for his superior wisdom and magnificent reign; hence, a very wise man. -- Sol`o*mon o*mon's seal.	
solon		A celebrated Athenian lawmaker, born about 638 b. c.; hence, a legislator; a publicist; -- often used ironically.	Greek Σόλων.
solpugid		Of or pertaining to the Solifugæ. -- n.	
solpugidea		Same as Solifugæ.	
solstice		(Astron.) (a) The point in the ecliptic at which the sun is farthest from the equator, north or south, namely, the first point of the sign Cancer and the first point of the sign Capricorn, the former being the summer solstice…	Latin solstitium.
solstitial		Happening at a solstice; esp. (with reference to the northern hemisphere), happening at the summer solstice, or midsummer.	
solubility		The quality, condition, or degree of being soluble or solvable; as, the solubility of a salt; the solubility of a problem or intricate difficulty.	
soluble		Susceptible of being dissolved in a fluid; capable of solution; as, some substances are soluble in alcohol which are not soluble in water.	Middle French soluble.
solubleness		Quality or state of being soluble.	
solus		Alone; -- chiefly used in stage directions, and the like.	
solute		Relaxed; hence; merry; cheerful.	Latin solutus.
solution		The act of separating the parts of any body, or the condition of undergoing a separation of parts; disruption; breach.	Old French solucion, from Latin solutionem.
solutive		Tending to dissolve; loosening; laxative.	
solvability		The quality or state of being solvable; as, the solvability of a difficulty; the solvability of a problem.	French solvabilité.
solvable		Susceptible of being solved, resolved, or explained; admitting of solution.	
solvableness		Quality of being solvable.	
solve	Obsolete	To explain; to resolve; to unfold; to clear up out to a result or conclusion; as, to solve a doubt; to solve difficulties; to solve a problem.	Latin solvo.
solvency		The quality or state of being solvent.	
solvend		A substance to be dissolved.	
solvent		Having the power of dissolving; dissolving; as, a solvent fluid.	
solver		One who, or that which, solves.	
solvible		See Solvable — susceptible of being solved, resolved, or explained; admitting of solution.	
soma		The whole axial portion of an animal, including the head, neck, trunk, and tail.	Sanskrit सोम.
somaj		A society; a congregation; a worshiping assembly, or church, esp. of the Brahmo-somaj.	
somal		A Hamitic people of East Central Africa.	
somali		A Hamitic people of East Central Africa.	
somatic		Of or pertaining to the body as a whole; corporeal; as, somatic death; somatic changes.	French somatique, from Greek σωματικός.
somatical		Somatic.	
somatics		The science which treats of the general properties of matter; somatology.	
somatist		One who admits the existence of material beings only; a materialist.	
somatocyst		A cavity in the primary nectocalyx of certain Siphonophora. See Illust. under Nectocalyx.	
somatology		The dictrine or the science of the general properties of material substances; somatics.	
somatome		See Somite — one of the actual or ideal serial segments of which an animal, esp. an articulate or vertebrate, is composed; somatome; metamere. -- So*mit`ic, a.	
somatopleure		The outer, or parietal, one of the two lamellæ into which the vertebrate blastoderm divides on either side of the notochord, and from which the walls of the body and the amnion are developed.	
somatopleuric		of or pertaining to the somatopleure.	
somatotropism		A directive influence exercised by a mass of matter upon growing organs.	
somber		Dull; dusky; somewhat dark; gloomy; as, a somber forest; a somber house.	French sombre, from Spanish sombra.
somberly		In a somber manner; sombrously; gloomily; despondingly.	
somberness		The quality or state of being somber; gloominess.	
sombre		Dull; dusky; somewhat dark; gloomy; as, a somber forest; a somber house.	
sombrely		In a somber manner; sombrously; gloomily; despondingly.	
sombreness		The quality or state of being somber; gloominess.	
sombrero		A kind of broad-brimmed hat, worn in Spain and in Spanish America.	Spanish sombrero.
sombrous		Gloomy; somber. -- Som brous*ness, n.	
some		Consisting of a greater or less portion or sum; composed of a quantity or number which is not stated; -- used to express an indefinite quantity or number; as, some wine; some water; some persons.	Middle English some.
somebody		A person unknown or uncertain; a person indeterminate; some person.	
somedeal	Obsolete	In some degree; somewhat.	Middle English somdel.
somehow		In one way or another; in some way not yet known or designated; by some means; as, the thing must be done somehow; he lives somehow.	
somersault		A leap in which a person turns his heels over his head and lights upon his feet; a turning end over end.	
somerset		A leap in which a person turns his heels over his head and lights upon his feet; a turning end over end.	
something		Anything unknown, undetermined, or not specifically designated; a certain indefinite thing; an indeterminate or unknown event; an unspecified task, work, or thing.	
sometime		At a past time indefinitely referred to; once; formerly.	
sometimes	Obsolete	Formerly; sometime.	
somewhat		More or less; a certain quantity or degree; a part, more or less; something.	
somewhen		At some indefinite time.	
somewhere		In some place unknown or not specified; in one place or another.	
somewhile		Once; for a time.	
somewhither		To some indeterminate place; to some place or other.	
somite		One of the actual or ideal serial segments of which an animal, esp. an articulate or vertebrate, is composed; somatome; metamere. -- So*mit`ic, a.	
sommeil		Slumber; sleep.	
sommerset		See Somersault — a leap in which a person turns his heels over his head and lights upon his feet; a turning end over end.	
somnambular		Of or pertaining to somnambulism; somnambulistic.	
somnambulate		To walk when	
somnambulation		The act of walking in sleep.	
somnambulator		A somnambulist.	
somnambule		A somnambulist.	
somnambulic		Somnambulistic.	
somnambulism		A condition of the nervous system in which an individual during sleep performs actions approppriate to the waking state; a state of sleep in which some of the senses and voluntary powers are partially awake; noctambulism.	
somnambulist		A person who is subject to somnambulism; one who walks in his sleep; a sleepwalker; a noctambulist.	
somnambulistic		Of or pertaining to a somnambulist or somnambulism; affected by somnambulism; appropriate to the state of a somnambulist.	
somne	Obsolete	To summon.	
somner	Obsolete	A summoner; esp., one who summons to an ecclesiastical court.	
somnial		Of or pertaining to sleep or dreams.	
somniative		Somnial; somniatory.	
somniatory	Obsolete	Pertaining to sleep or dreams; somnial.	
somniculous	Obsolete	Inclined to sleep; drowsy; sleepy.	Latin somniculosus.
somniferous		Causing or inducing sleep; soporific; dormitive; as, a somniferous potion.	
somnific		Causing sleep; somniferous.	
somnifugous	Obsolete	Driving away sleep.	
somniloquence		The act of talking in one's sleep; somniloquism.	
somniloquism		The act or habit of talking in one's sleep; somniloquy.	
somniloquist		One who talks in his sleep.	
somniloquous		Apt to talk in sleep.	
somniloquy		A talking in sleep; the talking of one in a state of somnipathy.	
somnipathist		A person in a state of somniapathy.	
somnipathy		Sleep from sympathy, or produced by mesmerism or the like.	
somnolence		Sleepiness; drowsiness; inclination to sleep.	
somnolency		Sleepiness; drowsiness; inclination to sleep.	
somnolent		Sleepy; drowsy; inclined to sleep. -- Som"no*lent*ly, adv.	
somnolism		The somnolent state induced by animal magnetism.	
somnopathy		Somnipathy.	
somnour	Obsolete	A summoner; an apparitor; a sompnour.	
somonaunce	Obsolete	A summons; a citation.	
somonce	Obsolete	A summons; a citation.	
somonour	Obsolete	A summoner.	
sompne	Obsolete	To summon; to cite.	
sompnour	Obsolete	A summoner.	
son		A male child; the male issue, or offspring, of a parent, father or mother.	Middle English sone, from Old English sunu.
son-in-law		The husband of one's daughter; a man in his relationship to his wife's parents.	
sonance		The quality or state of being sonant.	
sonant		Of or pertaining to sound; sounding.	
sonata		An extended composition for one or two instruments, consisting usually of three or four movements; as, Beethoven's sonatas for the piano, for the violin and piano, etc.	Italian sonata.
sonatina		A short and simple sonata.	
soncy	English dialect	Lucky; fortunate; thriving; plump.	
sond	Obsolete	That which is sent; a message or messenger; hence, also, a visitation of providence; an affliction or trial.	
sonde	Obsolete	That which is sent; a message or messenger; hence, also, a visitation of providence; an affliction or trial.	
sondeli		The musk shrew. See under Musk.	Kannada ಸುಂಡಿಲಿ.
sonderclass		A special class of small yachts developed in Germany under the patronage of Emperor William and Prince Henry of Prussia…	
song		That which is sung or uttered with musical modulations of the voice, whether of a human being or of a bird, insect, etc.	Old English sang.
songcraft		The art of making songs or verse; metrical composition; versification.	
songful		Disposed to sing; full of song.	
songish		Consisting of songs.	
songless		Destitute of the power of song; without song; as, songless birds; songless woods.	
songster		One who sings; one skilled in singing; -- not often applied to human beings.	
songstress		A woman who sings; a female singing bird.	
sonifer		A kind of ear trumpet for the deaf, or the partially deaf.	
soniferous		Sounding; producing sound; conveying sound.	
sonification		The act of producing sound, as the stridulation of insects.	
sonless		Being without a son.	
sonnet		A poem of fourteen lines, -- two stanzas, called the octave, being of four verses each, and two stanzas, called the sestet, of three verses each, the rhymes being adjusted by a particular rule.	Italian sonetto.
sonneteer		A composer of sonnets, or small poems; a small poet; -- usually in contempt.	
sonneter		A composer of sonnets.	
sonnetist		A sonneter, or sonneteer.	
sonnetize		To compose sonnets.	
sonnish	Obsolete	Like the sun; sunny; golden.	
sonnite		See Sunnite — one of the orthodox Mohammedans who receive the Sunna as of equal importance with the Koran.	
sonometer		(Physiol.) An instrument for exhibiting the transverse vibrations of cords, and ascertaining the relations between musical notes.	
sonoran		Pertaining to or designating the arid division of the Austral zone, including the warmer parts of the western United States and central Mexico.	
sonorific		Producing sound; as, the sonorific quality of a body.	Latin sonor.
sonority		The quality or state of being sonorous; sonorousness.	
sonorous		Giving sound when struck; resonant; as, sonorous metals.	Latin sonorus.
sonship		The state of being a son, or of bearing the relation of a son; filiation.	
sonsy	English dialect	Lucky; fortunate; thriving; plump. See Soncy.	
sontag		A knitted worsted jacket, worn over the waist of a woman's dress.	
sonties	Obsolete	Probably from saints, or from sanctities; -- used as an oath.	
soochong		Same as Souchong.	
soodra		Same as Sudra.	
soofee		Same as Sufi, Sufism.	
soofeeism		Same as Sufi, Sufism.	
soojee		Same as Suji.	
soon		In a short time; shortly after any time specified or supposed; as, soon after sunrise.	Middle English soone.
soonee		See Sunnite — one of the orthodox Mohammedans who receive the Sunna as of equal importance with the Koran.	
sooner		In the western United States, one who settles on government land before it is legally open to settlement in order to gain the prior claim that the law gives to the first settler when the land is opened to settlement; hence…	
soord	Obsolete	Skin of bacon.	
soorma		A preparation of antimony with which Mohammedan men anoint their eyelids.	
sooshong		See Souchong — a kind of black tea of a fine quality.	
soosoo		A kind of dolphin (Platanista Gangeticus) native of the river Ganges; the Gangetic dolphin.	
soot	Obsolete	A black substance formed by combustion, or disengaged from fuel in the process of combustion, which rises in fine particles, and adheres to the sides of the chimney or pipe conveying the smoke; strictly, the fine powder…	Old English sot.
sooterkin		A kind of false birth, fabled to be produced by Dutch women from sitting over their stoves; also, an abortion, in a figurative sense; an abortive scheme.	
sooth		Pleasing; delightful; sweet.	Middle English sooth, from Old English soþ.
soothe		To assent to; to comply with; to gratify; to humor by compliance; to please with blandishments or soft words; to flatter.	Middle English sothen, from Old English soþian.
soother		One who, or that which, soothes.	
soothfast	Archaic	Firmly fixed in, or founded upon, the thruth; true; genuine; real; also, truthful; faithful. -- Sooth In very soothfastness." Chaucer.	
soothing		from Soothe, v.	
soothingly		In a soothing manner.	
soothly	Obsolete	In truth; truly; really; verily.	
soothness	Obsolete	Truth; reality.	
soothsay	Obsolete	A true saying; a proverb; a prophecy.	
soothsayer		One who foretells events by the art of soothsaying; a prognosticator.	Middle English sothsaier.
soothsaying		The act of one who soothsays; the foretelling of events; the art or practice of making predictions.	
sootiness		The quality or state of being sooty; fuliginousness.	
sooty		Of or pertaining to soot; producing soot; soiled by soot.	
sop		Anything steeped, or dipped and softened, in any liquid; especially, something dipped in broth or liquid food, and intended to be eaten.	
sope	Obsolete	See Soap — a substance which dissolves in water, thus forming a lather, and is used as a cleansing agent.	
soph	Colloquial	A contraction of Soph ister.	
sophi		See Sufi — a title or surname of the king of Persia.	
sophic	Obsolete	Teaching wisdom.	
sophical	Obsolete	Teaching wisdom.	
sophime	Obsolete	Sophism.	
sophism		The doctrine or mode of reasoning practiced by a sophist; hence, any fallacy designed to deceive.	
sophist		One of a class of men who taught eloquence, philosophy, and politics in ancient Greece; especially, one of those who, by their fallacious but plausible reasoning, puzzled inquirers after truth, weakened the faith of the people…	Latin sophista, from Greek σοφιστής.
sophister	Obsolete	(Eng. Univ.) A student who is advanced beyond the first year of his residence.	
sophistic		Of or pertaining to a sophist; embodying sophistry; fallaciously subtile; not sound.	
sophistical		Of or pertaining to a sophist; embodying sophistry; fallaciously subtile; not sound.	
sophisticate		To render worthless by admixture; to adulterate; to damage; to pervert; as, to sophisticate wine.	
sophisticated		Adulterated; not pure; not genuine.	
sophistication		The act of sophisticating; adulteration; as, the sophistication of drugs.	
sophisticator		One who sophisticates.	
sophistry		The practice of a sophist; fallacious reasoning; reasoning sound in appearance only.	Old French sophistrie, from Latin sophista, from Greek σοφιστής.
sophomore		One belonging to the second of the four classes in an American college, or one next above a freshman.	
sophomoric		Of or pertaining to a sophomore; resembling a sophomore; hence, pretentious; inflated in style or manner; as, sophomoric affectation.	
sophomorical		Of or pertaining to a sophomore; resembling a sophomore; hence, pretentious; inflated in style or manner; as, sophomoric affectation.	
sophora		(a) A genus of leguminous plants. (b) A tree (Sophora Japonica) of Eastern Asia, resembling the common locust; occasionally planted in the United States.	
sophta		See Softa — any one attached to a Mohammedan mosque, esp. a student of the higher branches of theology in a mosque school.	
sopite	Obsolete	To lay asleep; to put to sleep; to quiet.	
sopition	Obsolete	The act of putting to sleep, or the state of being put to sleep; sleep.	
sopor		Profound sleep from which a person can be roused only with difficulty.	
soporate	Obsolete	To lay or put to sleep; to stupefy.	
soporiferous		Causing sleep; somniferous; soporific. --- Sop`o*rif er*ous*ness, n.	
soporific		Causing sleep; tending to cause sleep; soporiferous; as, the soporific virtues of opium.	French soporifique, from Latin sopor.
soporose		Causing sleep; sleepy.	
soporous		Causing sleep; sleepy.	
sopper		One who sops.	
sopping		more recent version of soppy. Used esp. in phrase sopping wet.	
soppy		Soaked or saturated with liquid or moisture; very wet or sloppy.	
sopra		Above; before; over; upon.	
sopranist		A treble singer.	
soprano		(a) The treble; the highest vocal register; the highest kind of female or boy's voice; the upper part in harmony for mixed voices.	
sopsavine		See Sops of wine, under Sop.	
sora		A North American rail (Porzana Carolina) common in the Eastern United States.	
sorance	Obsolete	Soreness.	
sorb		(a) The wild service tree (Pyrus torminalis) of Europe; also, the rowan tree.	
sorbate		A salt of sorbic acid.	
sorbefacient		Producing absorption. -- n.	
sorbent		An absorbent.	
sorbet		A kind of beverage; sherbet.	French sorbet.
sorbic		Pertaining to, or obtained from, the rowan tree, or sorb; specifically, designating an acid, C	
sorbile	Obsolete	Fit to be drunk or sipped.	Latin sorbilis.
sorbin		An unfermentable sugar, isomeric with glucose, found in the ripe berries of the rowan tree, or sorb, and extracted as a sweet white crystalline substance; -- called also mountain-ash sugar.	
sorbite		A sugarlike substance, isomeric with mannite and dulcite, found with sorbin in the ripe berries of the sorb, and extracted as a sirup or a white crystalline substance. -- Sor*bit"ic, a.	
sorbition	Obsolete	The act of drinking or sipping.	
sorbonical		Belonging to the Sorbonne or to a Sorbonist.	
sorbonist		A doctor of the Sorbonne, or theological college, in the University of Paris, founded by Robert de Sorbon, a. d. 1252.	
sorcerer		A conjurer; an enchanter; a magician.	Old French sorcier.
sorceress		A female sorcerer.	
sorcering		Act or practice of using sorcery.	
sorcerous		Of or pertaining to sorcery.	
sorcery		Divination by the assistance, or supposed assistance, of evil spirits, or the power of commanding evil spirits; magic; necromancy; witchcraft; enchantment.	Middle French sorcerie.
sord		See Sward — the grassy surface of land; that part of the soil which is filled with the roots of grass; turf.	
sordes		Foul matter; excretion; dregs; filthy, useless, or rejected matter of any kind; specifically (Med.), the foul matter that collects on the teeth and tongue in low fevers and other conditions attended with great vital depression.	Latin sordes.
sordet		A sordine.	
sordid		Vile; base; gross; mean; as, vulgar, sordid mortals.	Latin sordidus.
sordidly	Obsolete	Sordidness.	
sordidness		The quality or state of being sordid.	
sordine		See Damper, and 5th Mute.	
sore		Reddish brown; sorrel.	Middle English sor.
soredia		pl. of Soredium — a patch of granular bodies on the surface of the thallus of lichens.	
sorediate		Sorediïferous.	
sorediferous		Bearing soredia; sorediate.	
sorediiferous		Bearing soredia; sorediate.	
soredium		A patch of granular bodies on the surface of the thallus of lichens.	
soree		Same as Sora.	
sorehead	Slang	One who is disgruntled by a failure in politics, or the like.	
sorehon		Formerly, in Ireland, a kind of servile tenure which subjected the tenant to maintain his chieftain gratuitously whenever he wished to indulge in a revel.	
sorel		(Zoöl.) A young buck in the third year. See the Note under Buck.	
sorely		In a sore manner; grievously; painfully; as, to be sorely afflicted.	
sorema		A heap of carpels belonging to one flower.	
soreness		The quality or state of being sore; tenderness; painfull; as, the soreness of a wound; the soreness of an affliction.	
sorex		A genus of small Insectivora, including the common shrews.	
sorghe	English dialect	The three-beared rocking, or whistlefish.	
sorghum		(a) A genus of grasses, properly limited to two species, Sorghum Halepense, the Arabian millet, or Johnson grass (see Johnson grass), and S. vulgare, the Indian millet (see Indian millet, under Indian).	
sorgo		Indian millet and its varieties. See Sorghum.	
sori		pl. of Sorus — one of the fruit dots, or small clusters of sporangia, on the back of the fronds of ferns.	
soricine		Of or pertaining to the Shrew family (Soricidæ); like a shrew in form or habits; as, the soricine bat (Glossophaga soricina).	Latin soricinus.
sorites		An abridged form of stating of syllogisms in a series of propositions so arranged that the predicate of each one that precedes forms the subject of each one that follows…	
soritical		Of or pertaining to a sorites; resembling a sorites.	
sorn	Scots	To obtrude one's self on another for bed and board.	
sorner	Scots	One who obtrudes himself on another for bed and board.	
sororal		Relating to a sister; sisterly.	
sororicide		The murder of one's sister; also, one who murders or kills one's own sister.	Latin sororicida.
sororize		To associate, or hold fellowship, as sisters; to have sisterly feelings; -- analogous to fraternize.	Latin soror.
sorosis		A woman's club; an association of women.	
sorrage	Obsolete	The blades of green or barley.	
sorrance	Obsolete	Same as Sorance.	
sorrel		Of a yellowish or redish brown color; as, a sorrel horse.	
sorrily		In a sorry manner; poorly.	
sorriness		The quality or state of being sorry.	
sorrow		The uneasiness or pain of mind which is produced by the loss of any good, real or supposed, or by diseappointment in the expectation of good; grief at having suffered or occasioned evil; regret; unhappiness; sadness.	Middle English sorow, from Old English sorg.
sorrowed	Obsolete	Accompanied with sorrow; sorrowful.	
sorrowful		Full of sorrow; exhibiting sorrow; sad; dejected; distressed.	
sorrowless		Free from sorrow.	
sorry		Grieved for the loss of some good; pained for some evil; feeling regret; -- now generally used to express light grief or affliction, but formerly often used to express deeper feeling.	Middle English sory, from Old English sarig.
sors		A lot; also, a kind of divination by means of lots.	
sort		A kind or species; any number or collection of individual persons or things characterized by the same or like qualities; a class or order; as, a sort of men; a sort of horses; a sort of trees; a sort of poems.	Old French sortir, from Latin sortire.
sortable		Capable of being sorted.	
sortably	Obsolete	Suitable. otgrave.	
sortal	Obsolete	Pertaining to a sort.	
sortance	Obsolete	Suitableness; agreement. hak.	
sorter		One who, or that which, sorts.	
sortes		pl. of Sors — a lot; also, a kind of divination by means of lots.	
sortie		The sudden issuing of a body of troops, usually small, from a besieged place to attack or harass the besiegers; a sally.	French sortie.
sortilege		The act or practice of drawing lots; divination by drawing lots.	Old French sortilège.
sortilegious		Pertaining to sortilege.	French sortilègeux.
sortilegy		Sortilege.	
sortita		The air sung by any of the principal characters in an opera on entering.	
sortition	Obsolete	Selection or appointment by lot.	
sortment	Obsolete	Assortiment.	
sorus		One of the fruit dots, or small clusters of sporangia, on the back of the fronds of ferns.	
sorweful	Obsolete	Sorrowful.	
sory		Green vitriol, or some earth imregnated with it.	
sos		The letters signified by the signal ( … ---… ) prescribed by the International Radiotelegraphic Convention of 1912 for use by ships in distress.	
soss	Obsolete	To fall at once into a chair or seat; to sit lazily.	
sostenuto		Sustained; -- applied to a movement or passage the sounds of which are to sustained to the utmost of the nominal value of the time; also, to a passage the tones of which are to be somewhat prolonged or protacted.	
sot	Obsolete	A stupid person; a blockhead; a dull fellow; a dolt. outh.	
sotadean		Sotadic.	
sotadic		Pertaining to, or resembling, the lascivious compositions of the Greek poet Sotades. -- n.	
sotel	Obsolete	Subtile.	
soteriology		A discourse on health, or the science of promoting and preserving health.	Greek σωτηρία.
sothiac		Of or pertaining to Sothis, the Egyptian name for the Dog Star; taking its name from the Dog Star; canicular.	
sothic		Of or pertaining to Sothis, the Egyptian name for the Dog Star; taking its name from the Dog Star; canicular.	
sotil	Obsolete	Subtile.	
sotilte	Obsolete	Subtlety.	
sotted	Obsolete	a. & p. p. of Sot.	
sottish		Like a sot; doltish; very foolish; drunken.	
sou		An old French copper coin, equivalent in value to, and now displaced by, the five-centime piece (sou.	
soubah		See Subah — a province; a government, as of a viceroy; also, a subahdar.	
soubahdar		See Subahdar — a viceroy; a governor of a subah; also, a native captain in the British native army.	
soubise		A sauce made of white onions and melted butter mixed with velouté sauce.	
soubrette		A female servant or attendant; specifically, as a term of the theater, a lady's maid, in comedies, who acts the part of an intrigante; a meddlesome, mischievous female servant or young woman.	French soubrette, from Occitan (post 1500 soubreto.
soubriquet		See Sobriquet — an assumed name; a fanciful epithet or appellation; a nickname.	
souce	Obsolete	See 1st Souse. See Souse. penser.	
souchong		A kind of black tea of a fine quality.	
soudan	Obsolete	A sultan.	
souded	Obsolete	United; consolidated; made firm; strengthened.	
soudet	Obsolete	United; consolidated; made firm; strengthened.	
souffle		A murmuring or blowing sound; as, the uterine souffle heard over the pregnant uterus.	
soufflee		Filled with air by beating, and baked; as, an omelette soufflé.	
sough		The sound produced by soughing; a hollow murmur or roaring.	Old English swogan.
sought		imp. & p. p. of Seek.	
souke	Obsolete	To suck.	
soul		The spiritual, rational, and immortal part in man; that part of man which enables him to think, and which renders him a subject of moral government; -- sometimes, in distinction from the higher nature, or spirit, of man…	
souled		Furnished with a soul; possessing soul and feeling; -- used chiefly in composition; as, great-souled Hector.	
soulili		A long-tailed, crested Javan monkey (Semnopithecus mitratus).	
soulless		Being without a soul, or without greatness or nobleness of mind; mean; spiritless.	
soullessly		In a soulless manner.	
soun	Obsolete	Sound. aucer.	
sound		Whole; unbroken; unharmed; free from flaw, defect, or decay; perfect of the kind; as, sound timber; sound fruit; a sound tooth; a sound ship.	Middle English sounden, from Old French sonder.
sound-board		A sounding-board.	
soundable		Capable of being sounded.	
soundage		Dues for soundings.	
sounder		One who, or that which; sounds; specifically, an instrument used in telegraphy in place of a register, the communications being read by sound.	
sounding		Making or emitting sound; hence, sonorous; as, sounding words.	
sounding-board		(Mus.) A thin board which propagates the sound in a piano, in a violin, and in some other musical instruments.	
soundless		Not capable of being sounded or fathomed; unfathomable.	
soundly		In a sound manner.	
soundness		The quality or state of being sound; as, the soundness of timber, of fruit, of the teeth, etc.; the soundness of reasoning or argument; soundness of faith.	
soune	Obsolete	To sound.	
sounst	Obsolete	Soused. See Souse.	
soup	Obsolete	A liquid food of many kinds, usually made by boiling meat and vegetables, or either of them, in water, -- commonly seasoned or flavored; strong broth.	
soupcon		A suspicion; a suggestion; hence, a very small portion; a taste; as, coffee with a soupçon of brandy; a soupçon of coquetry.	
soupe-maigre		Soup made chiefly from vegetables or fish with a little butter and a few condiments.	
souple		That part of a flail which strikes the grain.	
soupy		Resembling soup; souplike.	
sour		Having an acid or sharp, biting taste, like vinegar, and the juices of most unripe fruits; acid; tart.	Middle English sour, from Old English sur.
source		The rising from the ground, or beginning, of a stream of water or the like; a spring; a fountain.	Middle English sours, from Old French sorse.
sourcrout		See Sauerkraut — cabbage cut fine and allowed to ferment in a brine made of its own juice with salt, -- a German dish.	
sourde	Obsolete	To have origin or source; to rise; to spring.	
souring		Any sour apple.	
sourish		Somewhat sour; moderately acid; as, sourish fruit; a sourish taste.	
sourkrout		Same as Sauerkraut.	
sourly		In a sour manner; with sourness.	
sourness		The quality or state of being sour.	
sours	Obsolete	Source. See Source.	
soursop		The large succulent and slightly acid fruit of a small tree (Anona muricata) of the West Indies; also, the tree itself.	
sourwood		The sorrel tree.	
sous	Obsolete	A corrupt form of Sou.	
souse		Pickle made with salt.	
souslik		See Suslik — a ground squirrel (Spermophilus citillus) of Europe and Asia.	
soutache		A kind of narrow braid, usually of silk; -- also known as Russian braid.	
soutage	Obsolete	That in which anything is packed; bagging, as for hops.	
soutane		A close garnment with straight sleeves, and skirts reaching to the ankles, and buttoned in front from top to bottom; especially, the black garment of this shape worn by the clergy in France and Italy as their daily dress…	
souter	Obsolete	A shoemaker; a cobbler.	Old English sutere, from Latin sutor.
souterly	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to a cobbler or cobblers; like a cobbler; hence, vulgar; low.	
souterrain	Obsolete	A grotto or cavern under ground.	French souterrain.
south		That one of the four cardinal points directly opposite to the north; the region or direction to the right or direction to the right of a person who faces the east.	
southcottian		A follower of Joanna Southcott (1750-1814), an Englishwoman who, professing to have received a miraculous calling, preached and prophesied, and committed many impious absurdities.	
southdown		Of or pertaining to the South Downs, a range of pasture hills south of the Thames, in England.	
southeast		The point of the compass equally distant from the south and the east; the southeast part or region.	
southeaster		A storm, strong wind, or gale coming from the southeast.	
southeastern		Of or pertaining to the southeast; southeasterly.	
southeastward		Toward the southeast.	
southeastwardly		Toward the southeast.	
souther		A strong wind, gale, or storm from the south.	
southerliness		The quality or state of being southerly; direction toward the south.	
southerly		Southern. the old squaw; -- so called in imitation of its cry.	
southern		Of or pertaining to the south; situated in, or proceeding from, the south; situated or proceeding toward the south.	Middle English southerne.
southerner		An inhabitant or native of the south, esp. of the Southern States of North America; opposed to Northerner.	
southernliness		Southerliness.	
southernly		Somewhat southern. -- adv.	
southernmost		Farthest south.	
southernwood		A shrubby species of wormwood (Artemisia Abrotanum) having aromatic foliage.	
southing		Tendency or progress southward; as, the southing of the sun.	
southly	Obsolete	Southerly.	
southmost		Farthest toward the south; southernmost.	
southness		A tendency in the end of a magnetic needle to point toward the south pole.	
southpaw		Using the left hand in pitching; said of a pitcher.	
southren	Obsolete	Southern.	
southron		An inhabitant of the more southern part of a country; formerly, a name given in Scotland to any Englishman.	
southsay	Obsolete	See Soothsay — a true saying; a proverb; a prophecy.	
southsayer	Obsolete	See Soothsayer — one who foretells events by the art of soothsaying; a prognosticator.	
southward		Toward the south, or toward a point nearer the south than the east or west point; as, to go southward.	
southwardly		In a southern direction.	
southwards		Toward the south, or toward a point nearer the south than the east or west point; as, to go southward.	
southwest		The point of the compass equally from the south and the west; the southwest part or region.	
southwester		A storm, gale, or strong wind from the southwest.	
southwesterly		To ward or from the southwest; as, a southwesterly course; a southwesterly wind.	
southwestern		Of or pertaining to the southwest; southwesterly; as, to sail a southwestern course.	
southwestward		Toward the southwest.	
southwestwardly		Toward the southwest.	
souvenance	Obsolete	Remembrance.	
souvenir		That which serves as a reminder; a remembrancer; a memento; a keepsake.	French souvenir, from Middle French soubvenir, from Old French sovenir, from Latin subvenire.
sovenaunce	Obsolete	Remembrance.	Old French souvenance.
sovereign		Supreme or highest in power; superior to all others; chief; as, our sovereign prince.	Latin soverain.
sovereignize	Obsolete	To exercise supreme authority.	
sovereignly		In a sovereign manner; in the highest degree; supremely.	
sovereignty		The quality or state of being sovereign, or of being a sovereign; the exercise of, or right to exercise, supreme power; dominion; sway; supremacy; independence; also, that which is sovereign; a sovereign state; as…	Latin soverain.
sovran	Poetic	A variant of Sovereign.	
sow		(Zoöl.) The female of swine, or of the hog kind.	Old English sawan.
sowans		See Sowens — a nutritious article of food, much used in Scotland, made from the husk of the oat by a process not unlike that by which common starch is made; -- called flummery in England.	
sowar		In India, a mounted soldier.	
sowbane		The red goosefoot (Chenopodium rubrum), -- said to be fatal to swine.	
sowce	Obsolete	See Souse — pickle made with salt.	
sowdanesse	Obsolete	A sultaness.	
sowens		A nutritious article of food, much used in Scotland, made from the husk of the oat by a process not unlike that by which common starch is made; -- called flummery in England.	
sower		One who, or that which, sows.	
sowins		See Sowens — a nutritious article of food, much used in Scotland, made from the husk of the oat by a process not unlike that by which common starch is made; -- called flummery in England.	
sowl	Obsolete	To pull by the ears; to drag about. hak. See Soul, v. i.	Middle English sovel.
sowle	Obsolete	To pull by the ears; to drag about. hak.	
sown		p. p. of Sow — (Zoöl.) The female of swine, or of the hog kind.	
sowne	Obsolete	To sound.	
sowse	Obsolete	See Souse. ryden.	
sowter	Obsolete	See Souter — a shoemaker; a cobbler.	
soy		A Chinese and Japanese liquid sauce for fish, etc., made by subjecting boiled beans (esp. soja beans), or beans and meal, to long fermentation and then long digestion in salt and water.	
soyle	Obsolete	To solve, to clear up; as, to soyl all other texts.	
soyned	Obsolete	Filled with care; anxious.	French soigner.
sozzle	Dialect	To splash or wet carelessly; as, to sozzle the feet in water.	
