spa		A spring or mineral water; -- so called from a place of this name in Belgium.	
spaad	Obsolete	A kind of spar; earth flax, or amianthus. oodward.	
space		Extension, considered independently of anything which it may contain; that which makes extended objects conceivable and possible.	Anglo-Norman space.
spaceful		Wide; extensive.	
spaceless		Without space.	
spacial		See Spatial — of or pertaining to space.	
spacially		See Spatially — as regards space.	
spacious		Extending far and wide; vast in extent.	
spad		A nail one or two inches long, of iron, brass, tin, or tinner iron, with a hole through the flattened head, used to mark stations in underground surveying.	
spadassin		A bravo; a bully; a duelist.	French spadassin, from Italian spadaccino.
spaddle	Obsolete	A little spade.	
spade		(Zoöl.) A hart or stag three years old.	Old English spadu.
spadebone	English dialect	Shoulder blade.	
spadefish		An American market fish (Chætodipterus faber) common on the southern coasts; -- called also angel fish, moonfish, and porgy.	
spadefoot		Any species of burrowing toads of the genus Scaphiopus, esp. S.	
spadeful		As much as a spade will hold or lift.	
spader		One who, or that which, spades; specifically, a digging machine.	
spadiceous		Of a bright clear brown or chestnut color.	Latin spadix.
spadicose		Spadiceous.	
spadille		The ace of spades in omber and quadrille.	
spadix		(Bot.) A fleshy spike of flowers, usually inclosed in a leaf called a spathe.	
spado		Same as Spade, 2. 2. (Law) An impotent person.	Latin spado.
spadroon		A sword, especially a broadsword, formerly used both to cut and thrust.	
spae	Scots	To foretell; to divine.	
spaeman	Scots	A prophet; a diviner.	
spaewife	Scots	A female fortune teller.	
spaghetti		A variety or macaroni made in tubes of small diameter.	
spagyric	Obsolete	Chemical; alchemical.	
spagyrical	Obsolete	Chemical; alchemical.	
spagyrist		One of a sect which arose in the days of alchemy, who sought to discover remedies for disease by chemical means.	
spahee		Formerly, one of the Turkish cavalry.	
spahi		Formerly, one of the Turkish cavalry.	French spahi, from Turkish sipahi, from Persian سپاهی.
spaid		See 1st Spade.	
spake		imp. of Speak — to utter words or articulate sounds, as human beings; to express thoughts by words; as, the organs may be so obstructed that a man may not be able to speak.	Middle English spake.
spakenet		A net for catching crabs.	
spaky	Obsolete	Specky. hapman.	
spale		(Shipbuilding) A strengthening cross timber.	Middle English spale.
spall		(Mining) To break into small pieces, as ore, for the purpose of separating from rock.	Middle English spalle.
spalpeen	Colloquial	A scamp; an Irish term for a good-for-nothing fellow; -- often used in good-humored contempt or ridicule.	
spalt	English dialect	Liable to break or split; brittle; as, spalt timber.	
span		The space from the thumb to the end of the little finger when extended; nine inches; eighth of a fathom.	Old English spann.
span-new		Quite new; brand-new; fire-new.	
spanaemia		A condition of impoverishment of the blood; a morbid state in which the red corpuscles, or other important elements of the blood, are deficient.	
spanaemic		Of or pertaining to spanæmia; having impoverished blood.	
spancel	English dialect	A rope used for tying or hobbling the legs of a horse or cow.	
spandogs		A pair of grappling dogs for hoisting logs and timber.	
spandrel		(Arch.) The irregular triangular space between the curve of an arch and the inclosing right angle; or the space between the outer moldings of two contiguous arches and a horizontal line above them…	
spane	Obsolete	To wean.	
spang	Obsolete	To spangle.	Middle English spang.
spangle		A small plate or boss of shining metal; something brilliant used as an ornament, especially when stitched on the dress.	Middle English spangel.
spangler		One who, or that which, spangles.	
spangly		Resembling, or consisting of, spangles; glittering; as, spangly light.	
spaniard		A native or inhabitant of Spain.	
spaniel		(Zoöl.) One of a breed of small dogs having long and thick hair and large drooping ears.	
spanish		Of or pertaining to Spain or the Spaniards.	
spank		To strike, as the breech, with the open hand; to slap.	
spanker		One who spanks, or anything used as an instrument for spanking.	
spanking		Moving with a quick, lively pace, or capable of so doing; dashing.	
spanless		Incapable of being spanned.	
spanner		One who, or that which, spans.	
spannishing	Obsolete	The full blooming of a flower.	
spanpiece		The collar of a roof; sparpiece.	
spanworm		The larva of any geometrid moth, as the cankeworm; a geometer; a measuring worm.	
spar		An old name for a nonmetallic mineral, usually cleavable and somewhat lustrous; as, calc spar, or calcite, fluor spar, etc. It was especially used in the case of the gangue minerals of a metalliferous vein.	Middle English sparren, from Old English sparrian.
spar-hung		Hung with spar, as a cave.	
sparable		A kind of small nail used by shoemakers.	
sparada		A small California surf fish (Micrometrus aggregatus); -- called also shiner.	
sparadrap		(Med.) Any adhesive plaster.	French sparadrap.
sparage		Obs. or corrupt forms of Asparagus.	
sparagrass		Obs. or corrupt forms of Asparagus.	
sparagus		Obs. or corrupt forms of Asparagus.	
sparble	Obsolete	To scatter; to disperse; to rout.	Old French esparpiller.
spare		To use frugally or stintingly, as that which is scarce or valuable; to retain or keep unused; to save. thy Father's dreadful thunder didst not spare.	Old English sparian.
spareful	Obsolete	Sparing; chary.	
spareless		Unsparing.	
sparely		In a spare manner; sparingly.	
spareness		The quality or state of being lean or thin; leanness.	
sparer		One who spares.	
sparerib		A piece of pork, consisting or ribs with little flesh on them.	
sparge		To sprinkle; to moisten by sprinkling; as, to sparge paper.	
spargefaction	Obsolete	The act of sprinkling.	
sparger		A vessel with a perforated cover, for sprinkling with a liquid; a sprinkler.	
sparhawk	English dialect	The sparrow hawk.	Old English sperhauke.
sparing		Spare; saving; frugal; merciful.	
spark		A small particle of fire or ignited substance which is emitted by a body in combustion.	Middle English sparke.
sparker		A spark arrester.	
sparkful	Obsolete	Lively; brisk; gay.	
sparkish		Like a spark; airy; gay.	
sparkle		A little spark; a scintillation.	
sparkler	Obsolete	One who scatters; esp., one who scatters money; an improvident person.	
sparklet	Obsolete	A small spark.	
sparkliness	Obsolete	Vivacity.	
sparkling		Emitting sparks; glittering; flashing; brilliant; lively; as, sparkling wine; sparkling eyes. -- Spar kling*ness, n.	
sparling	Scots	(a) The European smelt (Osmerus eperlanus). (b) A young salmon. (c) A tern.	
sparlyre	Obsolete	The calf of the leg.	
sparoid		of or pertaining to the Sparidæ, a family of spinous-finned fishes which includes the scup, sheepshead, and sea bream. -- n.	
sparpiece		The collar beam of a roof; the spanpiece.	
sparpoil	Obsolete	To scatter; to spread; to disperse.	
sparrow		(Zoöl.) One of many species of small singing birds of the family Fringilligæ, having conical bills, and feeding chiefly on seeds.	Middle English sparwe.
sparrowgrass	Colloquial	Asparagus. See the Note under Asparagus.	
sparrowwort		An evergreen shrub of the genus Erica (E. passerina).	
sparry		Resembling spar, or consisting of spar; abounding with spar; having a confused crystalline structure; spathose.	
sparse		Thinly scattered; set or planted here and there; not being dense or close together; as, a sparse population.	Latin sparsus.
sparsedly	Obsolete	Sparsely.	
sparsely		In a scattered or sparse manner.	
sparseness		The quality or state of being sparse; as, sparseness of population.	
sparsim		Sparsely; scatteredly; here and there.	
spartan		of or pertaining to Sparta, especially to ancient Sparta; hence, hardy; undaunted; as, Spartan souls; Spartan bravey. -- n.	
sparteine		A narcotic alkaloid extracted from the tops of the common broom (Cytisus scoparius, formerly Spartium scoparium), as a colorless oily liquid of aniline-like odor and very bitter taste.	
sparterie		Articles made of the blades or fiber of the Lygeum Spartum and Stipa (or Macrochloa) tenacissima, kinds of grass used in Spain and other countries for making ropes, mats, baskets, nets, and mattresses.	
sparth	Obsolete	An Anglo-Saxon battle-ax, or halberd.	
sparve	English dialect	The hedge sparrow.	
spary	Obsolete	Sparing; parsimonious.	
spasm		(Med.) An involuntary and unnatural contraction of one or more muscles or muscular fibers.	Old French spasme, from Latin spasmus, from Greek σπασμός.
spasmatical	Obsolete	Spasmodic.	
spasmodic		(Med.) Of or pertaining to spasm; consisting in spasm; occuring in, or characterized by, spasms; as, a spasmodic asthma.	Latin spasmodicus, from Greek σπασμώδης.
spasmodical		Same as Spasmodic, a. -- Spas*mod"ic*al*ly, adv.	
spastic		Of or pertaining to spasm; spasmodic; especially, pertaining to tonic spasm; tetanic.	Latin spasticus, from Greek σπαστικός.
spastically		Spasmodically.	
spasticity		The tendency to, or capability of suffering, spasm.	
spat		A light blow with something flat.	Old English spittan.
spatangoid		Of or pertaining to the Spatangoidea. -- n.	
spatangoidea		An order of irregular sea urchins, usually having a more or less heart-shaped shell with four or five petal-like ambulacra above.	
spatangus		A genus of heart-shaped sea urchins belonging to the Spatangoidea.	
spatchcock		See Spitchcock — to split (as an eel) lengthwise, and broil it, or fry it in hot fat.	
spate		A river flood; an overflow or inundation.	
spatha		A spathe.	Latin spatha, from Greek σπάθη.
spathaceous		Having a spathe; resembling a spathe; spathal.	
spathal		Furnished with a spathe; as, spathal flowers.	
spathe		A special involucre formed of one leaf and inclosing a spadix, as in aroid plants and palms.	Latin spatha, from Greek σπάθη.
spathed		Having a spathe or calyx like a sheath.	
spathic		Like spar; foliated or lamellar; spathose.	Greek σπάθη.
spathiform		Resembling spar in form.	French spathiforme.
spathose		See Spathic — like spar; foliated or lamellar; spathose.	
spathous		Spathose.	
spathulate		See Spatulate — shaped like spatula, or like a battledoor, being roundish, with a long, narrow, linear base.	
spatial		Of or pertaining to space.	
spatially		As regards space.	
spatiate	Obsolete	To rove; to ramble.	
spatter		To sprinkle with a liquid or with any wet substance, as water, mud, or the like; to make wet of foul spots upon by sprinkling; as, to spatter a coat; to spatter the floor; to spatter boots with mud.	
spatter-dock		The common yellow water lily (Nuphar advena).	
spatterdashed	Colloquial	Wearing spatterdashes.	
spatterdashes		Coverings for the legs, to protect them from water and mud; long gaiters.	
spattle		(Pottery) A tool or implement for mottling a molded article with coloring matter Knoght.	
spattling-poppy		A kind of catchfly (Silene inflata) which is sometimes frothy from the action of captured insects.	
spatula		An implement shaped like a knife, flat, thin, and somewhat flexible, used for spreading paints, fine plasters, drugs in compounding prescriptions, etc. Cf.	Latin spatula.
spatulate		Shaped like spatula, or like a battledoor, being roundish, with a long, narrow, linear base.	
spauld	Scots	The shoulder.	
spavin		A disease of horses characterized by a bony swelling developed on the hock as the result of inflammation of the bones; also, the swelling itself.	
spavined		Affected with spavin.	
spaw		See Spa — a spring or mineral water; -- so called from a place of this name in Belgium.	
spawl		A splinter or fragment, as of wood or stone. See Spall.	
spawling		That which is spawled, or spit out.	
spawn		To bring forth; to generate; -- used in contempt.	
spawner		(Zoöl.) A mature female fish.	
spay		To remove or extirpate the ovaries of, as a sow or a bitch; to castrate (a female animal).	
speak		To utter words or articulate sounds, as human beings; to express thoughts by words; as, the organs may be so obstructed that a man may not be able to speak.	Middle English speken, from Old English specan.
speakable		Capable of being spoken; fit to be spoken.	
speaker		One who speaks. Specifically: (a) One who utters or pronounces a discourse; usually, one who utters a speech in public; as, the man is a good speaker, or a bad speaker.	
speakership		The office of speaker; as, the speakership of the House of Representatives.	
speaking		Uttering speech; used for conveying speech; as, man is a speaking animal; a speaking tube.	
spear		A long, pointed weapon, used in war and hunting, by thrusting or throwing; a weapon with a long shaft and a sharp head or blade; a lance.	Old English spere.
spearer		One who uses a spear; as, a spearer of fish.	
spearfish		(a) A large and powerful fish (Tetrapturus albidus) related to the swordfish, but having scales and ventral fins.	
spearhead		The pointed head, or end, of a spear.	
spearman		One who is armed with a spear.	
spearmint		A species of mint (Mentha viridis) growing in moist soil.	
spearwood		An Australian tree (Acacia Doratoxylon), and its tough wood, used by the natives for spears.	
spearwort		A name given to several species of crowfoot (Ranunculus) which have spear-shaped leaves.	
speary		Having the form of a spear.	
spece	Obsolete	Species; kind.	
specht	Obsolete	A woodpecker.	
special		Of or pertaining to a species; constituting a species or sort.	
specialism		Devotion to a particular and restricted part or branch of knowledge, art, or science; as, medical specialism.	
specialist		One who devotes himself to some specialty; as, a medical specialist, one who devotes himself to diseases of particular parts of the body, as the eye, the ear, the nerves, etc.	
speciality		A particular or peculiar case; a particularity.	
specialization		The act of specializing, or the state of being spezialized.	
specialize		To mention specialy; to particularize.	
specially		In a special manner; partcularly; especially.	
specialty		(Law) A contract or obligation under seal; a contract by deed; a writing, under seal, given as security for a debt particularly specified.	
specie		abl. of L. species sort, kind. Used in the phrase in specie, that is, in sort, in kind, in (its own) form..	
species		Visible or sensible presentation; appearance; a sensible percept received by the imagination; an image.	Latin species.
specifiable		Admitting specification; capable of being specified.	
specific		Of or pertaining to a species; characterizing or constituting a species; possessing the peculiar property or properties of a thing which constitute its species, and distinguish it from other things; as…	Old French specifique, from Latin specificus.
specifical		Specific.	
specifically		In a specific manner.	
specificalness		The quality of being specific.	
specificate	Obsolete	To show, mark, or designate the species, or the distinguishing particulars of; to specify. ir M.	
specification		The act of specifying or determining by a mark or limit; notation of limits.	Latin specificationem.
specificness		The quality or state of being specific.	
specify		To mention or name, as a particular thing; to designate in words so as to distinguish from other things; as, to specify the uses of a plant; to specify articles purchased.	
specillum		See Stylet, 2.	
specimen		A part, or small portion, of anything, or one of a number of things, intended to exhibit the kind and quality of the whole, or of what is not exhibited; a sample; as, a specimen of a man's handwriting; a specimen of painting…	Latin specimen.
speciosity		The quality or state of being specious; speciousness.	
specious		Presenting a pleasing appearance; pleasing in form or look; showy.	Latin speciosus.
speck		The blubber of whales or other marine mammals; also, the fat of the hippopotamus.	
speckle		A little or spot in or anything, of a different substance or color from that of the thing itself.	
speckled		Marked or variegated with small spots of a different color from that of the rest of the surface.	
speckled-belly	Dialect	The gadwall.	
speckled-bill		The American white-fronted goose (Anser albifrons).	
speckledness		The quality of being speckled.	
specksioneer		The chief harpooner, who also directs in cutting up the speck, or blubber; -- so called among whalers.	
speckt		A woodpecker. See Speight.	
spectacle		Something exhibited to view; usually, something presented to view as extraordinary, or as unusual and worthy of special notice; a remarkable or noteworthy sight; a show; a pageant; a gazingstock.	
spectacled		Furnished with spectacles; wearing spectacles.	
spectacular		Of or pertaining to a shows; of the nature of a show.	
spectant		Looking forward.	
spectation		Regard; aspect; appearance.	Latin spectatio.
spectator		One who on; one who sees or beholds; a beholder; one who is personally present at, and sees, any exhibition; as, the spectators at a show. -- Looker-on; beholder; observer; witness.	Latin spectator.
spectatorial		Of or pertaining to a spectator.	
spectatorship		The office or quality of a spectator.	
spectatress		A female beholder or looker-on.	
spectatrix		A female beholder or looker-on.	
specter		Something preternaturally visible; an apparition; a ghost; a phantom.	French spectre, from Latin spectrum.
spectioneer		Same as Specsioneer.	
spectral		Of or pertaining to a specter; ghosty.	
spectrally		In the form or manner of a specter.	
spectre		Something preternaturally visible; an apparition; a ghost; a phantom.	
spectrobolometer		A combination of spectroscope and bolometer for determining the distribution of energy in a spectrum. --Spec`tro*bo`lo*met"ric (#), a.	
spectroelectric		Pert. to or designating any form of spark tube the electric discharge within which is used in spectroscopic observations.	
spectrogram		A photograph, map, or diagram of a spectrum.	
spectrograph		(a) An apparatus for photographing or mapping a spectrum. (b) A photograph or picture of a spectrum. -- Spec`tro*graph ic*al*ly (#), adv. --Spec*trog"ra*phy (#), n.	
spectroheliogram		A photograph of the sun made by monochromatic light, usually of the calcium line (k), and showing the sun's faculæ and prominences.	
spectroheliograph		An apparatus for making spectroheliograms, consisting of a spectroscopic camera used in combination with a telescope, and provided with clockwork for moving the sun's image across the slit. -- Spec`tro*he`li*o*graph"ic (#), a.	
spectrological		Of or pertaining to spectrology; as, spectrological studies or experiments. -- Spec`tro*log"ic*al*ly, adv.	
spectrology		The science of spectrum analysis in any or all of its relations and applications.	
spectrometer		A spectroscope fitted for measurements of the luminious spectra observed with it.	
spectrometry		Art or process of using the spectrometer, or of measuring wave lengths of rays of a spectrum. -- Spec`tro*met"ric (#), a.	
spectrophone		An instrument constructed on the principle of the photophone and used in spectrum analysis as an adjunct to the spectroscope. -- Spec`tro*phon"ic (#), a.	
spectrophotometer		An instrument for measuring or comparing the intensites of the colors of the spectrum.	
spectrophotometry		The art of comparing, photometrically, the brightness of two spectra, wave length by wave length; the use of the spectrophotometer. --Spec`tro*pho`to*met"ric (#), a.	
spectroscope		An optical instrument for forming and examining spectra (as that of solar light, or those produced by flames in which different substances are volatilized), so as to determine, from the position of the spectral lines…	
spectroscopic		Of or pertaining to a spectroscope, or spectroscopy. -- Spec`tro*scop"ic*al*ly, adv.	
spectroscopical		Of or pertaining to a spectroscope, or spectroscopy. -- Spec`tro*scop"ic*al*ly, adv.	
spectroscopist		One who investigates by means of a spectroscope; one skilled in the use of the spectroscope.	
spectroscopy		The use of the spectroscope; investigations made with the spectroscope.	
spectrum		(Opt.) (a) The several colored and other rays of which light is composed, separated by the refraction of a prism or other means, and observed or studied either as spread out on a screen, by direct vision, by photography…	Latin spectrum.
specular		Having the qualities of a speculum, or mirror; having a smooth, reflecting surface; as, a specular metal; a specular surface.	Latin specularis.
speculate		To consider by turning a subject in the mind, and viewing it in its different aspects and relations; to meditate; to contemplate; to theorize; as, to speculate on questions in religion; to speculate on political events.	Latin speculatus.
speculation		A conclusion to which the mind comes by speculating; mere theory; view; notion; conjecture.	
speculatist		One who speculates, or forms theories; a speculator; a theorist.	
speculative		Given to speculation; contemplative.	
speculator	Obsolete	One who speculates. Specifically: (a) An observer; a contemplator; hence, a spy; a watcher.	
speculatorial	Obsolete	Speculatory; speculative.	
speculatory		Intended or adapted for viewing or espying; having oversight.	Latin speculatorius.
speculist		One who observes or considers; an observer.	
speculum		A mirror, or looking-glass; especially, a metal mirror, as in Greek and Roman archæology.	Latin speculum.
sped		imp. & p. p. of Speed.	
speece	Obsolete	Species; sort.	
speech		The faculty of uttering articulate sounds or words; the faculty of expressing thoughts by words or articulate sounds; the power of speaking.	Middle English speche, from Old English spæc.
speechful		Full of speech or words; voluble; loquacious.	
speechification		The act of speechifying.	
speechifier		One who makes a speech or speeches; an orator; a declaimer.	
speechify		To make a speech; to harangue.	
speechifying		The act of making a speech or speeches.	
speeching		The act of making a speech.	
speechless		Destitute or deprived of the faculty of speech.	
speechmaker		One who makes speeches; one accustomed to speak in a public assembly.	
speed		Prosperity in an undertaking; favorable issue; success.	Middle English speden, from Old English spedan.
speeder		One who, or that which, speeds.	
speedful	Obsolete	Full of speed (in any sense).	
speedfully	Obsolete	In a speedful manner.	
speedily		In a speedy manner.	Middle English spedily.
speediness		The quality or state of being speedy.	Middle English spedines, from Old English spedignes.
speedless		Being without speed.	
speedwell		Any plant of the genus Veronica, mostly low herbs with pale blue corollas, which quickly fall off.	
speedy		Not dilatory or slow; quick; swift; nimble; hasty; rapid in motion or performance; as, a speedy flight; on speedy foot.	Middle English spedi, from Old English spedig.
speer	Obsolete	A sphere.	
speet	Obsolete	To stab.	
speight	Obsolete	A woodpecker; -- called also specht, spekt, spight.	
speir		To ask. See Spere.	
speiskobalt		Smaltite.	
speiss		A regulus consisting essentially of nickel, obtained as a residue in fusing cobalt and nickel ores with silica and sodium carbonate to make smalt.	
spekboom		The purslane tree of South Africa, -- said to be the favorite food of elephants.	
speke	Obsolete	To speak.	
spekehouse	Obsolete	The parlor or reception room of a convent.	
spelding	Scots	A haddock or other small fish split open and dried in the sun; -- called also speldron.	
spelicans		See Spilikin — one of a number of small pieces or pegs of wood, ivory, bone, or other material, for playing a game, or for counting the score in a game, as in cribbage.	
spelk	English dialect	A small stick or rod used as a spike in thatching; a splinter.	Old English spelc.
spell		The relief of one person by another in any piece of work or wathing; also, a turn at work which is carried on by one person or gang relieving another; as, a spellat the pumps; a spell at the masthead.	Old French espeler.
spellable		Capable of being spelt.	
spellbind		To bind or hold by, or as if by, a spell or charm; to fascinate, esp. by eloquence of speech, as in a political campaign. - - Spell"bind`er (#), n.	
spellbound		Bound by, or as by, a spell.	
speller		One who spells.	
spellful		Abounding in spells, or charms.	
spelling		The act of one who spells; formation of words by letters; orthography.	
spellken	Slang	A theater.	
spellwork		Power or effect of magic; that which is wrought by magic; enchantment.	
spelt	Colloquial	imp. & p. p. of Spell.	Middle High German (ca. 1050-1500 spalden.
spelter		Zinc; -- especially so called in commerce and arts.	
spelunc	Obsolete	A cavern; a cave.	Latin spelunca, from Greek σπῆλυγξ.
spence		A place where provisions are kept; a buttery; a larder; a pantry.	
spencer	Obsolete	One who has the care of the spence, or buttery.	
spend		To weigh or lay out; to dispose of; to part with; as, to spend money for clothing.	Middle English spenden.
spender		One who spends; esp., one who spends lavishly; a prodigal; a spendthrift.	
spending	Colloquial	The act of expending; expenditure.	
spendthrift		One who spends money profusely or improvidently; a prodigal; one who lavishes or wastes his estate.	
spendthrifty		Spendthrift; prodigal.	
spenserian		Of or pertaining to the English poet Spenser; -- specifically applied to the stanza used in his poem	
spent		Exhausted; worn out; having lost energy or motive force.	
sper	Obsolete	To shut in; to support; to inclose; to fasten.	
sperable	Obsolete	Within the range of hpe; proper to be hoped for.	
sperage	Obsolete	Asperagus.	
sperate		Hoped for, or to be hoped for.	
spere	English dialect	To search; to pry; to ask; to inquire.	
sperge		A charge of wash for the still.	
sperling	English dialect	(a) A smelt; a sparling. (b) A young herring.	
sperm		The male fecundating fluid; semen. See Semen.	Middle French sperme, from Latin sperma, from Greek σπέρμα.
spermaceti		A white waxy substance obtained from cavities in the head of the sperm whale, and used making candles, oilments, cosmetics, etc. It consists essentially of ethereal salts of palmitic acid with ethal and other hydrocarbon bases.	
spermalist		See Spermist — a believer in the doctrine, formerly current, of encasement in the male (see Encasement), in which the seminal thread, or spermatozoid, was considered as the real animal germ…	
spermaphore		That part of the ovary from which the ovules arise; the placenta.	
spermary		An organ in which spermatozoa are developed; a sperm gland; a testicle.	
spermatheca		A small sac connected with the female reproductive organs of insects and many other invertebrates, serving to receive and retain the spermatozoa.	
spermatic		Of or pertaining to semen; as, the spermatic fluid, the spermatic vessels, etc. Spermatic cord (Anat.), the cord which suspends the testicle within the scrotum.	
spermatical		Spermatic.	
spermatin		A substance allied to alkali albumin and to mucin, present in semen, to which it is said to impart the mucilaginous character.	
spermatism		The emission of sperm, or semen.	
spermatium		One of the motionless spermatozoids in the conceptacles of certain fungi.	
spermatize	Obsolete	To yield seed; to emit seed, or sperm.	
spermato-		Combining forms from Gr. seed, sperm, semen (of plants or animals); as, spermatoblast, spermoblast.	Greek σπέρμα.
spermatoblast		Same as Spermoblast.	
spermatocyte		Same as Spermoblast.	
spermatogemma		Same as Spermosphere.	
spermatogenesis		The development of the spermatozoids.	
spermatogenetic		Relating to, or connected with, spermatogenesis; as, spermatogenetic function.	
spermatogenous		Sperm-producing.	
spermatogonium		A primitive seminal cell, occuring in masses in the seminal tubules.	
spermatoid		Spermlike; resembling sperm, or semen.	
spermatooen		A spermoblast. -- Sper`ma*to"al, a.	
spermatoon		A spermoblast. -- Sper`ma*to"al, a.	
spermatophore		(Zoöl.) A capsule or pocket inclosing a number of spermatozoa.	
spermatophorous		Producing seed, or sperm; seminiferous; as, the so-called spermatophorous cells.	
spermatophyta		A phylum embracing the highest plants, or those that produce seeds; the seed plants, or flowering plants.	
spermatophyte		Any plant of the phylum Spermatophyta. -- Sper`ma*to*phyt"ic (#), a.	
spermatorrhea		Abnormally frequent involuntary emission of the semen without copulation.	
spermatorrhoea		Abnormally frequent involuntary emission of the semen without copulation.	
spermatospore		Same as Spermospore.	
spermatozoid		The male germ cell in animals and plants, the essential element in fertilization; a microscopic animalcule-like particle, usually provided with one or more cilia by which it is capable of active motion.	
spermatozooen		Same as Spermatozoid.	
spermatozooid		A spermatozoid.	
spermatozoon		Same as Spermatozoid.	
spermic		Of or pertaining to sperm, or semen.	
spermidium		An achenium.	
spermism		The theory, formerly held by many, that the sperm or spermatozoön contains the germ of the future embryo; animalculism.	
spermist		A believer in the doctrine, formerly current, of encasement in the male (see Encasement), in which the seminal thread, or spermatozoid, was considered as the real animal germ…	
spermo-		Combining forms from Gr. seed, sperm, semen (of plants or animals); as, spermatoblast, spermoblast.	
spermoblast		One of the cells formed by the diivision of the spermospore, each of which is destined to become a spermatozoid; a spermatocyte; a spermatoblast.	
spermococcus		The nucleus of the sperm cell.	
spermoderm		The covering of a seed; -- sometimes limited to the outer coat or testa.	
spermogonium		A conceptacle of certain lichens, which contains spermatia.	
spermologist		One who treats of, or collects, seeds.	
spermophile		Any ground squirrel of the genus Spermophilus; gopher. See Illust. under Gopher.	
spermophore		A spermatophore.	
spermophyta		Plants which produce seed; phænogamia.	
spermophyte		Any plant which produces true seeds; -- a term recently proposed to replace phænogam.	
spermophytic		Capable of producing seeds; phænogamic.	
spermoplasma		The protoplasm of the sperm cell.	
spermosphere		A mass or ball of cells formed by the repeated division of a male germinal cell (spermospore), each constituent cell (spermoblast) of which is converted into a spermatozoid; a spermatogemma.	
spermospore		The male germinal or seminal cell, from the breaking up of which the spermoblasts are formed and ultimately the spermatozoids; a spermatospore.	
spermule		A sperm cell.	
sperre	Obsolete	To shut in; to support; to inclose; to fasten.	
sperrylite		An arsenide of platinum occuring in grains and minute isometric crystals of tin-white color.	
sperse	Obsolete	To disperse.	
spessartite		A manganesian variety of garnet.	
spet	Obsolete	To spit; to throw out.	
spetches		Parings and refuse of hides, skins, etc., from which glue is made.	
spew		To eject from the stomach; to vomit.	Old English spiwan.
spewer		One who spews.	
spewiness		The state of being spewy.	
spewy		Wet; soggy; inclined to spew.	
sphacel		Gangrene.	
sphacelate		To die, decay, or become gangrenous, as flesh or bone; to mortify.	
sphacelated		Affected with gangrene; mortified.	
sphacelation		The process of becoming or making gangrenous; mortification.	
sphacelus		Gangrenous part; gangrene; slough.	
sphaerenchyma		Vegetable tissue composed of thin-walled rounded cells, -- a modification of parenchyma.	
sphaeridium		A peculiar sense organ found upon the exterior of most kinds of sea urchins, and consisting of an oval or sherical head surmounting a short pedicel.	
sphaerospore		One of the nonsexual spores found in red algæ; a tetraspore.	
sphaerulite		Same as Spherulite.	
sphagnicolous		Growing in moss of the genus Sphagnum.	
sphagnous		Pertaining to moss of the genus Sphagnum, or bog moss; abounding in peat or bog moss.	
sphagnum		A genus of mosses having white leaves slightly tinged with red or green and found growing in marshy places; bog moss; peat moss.	
sphalerite		Zinc sulphide; -- called also blende, black-jack, false galena, etc. See Blende (a).	
sphene		A mineral found usually in thin, wedge-shaped crystals of a yellow or green to black color.	
sphenethmoid		Of or pertaining to both the sphenoidal and the ethmoidal regions of the skull, or the sphenethmoid bone; sphenethmoidal.	
sphenethmoidal		Relating to the sphenoethmoid bone; sphenoethmoid.	
spheniscan		Any species of penguin.	
spheno-		A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the sphenoid bone; as in sphenomaxillary, sphenopalatine.	
sphenodon		Same as Hatteria.	
sphenoethmoidal		Sphenethmoid.	
sphenogram		A cuneiform, or arrow-headed, character.	
sphenographer		One skilled in sphenography; a sphenographist.	
sphenographic		Of or pertaining to sphenography.	
sphenographist		A sphenographer.	
sphenography		The art of writing in cuneiform characters, or of deciphering inscriptions made in such characters.	
sphenoid		Wedge-shaped; as, a sphenoid crystal.	
sphenoidal		Sphenoid.	
sphenotic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, the sphenotic bone.	
spheral		Of or pertaining to a sphere or the spheres.	
sphere		(Geom.) A body or space contained under a single surface, which in every part is equally distant from a point within called its center.	Old French sphere, from Latin sphera.
spheric		Having the form of a sphere; like a sphere; globular; orbicular; as, a spherical body.	
spherical		Having the form of a sphere; like a sphere; globular; orbicular; as, a spherical body.	Latin sphericus.
sphericity		The quality or state of being spherial; roundness; as, the sphericity of the planets, or of a drop of water.	
sphericle		A small sphere.	
spherics		The doctrine of the sphere; the science of the properties and relations of the circles, figures, and other magnitudes of a sphere, produced by planes intersecting it; spherical geometry and trigonometry.	
spherobacteria		See the Note under Microbacteria.	
spheroconic		A nonplane curve formed by the intersection of the surface of an oblique cone with the surface of a sphere whose center is at the vertex of the cone.	
spherograph		An instrument for facilitating the practical use of spherics in navigation and astronomy, being constructed of two cardboards containing various circles…	
spheroid		A body or figure approaching to a sphere, but not perfectly spherical; esp., a solid generated by the revolution of an ellipse about one of its axes.	
spheroidal		Having the form of a spheroid. -- Sphe*roid"al*ly, adv.	
spheroidic		See Spheroidal — having the form of a spheroid. -- Sphe*roid"al*ly, adv.	
spheroidical		See Spheroidal — having the form of a spheroid. -- Sphe*roid"al*ly, adv.	
spheroidicity		The quality or state of being spheroidal.	
spheroidity		The quality or state of being spheroidal.	
spheromere		Any one of the several symmetrical segments arranged around the central axis and composing the body of a radiate anmal.	
spherometer		An instrument for measuring the curvature of spherical surface, as of lenses for telescope, etc.	
spherosiderite		Siderite occuring in spheroidal masses.	
spherosome		The body wall of any radiate animal.	
spherulate		Covered or set with spherules; having one or more rows of spherules, or minute tubercles.	
spherule		A little sphere or spherical body; as, quicksilver, when poured upon a plane, divides itself into a great number of minute spherules.	
spherulite		A minute spherical crystalline body having a radiated structure, observed in some vitreous volcanic rocks, as obsidian and pearlstone.	
spherulitic		Of or pertaining to a spherulite; characterized by the presence of spherulites.	
sphery		Round; spherical; starlike.	
sphex		Any one of numerous species of sand wasps of the genus Sphex and allied genera.	
sphigmometer		See Sphygmometer — an instrument for measuring the strength of the pulse beat; a sphygmograph.	
sphincter		A muscle which surrounds, and by its contraction tends to close, a natural opening; as, the sphincter of the bladder.	Latin sphincter, from Greek σφιγκτήρ.
sphingid		A sphinx.	
sphinx		(a) In Egyptian art, an image of granite or porphyry, having a human head, or the head of a ram or of a hawk, upon the wingless body of a lion.	
sphragide		Lemnian earth.	Latin sphragis.
sphragistics		The science of seals, their history, age, distinctions, etc., esp. as verifying the age and genuiness of documents.	Greek σφραγίς.
sphrigosis		A condition of vegetation in which there is too abundant growth of the stem and leaves, accompanied by deficiency of flowers and fruit.	
sphygmic		Of or pertaining to the pulse.	
sphygmogram		A tracing, called a pulse tracing, consisting of a series of curves corresponding with the beats of the heart, obtained by the application of the sphygmograph.	
sphygmograph		An instrument which, when applied over an artery, indicates graphically the movements or character of the pulse.	
sphygmographic		Relating to, or produced by, a sphygmograph; as, a sphygmographic tracing.	
sphygmometer		An instrument for measuring the strength of the pulse beat; a sphygmograph.	
sphygmophone		An electrical instrument for determining by the ear the rhythm of the pulse of a person at a distance.	
sphygmoscope		Same as Sphygmograph.	
sphyraenoid		Of or pertaining to the Sphyrænidæ, a family of marine fishes including the barracudas.	
spial	Obsolete	A spy; a scout.	
spica		(Med.) A kind of bandage passing, by successive turns and crosses, from an extremity to the trunk; -- so called from its resemblance to a spike of a barley.	
spicate		Having the form of a spike, or ear; arranged in a spike or spikes.	
spicated		Having the form of a spike, or ear; arranged in a spike or spikes.	
spiccato		Detached; separated; -- a term indicating that every note is to be performed in a distinct and pointed manner.	
spice		A vegetable production of many kinds, fragrant or aromatic and pungent to the taste, as pepper, cinnamon, nutmeg, mace, allspice, ginger, cloves, etc., which are used in cookery and to flavor sauces, pickles…	Old French espice.
spicebush		Spicewood.	
spicenut		A small crisp cake, highly spiced.	
spicer		One who seasons with spice.	
spicery		Spices, in general.	
spicewood		An American shrub (Lindera Benzoin), the bark of which has a spicy taste and odor; -- called also Benjamin, wild allspice, and fever bush.	
spiciferous	Obsolete	Bearing ears, or spikes; spicate.	
spiciform		Spike-shaped.	
spicily		In a spicy manner.	
spiciness		The quality or state of being spicy.	
spick	English dialect	A spike or nail.	
spicknel		An umbelliferous herb (Meum Athamanticum) having finely divided leaves, common in Europe; -- called also baldmoney, mew, and bearwort.	
spicose		Having spikes, or ears, like corn spikes.	
spicosity		The state of having, or being full of, ears like corn.	
spicous		See Spicose — having spikes, or ears, like corn spikes.	
spicula		(a) A little spike; a spikelet. (b) A pointed fleshy appendage.	
spicular		Resembling a dart; having sharp points.	
spiculate		Covered with, or having, spicules.	
spicule		A minute, slender granule, or point.	
spiculiform		Having the shape of a spicule.	
spiculigenous		Producing or containing spicules.	
spiculispongiae		A division of sponges including those which have independent siliceous spicules.	
spiculum		Same as Spicule.	Latin spiculum.
spicy		Flavored with, or containing, spice or spices; fragrant; aromatic; as, spicy breezes.	
spider		(Zoöl.) Any one of numerous species of arachnids comprising the order Araneina.	Middle English spithre, from Old English spider.
spidered		Infested by spiders; cobwebbed.	
spiderlike		Like a spider.	
spiderwort		An American endogenous plant (Tradescantia Virginica), with long linear leaves and ephemeral blue flowers.	
spied		imp. & p. p. of Spy.	
spiegeleisen		See Spiegel iron.	
spignel		Same as Spickenel.	
spignet		An aromatic plant of America. See Spikenard.	
spigot		A pin or peg used to stop the vent in a cask; also, the plug of a faucet or cock.	
spigurnel		Formerly the title of the sealer of writs in chancery.	
spike		A sort of very large nail; also, a piece of pointed iron set with points upward or outward.	
spikebill		(a) The hooded merganser. (b) The marbled godwit (Limosa fedoa).	
spiked		Furnished or set with spikes, as corn; fastened with spikes; stopped with spikes.	
spikefish		See Sailfish (a)	
spikelet		A small or secondary spike; especially, one of the ultimate parts of the in florescence of grasses.	
spikenard		(Bot.) An aromatic plant.	
spiketail	Dialect	The pintail duck.	
spiky		Like a spike; spikelike.	
spile		A small plug or wooden pin, used to stop a vent, as in a cask.	
spilikin		One of a number of small pieces or pegs of wood, ivory, bone, or other material, for playing a game, or for counting the score in a game, as in cribbage.	
spill		A slender piece of anything. Specifically: -- (a) A peg or pin for plugging a hole, as in a cask; a spile.	Old English spillan.
spiller		One who, or that which, spills.	
spillikin		See Spilikin — one of a number of small pieces or pegs of wood, ivory, bone, or other material, for playing a game, or for counting the score in a game, as in cribbage.	
spillway		A sluiceway or passage for superfluous water in a reservoir, to prevent too great pressure on the dam.	
spilt		imp. & p. p. of Spill.	
spilter	Obsolete	Any one of the small branches on a stag's head.	
spilth	Archaic	Anything spilt, or freely poured out; slop; effusion.	
spin		To draw out, and twist into threads, either by the hand or machinery; as, to spin wool, cotton, or flax; to spin goat's hair; to produce by drawing out and twisting a fibrous material.	Old English spinnan.
spinaceous		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the plant spinach, or the family of plants to which it belongs.	
spinach		A common pot herb (Spinacia oleracea) belonging to the Goosefoot family.	
spinage		A common pot herb (Spinacia oleracea) belonging to the Goosefoot family.	
spinal		(Anat.) Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the backbone, or vertebral column; rachidian; vertebral.	Latin spīnālis.
spinate		Bearing a spine; spiniform.	
spindle		The long, round, slender rod or pin in spinning wheels by which the thread is twisted, and on which, when twisted, it is wound; also, the pin on which the bobbin is held in a spinning machine, or in the shuttle of a loom.	Old English spinel.
spindle-legged		Having long, slender legs.	
spindle-shanked		Having long, slender legs.	
spindle-shaped		Having the shape of a spindle.	
spindlelegs		A spindlehanks.	
spindleshanks		A person with slender shanks, or legs; -- used humorously or in contempt.	
spindletail	Dialect	The pintail duck.	
spindleworm		The larva of a noctuid mmoth (Achatodes zeæ) which feeds inside the stalks of corn (maize), sometimes causing much damage.	
spindling		Long and slender, or disproportionately tall and slender; as, a spindling tree; a spindling boy.	
spindrift		Same as Spoondrift.	
spine		(Bot.) A sharp appendage to any of a plant; a thorn.	
spine-finned		Having fine supported by spinous fin rays; -- said of certain fishes.	
spine-tailed		Having the tail quills ending in sharp, naked tips.	
spineback		A fish having spines in, or in front of, the dorsal fins.	
spinebill		Any species of Australian birds of the genus Acanthorhynchus.	
spined		Furnished with spines; spiny.	
spinel		A mineral occuring in octahedrons of great hardness and various colors, as red, green, blue, brown, and black, the red variety being the gem spinel ruby.	
spineless		Having no spine.	
spinelle		A mineral occuring in octahedrons of great hardness and various colors, as red, green, blue, brown, and black, the red variety being the gem spinel ruby.	
spinescence		The state or quality of being spinescent or spiny; also, a spiny growth or covering, as of certain animals.	
spinescent		Becoming hard and thorny; tapering gradually to a rigid, leafless point; armed with spines.	
spinet	Obsolete	A keyed instrument of music resembling a harpsichord, but smaller, with one string of brass or steel wire to each note, sounded by means of leather or quill plectrums or jacks.	Italian spinetta.
spinetail	Dialect	(a) Any one or several species of swifts of the genus Acanthylis, or Chætura, and allied genera, in which the shafts of the tail feathers terminate in rigid spines.	
spineted	Obsolete	Slit; cleft.	
spini-spirulate		Having spines arranged spirally. See Spicule.	
spiniferous		Producing spines; bearing thorns or spines; thorny; spiny.	
spinifex		(Bot.) A genus of chiefly Australian grasses, the seeds of which bear an elastic spine.	
spiniform		Shaped like a spine.	
spinigerous		Bearing a spine or spines; thorn-bearing.	
spininess		Quality of being spiny.	
spink		The chaffinch.	
spinnaker		A large triangular sail set upon a boom, -- used when running before the wind.	
spinner		One who, or that which, spins one skilled in spinning; a spinning machine.	
spinneret		One of the special jointed organs situated on the under side, and near the end, of the abdomen of spiders, by means of which they spin their webs.	
spinnerule		One of the numerous small spinning tubes on the spinnerets of spiders.	
spinney		Same as Spinny.	Middle English spenne, from Middle French espinoye.
spinning		from Spin.	
spinny	Obsolete	A small thicket or grove with undergrowth; a clump of trees.	
spinose		Full of spines; armed with thorns; thorny.	
spinosity		The quality or state of being spiny or thorny; spininess.	
spinous		Spinose; thorny.	
spinozism		The form of Pantheism taught by Benedict Spinoza, that there is but one substance, or infinite essence, in the universe, of which the so-called material and spiritual beings and phenomena are only modes…	
spinozist		A believer in Spinozism.	
spinster		A woman who spins, or whose occupation is to spin.	
spinstress		A woman who spins.	
spinstry	Obsolete	The business of one who spins; spinning.	
spinthariscope		A small instrument containing a minute particle of a radium compound mounted in front of a fluorescent screen and viewed with magnifying lenses.	
spinule		A minute spine.	Latin spinula.
spinulescent		Having small spines; somewhat thorny.	
spinulose		Covered with small spines.	
spinulous		Covered with small spines.	
spiny		Full of spines; thorny; as, a spiny tree.	
spiodea		An extensive division of marine Annelida, including those that are without oral tentacles or cirri, and have the gills, when present, mostly arranged along the sides of the body.	
spirable	Obsolete	Capable of being breathed; respirable.	Latin spirabilis.
spiracle		(Anat.) The nostril, or one of the nostrils, of whales, porpoises, and allied animals.	Latin spiraculum.
spiracular		Of or pertaining to a spiracle.	
spiraea		A genus of shrubs or perennial herbs including the meadowsweet and the hardhack.	
spiraeic		Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the meadowsweet (Spiræa); formerly, designating an acid which is now called salicylic acid.	
spiral		Winding or circling round a center or pole and gradually receding from it; as, the spiral curve of a watch spring.	
spirality		The quality or states of being spiral.	
spirally		In a spiral form, manner, or direction.	
spiralozooid		One of the special defensive zooids of certain hydroids.	
spirant		A term used differently by different authorities; -- by some as equivalent to fricative, -- that is, as including all the continuous consonants, except the nasals m, n, ng; with the further exception, by others, of the liquids r…	Latin spirans.
spiranthy		The occasional twisted growth of the parts of a flower.	
spiration	Obsolete	The act of breathing.	
spire		A slender stalk or blade in vegetation; as, a spire grass or of wheat.	Old French spirer.
spired		Having a spire; being in the form of a spire; as, a spired steeple.	
spiricle		One of certain minute coiled threads in the coating of some seeds.	
spirifer		Any one of numerous species of fossil brachipods of the genus Spirifer, or Delthyris, and allied genera, in which the long calcareous supports of the arms form a large spiral, or helix, on each side.	
spirillum		A genus of common motile microörganisms (Spirobacteria) having the form of spiral-shaped filaments.	
spiring		Shooting up in a spire or spires.	
spirit		Life, or living substance, considered independently of corporeal existence; an intelligence conceived of apart from any physical organization or embodiment; vital essence, force, or energy, as distinct from matter.	
spiritally	Obsolete	By means of the breath.	
spirited		Animated; full of life or vigor; lively; full of spirit or fire; as, a spirited oration; a spirited answer.	
spiritful		Full of spirit; spirited.	
spiritism		Spiritualsm.	
spiritist		A spiritualist.	
spiritless		Destitute of spirit; wanting animation; wanting cheerfulness; dejected; depressed.	
spiritoso		Spirited; spiritedly; -- a direction to perform a passage in an animated, lively manner.	
spiritous		Like spirit; refined; defecated; pure.	
spiritousness		Quality of being spiritous.	
spiritual		Consisting of spirit; not material; incorporeal; as, a spiritual substance or being.	
spiritual-minded		Having the mind set on spiritual things, or filled with holy desires and affections. -- Spir"it*u*al-mind`ed*ness, n.	
spiritualism		The quality or state of being spiritual.	
spiritualist		One who professes a regard for spiritual things only; one whose employment is of a spiritual character; an ecclesiastic.	
spiritualistic		Relating to, or connected with, spiritualism.	
spirituality		The quality or state of being spiritual; incorporeality; heavenly- mindedness.	Latin spiritualitas.
spiritualization		The act of spiritualizing, or the state of being spiritualized.	
spiritualize		To refine intellectiually or morally; to purify from the corrupting influence of the world; to give a spiritual character or tendency to; as, to spiritualize soul.	
spiritualizer		One who spiritualizes.	
spiritually		In a spiritual manner; with purity of spirit; like a spirit.	
spiritualness		The quality or state of being spiritual or spiritual-minded; spirituality.	
spiritualty		An ecclesiastical body; a spirituality.	Old French espirituaulté.
spirituelle		Of the nature, or having the appearance, of a spirit; pure; refined; ethereal.	
spirituosity		The quality or state of being spirituous; spirituousness.	
spirituous		Having the quality of spirit; tenuous in substance, and having active powers or properties; ethereal; immaterial; spiritual; pure.	
spirituousness		The quality or state of being spirituous.	
spirketing		The planking from the waterways up to the port sills.	
spirling	English dialect	Sparling.	
spirobacteria		See the Note under Microbacteria.	
spirochaeta		A genus of Spirobacteria similar to Spirillum, but distinguished by its motility.	
spirochaete		A genus of Spirobacteria similar to Spirillum, but distinguished by its motility.	
spirograph		An instrument for recording the respiratory movements, as the sphygmograph does those of the pulse.	
spirometer		An instrument for measuring the vital capacity of the lungs, or the volume of air which can be expelled from the chest after the deepest possible inspiration.	
spirometry		The act or process of measuring the chest capacity by means of a spirometer.	
spiroscope		A wet meter used to determine the breathing capacity of the lungs.	
spiroylic	Obsolete	Pertaining to, or designating, a substance now called salicylal.	
spiroylous	Obsolete	Pertaining to, or designating, a substance now called salicylal.	
spirt		Same as Spurt.	
spirtle		To spirt in a scattering manner.	
spirula		A genus of cephalopods having a multilocular, internal, siphunculated shell in the form of a flat spiral, the coils of which are not in contact.	
spirulate		Having the color spots, or structural parts, arranged spirally.	
spiry		Of a spiral form; wreathed; curled; serpentine.	
spiss	Obsolete	Thick; crowded; compact; dense.	
spissated		Rendered dense or compact, as by evaporation; inspissated; thickened.	
spissitude		The quality or state of being spissated; as, the spissitude of coagulated blood, or of any coagulum.	Latin spissitudo.
spit		A long, slender, pointed rod, usually of iron, for holding meat while roasting.	Old English spittan.
spit-venom		Poison spittle; poison ejected from the mouth.	
spital	Obsolete	A hospital.	
spitalhouse	Obsolete	A hospital.	
spitball		Paper chewed, and rolled into a ball, to be thrown as a missile.	
spitbox		A vessel to receive spittle.	
spitchcock		To split (as an eel) lengthwise, and broil it, or fry it in hot fat.	
spitchcocked		Broiled or fried after being split lengthwise; -- said of eels.	
spite		Ill-will or hatred toward another, accompanied with the disposition to irritate, annoy, or thwart; petty malice; grudge; rancor; despite.	
spiteful		Filled with, or showing, spite; having a desire to vex, annoy, or injure; malignant; malicious; as, a spiteful person or act.	
spitfire	Colloquial	A violent, irascible, or passionate person.	
spitful	English dialect	A spadeful.	
spitous	Obsolete	Having spite; spiteful.	
spitously	Obsolete	Spitefully.	
spitscocked		Spitchcocked.	
spitted		Put upon a spit; pierced as if by a spit.	
spitter		One who ejects saliva from the mouth.	
spittle	Obsolete	See Spital — a hospital.	
spittly	Obsolete	Like spittle; slimy.	
spittoon		A spitbox; a cuspidor.	
spitzenburgh		A kind of red and yellow apple, of medium size and spicy flavor.	
splanchnapophysis		Any element of the skeleton in relation with the alimentary canal, as the jaws and hyoidean apparatus. -- Splanch`nap`o*phys"i*al, a.	
splanchnic		Of or pertaining to the viscera; visceral.	Latin splanchnicus, from Greek σπλαγχνικός.
splanchno-skeleton		That part of the skeleton connected with the sense organs and the viscera.	
splanchnography		Splanchnology.	
splanchnology		That part of anatomy which treats of the viscera; also, a treatise on the viscera.	
splanchnopleure		The inner, or visceral, one of the two lamellæ into which the vertebrate blastoderm divides on either side of the notochord, and from which the walls of the enteric canal and the umbilical vesicle are developed.	
splanchnotomy		The dissection, or anatomy, of the viscera.	
splandrel		See Spandrel — (Arch.) The irregular triangular space between the curve of an arch and the inclosing right angle…	
splash		To strike and dash about, as water, mud, etc.; to plash.	
splashboard		A guard in the front part of vehicle, to prevent splashing by a mud or water from the horse's heels; -- in the United States commonly called dashboard.	
splasher		One who, or that which, splashes.	
splashy		Full of dirty water; wet and muddy, so as be easily splashed about; slushy.	
splatter		To spatter; to splash.	
splay		To dislocate, as a shoulder bone.	
splayfoot		A foot that is abnormally flattened and spread out; flat foot.	
splayfooted		Having a splayfoot or splayfeet.	
splaymouth		A wide mouth; a mouth stretched in derision.	
splaymouthed		Having a splaymouth.	
spleen		(Anat.) A peculiar glandlike but ductless organ found near the stomach or intestine of most vertebrates and connected with the vascular system; the milt.	Old French esplen, from Latin splen, from Greek σπλήν.
spleened		Deprived of the spleen.	
spleenful		Displaying, or affected with, spleen; angry; fretful; melancholy.	
spleenish		Spleeny; affected with spleen; fretful. -- Spleen ish*ness, n.	
spleenless	Obsolete	Having no spleen; hence, kind; gentle; mild.	
spleenwort		Any fern of the genus Asplenium, some species of which were anciently used as remedies for disorders of the spleen.	
spleeny		Irritable; peevish; fretful.	
spleget		A cloth dipped in a liquid for washing a sore.	
splenalgia		Pain over the region of the spleen.	
splenculus		A lienculus.	
splendent		Shining; glossy; beaming with light; lustrous; as, splendent planets; splendent metals.	
splendid		Possessing or displaying splendor; shining; very bright; as, a splendid sun.	Latin splendidus.
splendidious	Obsolete	Splendid.	
splendidly		In a splendid manner; magnificently.	
splendidness		The quality of being splendid.	
splendidous	Obsolete	Splendid.	
splendiferous		Splendor-bearing; splendid.	Latin splendorifer.
splendor		Great brightness; brilliant luster; brilliancy; as, the splendor ot the sun.	Anglo-Norman splendur.
splendorous		Splendid.	
splendrous		Splendid.	
splenetic		Affected with spleen; malicious; spiteful; peevish; fretful.	
splenetical		Splenetic.	
splenetically		In a splenetical manner.	
splenial		(a) Designating the splenial bone. (b) Of or pertaining to the splenial bone or splenius muscle.	
splenic		Of or pertaining to the spleen; lienal; as, the splenic vein.	
splenical		Splenic.	
splenish	Obsolete	Spleenish.	
splenitis		Inflammation of the spleen.	
splenitive		Splenetic.	
splenium		The thickened posterior border of the corpus callosum; -- so called in allusion to its shape.	
splenius		A flat muscle of the back of the neck.	
splenization		A morbid state of the lung produced by inflammation, in which its tissue resembles that of the spleen.	
splenocele		Hernia formed by the spleen.	
splenography		A description of the spleen.	
splenoid		Resembling the spleen; spleenlike.	
splenology		The branch of science which treats of the spleen.	
splenotomy		(a) (Anat.) Dissection or anatomy of the spleen. (b) (Med.) An incision into the spleen; removal of the spleen by incision.	
splent		See Splent — see Splent coal, below.	
spleuchan	Scots	A pouch, as for tobacco.	
splice		To unite, as two ropes, or parts of a rope, by a particular manner of interweaving the strands, -- the union being between two ends, or between an end and the body of a rope.	
spline		A rectangular piece fitting grooves like key seats in a hub and a shaft, so that while the one may slide endwise on the other, both must revolve together; a feather; also, sometimes, a groove to receive such a rectangular piece.	
splining		Of or pertaining to a spline.	
splint		A piece split off; a splinter.	
splinter		To split or rend into long, thin pieces; to shiver; as, the lightning splinters a tree.	
splinterproof		Proof against the splinters, or fragments, of bursting shells.	
splintery		Consisting of splinters; resembling splinters; as, the splintery fracture of a mineral.	
split		To divide lengthwise; to separate from end to end, esp. by force; to divide in the direction of the grain layers; to rive; to cleave; as, to split a piece of timber or a board; to split a gem; to split a sheepskin.	
split-tail		(a) A california market fish (Pogonichthys macrolepidotus) belonging to the Carp family.	
split-tongued		Having a forked tongue, as that of snakes and some lizards.	
splitfeet		The Fissipedia.	
splitter		One who, or that which, splits.	
splotch		A spot; a stain; a daub.	
splotchy		Covered or marked with splotches.	
splurge	Slang	A blustering demonstration, or great effort; a great display.	
splutter	Colloquial	To speak hastily and confusedly; to sputter.	
splutterer		One who splutters.	
spodomancy		Divination by means of ashes.	
spodomantic		Relating to spodomancy, or divination by means of ashes.	
spodumene		A mineral of a white to yellowish, purplish, or emerald-green color, occuring in prismatic crystals, often of great size.	
spoffish	Colloquial	Earnest and active in matters of no moment; bustling.	
spoil		To plunder; to strip by violence; to pillage; to rob; -- with of before the name of the thing taken; as, to spoil one of his goods or possession. iii. 22.	Old French espoillier, from Latin spoliare.
spoilable		Capable of being spoiled.	
spoiler		One who spoils; a plunderer; a pillager; a robber; a despoiler.	
spoilfive		A certain game at cards in which, if no player wins three of the five tricks possible on any deal, the game is said to be spoiled.	
spoilful	Poetic	Wasteful; rapacious.	
spoilsman		One who serves a cause or a party for a share of the spoils; in United States politics, one who makes or recognizes a demand for public office on the ground of partisan service; also…	
spoilsmonger		One who promises or distributes public offices and their emoluments as the price of services to a party or its leaders.	
spoke		imp. of Speak — to utter words or articulate sounds, as human beings; to express thoughts by words; as, the organs may be so obstructed that a man may not be able to speak.	Old English spaca.
spoken		Uttered in speech; delivered by word of mouth; oral; as, a spoken narrative; the spoken word.	
spokeshave		A kind of drawing knife or planing tool for dressing the spokes of wheels, the shells of blocks, and other curved work.	
spokesman		One who speaks for another.	
spoliate		To plunder; to pillage; to despoil; to rob.	Latin spoliatus.
spoliation		The act of plundering; robbery; deprivation; despoliation.	Latin spoliatio.
spoliative		Serving to take away, diminish, or rob; esp. (Med.), serving to diminish sensibily the amount of blood in the body; as, spoliative bloodletting.	
spoliator		One who spoliates; a spoiler.	
spoliatory		Tending to spoil; destructive; spoliative.	
spondaic		Or of pertaining to a spondee; consisting of spondees.	
spondaical		Or of pertaining to a spondee; consisting of spondees.	
spondee		A poetic foot of two long syllables, as in the Latin word leges.	Latin spondeus, from Greek σπονδεῖος.
spondyl		A joint of the backbone; a vertebra.	
spondyle		A joint of the backbone; a vertebra.	
spong	English dialect	An irregular, narrow, projecting part of a field.	
sponge		(Zoöl.) Any one of numerous species of Spongiæ, or Porifera. See Illust. and Note under Spongiæ.	Old English spunge, from Latin spongia, from Greek σπογγία.
spongelet		See Spongiole — a supposed spongelike expansion of the tip of a rootlet for absorbing water; -- called also spongelet.	
spongeous		Resembling sponge; having the nature or qualities of sponge.	
sponger		One who sponges, or uses a sponge.	
spongiae		The grand division of the animal kingdom which includes the sponges; -- called also Spongida, Spongiaria, Spongiozoa, and Porifera.	
spongida		Spongiæ.	
spongiform		Resembling a sponge; soft and porous; porous.	
spongilla		A genus of siliceous spongea found in fresh water.	
spongin		The chemical basis of sponge tissue, a nitrogenous, hornlike substance which on decomposition with sulphuric acid yields leucin and glycocoll.	
sponginess		The quality or state of being spongy.	
sponging		a. & n. from Sponge, v.	
spongiole		A supposed spongelike expansion of the tip of a rootlet for absorbing water; -- called also spongelet.	
spongiolite		One of the microsporic siliceous spicules which occur abundantly in the texture of sponges, and are sometimes found fossil, as in flints.	
spongiopilin		A kind of cloth interwoven with small pieces of sponge and rendered waterproof on one side by a covering of rubber.	
spongiose		Somewhat spongy; spongelike; full of small cavities like sponge; as, spongious bones.	
spongious		Somewhat spongy; spongelike; full of small cavities like sponge; as, spongious bones.	
spongiozoa		See Sponglæ.	
spongoblast		One of the cells which, in sponges, secrete the spongin, or the material of the horny fibers.	
spongoid		Resembling sponge; like sponge.	
spongy		Soft, and full of cavities; of an open, loose, pliable texture; as, a spongy excrescence; spongy earth; spongy cake; spongy bones.	
sponk		See Spunk — wood that readily takes fire; touchwood; also, a kind of tinder made from a species of fungus; punk; amadou.	
sponsal		Relating to marriage, or to a spouse; spousal.	Latin sponsalis.
sponsible	English dialect	responsible; worthy of credit.	
sponsion		The act of becoming surety for another.	
sponsional		Of or pertaining to a pledge or agreement; responsible.	
sponson		(a) One of the triangular platforms in front of, and abaft, the paddle boxes of a steamboat.	
sponsor		One who binds himself to answer for another, and is responsible for his default; a surety.	Latin sponsor.
sponsorial		Pertaining to a sponsor.	
sponsorship		State of being a sponsor.	
spontaneity		The quality or state of being spontaneous, or acting from native feeling, proneness, or temperament, without constraint or external force.	
spontaneous		Proceding from natural feeling, temperament, or disposition, or from a native internal proneness, readiness, or tendency, without constraint; as, a spontaneous gift or proportion.	Latin spontaneus.
spontoon		A kind of half-pike, or halberd, formerly borne by inferior officers of the British infantry, and used in giving signals to the soldiers.	
spook		A spirit; a ghost; an apparition; a hobgoblin.	Dutch spook.
spool		A piece of cane or red with a knot at each end, or a hollow cylinder of wood with a ridge at each end, used to wind thread or yarn upon.	
spooler		One who, or that which, spools.	
spoom		To be driven steadily and swiftly, as before a strong wind; to be driven before the wind without any sail, or with only a part of the sails spread; to scud under bare poles.	
spoon		An implement consisting of a small bowl (usually a shallow oval) with a handle, used especially in preparing or eating food. thus heard I say.	Middle English spone, from Old English spon.
spoon-billed		Having the bill expanded and spatulate at the end.	
spoon-meat		Food that is, or must be, taken with a spoon; liquid food.	
spoonbill		(a) Any one of several species of wading birds of the genera Ajaja and Platalea, and allied genera, in which the long bill is broadly expanded and flattened at the tip.	
spoondrift		Spray blown from the tops waves during a gale at sea; also, snow driven in the wind at sea; -- written also spindrift.	
spooney	Colloquial	Weak-minded; demonstratively fond; as, spooney lovers.	
spoonflower		The yautia.	
spoonful		The quantity which a spoon contains, or is able to contain; as, a teaspoonful; a tablespoonful.	
spoonily		In a spoony manner.	
spoonwood		The mountain laurel (Kalmia latifolia).	
spoonworm		A gephyrean worm of the genus Thalassema, having a spoonlike probiscis.	
spoonwort		Scurvy grass.	
spoony		Same as Spooney.	
spoor		The track or trail of any wild animal; as, the spoor of an elephant; -- used originally by travelers in South Africa.	
sporades		Stars not included in any constellation; -- called also informed, or unformed, stars.	
sporadial		Sporadic.	
sporadic		Occuring singly, or apart from other things of the same kind, or in scattered instances; separate; single; as, a sporadic fireball; a sporadic case of disease; a sporadic example of a flower.	
sporadical		Sporadic.	
sporadically		In a sporadic manner.	
sporangiophore		The axis or receptacle in certain ferns (as Trichomanes), which bears the sporangia.	
sporangium		A spore case in the cryptogamous plants, as in ferns, etc.	
spore		(Bot.) (a) One of the minute grains in flowerless plants, which are analogous to seeds, as serving to reproduce the species.	
sporid		A sporidium.	
sporidiferous		Bearing sporidia.	
sporidium		(a) A secondary spore, or a filament produced from a spore, in certain kinds of minute fungi.	
sporiferous		Bearing or producing spores.	
sporification		Spore formation. See Spore formation (b), under Spore.	
sporocarp		(a) A closed body or conceptacle containing one or more masses of spores or sporangia.	
sporocyst		(Zoöl.) An asexual zooid, usually forming one of a series of larval forms in the agamic reproduction of various trematodes and other parasitic worms.	
sporogenesis		reproduction by spores.	
sporogony		The growth or development of an animal or a zooid from a nonsexual germ.	
sporophore		(a) A placenta. (b) That alternately produced form of certain cryptogamous plants, as ferns, mosses, and the like, which is nonsexual, but produces spores in countless numbers.	
sporophoric		Having the nature of a sporophore.	
sporophyte		In plants exhibiting alternation of generations, the generation which bears asexual spores; -- opposed to gametophyte.	
sporosac		(a) A hydrozoan reproductive zooid or gonophore which does not become medusoid in form or structure.	
sporozoa		An extensive division of parasitic Protozoa, which increase by sporulation.	
sporozoid		Same as Zoöspore.	
sporozoite		In certain Sporozoa, a small active, usually elongate, sickle- shaped or somewhat amoboid spore, esp. one of those produced by division of the passive spores into which the zygote divides.	
sporran		A large purse or pouch made of skin with the hair or fur on, worn in front of the kilt by Highlanders when in full dress.	Scottish Gaelic sporan, from Old Irish sparán, from Latin bursa, from Greek βύρσα.
sport		That which diverts, and makes mirth; pastime; amusement.	Old French desport.
sportability	Obsolete	Sportiveness.	
sportal		Of or pertaining to sports; used in sports.	
sporter		One who sports; a sportsman.	
sportful		Full of sport; merry; frolicsome; full of jesting; indulging in mirth or play; playful; wanton; as, a sportful companion.	
sporting		Of pertaining to, or engaging in, sport or sporrts; exhibiting the character or conduct of one who, or that which, sports.	
sportingly		In sport; sportively.	
sportive		Tending to, engaged in, or provocate of, sport; gay; froliscome; playful; merry.	
sportless		Without sport or mirth; joyless.	
sportling		A little person or creature engaged in sports or in play.	
sportsman		One who pursues the sports of the field; one who hunts, fishes, etc.	
sportsmanship		The practice of sportsmen; skill in field sports.	
sportula		A gift; a present; a prize; hence, an alms; a largess.	Latin sportula.
sportulary	Obsolete	Subsisting on alms or charitable contributions.	
sportule	Obsolete	A charitable gift or contribution; a gift; an alms; a dole; a largess; a sportula.	
sporulation		The act or process of forming spores; spore formation. See Illust. of Bacillus, b.	
sporule		A small spore; a spore.	
sporuliferous		Producing sporules.	
spot		A mark on a substance or body made by foreign matter; a blot; a place discolored.	
spotless		Without a spot; especially, free from reproach or impurity; pure; untained; innocent; as, a spotless mind; spotless behavior.	Middle English spotles.
spotlight		The projected spot or circle of light used to illuminate brilliantly a single person or object or group on the stage; leaving the rest of the stage more or less unilluminated; hence, conspicuous public notice.	
spotted		Marked with spots; as, a spotted garment or character.	
spottedness		State or quality of being spotted.	
spotter		One who spots.	
spottiness		The state or quality of being spotty.	
spotty		Full of spots; marked with spots.	
spousage	Obsolete	Espousal.	Old French espousaige.
spousal		Of or pertaining to a spouse or marriage; nuptial; matrimonial; conjugal; bridal; as, spousal rites; spousal ornaments.	
spouse		A man or woman engaged or joined in wedlock; a married person, husband or wife.	Anglo-Norman espus, from Latin sponsus.
spouse-breach	Obsolete	Adultery.	
spouseless		Destitute of a spouse; unmarried.	
spousess	Obsolete	A wife or bride.	
spout		To throw out forcibly and abudantly, as liquids through an office or a pipe; to eject in a jet; as, an elephant spouts water from his trunk.	
spouter		One who, or that which, spouts.	
spoutfish		A marine animal that spouts water; -- applied especially to certain bivalve mollusks, like the long clams (Mya), which spout, or squirt out, water when retiring into their holes.	
spoutless		Having no spout.	
spoutshell		Any marine gastropod shell of the genus Apporhais having an elongated siphon.	
sprack	English dialect	Quick; lively' alert.	
sprad		p. p. of Spread — to extend in length and breadth, or in breadth only; to stretch or expand to a broad or broader surface or extent; to open; to unfurl; as, to spread a carpet; to spread a tent or a sail.	
spradde		imp. of Spread — to extend in length and breadth, or in breadth only; to stretch or expand to a broad or broader surface or extent; to open; to unfurl; as, to spread a carpet; to spread a tent or a sail.	
sprag	English dialect	A young salmon.	
sprain		To weaken, as a joint, ligament, or muscle, by sudden and excessive exertion, as by wrenching; to overstrain, or stretch injuriously, but without luxation; as, to sprain one's ankle.	
spraints		The dung of an otter.	
sprang		imp. of Spring — to issue with speed and violence; to move with activity; to dart; to shoot.	
sprat	English dialect	(a) A small European herring (Clupea sprattus) closely allied to the common herring and the pilchard; -- called also garvie.	
sprawl		To spread and stretch the body or limbs carelessly in a horizontal position; to lie with the limbs stretched out ungracefully.	
sprawls	English dialect	Small branches of a tree; twigs; sprays.	
spray		A small shoot or branch; a twig.	
sprayboard		See Dashboard, n., 2 (b).	
sprayer		One that sprays; any instrument for vaporizing and spraying liquids.	
spread		To extend in length and breadth, or in breadth only; to stretch or expand to a broad or broader surface or extent; to open; to unfurl; as, to spread a carpet; to spread a tent or a sail.	Middle English spreden, from Old English sprædan.
spread-eagle	Colloquial	Characterized by a pretentious, boastful, exaggerated style; defiantly or extravagantly bombastic; as, a spread-eagle orator; a spread-eagle speech.	
spread-eagled		To place in a spread-eagle position, especially as a means of punishment.	
spreader		One who, or that which, spreads, expands, or propogates.	
sprechery	Scots	Movables of an inferior description; especially, such as have been collected by depredation.	
spree	Colloquial	A merry frolic; especially, a drinking frolic; a carousal.	
sprenge	Obsolete	To sprinkle; to scatter.	
sprent		p. p. of Sprenge — to sprinkle; to scatter.	
spreynd		p. p. of Sprenge — to sprinkle; to scatter.	
sprig		A small shoot or twig of a tree or other plant; a spray; as, a sprig of laurel or of parsley.	
sprigged		Having sprigs.	
spriggy		Full of sprigs or small branches.	
spright		A supernatural being; a spirit; a shade; an apparition; a ghost.	
sprightful	Obsolete	Full of spirit or of life; earnest; vivacious; lively; brisk; nimble; gay. -- Spright ful*ness, n.	
sprightless		Destitute of life; dull; sluggish.	
sprightliness		The quality or state of being sprightly; liveliness; life; briskness; vigor; activity; gayety; vivacity.	
sprightly		Sprightlike, or spiritlike; lively; brisk; animated; vigorous; airy; gay; as, a sprightly youth; a sprightly air; a sprightly dance.	
sprigtail	Dialect	(a) The pintail duck; -- called also sprig, and spreet-tail. (b) The sharp-tailed grouse.	
spring		To issue with speed and violence; to move with activity; to dart; to shoot.	Middle English springen, from Old English springan.
springal	Obsolete	An active, springly young man.	
springald	Obsolete	An active, springly young man.	
springall	Obsolete	An active, springly young man.	
springboard		An elastic board, secured at the ends, or at one end, often by elastic supports, used in performing feats of agility or in exercising.	
springbok		A South African gazelle (Gazella euchore) noted for its graceful form and swiftness, and for its peculiar habit of springing lighty and suddenly into the air.	Afrikaans springbok, from Dutch springen.
springbuck		A South African gazelle (Gazella euchore) noted for its graceful form and swiftness, and for its peculiar habit of springing lighty and suddenly into the air.	
springe	Obsolete	A noose fastened to an elastic body, and drawn close with a sudden spring, whereby it catches a bird or other animal; a gin; a snare.	
springer		One who, or that which, springs; specifically, one who rouses game.	
springhalt		A kind of lameness in horse. See Stringhalt.	
springhead		A fountain or source.	
springiness		The state or quality of being springly.	
springing		The act or process of one who, or that which, springs.	
springle	English dialect	A springe.	
springlet		A little spring.	
springtail		Any one of numerous species of small apterous insects belonging to the order Thysanura.	
springtide		The time of spring; springtime.	
springtime		The season of spring; springtide.	
springy		Resembling, having the qualities of, or pertaining to, a spring; elastic; as, springy steel; a springy step.	
sprinkle		To scatter in small drops or particles, as water, seed, etc.	
sprinkler		One who sprinkles.	
sprinkling		The act of one who, or that which, sprinkles.	
sprint		To run very rapidly; to run at full speed.	
sprinter		One who sprints; one who runs in sprint races; as, a champion sprinter.	
sprit	Obsolete	To throw out with force from a narrow orifice; to eject; to spurt out.	Old English sprēot.
sprite		A spirit; a soul; a shade; also, an apparition. See Spright.	Old French esprit.
spriteful		See Sprightful, Sprightfully, Sprightliness, Sprightly, etc.	
spritefully		See Sprightful, Sprightfully, Sprightliness, Sprightly, etc.	
spriteliness		See Sprightful, Sprightfully, Sprightliness, Sprightly, etc.	
spritely		See Sprightful, Sprightfully, Sprightliness, Sprightly, etc.	
spritsail		(a) A sail extended by a sprit. (b) A sail formerly hung under the bowsprit, from the spritsail yard.	
sprod	English dialect	A salmon in its second year.	
sprong		imp. of Spring — to issue with speed and violence; to move with activity; to dart; to shoot.	
sprout		To shoot, as the seed of a plant; to germinate; to push out new shoots; hence, to grow like shoots of plants.	
spruce		(Bot.) Any coniferous tree of the genus Picea, as the Norway spruce (P. excelsa), and the white and black spruces of America (P. alba and P. nigra), besides several others in the far Northwest.	
sprue		(Founding) (a) Strictly, the hole through which melted metal is poured into the gate, and thence into the mold.	Dutch ''[[spruw]], [[sprouw]]''.
sprug	Obsolete	To make smart.	
sprung		imp. & p. p. of Spring.	
sprunt	Obsolete	To spring up; to germinate; to spring forward or outward.	
spruntly	Obsolete	In a sprunt manner; smartly; vigorously; youthfully.	
spry		Having great power of leaping or running; nimble; active.	
spud		A sharp, narrow spade, usually with a long handle, used by farmers for digging up large-rooted weeds; a similarly shaped implement used for various purposes.	
spue		See Spew — to eject from the stomach; to vomit.	
spuilzie		See Spulzie — plunder, or booty.	
spuke		See Spook — a spirit; a ghost; an apparition; a hobgoblin.	
spuller	English dialect	One employed to inspect yarn, to see that it is well spun, and fit for the loom.	
spulzie		Plunder, or booty.	
spume		Frothy matter raised on liquids by boiling, effervescence, or agitation; froth; foam; scum.	
spumeous	Obsolete	Spumous. r.	
spumescence		The state of being foamy; frothiness.	
spumescent		Resembling froth or foam; foaming.	Latin spumescens.
spumid	Obsolete	Spumous; frothy.	Latin spumidis.
spumiferous		Producing foam.	
spuminess		The quality or condition of being spumy; spumescence.	
spumous		Consisting of, containing, or covered with, froth, scum, or foam; frothy; foamy.	
spumy		Consisting of, containing, or covered with, froth, scum, or foam; frothy; foamy.	
spun		imp. & p. p. of Spin.	
spunge	Obsolete	A sponge.	
spunk		Wood that readily takes fire; touchwood; also, a kind of tinder made from a species of fungus; punk; amadou.	
spunky	Colloquial	Full of spunk; quick; spirited.	
spur		An implement secured to the heel, or above the heel, of a horseman, to urge the horse by its pressure.	Old English spora.
spur-royal		A gold coin, first made in the reign of Edward IV., having a star on the reverse resembling the rowel of a spur.	
spur-shell		Any one of several species of handsome gastropod shells of the genus Trochus, or Imperator.	
spur-winged		Having one or more spurs on the bend of the wings.	
spurgall		A place galled or excoriated by much using of the spur.	
spurge	Obsolete	To emit foam; to froth; -- said of the emission of yeast from beer in course of fermentation.	Old French espurge.
spurgewort		Any euphorbiaceous plant.	
spurging	Obsolete	A purging.	
spurious		Not proceeding from the true source, or from the source pretended; not genuine; false; adulterate.	Latin spurius.
spurless		Having no spurs.	
spurling-line		The line which forms the communication between the steering wheel and the telltale.	
spurn		To drive back or away, as with the foot; to kick. with his foot will spurn adown his cup.	Middle English spurnen.
spurn-water		A channel at the end of a deck to restrain the water.	
spurner		One who spurns.	
spurred		Wearing spurs; furnished with a spur or spurs; having shoots like spurs.	
spurrer		One who spurs.	
spurrey		See Spurry — an annual herb (Spergula arvensis) with whorled filiform leaves, sometimes grown in Europe for fodder.	
spurrier		One whose occupation is to make spurs.	
spurry		An annual herb (Spergula arvensis) with whorled filiform leaves, sometimes grown in Europe for fodder.	
spurt		To gush or issue suddenly or violently out in a stream, as liquor from a cask; to rush from a confined place in a small stream or jet; to spirt.	
spurtle	Obsolete	To spurt or shoot in a scattering manner.	
spurway		A bridle path.	
sput		An annular reënforce, to strengthen a place where a hole is made.	
sputation		The act of spitting; expectoration.	
sputative		Inclined to spit; spitting much.	
spute	Obsolete	To dispute; to discuss.	
sputter		To spit, or to emit saliva from the mouth in small, scattered portions, as in rapid speaking.	
sputterer		One who sputters.	
sputum		That which is expectorated; a salival discharge; spittle; saliva.	
spy		To gain sight of; to discover at a distance, or in a state of concealment; to espy; to see.	Middle English spien.
spyboat		A boat sent to make discoveries and bring intelligence.	
spyglass		A small telescope for viewing distant terrestrial objects.	
spynace		See Pinnace, n., 1 (a).	
spyne		See Pinnace, n., 1 (a).	
