squab		Fat; thick; plump; bulky.	
squab-chick	English dialect	A young chicken before it is fully fledged.	
squabash	Colloquial	To crush; to quash; to squash.	
squabbish		Thick; fat; heavy.	
squabble		To contend for superiority in an unseemly maner; to scuffle; to struggle; to wrangle; to quarrel.	
squabbler		One who squabbles; a contentious person; a brawler.	
squabby		Short and thick; suqabbish.	
squacco		A heron (Ardea comata) found in Asia, Northern Africa, and Southern Europe.	
squad		(Mil.) A small party of men assembled for drill, inspection, or other purposes.	French escouade.
squadron		Primarily, a square; hence, a square body of troops; a body of troops drawn up in a square.	French escadron.
squadroned		Formed into squadrons, or squares.	
squail	English dialect	To throw sticls at cocks; to throw anything about awkwardly or irregularly.	
squaimous	Obsolete	Squeamish.	
squali		The suborder of elasmobranch fishes which comprises the sharks.	
squalid		Dirty through neglect; foul; filthy; extremely dirty.	Latin squalidus.
squalidity		The quality or state of being squalid; foulness; filthiness.	Latin squaliditas.
squalidly		In a squalid manner.	
squalidness		Quality or state of being squalid.	
squall		A sudden violent gust of wind often attended with rain or snow.	
squaller		One who squalls; a screamer.	
squally		Abounding with squalls; disturbed often with sudden and violent gusts of wind; gusty; as, squally weather.	
squalodon		A genus of fossil whales belonging to the Phocodontia; -- so called because their are serrated, like a shark's.	
squalodont		Pertaining to Squalodon.	
squaloid		Like or pertaining to a shark or sharks.	
squalor		Squalidness; foulness; filthness; squalidity.	
squam		An oilskin hat or southwester; -- a fisherman's name.	
squama		A scale cast off from the skin; a thin dry shred consisting of epithelium.	
squamaceous		Squamose.	
squamata		A division of edentates having the body covered with large, imbricated horny scales.	
squamate		Same as Squamose.	
squamated		Same as Squamose.	
squamduck	Dialect	The American eider duck.	
squame	Obsolete	A scale.	Old French esquame, from Latin squama.
squamella		A diminutive scale or bractlet, such as those found on the receptacle in many composite plants; a palea.	
squamellate		Furnished or covered with little scales; squamulose.	
squamiform		Having the shape of a scale.	
squamigerous		Bearing scales.	
squamipen		Any one of a group of fishes having the dorsal and anal fins partially covered with scales.	
squamoid		Resembling a scale; also, covered with scales; scaly.	
squamosal		(a) Scalelike; squamous; as, the squamosal bone. (b) Of or pertaining to the squamosal bone. -- n.	
squamose		Covered with, or consisting of, scales; resembling a scale; scaly; as, the squamose cones of the pine; squamous epithelial cells; the squamous portion of the temporal bone, which is so called from a fancied resemblance to a scale.	
squamous		Covered with, or consisting of, scales; resembling a scale; scaly; as, the squamose cones of the pine; squamous epithelial cells; the squamous portion of the temporal bone, which is so called from a fancied resemblance to a scale.	Latin squamosus.
squamozygomatic		Of or pertaining to both the squamosal and zygomatic bones; -- applied to a bone, or a center of ossification, in some fetal skulls. -- n.	
squamula		One of the little hypogynous scales found in the flowers of grasses; a lodicule.	
squamulate		Same as Squamulose.	
squamule		Same as Squamula.	
squamulose		Having little scales; squamellate; squamulate.	
squander		To spend lavishly or profusely; to spend prodigally or wastefully; to use without economy or judgment; to dissipate; as, to squander an estate.	
squanderer		One who squanders.	
squanderingly		In a squandering manner.	
square		Hence, anything which is square, or nearly so; as: (a) A square piece or fragment.	Old French esquarre, from Latin exquadra.
square-rigged		Having the sails extended upon yards suspended horizontally by the middle, as distinguished from fore-and-aft sails; thus, a ship and a brig are square-rigged vessels.	
square-toed		Having the toe square.	
square-toes		A precise person; -- used contemptuously or jocularly.	
squarely		In a square form or manner.	
squareness		The quality of being square; as, an instrument to try the squareness of work.	
squarer		One who, or that which, squares.	
squarish		Nearly square.	
squarrose		Ragged or full of lose scales or projecting parts; rough; jagged; as: (a) (Bot. & Zoöl.) Consisting of scales widely divaricating; having scales, small leaves, or other bodies…	
squarroso-dentate		Having the teeth bent out of the plane of the lamina; -- said of a leaf.	
squarrous		Squarrose.	
squarrulose		Somewhat squarrose; slightly squarrose.	
squash		Something soft and easily crushed; especially, an unripe pod of pease.	
squasher		One who, or that which, squashes.	
squashiness		The quality or state of being squashy, or soft.	
squashy		Easily squashed; soft.	
squat		The angel fish (Squatina angelus	Middle English squatten, from Old French esquatir, from Latin coactus.
squaterole		The black-bellied plover.	
squatter		One who squats; specifically, one who settles unlawfully upon land without a title.	
squatty		Squat; dumpy.	
squaw		A female; a woman; -- in the language of Indian tribes of the Algonquin family, correlative of sannup.	
squawberry		A local name for the partridge berry; also, for the deerberry.	
squawk	English dialect	To utter a shrill, abrupt scream; to squeak harshly.	
squawl		See Squall — a sudden violent gust of wind often attended with rain or snow.	
squawroot		A scaly parasitic plant (Conopholis Americana) found in oak woods in the United States; -- called also cancer root.	
squawweed		The golden ragwort. See under Ragwort.	
squeak		To utter a sharp, shrill cry, usually of short duration; to cry with an acute tone, as an animal; or, to make a sharp, disagreeable noise, as a pipe or quill, a wagon wheel, a door; to creak.	
squeaker		One who, or that which, squeaks.	
squeakingly		In a squeaking manner.	
squeal		To cry with a sharp, shrill, prolonged sound, as certain animals do, indicating want, displeasure, or pain.	
squealer		One who, or that which, squeals.	
squeamish		Having a stomach that is easily or nauseated; hence, nice to excess in taste; fastidious; easily disgusted; apt to be offended at trifling improprieties.	
squeamous	Obsolete	Squeamish.	
squeasiness	Obsolete	Queasiness.	
squeasy	Obsolete	Queasy; nice; squeamish; fastidious; scrupulous.	
squeegee		Same as Squilgee.	
squeeze		To press between two bodies; to press together closely; to compress; often, to compress so as to expel juice, moisture, etc.; as, to squeeze an orange with the fingers; to squeeze the hand in friendship.	
squeezer		One who, or that which, squeezes; as, a lemon squeezer.	
squeezing		The act of pressing; compression; oppression.	
squelch	Colloquial	To quell; to crush; to silence or put down.	
squeteague		An American sciænoid fish (Cynoscion regalis), abundant on the Atlantic coast of the United States, and much valued as a food fish.	
squib		A little pipe, or hollow cylinder of paper, filled with powder or combustible matter, to be thrown into the air while burning, so as to burst there with a crack.	
squid		(Zoöl.) Any one of numerous species of ten-armed cephalopods having a long, tapered body, and a caudal fin on each side; especially, any species of Loligo, Ommastrephes, and related genera.	
squier	Obsolete	A square. See 1st Squire.	
squierie		A company of squires; the whole body of squires.	
squiery		A company of squires; the whole body of squires.	
squiffy	Slang	Somewhat intoxicated; tipsy.	
squiggle	English dialect	To shake and wash a fluid about in the mouth with the lips closed.	
squilgee		Formerly, a small swab for drying a vessel's deck; now, a kind of scraper having a blade or edge of rubber or of leather, -- used for removing superfluous, water or other liquids, as from a vessel's deck after washing…	
squill		(Bot.) (a) A European bulbous liliaceous plant (Urginea, formerly Scilla, maritima), of acrid, expectorant, diuretic, and emetic properties used in medicine.	
squilla		Any one of numerous stomapod crustaceans of the genus Squilla and allied genera.	
squillitic		Of or pertaining to squills.	
squinance		(Bot.) A European perennial herb (Asperula cynanchica) with narrowly linear whorled leaves; -- formerly thought to cure the quinsy.	
squinancy		(Bot.) A European perennial herb (Asperula cynanchica) with narrowly linear whorled leaves; -- formerly thought to cure the quinsy.	
squinch		A small arch thrown across the corner of a square room to support a superimposed mass, as where an octagonal spire or drum rests upon a square tower; -- called also sconce, and sconcheon.	
squinsy	Obsolete	See Quinsy — an inflammation of the throat, or parts adjacent, especially of the fauces or tonsils, attended by considerable swelling, painful and impeded deglutition…	
squint		Looking obliquely. Specifically (Med.), not having the optic axes coincident; -- said of the eyes.	
squint-eye		An eye that squints.	
squint-eyed		Having eyes that quint; having eyes with axes not coincident; cross-eyed.	
squinter		One who squints.	
squintifego	Obsolete	Squinting.	
squinting		a. & n. from Squint, v. -- Squint"ing*ly, adv.	
squiny	Obsolete	To squint.	
squinzey	Obsolete	See Quinsy — an inflammation of the throat, or parts adjacent, especially of the fauces or tonsils, attended by considerable swelling, painful and impeded deglutition…	
squir	Obsolete	To throw with a jerk; to throw edge foremost.	
squiralty		Same as Squirarchy.	
squirarch		One who belongs to the squirarchy. -- Squir"arch*al, a.	
squirarchy		The gentlemen, or gentry, of a country, collectively.	
squire		A shield-bearer or armor-bearer who attended a knight.	Middle French esquierre.
squireen		One who is half squire and half farmer; -- used humorously.	
squirehood		The rank or state of a squire; squireship.	
squireling		A petty squire.	
squirely		Becoming a squire; like a squire.	
squireship		Squirehood.	
squirm		To twist about briskly with contor	
squirr	Obsolete	To throw with a jerk; to throw edge foremost.	
squirrel		(Zoöl.) Any one of numerous species of small rodents belonging to the genus Sciurus and several allied genera of the famly Sciuridæ.	Anglo-Norman esquirel, from Old French escurel, from Latin scuriolus.
squirt		To drive or eject in a stream out of a narrow pipe or orifice; as, to squirt water.	
squirter		One who, or that which, squirts.	
squiry	Obsolete	The body of squires, collectively considered; squirarchy.	
squitee		The squeteague; -- called also squit.	
