stab		To pierce with a pointed weapon; to wound or kill by the thrust of a pointed instrument; as, to stab a man with a dagger; also, to thrust; as, to stab a dagger into a person.
stabber		One who, or that which, stabs; a privy murderer.
stabbingly		By stabbing; with intent to injure covertly.
stabiliment		The act of making firm; firm support; establishment.
stabilitate	Obsolete	To make stable; to establish.
stability		The state or quality of being stable, or firm; steadiness; firmness; strength to stand without being moved or overthrown; as, the stability of a structure; the stability of a throne or a constitution.
stable		Firmly established; not easily moved, shaken, or overthrown; fixed; as, a stable government.
stableboy		A boy or man who attends in a stable; a groom; a hostler.
stableman		A boy or man who attends in a stable; a groom; a hostler.
stableness		The quality or state of being stable, or firmly established; stability.
stabler		A stable keeper.
stabling		The act or practice of keeping horses and cattle in a stable.
stablish	Obsolete	To settle permanently in a state; to make firm; to establish; to fix. 2 Sam. vii. 13.
stablishment	Obsolete	Establishment.
stably		In a stable manner; firmly; fixedly; steadily; as, a government stably settled.
stabulation		The act of stabling or housing beasts.
staccato		(Mus.) Disconnected; separated; distinct; -- a direction to perform the notes of a passage in a short, distinct, and pointed manner.
stack		A large pile of hay, grain, straw, or the like, usually of a nearly conical form, but sometimes rectangular or oblong, contracted at the top to a point or ridge, and sometimes covered with thatch.
stack-guard		A covering or protection, as a canvas, for a stack.
stackage		Hay, gray, or the like, in stacks; things stacked.
stacket	Scots	A stockade.
stacking		from Stack.
stackstand		A staging for supporting a stack of hay or grain; a rickstand.
stackyard		A yard or inclosure for stacks of hay or grain.
stacte		One of the sweet spices used by the ancient Jews in the preparation of incense.
staddle		Anything which serves for support; a staff; a prop; a crutch; a cane.
stade		A stadium.
stadimeter		A horizontal graduated bar mounted on a staff, used as a stadium, or telemeter, for measuring distances.
stadium		A Greek measure of length, being the chief one used for itinerary distances, also adopted by the Romans for nautical and astronomical measurements.
stadtholder		Formerly, the chief magistrate of the United Provinces of Holland; also, the governor or lieutenant governor of a province.
stadtholderate		The office or position of a stadtholder.
stadtholdership		The office or position of a stadtholder.
stafette		An estafet. arlyle.
staff		A long piece of wood; a stick; the long handle of an instrument or weapon; a pole or srick, used for many purposes; as, a surveyor's staff; the staff of a spear or pike.
staffier	Obsolete	An attendant bearing a staff.
staffish	Obsolete	Stiff; harsh.
staffman		A workman employed in silk throwing.
stag		(Zoöl.) (a) The adult male of the red deer (Cervus elaphus), a large European species closely related to the American elk, or wapiti.
stag-evil		A kind of palsy affecting the jaw of a horse.
stag-horned		Having the mandibles large and palmate, or branched somewhat like the antlers of a stag; -- said of certain beetles.
stage		An elevated platform on which an orator may speak, a play be performed, an exhibition be presented, or the like.
stage-struck		Fascinated by the stage; seized by a passionate desire to become an actor.
stagecoach		A coach that runs regularly from one stage, station, or place to another, for the conveyance of passengers.
stagecoachman		One who drives a stagecoach.
stagehouse		A house where a stage regularly stops for passengers or a relay of horses.
stagely	Obsolete	Pertaining to a stage; becoming the theater; theatrical.
stageplay		A dramatic or theatrical entertainment.
stageplayer		An actor on the stage; one whose occupation is to represent characters on the stage; as, Garrick was a celebrated stageplayer.
stager		One who has long acted on the stage of life; a practitioner; a person of experience, or of skill derived from long experience.
stagery	Obsolete	Exhibition on the stage.
staggard		The male red deer when four years old.
stagger		To move to one side and the other, as if about to fall, in standing or walking; not to stand or walk with steadiness; to sway; to reel or totter.
staggerbush		An American shrub (Andromeda Mariana) having clusters of nodding white flowers.
staggeringly		In a staggering manner.
staggerwort		A kind of ragwort (Senecio Jacobæa).
staghound		A large and powerful hound formerly used in hunting the stag, the wolf, and other large animals.
staging		A structure of posts and boards for supporting workmen, etc., as in building.
stagirite		A native of, or resident in, Stagira, in ancient Macedonia; especially, Aristotle.
stagnancy		State of being stagnant.
stagnant		That stagnates; not flowing; not running in a current or steam; motionless; hence, impure or foul from want of motion; as, a stagnant lake or pond; stagnant blood in the veins.
stagnantly		In a stagnant manner.
stagnate		To cease to flow; to be motionless; as, blood stagnates in the veins of an animal; hence, to become impure or foul by want of motion; as, air stagnates in a close room.
stagnation		The condition of being stagnant; cessation of flowing or circulation, as of a fluid; the state of being motionless; as, the stagnation of the blood; the stagnation of water or air; the stagnation of vapors.
stagworm		The larve of any species of botfly which is parasitic upon the stag, as, which burrows beneath the skin, and Cephalomyia auribarbis, which lives in the nostrils.
stagy		Having an air or manner characteristic of the stage; theatrical; artificial; as, a stagy tone or bearing; --chiefly used depreciatively.
stahlian		Pertaining to, or taught by, Stahl, a German physician and chemist of the 17th century; as, the Stahlian theory of phlogiston.
stahlianism		The Stahlian theoru, that every vital action is function or operation of the soul.
stahlism		The Stahlian theoru, that every vital action is function or operation of the soul.
staid		imp. & p. p. of Stay.
staidly		In a staid manner, sedately.
staidness		The quality or state of being staid; seriousness; steadiness; sedateness; regularity; -- the opposite of wildness, or Ant: levity.
stail		A handle, as of a mop; a stale.
stain		To discolor by the application of foreign matter; to make foul; to spot; as, to stain the hand with dye; armor stained with blood.
stainer		One who stains or tarnishes.
stainless		Free from stain; immaculate.
stainlessly		In a stainless manner.
stair		One step of a series for ascending or descending to a different level; -- commonly applied to those within a building.
staircase		A flight of stairs with their supporting framework, casing, balusters, etc. To make a complete staircase is a curious piece of architecture.
stairhead		The head or top of a staircase.
stairway		A flight of stairs or steps; a staircase.
staith		A landing place; an elevated staging upon a wharf for discharging coal, etc., as from railway cars, into vessels.
staithman		A man employed in weighing and shipping at a staith.
stake		A piece of wood, usually long and slender, pointed at one end so as to be easily driven into the ground as a support or stay; as, a stake to support vines, fences, hedges, etc. A sharpened stake strong Dryas found.
stake-driver		The common American bittern (Botaurus lentiginosus); -- so called because one of its notes resembles the sound made in driving a stake into the mud.
stakehead		A horizontal bar on a stake, used for supporting the yarns which are kept apart by pins in the bar.
stakeholder		The holder of a stake; one with whom the bets are deposited when a wager is laid.
staktometer		A drop measurer; a glass tube tapering to a small orifice at the point, and having a bulb in the middle, used for finding the number of drops in equal quantities of different liquids.
stalactic		Stalactic.
stalactical		Stalactic.
stalactiform		Like a stalactite; resembling a stalactite.
stalactite		(a) A pendent cone or cylinder of calcium carbonate resembling an icicle in form and mode of attachment.
stalactites	Obsolete	A stalactite.
stalactitic		Of or pertaining to a stalactite; having the form or characters of a stalactite; stalactic.
stalactitical		Of or pertaining to a stalactite; having the form or characters of a stalactite; stalactic.
stalactitiform		Having the form of a stalactite; stalactiform.
stalagmite		A deposit more or less resembling an inverted stalactite, formed by calcareous water dropping on the floors of caverns; hence, a similar deposit of other material.
stalagmitic		Having the form or structure of stalagmites. -- Stal`ag*mit"ic*al*ly, adv.
stalagmitical		Having the form or structure of stalagmites. -- Stal`ag*mit"ic*al*ly, adv.
stalder	English dialect	A wooden frame to set casks on.
stale		The stock or handle of anything; as, the stale of a rake.
stalely		In a state stale manner.
stalemate		The position of the king when he can not move without being placed on check and there is no other piece which can be moved.
staleness		The quality or state of being stale.
stalk		(Bot.) (a) The stem or main axis of a plant; as, a stalk of wheat, rye, or oats; the stalks of maize or hemp.
stalk-eyed		Having the eyes raised on a stalk, or peduncle; -- opposed to sessile-eyed.
stalked		Having a stalk or stem; borne upon a stem.
stalker		One who stalks.
stalking-horse		A horse, or a figure resembling a horse, behind which a hunter conceals himself from the game he is aiming to kill.
stalkless		Having no stalk.
stalky		Hard as a stalk; resembling a stalk.
stall		A stand; a station; a fixed spot; hence, the stand or place where a horse or an ox kept and fed; the division of a stable, or the compartment, for one horse, ox, or other animal.
stall-feed		To feed and fatten in a stall or on dry fodder; as, to stall- feed an ox.
stallage		(Eng. Law) The right of erecting a stalls in fairs; rent paid for a stall.
stallation	Obsolete	Installation.
stalled		Put or kept in a stall; hence, fatted. xv. 17.
staller		A standard bearer. obtaining Fuller.
stalling		Stabling.
stallion		A male horse not castrated; a male horse kept for breeding.
stallman		One who keeps a stall for the sale of merchandise, especially books.
stallon		A slip from a plant; a scion; a cutting.
stalwart		Brave; bold; strong; redoubted; daring; vehement; violent.
stalwartly		In a stalwart manner.
stalwartness		The quality of being stalwart.
stalworth		Brave; bold; strong; redoubted; daring; vehement; violent.
stalworthhood	Obsolete	The quality or state of being stalworth; stalwartness; boldness; daring.
stalworthness	Obsolete	The quality or state of being stalworth; stalwartness; boldness; daring.
stamen		A thread; especially, a warp thread.
stamened		Furnished with stamens.
stamin	Obsolete	A kind of woolen cloth.
stamina		See Stamen — a thread; especially, a warp thread.
staminal		Of or pertaining to stamens or stamina; consisting in stamens.
staminate		(a) Furnished with stamens; producing stamens. (b) Having stamens, but lacking pistils.
stamineal		(Bot.) Of or pertaining to the stamens; possessing stamens; also, attached to the stamens; as, a stamineous nectary.
stamineous		(Bot.) Of or pertaining to the stamens; possessing stamens; also, attached to the stamens; as, a stamineous nectary.
staminiferous		Bearing or having stamens.
staminode		A staminodium.
staminodium		An abortive stamen, or any organ modified from an abortive stamen.
stammel	English dialect	A large, clumsy horse.
stammer		To make involuntary stops in uttering syllables or words; to hesitate or falter in speaking; to speak with stops and diffivulty; to stutter.
stammerer		One who stammers.
stammering		Apt to stammer; hesitating in speech; stuttering. -- Stam"mer*ing*ly, adv.
stamp		To strike beat, or press forcibly with the bottom of the foot, or by thrusting the foot downward.
stampede		A wild, headlong scamper, or running away, of a number of animals; usually caused by fright; hence, any sudden flight or dispersion, as of a crowd or an army in consequence of a panic.
stamper		One who stamps.
stamping		from Stamp, v.
stance	Obsolete	A stanza.
stanch		To stop the flowing of, as blood; to check; also, to stop the flowing of blood from; as, to stanch a wound.
stanchel		A stanchion.
stancher		One who, or that which, stanches, or stops, the flowing, as of blood.
stanchion		(Arch.) A prop or support; a piece of timber in the form of a stake or post, used for a support or stay.
stanchless		Incapable of being stanched, or stopped.
stanchly		In a stanch manner.
stanchness		The quality or state of being stanch.
stand		To be at rest in an erect position; to be fixed in an upright or firm position; as: (a) To be supported on the feet, in an erect or nearly erect position; -- opposed to lie, sit, kneel…
stand-by		One who, or that which, stands by one in need; something upon which one relies for constant use or in an emergency.
standage		A reservior in which water accumulates at the bottom of a mine.
standard		A flag; colors; a banner; especially, a national or other ensign.
standard-bred		Bred in conformity to a standard.
standard-wing		A curious paradise bird (Semioptera Wallacii) which has two long special feathers standing erect on each wing.
standardize		To reduce to a normal standard; to calculate or adjust the strength of, by means of, and for uses in, analysis.
standel	Obsolete	A young tree, especially one reserved when others are cut.
stander		One who stands.
stander-by		One who stands near; one who is present; a bystander.
standerat		See Legislature, above.
standerath		See Legislature, above.
standergrass		A plant (Orchis mascula); -- called also standerwort, and long purple.
standgale	English dialect	See Stannel — the kestrel; -- called also standgale, standgall, stanchel, stand hawk, stannel hawk, steingale, stonegall.
standing		Remaining erect; not cut down; as, standing corn.
standish		A stand, or case, for pen and ink.
standpipe		(Engin.) A vertical pipe, open at the top, between a hydrant and a reservoir, to equalize the flow of water; also, a large vertical pipe, near a pumping engine, into which water is forced up…
standpoint		A fixed point or station; a basis or fundamental principle; a position from which objects or principles are viewed, and according to which they are compared and judged.
standstill		A standing without moving forward or backward; a stop; a state or rest.
stane	Scots	A stone.
stang		A long bar; a pole; a shaft; a stake.
stanhope		A light two-wheeled, or sometimes four-wheeled, carriage, without a top; -- so called from Lord Stanhope, for whom it was contrived.
staniel		See Stannel — the kestrel; -- called also standgale, standgall, stanchel, stand hawk, stannel hawk, steingale, stonegall.
stanielry	Obsolete	Hawking with staniels, -- a base kind of falconry.
stank	English dialect	Water retained by an embankment; a pool water.
stannary		Of or pertaining to tin mines, or tin works.
stannate		A salt of stannic acid.
stannel		The kestrel; -- called also standgale, standgall, stanchel, stand hawk, stannel hawk, steingale, stonegall.
stannic		Of or pertaining to tin; derived from or containing tin; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a higher valence as contrasted with stannous compounds.
stanniferous		Containing or affording tin.
stannine		A mineral of a steel
stannite		A mineral of a steel
stanno-		A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting relation to, or connection with, tin, or including tin as an ingredient.
stannofluoride		Any one of a series of double fluorides of tin (stannum) and some other element.
stannoso-		A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting relation to, or connection with, certain stannnous compounds.
stannotype		A photograph taken upon a tin plate; a tintype.
stannous		Pertaining to, or containing, tin; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a lower valence as contrasted with stannic compounds.
stannum		The technical name of tin. See Tin.
stannyel		See Stannel — the kestrel; -- called also standgale, standgall, stanchel, stand hawk, stannel hawk, steingale, stonegall.
stanyel		See Stannel — the kestrel; -- called also standgale, standgall, stanchel, stand hawk, stannel hawk, steingale, stonegall.
stanza		A number of lines or verses forming a division of a song or poem, and agreeing in meter, rhyme, number of lines, etc., with other divisions; a part of a poem, ordinarily containing every variation of measure in that poem…
stanzaic		Pertaining to, or consisting of, stanzas; as, a couplet in stanzaic form.
stapedial		Of or pertaining to stapes.
stapelia		An extensive and curious genus of African plants of the natural order Asclepiadaceæ (Milkweed family).
stapes		The innermost of the ossicles of the ear; the stirrup, or stirrup bone; -- so called from its form.
staphyline		Of or pertaining to the uvula or the palate.
staphylinid		Any rove beetle.
staphyloma		A protrusion of any part of the globe of the eye; as, a staphyloma of the cornea.
staphylomatous		Of or pertaining to staphyloma; affected with staphyloma.
staphyloplasty		The operation for restoring or replacing the soft palate when it has been lost.
staphyloraphy		The operation of uniting a cleft palate, consisting in paring and bringing together the edges of the cleft. -- Staph`y*lo*raph ic, a.
staphylorrhaphy		The operation of uniting a cleft palate, consisting in paring and bringing together the edges of the cleft. -- Staph`y*lo*raph ic, a.
staphylotomy		The operation of removing a staphyloma by cutting.
staple		A settled mart; an emporium; a city or town to which merchants brought commodities for sale or exportation in bulk; a place for wholesale traffic.
stapler		A dealer in staple goods.
star		One of the innumerable luminous bodies seen in the heavens; any heavenly body other than the sun, moon, comets, and nebulæ.
star-blind		Half blind.
star-bowlines	Obsolete	The men in the starboard watch.
star-chamber		An ancient high court exercising jurisdiction in certain cases, mainly criminal, which sat without the intervention of a jury.
star-crossed	Poetic	Not favored by the stars; ill-fated.
star-read	Obsolete	Doctrine or knowledge of the stars; star lore; astrology; astronomy.
star-spangled		Spangled or studded with stars.
starboard		That side of a vessel which is one of the right hand of a person who stands on board facing the bow; -- opposed to Ant: larboard, or Ant: port.
starch		Stiff; precise; rigid.
starched		Stiffened with starch.
starchedness		The quality or state of being starched; stiffness in manners; formality.
starcher		One who starches.
starchly		In a starched or starch manner.
starchness		Of or pertaining to starched or starch; stiffness of manner; preciseness.
starchwort		The cuckoopint, the tubers of which yield a fine quality of starch.
starchy		Consisting of starch; resembling starch; stiff; precise.
starcraft		Astrology.
stare		To look with fixed eyes wide open, as through fear, wonder, surprise, impudence, etc.; to fasten an earnest and prolonged gaze on some object.
starer		One who stares, or gazes.
starf		Starved.
starfinch		The European redstart.
starfish		(Zoöl.) Any one of numerous species of echinoderms belonging to the class Asterioidea, in which the body is star-shaped and usually has five rays, though the number of rays varies from five to forty or more.
stargaser		One who gazes at the stars; an astrologer; sometimes, in derision or contempt, an astronomer.
stargasing		The act or practice of observing the stars with attention; contemplation of the stars as connected with astrology or astronomy.
staringly		With a staring look.
stark		Strong; vigorous; powerful.
starkly		In a stark manner; stiffly; strongly.
starkness		The quality or state of being stark.
starless		Being without stars; having no stars visible; as, a starless night.
starlight		The light given by the stars.
starlike		Resembling a star; stellated; radiated like a star; as, starlike flowers.
starling		(Zoöl.) Any passerine bird belonging to Sturnus and allied genera.
starlit		Lighted by the stars; starlight.
starmonger		A fortune teller; an astrologer; -- used in contempt.
starn	English dialect	The European starling.
starnose		A curious American mole (Condylura cristata) having the nose expanded at the end into a stellate disk; -- called also star-nosed mole.
starost		A nobleman who possessed a starosty.
starosty		A castle and domain conferred on a nobleman for life.
starproof	Poetic	Impervious to the light of the stars; as, a starproof elm.
starred		Adorned or studded with stars; bespangled.
starriness		The quality or state of being starry; as, the starriness of the heavens.
starry		Abounding with stars; adorned with stars.
starshine		The light of the stars.
starshoot		See Nostoc — a genus of algæ.
starstone		Asteriated sapphire.
start		To move suddenly, as with a spring or leap, from surprise, pain, or other sudden feeling or emotion, or by a voluntary act.
start-up	Obsolete	One who comes suddenly into notice; an upstart.
starter		One who, or that which, starts; as, a starter on a journey; the starter of a race.
startful		Apt to start; skittish.
startfulness		Aptness to start.
starthroat		Any humming bird of the genus Heliomaster.
starting	Obsolete	from Start, v.
startingly		By sudden fits or starts; spasmodically.
startish	Colloquial	Apt to start; skittish; shy; -- said especially of a horse.
startle		To move suddenly, or be excited, on feeling alarm; to start.
startlingly		In a startling manner.
startlish	Colloquial	Easily startled; apt to start; startish; skittish; -- said especially of a hourse.
starvation		The act of starving, or the state of being starved.
starve		To perish with hunger; to suffer extreme hunger or want; to be very indigent.
starvedly		In the condition of one starved or starving; parsimoniously.
starveling		One who, or that which, pines from lack or food, or nutriment.
starwort		(a) Any plant of the genus Aster. See Aster. (b) A small plant of the genus Stellaria, having star-shaped flowers; star flower; chickweed.
stasimon		In the Greek tragedy, a song of the chorus, continued without the interruption of dialogue or anapæstics.
stasis		A slackening or arrest of the blood current in the vessels, due not to a lessening of the heart's beat, but presumably to some abnormal resistance of the capillary walls.
statable		That can be stated; as, a statablegrievance; the question at issue is statable.
statal		Of, pertaining to, or existing with reference to, a State of the American Union, as distinguished from the general government.
statant		In a standing position; as, a lion statant.
statarian	Obsolete	Fixed; settled; steady; statary.
statarianly	Obsolete	Fixedly; steadly.
statary	Obsolete	Fixed; settled.
state		The circumstances or condition of a being or thing at any given time.
statecraft		The art of conducting state affairs; state management; statesmanship.
stated		Settled; established; fixed.
statedly		At stated times; regularly.
stateful	Obsolete	Full of state; stately.
statehood		The condition of being a State; as, a territory seeking Statehood.
statehouse		The building in which a State legislature holds its sessions; a State capitol.
stateless		Without state or pomp.
statelily		In a stately manner.
stateliness		The quality or state of being stately.
stately		Evincing state or dignity; lofty; majestic; grand; as, statelymanners; a stately gait.
statement		The act of stating, reciting, or presenting, orally or in paper; as, to interrupt a speaker in the statement of his case.
statemonger		One versed in politics, or one who dabbles in state affairs.
stateprison		See under State, n.
stater		One who states.
stateroom		A magnificent room in a place or great house.
states-general		In France, before the Revolution, the assembly of the three orders of the kingdom, namely, the clergy, the nobility, and the third estate, or commonalty.
statesman		A man versed in public affairs and in the principles and art of government; especially, one eminent for political abilities.
statesmanlike		Having the manner or wisdom of statesmen; becoming a statesman.
statesmanly		Becoming a statesman.
statesmanship		The qualifications, duties, or employments of a statesman.
stateswoman		A woman concerned in public affairs.
stathmograph		A contrivance for recording the speed of a railway train.
static		Resting; acting by mere weight without motion; as, statical pressure; static objects.
statical		Resting; acting by mere weight without motion; as, statical pressure; static objects.
statically		In a statical manner.
statics		That branch of mechanics which treats of the equilibrium of forces, or relates to bodies as held at rest by the forces acting on them; -- distinguished from dynamics.
stating		The act of one who states anything; statement; as, the statingof one's opinions.
station		The act of standing; also, attitude or pose in standing; posture.
stational		Of or pertaining to a station.
stationariness		The quality or state of being stationary; fixity.
stationary		Not moving; not appearing to move; stable; fixed.
stationer		One who sells paper, pens, quills, inkstands, pencils, blank books, and other articles used in writing.
stationery		The articles usually sold by stationers, as paper, pens, ink, quills, blank books, etc. Belonging to, or sold by, a stationer.
statism	Obsolete	The art of governing a state; statecraft; policy.
statist	Obsolete	A statesman; a politician; one skilled in government.
statistic		Of or pertaining to statistics; as, statistical knowledge, statistical tabulation.
statistical		Of or pertaining to statistics; as, statistical knowledge, statistical tabulation.
statistically		In the way of statistics.
statistician		One versed in statistics; one who collects and classifies facts for statistics.
statistics		The science which has to do with the collection and classification of certain facts respecting the condition of the people in a state.
statistology		See Statistics, 2.
stative	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to a fixed camp, or military posts or quarters.
statoblast		One of a peculiar kind of internal buds, or germs, produced in the interior of certain Bryozoa and sponges, especially in the fresh- water species; -- also called winter buds.
statocracy		Government by the state, or by political power, in distinction from government by ecclesiastical power.
stator		A stationary part in or about which another part (the rotor) revolves, esp. when both are large; as, (a) (Elec.) The stationary member of an electrical machine, as of an induction motor.
statua	Obsolete	A statue.
statuary		One who practices the art of making statues.
statue		The likeness of a living being sculptured or modeled in some solid substance, as marble, bronze, or wax; an image; as, a statue of Hercules, or of a lion.
statued		Adorned with statues.
statueless		Without a statue.
statuelike		Like a statue; motionless.
statuesque		Partaking of, or exemplifying, the characteristics of a statue; having the symmetry, or other excellence, of a statue artistically made; as, statuesquelimbs; a statuesque attitude.
statuesquely		In a statuesque manner; in a way suggestive of a statue; like a statue.
statuette		A small statue; -- usually applied to a figure much less than life size, especially when of marble or bronze, or of plaster or clay as a preparation for the marble or bronze…
statuminate	Obsolete	To prop or support.
stature		The natural height of an animal body; -- generally used of the human body.
statured		Arrived at full stature.
status		State; condition; position of affairs.
statutable		Made or introduced by statute; proceeding from an act of the legistature; as, a statutable provision or remedy.
statutably		Conformably to statute.
statute		An act of the legislature of a state or country, declaring, commanding, or prohibiting something; a positive law; the written will of the legislature expressed with all the requisite forms of legislation…
statutory		Enacted by statute; depending on statute for its authority; as, a statutory provision.
staunch		See Stanch, Stanchly, etc.
staunchly		See Stanch, Stanchly, etc.
staunchness		See Stanch, Stanchly, etc.
staurolite		A mineral of a brown to black color occurring in prismatic crystals, often twinned so as to form groups resembling a cross.
staurolitic		Of or pertaining to staurolite; resembling or containing staurolite.
stauroscope		An optical instrument used in determining the position of the planes of light-vibration in sections of crystals.
staurotide		Staurolite.
stave		One of a number of narrow strips of wood, or narrow iron plates, placed edge to edge to form the sides, covering, or lining of a vessel or structure; esp., one of the strips which form the sides of a cask, a pail, etc.
staves		pl. of Staff — a long piece of wood; a stick; the long handle of an instrument or weapon; a pole or srick, used for many purposes; as, a surveyor's staff; the staff of a spear or pike.
stavesacre		A kind of larkspur (Delphinium Staphysagria), and its seeds, which are violently purgative and emetic.
stavewood		A tall tree (Simaruba amara) growing in tropical America.
staving		A cassing or lining of staves; especially, one encircling a water wheel.
staw	English dialect	To be fixed or set; to stay.
stay		A large, strong rope, employed to support a mast, by being extended from the head of one mast down to some other, or to some part of the vessel.
stayed		Staid; fixed; settled; sober; -- now written staid. See Staid.
stayedly		Staidly. See Staidly.
stayedness		Solidity; weight.
stayer		One who upholds or supports that which props; one who, or that which, stays, stops, or restrains; also, colloquially, a horse, man, etc., that has endurance, an a race.
staylace		A lace for fastening stays.
stayless		Without stop or delay.
staymaker		One whose occupation is to make stays.
staynil	English dialect	The European starling.
staysail		Any sail extended on a stay.
stayship		A remora, -- fabled to stop ships by attaching itself to them.
stead		Place or room which another had, has, or might have.
steadfast		Firmly fixed or established; fast fixed; firm.
steadfastly		In a steadfast manner; firmly.
steadfastness		The quality or state of being steadfast; firmness; fixedness; constancy. ii. 5.
steadily		In a steady manner.
steadiness		The quality or state of being steady.
steading	English dialect	The brans, stables, cattle-yards, etc., of a farm; -- called also onstead, farmstead, farm offices, or farmery.
steady		Firm in standing or position; not tottering or shaking; fixed; firm.
steak		A slice of beef, broiled, or cut for broiling; -- also extended to the meat of other large animals; as, venison steak; bear steak; pork steak; turtle steak.
steal		To take and carry away, feloniously; to take without right or leave, and with intent to keep wrongfully; as, to steal the personal goods of another.
stealer		One who steals; a thief.
stealing		The act of taking feloniously the personal property of another without his consent and knowledge; theft; larceny.
stealingly		By stealing, or as by stealing, furtively, or by an invisible motion.
stealth		The bringing to pass anything in a secret or concealed manner; a secret procedure; a clandestine practice or action; -- in either a good or a bad sense.
stealthful	Obsolete	Given to stealth; stealthy. -- Stealth ful*ness, n.
stealthily		In a stealthy manner.
stealthiness		The state, quality, or character of being stealthy; stealth.
stealthlike		Stealthy; sly.
stealthy		Done by stealth; accomplished clandestinely; unperceived; secret; furtive; sly. with his stealthy pace, … Moves like a ghost.
steam		The elastic, aëriform fluid into which water is converted when heated to the boiling points; water in the state of vapor.
steamboat		A boat or vessel propelled by steam power; -- generally used of river or coasting craft, as distinguished from ocean steamers.
steamboating		The occupation or business of running a steamboat, or of transporting merchandise, passengers, etc., by steamboats.
steamer		A vessel propelled by steam; a steamship or steamboat.
steaminess		The quality or condition of being steamy; vaporousness; mistness.
steamship		A ship or seagoing vessel propelled by the power of steam; a steamer.
steamy		Consisting of, or resembling, steam; full of steam; vaporous; misty.
stean		See Steen — a wall of brick, stone, or cement, used as a lining, as of a well, cistern, etc.; a steening.
steaningp		See Steening — a lining made of brick, stone, or other hard material, as for a well.
steapsin		An unorganized ferment or enzyme present in pancreatic juice.
stearate		A salt of stearic acid; as, ordinary soap consists largely of sodium or potassium stearates.
stearic		Pertaining to, or obtained from, stearin or tallow; resembling tallow.
stearin		One of the constituents of animal fats and also of some vegetable fats, as the butter of cacao.
stearolic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the acetylene series, isologous with stearis acid, and obtained, as a white crystalline substance, from oleïc acid.
stearone		The ketone of stearic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance, (C17H35)2.CO, by the distillation of calcium stearate.
stearoptene		The more solid ingredient of certain volatile oils; -- contrasted with elæoptene.
stearrhea		seborrhea.
stearyl		The hypothetical radical characteristic of stearic acid.
steatite		A massive variety of talc, of a grayish green or brown color.
steatitic		Pertaining to, or of the nature of, steatite; containing or resembling steatite.
steatoma		A cyst containing matter like suet.
steatomatous		Of the nature of steatoma.
steatopyga		A remarkable accretion of fat upon the buttocks of Africans of certain tribes, especially of Hottentot women.
steatopygous		Having fat buttocks.
sted		See Stead, Steadfast, etc.
stedfast		See Stead, Steadfast, etc.
stedfastly		See Stead, Steadfast, etc.
stee	Obsolete	A ladder.
steed		A horse, especially a spirited horse for state of war; -- used chiefly in poetry or stately prose.
steedless		Having no steed; without a horse.
steek	Scots	To pierce with a sharp instrument; hence, to stitch; to sew; also, to fix; to fasten.
steel		(Metal) A variety of iron intermediate in composition and properties between wrought iron and cast iron (containing between one half of one per cent and one and a half per cent of carbon)…
steeler		One who points, edges, or covers with steel.
steelhead		(Zoöl.) A North Pacific salmon (Salmo Gairdneri) found from Northern California to Siberia; -- called also hardhead, and preesil.
steeliness		The quality of being steely.
steeling		The process of pointing, edging, or overlaying with steel; specifically, acierage.
steely		Made of steel; consisting of steel.
steelyard		A form of balance in which the body to be weighed is suspended from the shorter arm of a lever, which turns on a fulcrum, and a counterpoise is caused to slide upon the longer arm to produce equilibrium…
steem	Obsolete	See Esteem — to set a value on; to appreciate the worth of; to estimate; to value; to reckon.
steen		A wall of brick, stone, or cement, used as a lining, as of a well, cistern, etc.; a steening.
steenbok		Same as Steinbock.
steening		A lining made of brick, stone, or other hard material, as for a well.
steenkirk		A kind of neckcloth worn in a loose and disorderly fashion.
steep		Something steeped, or used in steeping; a fertilizing liquid to hasten the germination of seeds.
steep-down		Deep and precipitous, having steep descent.
steep-up		Lofty and precipitous.
steepen		To become steep or steeper.
steeper		A vessel, vat, or cistern, in which things are steeped.
steepiness		Steepness.
steepish		Somewhat steep.
steeple	Obsolete	A spire; also, the tower and spire taken together; the whole of a structure if the roof is of spire form.
steeple-crowned		Bearing a steeple; as, a steeple-crowned building.
steeplechasing		The act of riding steeple chases.
steepled		Furnished with, or having the form of, a steeple; adorned with steeples.
steeply		In a steep manner; with steepness; with precipitous declivity.
steepness		Quality or state of being steep; precipitous declivity; as, the steepnessof a hill or a roof.
steepy	Poetic	Steep; precipitous.
steer		A young male of the ox kind; especially, a common ox; a castrated taurine male from two to four years old.
steerable		Capable of being steered; dirigible.
steerage		The act or practice of steering, or directing; as, the steerage of a ship.
steerageway		A rate of motion through the water sufficient to render a vessel governable by the helm.
steerer		One who steers; as, a boat steerer.
steering		from Steer, v.
steerless	Obsolete	Having no rudder.
steerling		A young small steer.
steersman		One who steers; the helmsman of a vessel.
steersmate	Obsolete	One who steers; steersman.
steeve		To project upward, or make an angle with the horizon or with the line of a vessel's keel; -- said of the bowsprit, etc.
steeving		The act or practice of one who steeves.
steg	English dialect	A gander.
steganographist		One skilled in steganography; a cryptographer.
steganography		The art of writing in cipher, or in characters which are not intelligible except to persons who have the key; cryptography.
steganophthalmata		The Discophora, or Phanerocarpæ.
steganopod		One of the Steganopodes.
steganopodes		A division of swimming birds in which all four toes are united by a broad web.
steganopodous		Having all four toes webbed together.
stegnosis		Constipation; also, constriction of the vessels or ducts.
stegnotic		Tending to render costive, or to diminish excretions or discharges generally. -- n.
stegocephala		An extinct order of amphibians found fossil in the Mesozoic rocks; called also Stegocephali, and Labyrinthodonta.
stegosauria		An extinct order of herbivorous dinosaurs, including the genera Stegosaurus, Omosaurus, and their allies.
stegosaurus		A genus of large Jurassic dinosaurs remarkable for a powerful dermal armature of plates and spines.
steik	Scots	To pierce with a sharp instrument; hence, to stitch; to sew; also, to fix; to fasten.
stein		See Steen — a wall of brick, stone, or cement, used as a lining, as of a well, cistern, etc.; a steening.
steinbock		(a) The European ibex. (b) A small South African antelope (Nanotragus tragulus) which frequents dry, rocky districts; -- called also steenbok.
steingale	English dialect	The stannel.
steining		See Steening — a lining made of brick, stone, or other hard material, as for a well.
steinkirk		A kind of neckcloth worn in a loose and disorderly fashion.
steinkle	English dialect	The wheater.
stela		A small column or pillar, used as a monument, milestone, etc.
stele	Obsolete	Same as Stela.
stelene		Resembling, or used as, a stela; columnar.
stell	Scots	A prop; a support, as for the feet in standing or cilmbing.
stellar		Of or pertaining to stars; astral; as, a stellar figure; stellary orbs. in part shed down Their stellar virtue.
stellary		Of or pertaining to stars; astral; as, a stellar figure; stellary orbs. in part shed down Their stellar virtue.
stellate		Resembling a star; pointed or radiated, like the emblem of a star.
stellated		Resembling a star; pointed or radiated, like the emblem of a star.
stellation	Obsolete	Radiation of light.
stelled	Obsolete	Firmly placed or fixed..
steller		The rytina; -- called also stellerine.
stellerid		A starfish.
stellerida		An extensive group of echinoderms, comprising the starfishes and ophiurans.
stelleridan		A starfish, or brittle star.
stelleridean		A starfish, or brittle star.
stelliferous		Having, or abounding with, stars.
stelliform		Like a star; star-shaped; radiated.
stellify	Obsolete	To turn into a star; to cause to appear like a star; to place among the stars, or in heaven.
stellion		A lizard (Stellio vulgaris), common about the Eastern Mediterranean among ruins.
stellionate		Any fraud not distinguished by a more special name; -- chiefly applied to sales of the same property to two different persons, or selling that for one's own which belongs to another, etc. Erskine.
stellular		Having the shape or appearance of little stars; radiated.
stellulate		Minutely stellate.
stelmatopoda		Same as Gymnolæmata.
stelography		The art of writing or inscribing characters on pillars.
stem		The principal body of a tree, shrub, or plant, of any kind; the main stock; the part which supports the branches or the head or top.
stem-clasping		Embracing the stem with its base; amplexicaul; as a leaf or petiole.
stem-winder	Colloquial	A stem-winding watch.
stem-winding		Wound by mechanism connected with the stem; as, a stem-winding watch.
stemless		Having no stem; (Bot.) acaulescent.
stemlet		A small or young stem.
stemma		(a) One of the ocelli of an insect. See Ocellus. (b) One of the facets of a compound eye of any arthropod.
stemmer		One who, or that which, stems (in any of the senses of the verbs).
stemmery		A large building in which tobacco is stemmed.
stemmy	Colloquial	Abounding in stems, or mixed with stems; -- said of tea, dried currants, etc.
stemple		A crossbar of wood in a shaft, serving as a step.
stemson		A piece of curved timber bolted to the stem, keelson, and apron in a ship's frame near the bow.
stench	Obsolete	An ill smell; an offensive odor; a stink.
stenchy	Obsolete	Having a stench.
stencil		A thin plate of metal, leather, or other material, used in painting, marking, etc. The pattern is cut out of the plate, which is then laid flat on the surface to be marked, and the color brushed over it.
stenciler		One who paints or colors in figures by means of stencil.
stenoderm		Any species of bat belonging to the genus Stenoderma, native of the West Indies and South America.
stenodermine		Of or pertaining to the genus Stenoderma, which includes several West Indian and South American nose-leaf bats.
stenograph		To write or report in stenographic characters.
stenographer		One who is skilled in stenography; a writer of shorthand.
stenographic		Of or pertaining to stenography.
stenographical		Of or pertaining to stenography.
stenographist		A stenographer.
stenography		The art of writing in shorthand, by using abbreviations or characters for whole words; shorthand.
stenophyllous		Having narrow leaves.
stenosis		A narrowing of the opening or hollow of any passage, tube, or orifice; as, stenosis of the pylorus.
stenostome		Having a small or narrow mouth; -- said of certain small ground snakes (Opoterodonta), which are unable to dilate their jaws.
stent		To keep within limits; to restain; to cause to stop, or cease; to stint.
stenting	English dialect	An opening in a wall in a coal mine.
stentor		A herald, in the Iliad, who had a very loud voice; hence, any person having a powerful voice.
stentorian		Of or pertaining to a stentor; extremely loud; powerful; as, a stentorian voice; stentorian lungs.
stentorin		A blue coloring matter found in some stentors. See Stentor, 2.
stentorious		Stentorian.
stentoronic	Obsolete	Stentorian.
stentorophonic	Obsolete	Speaking or sounding very loud; stentorian.
step		To move the foot in walking; to advance or recede by raising and moving one of the feet to another resting place, or by moving both feet in succession.
step-		A prefix used before father, mother, brother, sister, son, daughter, child, etc., to indicate that the person thus spoken of is not a blood relative, but is a relative by the marriage of a parent; as…
step-down		Transforming or converting a current of high potential or pressure into one of low pressure; as, a step-down transformer.
step-up		Transforming or converting a low-pressure current into one of high pressure; as, a step-up transformer.
stepbrother		A brother by the marriage of one's father with the mother of another, or of one's mother with the father of another.
stepchild		A son or daughter of one's wife or husband by a former marriage.
stepdame		A stepmother.
stepdaughter		A daughter of one's wife or husband by a former marriage.
stepfather		The husband of one's mother by a subsequent marriage.
stephanion		The point on the side of the skull where the temporal line, or upper edge of the temporal fossa, crosses the coronal suture.
stephanite		A sulphide of antimony and silver of an iron-black color and metallic luster; called also black silver, and brittle silver ore.
stephanotis		(Bot.) A genus of climbing asclepiadaceous shrubs, of Madagascar, Malaya, etc. They have fleshy or coriaceous opposite leaves, and large white waxy flowers in cymes.
stepladder		A portable set of steps.
stepmother		The wife of one's father by a subsequent marriage.
stepparent		Stepfather or stepmother.
steppe		One of the vast plains in Southeastern Europe and in Asia, generally elevated, and free from wood, analogous to many of the prairies in Western North America.
stepped		Provided with a step or steps; having a series of offsets or parts resembling the steps of stairs; as, a stepped key.
stepper		One who, or that which, steps; as, a quick stepper.
stepping-stone		A stone to raise the feet above the surface of water or mud in walking.
stepsister		A daughter of one's stepfather or stepmother by a former marriage.
stepson		A son of one's husband or wife by a former marriage.
stepstone		A stone laid before a door as a stair to rise on in entering the house.
stercobilin		A coloring matter found in the fæces, a product of the alteration of the bile pigments in the intestinal canal, -- identical with hydrobilirubin.
stercolin		Same as Serolin (b).
stercoraceous		Of or pertaining to dung; partaking of the nature of, or containing, dung.
stercoranism		The doctrine or belief of the Stercoranists.
stercoranist		A nickname formerly given to those who held, or were alleged to hold, that the consecrated elements in the eucharist undergo the process of digestion in the body of the recipient.
stercorarian		A Stercoranist.
stercorary		A place, properly secured from the weather, for containing dung.
stercorate	Obsolete	Excrement; dung.
stercoration	Obsolete	Manuring with dung.
stercorianism		The doctrine or belief of the Stercoranists.
stercorin		Same as Serolin (b).
stercory	Obsolete	Excrement; dung.
sterculiaceous		Of or pertaining to a natural order (Sterculiaceæ) of polypetalous exogenous plants, mostly tropical.
stere	Obsolete	A unit of cubic measure in the metric system, being a cubic meter, or kiloliter, and equal to 35.3 cubic feet, or nearly 1 To stir.
sterelmintha		Same as Platyelminthes.
stereo-		A combining form meaning solid, hard, firm, as in stereo- chemistry, stereography.
stereo-chemic		Pertaining to, or illustrating, the hypothetical space relations of atoms in the molecule; as, a stereo-chemic formula.
stereo-chemical		Pertaining to, or illustrating, the hypothetical space relations of atoms in the molecule; as, a stereo-chemic formula.
stereo-chemistry		Chemistry considered with reference to the space relations of atoms.
stereobate		The lower part or basement of a building or pedestal; -- used loosely for several different forms of basement.
stereochrome		Stereochromic picture.
stereochromic		Pertaining to the art of stereochromy; produced by stereochromy. -- Ste`re*o*chro"mic*al*ly, adv.
stereochromy		A style of painting on plastered walls or stone, in which the colors are rendered permanent by sprinklings of water, in which is mixed a proportion of soluble glass (a silicate of soda).
stereoelectric		Of or pertaining to the generation of electricity by means of solid bodies alone; as, a stereoelectric current is one obtained by means of solids, without any liquid.
stereogram		A diagram or picture which represents objects in such a way as to give the impression of relief or solidity; also, a stereograph.
stereograph		Any picture, or pair of pictures, prepared for exhibition in the stereoscope.
stereographic		Made or done according to the rules of stereography; delineated on a plane; as, a stereographic chart of the earth.
stereographical		Made or done according to the rules of stereography; delineated on a plane; as, a stereographic chart of the earth.
stereographically		In a stereographical manner; by delineation on a plane.
stereography		The art of delineating the forms of solid bodies on a plane; a branch of solid geometry which shows the construction of all solids which are regularly defined.
stereometer		An instrument for measuring the solid contents of a body, or the capacity of a vessel; a volumenometer.
stereometric		Of or pertaining to stereometry; performed or obtained by stereometry. -- Ste`re*o*met"ric*al*ly, adv.
stereometrical		Of or pertaining to stereometry; performed or obtained by stereometry. -- Ste`re*o*met"ric*al*ly, adv.
stereometry		The art of measuring and computing the cubical contents of bodies and figures; -- distinguished from planimetry.
stereomonoscope		An instrument with two lenses, by which an image of a single picture projected upon a screen of ground glass is made to present an appearance of relief, and may be viewed by several persons at once.
stereoplasm		The solid or insoluble portion of the cell protoplasm. See Hygroplasm.
stereopticon		An instrument, consisting essentially of a magic lantern in which photographic pictures are used, by which the image of a landscape, or any object, may be thrown upon a screen in such a manner as to seem to stand out in relief…
stereoscope		An optical instrument for giving to pictures the appearance of solid forms, as seen in nature.
stereoscopic		Of or pertaining to the stereoscope; characteristic of, or adapted to, the stereoscope; as, a stereoscopic effect; the stereoscopic function of the eyeglasses; stereoscopic views. -- Ste`re*o*scop"ic*al*ly, adv.
stereoscopical		Of or pertaining to the stereoscope; characteristic of, or adapted to, the stereoscope; as, a stereoscopic effect; the stereoscopic function of the eyeglasses; stereoscopic views. -- Ste`re*o*scop"ic*al*ly, adv.
stereoscopist		One skilled in the use or construction of stereoscopes.
stereoscopy		The art or science of using the stereoscope, or of constructing the instrument or the views used with it.
stereostatic		Geostatic.
stereotomic		Of or pertaining to stereotomy; performed by stereotomy.
stereotomical		Of or pertaining to stereotomy; performed by stereotomy.
stereotomy		The science or art of cutting solids into certain figures or sections, as arches, and the like; especially, the art of stonecutting.
stereotype		A plate forming an exact faximile of a page of type or of an engraving, used in printing books, etc.; specifically, a plate with type-metal face, used for printing.
stereotyped		Formed into, or printed from, stereotype plates.
stereotyper		One who stereotypes; one who makes stereotype plates, or works in a stereotype foundry.
stereotypery		The art, process, or employment of making stereotype plates.
stereotypic		Of or pertaining to stereotype, or stereotype plates.
stereotypist		A stereotyper.
stereotypographer		A stereotype printer.
stereotypography		The act or art of printing from stereotype plates.
stereotypy		The art or process of making stereotype plates.
sterhydraulic		Pertaining to, or designating, a kind of hydraulic press; resembling such a press in action or principle.
sterile		Producing little or no crop; barren; unfruitful; unproductive; not fertile; as, sterile land; a sterile desert; a sterile year.
sterility		The quality or condition of being sterile.
sterilization		The act or process of sterilizing, or rendering sterile; also, the state of being sterile.
sterilize		To make sterile or unproductive; to impoverish, as land; to exhaust of fertility.
sterilizer		One that sterilizes anything; specif., an apparatus for sterilizing an organic fluid or mixture.
sterlet		A small sturgeon (Acipenser ruthenus) found in the Caspian Sea and its rivers, and highly esteemed for its flavor.
sterling		Any English coin of standard value; coined money.
stern		The black tern.
stern-wheel		Having a paddle wheel at the stern; as, a stern-wheel steamer.
stern-wheeler	Colloquial	A steamboat having a stern wheel instead of side wheels.
sternal		Of or pertaining to the sternum; in the region of the sternum.
sternbergite		A sulphide of silver and iron, occurring in soft flexible laminæ varying in color from brown to black.
sternebra		One of the segments of the sternum. -- Ster"ne*bral, a.
sterned		Having a stern of a particular shape; -- used in composition; as, square-sterned.
sterner	Obsolete	A director.
sternforemost		With the stern, instead of the bow, in advance; hence, figuratively, in an awkward, blundering manner.
sternite		The sternum of an arthropod somite.
sternly		In a stern manner.
sternmost		Farthest in the rear; farthest astern; as, the sternmost ship in a convoy.
sternness		The quality or state of being stern.
sterno-		A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the sternum; as, sternocostal, sternoscapular.
sternocoracoid		Of or pertaining to the sternum and the coracoid.
sternocostal		Of or pertaining to the sternum and the ribs; as, the sternocostal cartilages.
sternohyoid		Of or pertaining to the sternum and the hyoid bone or cartilage.
sternomastoid		Of or pertaining to the sternum and the mastoid process.
sternothyroid		Of or pertaining to the sternum and the thyroid cartilage.
sternpost		A straight piece of timber, or an iron bar or beam, erected on the extremity of the keel to support the rudder, and receive the ends of the planks or plates of the vessel.
sternsman	Obsolete	A steersman.
sternson		The end of a ship's keelson, to which the sternpost is bolted; -- called also stern knee.
sternum		(Anat.) A plate of cartilage, or a series of bony or cartilaginous plates or segments, in the median line of the pectoral skeleton of most vertebrates above fishes; the breastbone.
sternutation		The act of sneezing.
sternutative		Having the quality of provoking to sneeze.
sternutatory		Sternutative. -- n.
sternway		The movement of a ship backward, or with her stern foremost.
sterquilinous	Obsolete	Pertaining to a dunghill; hence, mean; dirty; paltry.
sterrink		The crab-eating seal (Lobodon carcinophaga) of the Antarctic Ocean.
sterrometal		Any alloy of copper, zinc, tin, and iron, of which cannon are sometimes made.
stert		Started.
sterte		p. p. of Start — to move suddenly, as with a spring or leap, from surprise, pain, or other sudden feeling or emotion, or by a voluntary act.
stertorious		Stertorous.
stertorous		Characterized by a deep snoring, which accompaines inspiration in some diseases, especially apoplexy; hence, hoarsely breathing; snoring.
sterve	Obsolete	To die, or cause to die; to perish. See Starve.
stet		Let it stand; -- a word used by proof readers to signify that something once erased, or marked for omission, is to remain.
stethal		One of the higher alcohols of the methane series, homologous with ethal, and found in small quantities as an ethereal salt of stearic acid in spermaceti.
stethograph		See Pneumatograph — an instrument for recording the movements of the thorax or chest wall during respiration; -- also called stethograph.
stethometer		An apparatus for measuring the external movements of a given point of the chest wall, during respiration; -- also called thoracometer.
stethoscope		An instrument used in auscultation for examining the organs of the chest, as the heart and lungs, by conveying to the ear of the examiner the sounds produced in the thorax.
stethoscopic		Of or pertaining to a stethoscope; obtained or made by means of a stethoscope. -- Steth`o*scop"ic*al*ly, adv.
stethoscopical		Of or pertaining to a stethoscope; obtained or made by means of a stethoscope. -- Steth`o*scop"ic*al*ly, adv.
stethoscopist		One skilled in the use of the stethoscope.
stethoscopy		The art or process of examination by the stethoscope.
steve		To pack or stow, as cargo in a ship's hold. See Steeve.
stevedore		One whose occupation is to load and unload vessels in port; one who stows a cargo in a hold.
steven	Obsolete	Voice; speech; language.
stew	Dialect	An artificial bed of oysters.
steward		A man employed in a large family, or on a large estate, to manage the domestic concerns, supervise other servants, collect the rents or income, keep accounts, and the like.
stewardess		A female steward; specifically, a woman employed in passenger vessels to attend to the wants of female passengers.
stewardly		In a manner, or with the care, of a steward.
stewardship		The office of a steward.
stewartry		The office of a steward; stewardship.
stewish		Suiting a stew, or brothel.
stewpan		A pan used for stewing.
stewpot		A pot used for stewing.
stey		See Stee — a ladder.
sthenic		Strong; active; -- said especially of morbid states attended with excessive action of the heart and blood vessels, and characterized by strength and activity of the muscular and nervous system; as, a sthenic fever.
stiacciato		The lowest relief, -- often used in Italian sculpture of the 15th and 16th centuries.
stian		A sty on the eye. See Styan.
stibborn	Obsolete	Stubborn.
stibial		Like, or having the qualities of, antimony; antimonial.
stibialism		Antimonial intoxication or poisoning.
stibiated		Combined or impregnated with antimony (stibium).
stibic		Antimonic; -- used with reference to certain compounds of antimony.
stibiconite		A native oxide of antimony occurring in masses of a yellow color.
stibine		Antimony hydride, or hydrogen antimonide, a colorless gas produced by the action of nascent hydrogen on antimony.
stibious		Antimonious.
stibium		(Chem.) The technical name of antimony.
stibnite		A mineral of a lead-gray color and brilliant metallic luster, occurring in prismatic crystals; sulphide of antimony; -- called also antimony glance, and gray antimony.
stibonium		The hypothetical radical SbH4, analogous to ammonium; -- called also antimonium.
sticcado		An instrument consisting of small bars of wood, flat at the bottom and rounded at the top, and resting on the edges of a kind of open box.
stich		A verse, of whatever measure or number of feet.
stichic		Of or pertaining to stichs, or lines; consisting of stichs, or lines.
stichidium		A special podlike or fusiform branch containing tetraspores.
stichomancy		Divination by lines, or passages of books, taken at hazard.
stichometrical		Of or pertaining to stichometry; characterized by stichs, or lines.
stichometry		Measurement of books by the number of lines which they contain.
stichwort		A kind of chickweed (Stellaria Holostea).
stick		A small shoot, or branch, separated, as by a cutting, from a tree or shrub; also, any stem or branch of a tree, of any size, cut for fuel or timber.
stick-lac		See the Note under Lac.
stick-seed		A plant (Echinospermum Lappula) of the Borage family, with small blue flowers and prickly nutlets.
stick-tight		Beggar's ticks.
sticker		One who, or that which, sticks; as, a bill sticker.
stickful		As much set type as fills a composing stick.
stickiness		The quality of being sticky; as, the stickiness of glue or paste.
sticking		a. & n. from Stick, v.
stickit	Scots	Stuck; spoiled in making.
stickle		To contend, contest, or altercate, esp. in a pertinacious manner on insufficient grounds.
stickleback		Any one of numerous species of small fishes of the genus Gasterosteus and allied genera.
stickler	Obsolete	One who stickles. Specifically: -- (a) One who arbitrates a duel; a sidesman to a fencer; a second; an umpire.
sticktail	Dialect	The ruddy duck.
sticky		Having the quality of sticking to a surface; adhesive; gluey; viscous; viscid; glutinous; tenacious.
stiddy	English dialect	An anvil; also, a smith shop. See Stithy.
stiff		Not easily bent; not flexible or pliant; not limber or flaccid; rigid; firm; as, stiff wood, paper, joints. rising on stiff pennons, tower The mid aërial sky.
stiff-backed		Obstinate.
stiff-hearted		Obstinate; stubborn; contumacious.
stiff-necked		Stubborn; inflexibly obstinate; contumacious; as, stiff-necked pride; a stiff-necked people.
stiff-neckedness		The quality or state of being stiff-necked; stubbornness.
stiff-tailed		Having the quill feathers of the tail somewhat rigid.
stiffen		tiono make stiff; to make less pliant or flexible; as, to stiffen cloth with starch.
stiffener		One who, or that which, stiffens anything, as a piece of stiff cloth in a cravat.
stiffening		Act or process of making stiff.
stiffish		Somewhat stiff.
stiffly		In a stiff manner.
stiffness		The quality or state of being stiff; as, the stiffness of cloth or of paste; stiffness of manner; stiffness of character.
stifftail	Dialect	The ruddy duck.
stifle		The joint next above the hock, and near the flank, in the hind leg of the horse and allied animals; the joint corresponding to the knee in man; -- called also stifle joint.
stifled		Stifling.
stifler		One who, or that which, stifles.
stigma		A mark made with a burning iron; a brand.
stigmaria		The fossil root stem of a coal plant of the genus Sigillaria.
stigmata		pl. of Stigma — a mark made with a burning iron; a brand.
stigmatic		A notorious profligate or criminal who has been branded; one who bears the marks of infamy or punishment.
stigmatical		Marked with a stigma, or with something reproachful to character.
stigmatically		With a stigma, or mark of infamy or deformity.
stigmatist		One believed to be supernaturally impressed with the marks of Christ's wounds.
stigmatization		The act of stigmatizing.
stigmatize		To mark with a stigma, or brand; as, the ancients stigmatized their slaves and soldiers.
stigmatose		Same as Stigmatic.
stigonomancy		Divination by writing on the bark of a tree.
stilar		Of or pertaining to the style of a dial.
stilbene		A hydrocarbon, C14H12, produced artificially in large, fine crystals; -- called also diphenyl ethylene, toluylene, etc.
stilbite		A common mineral of the zeolite family, a hydrous silicate of alumina and lime, usually occurring in sheaflike aggregations of crystals, also in radiated masses.
stile		A pin set on the face of a dial, to cast a shadow; a style. See Style.
stilet		A stiletto.
stiletto		A kind of dagger with a slender, rounded, and pointed blade.
still		Motionless; at rest; quiet; as, to stand still; to lie or sit still.
still-burn		To burn in the process of distillation; as, to still-burn brandy.
still-closing	Obsolete	Ever closing.
still-hunt		A hunting for game in a quiet and cautious manner, or under cover; stalking; hence, colloquially, the pursuit of any object quietly and cautiously. -- Still -hunt`ing, n.
stillage		A low stool to keep the goods from touching the floor.
stillatitious		Falling in drops; drawn by a still.
stillatory		An alembic; a vessel for distillation.
stillbirth		The birth of a dead fetus.
stillborn		Dead at the birth; as, a stillborn child.
stiller		One who stills, or quiets.
stillhouse		A house in which distillation is carried on; a distillery.
stillicide		A continual falling or succession of drops; rain water falling from the eaves.
stillicidious	Obsolete	Falling in drops.
stilliform		Having the form of a drop.
stilling	Obsolete	A stillion.
stillion		A stand, as for casks or vats in a brewery, or for pottery while drying.
stillness		The quality or state of being still; quietness; silence; calmness; inactivity.
stillroom		A room for distilling.
stillstand		A standstill.
stilly		Still; quiet; calm.
stilpnomelane		A black or greenish black mineral occurring in foliated flates, also in velvety bronze-colored incrustations.
stilt		A pole, or piece of wood, constructed with a step or loop to raise the foot above the ground in walking.
stiltbird		See Stilt, n., 3.
stilted		Elevated as if on stilts; hence, pompous; bombastic; as, a stilted style; stilted declamation.
stiltify		To raise upon stilts, or as upon stilts; to stilt.
stilton		A peculiarly flavored unpressed cheese made from milk with cream added; -- so called from the village or parish of Stilton, England, where it was originally made.
stilty		Unreasonably elevated; pompous; stilted; as, a stilty style.
stime	English dialect	A slight gleam or glimmer; a glimpse.
stimey		See Stymie — the position of two balls on the putting green such that, being more than six inches apart, one ball lies directly between the other and the hole at which the latter must be played; also…
stimie		See Stymie — the position of two balls on the putting green such that, being more than six inches apart, one ball lies directly between the other and the hole at which the latter must be played; also…
stimulant		(Physiol.) Produced increased vital action in the organism, or in any of its parts.
stimulate		To excite as if with a goad; to excite, rouse, or animate, to action or more vigorous exertion by some pungent motive or by persuasion; as, to stimulate one by the hope of reward, or by the prospect of glory.
stimulation		The act of stimulating, or the state of being stimulated.
stimulative		Having the quality of stimulating. -- n.
stimulator		One who stimulates.
stimulatress		A woman who stimulates.
stimulism		(a) The theory of medical practice which regarded life as dependent upon stimulation, or excitation, and disease as caused by excess or deficiency in the amount of stimulation.
stimulus		A goad; hence, something that rouses the mind or spirits; an incentive; as, the hope of gain is a powerful stimulus to labor and action.
stimy		The position of two balls on the putting green such that, being more than six inches apart, one ball lies directly between the other and the hole at which the latter must be played; also…
sting		(Zoöl.) Any sharp organ of offense and defense, especially when connected with a poison gland, and adapted to inflict a wound by piercing; as the caudal sting of a scorpion.
stingaree		Any sting ray. See under 6th Ray.
stingbull		The European greater weever fish (Trachinus draco), which is capable of inflicting severe wounds with the spinous rays of its dorsal fin.
stinger		One who, or that which, stings.
stingfish		The weever.
stingily		In a stingy manner.
stinginess		The quality or state of being stingy.
stinging		Piercing, or capable of piercing, with a sting; inflicting acute pain as if with a sting, goad, or pointed weapon; pungent; biting; as, stinging cold; a stinging rebuke. -- Sting"ing*ly, adv.
stingless		Having no sting.
stingo		Old beer; sharp or strong liquor.
stingray		Any one of numerous rays of the family Dasyatidæ, syn.
stingtail		A sting ray.
stingy		Stinging; able to sting.
stink	Dialect	To emit a strong, offensive smell; to send out a disgusting odor.
stinkard		A mean, stinking, paltry fellow.
stinkball		A composition of substances which in combustion emit a suffocating odor; -- used formerly in naval warfare.
stinker		One who, or that which, stinks.
stinkhorn		A kind of fungus of the genus Phallus, which emits a fetid odor.
stinking		from Stink, v.
stinkingly		In a stinking manner; with an offensive smell.
stinkpot		An earthen jar charged with powder, grenades, and other materials of an offensive and suffocating smell, -- sometimes used in boarding an enemy's vessel.
stinkstone		One of the varieties of calcite, barite, and feldspar, which emit a fetid odor on being struck; -- called also swinestone.
stinkweed		Stramonium. See Jamestown weed, and Datura.
stinkwood		A name given to several kinds of wood with an unpleasant smell, as that of the Foetidia Mauritiana of the Mauritius, and that of the South African Ocotea bullata.
stint		(a) Any one of several species of small sandpipers, as the sanderling of Europe and America, the dunlin, the little stint of India (Tringa minuta), etc. Called also pume.
stintance	Obsolete	Restraint; stoppage.
stintedness		The state of being stinted.
stinter		One who, or that which, stints.
stintless		Without stint or restraint.
stipe		(a) The stalk or petiole of a frond, as of a fern. (b) The stalk of a pistil.
stipel		The stipule of a leaflet.
stipellate		Having stipels.
stipend		Settled pay or compensation for services, whether paid daily, monthly, or annually.
stipendiarian		Acting from mercenary considerations; stipendiary.
stipendiary		Receiving wages, or salary; performing services for a stated price or compensation.
stipendiate		To provide with a stipend, or salary; to support; to pay.
stipendless		Having no stipend.
stipes		(a) The second joint of a maxilla of an insect or a crustacean. (b) An eyestalk.
stipitate		Supported by a stipe; elevated on a stipe, as the fronds of most ferns, or the pod of certain cruciferous plants.
stipitiform		Having the shape of a stalk; stalklike.
stipple		To engrave by means of dots, in distinction from engraving in lines.
stippling		A mode of execution which produces the effect by dots or small points instead of lines.
stiptic		See Styptic — producing contraction; stopping bleeding; having the quality of restraining hemorrhage when applied to the bleeding part; astringent.
stipula		(Zoöl.) A newly sprouted feather.
stipulaceous		Of or pertaining to stipules; resembling stipules; furnished with stipules; growing on stipules, or close to them; occupying the position of stipules; as, stipular glands and stipular tendrils.
stipular		Of or pertaining to stipules; resembling stipules; furnished with stipules; growing on stipules, or close to them; occupying the position of stipules; as, stipular glands and stipular tendrils.
stipulary		Of or pertaining to stipules; stipular.
stipulate		Furnished with stipules; as, a stipulate leaf.
stipulation		That which is stipulated, or agreed upon; that which is definitely arranged or contracted; an agreement; a covenant; a contract or bargain; also, any particular article, item, or condition, in a mutual agreement; as…
stipulator		One who stipulates, contracts, or covenants.
stipule		An appendage at the base of petioles or leaves, usually somewhat resembling a small leaf in texture and appearance.
stipuled		Furnished with stipules, or leafy appendages.
stir		To change the place of in any manner; to move.
stirabout		A dish formed of oatmeal boiled in water to a certain consistency and frequently stirred, or of oatmeal and dripping mixed together and stirred about in a pan; a hasty pudding.
stiriated		Adorned with pendants like icicles.
stirious	Obsolete	Resembling icicles.
stirk	English dialect	A young bullock or heifer.
stirless		Without stirring; very quiet; motionless.
stirp	Obsolete	Stock; race; family.
stirpiculture		The breeding of special stocks or races.
stirps		(Law) Stock; race; family.
stirrage	Obsolete	The act of stirring; stir; commotion.
stirrer		One who, or that which, stirs something; also, one who moves about, especially after sleep; as, an early stirrer.
stirring		Putting in motion, or being in motion; active; active in business; habitually employed in some kind of business; accustomed to a busy life.
stirrup		A kind of ring, or bent piece of metal, wood, leather, or the like, horizontal in one part for receiving the foot of a rider, and attached by a strap to the saddle, -- used to assist a person in mounting a horse…
stirt		Started; leaped.
stirte		imp. of Start, v. i. & t.
stitch		A single pass of a needle in sewing; the loop or turn of the thread thus made.
stitchel		A kind of hairy wool.
stitcher		One who stitches; a seamstress.
stitchery		Needlework; -- in comtempt.
stitching		The act of one who stitches.
stitchwort		See Stichwort — a kind of chickweed (Stellaria Holostea).
stith	Obsolete	Strong; stiff; rigid.
stithy		An anvil.
stive		To stuff; to crowd; to fill full; hence, to make hot and close; to render stifling.
stiver		A Dutch coin, and money of account, of the value of two cents, or about one penny sterling; hence, figuratively, anything of little worth.
stives	Obsolete	Stews; a brothel.
stoak		To stop; to choke.
stoat		The ermine in its summer pelage, when it is reddish brown, but with a black tip to the tail.
stocah	Obsolete	A menial attendant.
stoccade		See Stockade — (Mil.) A line of stout posts or timbers set firmly in the earth in contact with each other (and usually with loopholes) to form a barrier, or defensive fortification.
stoccado		A stab; a thrust with a rapier.
stochastic	Obsolete	Conjectural; able to conjecture.
stock		The stem, or main body, of a tree or plant; the fixed, strong, firm part; the trunk.
stock-blind		Blind as a stock; wholly blind.
stock-still		Still as a stock, or fixed post; perfectly still.
stockade		(Mil.) A line of stout posts or timbers set firmly in the earth in contact with each other (and usually with loopholes) to form a barrier, or defensive fortification.
stockbroker		A broker who deals in stocks.
stockdove		A common European wild pigeon (Columba ænas), so called because at one time believed to be the stock of the domestic pigeon, or, according to some, from its breeding in the stocks, or trunks, of trees.
stocker		One who makes or fits stocks, as of guns or gun carriages, etc.
stockfish		Salted and dried fish, especially codfish, hake, ling, and torsk; also, codfish dried without being salted.
stockholder		One who is a holder or proprietor of stock in the public funds, or in the funds of a bank or other stock company.
stockinet		An elastic textile fabric imitating knitting, of which stockings, under-garments, etc., are made.
stocking		A close-fitting covering for the foot and leg, usually knit or woven.
stockinger		A stocking weaver.
stockish		Like a stock; stupid; blockish.
stockjobber		One who speculates in stocks for gain; one whose occupation is to buy and sell stocks.
stockjobbing		The act or art of dealing in stocks; the business of a stockjobber.
stockman		A herdsman; a ranchman; one owning, or having charge of, herds of live stock.
stockwork		(Mining) A system of working in ore, etc., when it lies not in strata or veins, but in solid masses, so as to be worked in chambers or stories.
stocky		Short and thick; thick rather than tall or corpulent.
stoechiology		See Stoichiology, Stoichiometry, etc.
stoechiometry		See Stoichiology, Stoichiometry, etc.
stogy	Colloquial	heavy; coarse; clumsy.
stoic		A disciple of the philosopher Zeno; one of a Greek sect which held that men should be free from passion, unmoved by joy or grief, and should submit without complaint to unavoidable necessity, by which all things are governed.
stoical		Of or pertaining to the Stoics; resembling the Stoics or their doctrines.
stoichiological		Of or pertaining to stoichiology.
stoichiology		That part of the science of physiology which treats of the elements, or principles, composing animal tissues.
stoichiometric		Of or pertaining to stoichiometry; employed in, or obtained by, stoichiometry.
stoichiometrical		Of or pertaining to stoichiometry; employed in, or obtained by, stoichiometry.
stoichiometry		The art or process of calculating the atomic proportions, combining weights, and other numerical relations of chemical elements and their compounds.
stoicism		The opinions and maxims of the Stoics.
stoicity	Obsolete	Stoicism.
stoke		To poke or stir up, as a fire; hence, to tend, as the fire of a furnace, boiler, etc. To poke or stir up a fire; hence, to tend the fires of furnaces, steamers, etc.
stokehold		The space, or any of the spaces, in front of the boilers of a ship, from which the furnaces are fed; the stokehole of a ship; also, a room containing a ship's boilers; as, forced draft with closed stokehold; -- called also…
stokehole		The mouth to the grate of a furnace; also, the space in front of the furnace, where the stokers stand.
stoker		One who is employed to tend a furnace and supply it with fuel, especially the furnace of a locomotive or of a marine steam boiler; also, a machine for feeding fuel to a fire.
stokey	English dialect	Close; sultry.
stola		A long garment, descending to the ankles, worn by Roman women.
stole		imp. of Steal — to take and carry away, feloniously; to take without right or leave, and with intent to keep wrongfully; as, to steal the personal goods of another.
stoled		Having or wearing a stole.
stolen		p. p. of Steal — to take and carry away, feloniously; to take without right or leave, and with intent to keep wrongfully; as, to steal the personal goods of another.
stolid		Hopelessly insensible or stupid; not easily aroused or excited; dull; impassive; foolish.
stolidity		The state or quality of being stolid; dullness of intellect; obtuseness; stupidity.
stolidness		Same as Stolidity.
stolon		(Bot.) A trailing branch which is disposed to take root at the end or at the joints; a stole.
stoloniferous		Producing stolons; putting forth suckers.
stoma		(Anat.) One of the minute apertures between the cells in many serous membranes.
stomach		(Anat.) An enlargement, or series of enlargements, in the anterior part of the alimentary canal, in which food is digested; any cavity in which digestion takes place in an animal; a digestive cavity.
stomachal		Of or pertaining to the stomach; gastric.
stomacher		One who stomachs.
stomachful	Obsolete	Willfully obstinate; stubborn; perverse. -- Stom ach*ful*ness, n.
stomachic		Of or pertaining to the stomach; as, stomachic vessels.
stomachical		Of or pertaining to the stomach; as, stomachic vessels.
stomaching	Obsolete	Resentment.
stomachless		Being without a stomach.
stomachous	Obsolete	Stout; sullen; obstinate.
stomachy		Obstinate; sullen; haughty.
stomapod		One of the Stomapoda.
stomapoda		An order of Crustacea including the squillas.
stomate		A stoma.
stomatic		Of or pertaining to a stoma; of the nature of a stoma.
stomatiferous		Having or producing stomata.
stomatitis		Inflammation of the mouth.
stomatoda		A division of Protozoa in which a mouthlike opening exists.
stomatodaeum		Same as Stomodæum.
stomatode		Having a mouth; -- applied to certain Protozoa. -- n.
stomatogastric		Of or pertaining to the mouth and the stomach; as, the stomatogastric ganglion of certain Mollusca.
stomatology		Scientific study or knowledge of the mouth.
stomatoplastic		Of or pertaining to the operation of forming a mouth where the aperture has been contracted, or in any way deformed.
stomatoplasty		Plastic surgery of the mouth.
stomatopod		One of the Stomatopoda.
stomatopoda		Same as Stomapoda.
stomatopodous		Of or pertaining to the Stomatopoda.
stomatoscope		An apparatus for examining the interior of the mouth.
stomatous		Having a stoma.
stomodaeum		(Anat.) A part of the alimentary canal. See under Mesenteron.
stomp	Colloquial	To stamp with the foot.
stond	Obsolete	Stop; halt; hindrance.
stone		Concreted earthy or mineral matter; also, any particular mass of such matter; as, a house built of stone; the boy threw a stone; pebbles are rounded stones.
stone-blind		As blind as a stone; completely blind.
stone-cold		Cold as a stone.
stone-dead		As dead as a stone.
stone-deaf		As deaf as a stone; completely deaf.
stone-hearted		Hard-hearted; cruel; pitiless; unfeeling.
stone-horse	Obsolete	Stallion.
stone-still		As still as a stone.
stonebird		The yellowlegs; -- called also stone snipe. See Tattler,
stonebow		A kind of crossbow formerly used for shooting stones.
stonebrash		A subsoil made up of small stones or finely-broken rock; brash.
stonebrearer		A machine for crushing or hammering stone.
stonebuck		See Steinbock — (a) The European ibex. (b) A small South African antelope (Nanotragus tragulus) which frequents dry, rocky districts; -- called also steenbok.
stonechat		(a) A small, active, and very common European singing bird (Pratincola rubicola); -- called also chickstone, stonechacker, stonechatter, stoneclink, stonesmith.
stonecray		A distemper in hawks.
stonecrop		(Bot.) Any low succulent plant of the genus Sedum, esp. Sedum acre, which is common on bare rocks in Europe, and is spreading in parts of America.
stonecutter		One whose occupation is to cut stone; also, a machine for dressing stone.
stonecutting		Hewing or dressing stone.
stonegall	English dialect	See Stannel — the kestrel; -- called also standgale, standgall, stanchel, stand hawk, stannel hawk, steingale, stonegall.
stonehatch	English dialect	The ring plover, or dotterel.
stonehenge		An assemblage of upright stones with others placed horizontally on their tops, on Salisbury Plain, England, -- generally supposed to be the remains of an ancient Druidical temple.
stoner		One who stones; one who makes an assault with stones.
stoneroot		A North American plant (Collinsonia Canadensis) having a very hard root; horse balm.
stonerunner	English dialect	(a) The ring plover, or the ringed dotterel. (b) The dotterel.
stonesmickle	English dialect	The stonechat; -- called also stonesmitch.
stoneware		A species of coarse potter's ware, glazed and baked.
stoneweed		Any plant of the genus Lithospermum, herbs having a fruit composed of four stony nutlets.
stonework		Work or wall consisting of stone; mason's work of stone.
stonewort		Any plant of the genus Chara; -- so called because they are often incrusted with carbonate of lime.
stonily		In a stony manner.
stoniness		The quality or state of being stony.
stony		Of or pertaining to stone, consisting of, or abounding in, stone or stones; resembling stone; hard; as, a stony tower; a stony cave; stony ground; a stony crust.
stood		imp. & p. p. of Stand.
stook		A small collection of sheaves set up in the field; a shock; in England, twelve sheaves.
stool		A plant from which layers are propagated by bending its branches into the soil.
stoolball		A kind of game with balls, formerly common in England, esp. with young women.
stoom		To stum.
stoop	English dialect	Originally, a covered porch with seats, at a house door; the Dutch stoep as introduced by the Dutch into New York.
stooper		One who stoops.
stooping		from Stoop. -- Stoop"ing*ly, adv.
stoor	English dialect	To rise in clouds, as dust.
stop		To close, as an aperture, by filling or by obstructing; as, to stop the ears; hence, to stanch, as a wound.
stop-gap		That which closes or fills up an opening or gap; hence, a temporary expedient.
stop-over		Permitting one to stop over; as, a stop-over check or ticket. See To stop over, under Stop, v. i.
stopcock		A bib, faucet, or short pipe, fitted with a turning stopper or plug for permitting or restraining the flow of a liquid or gas; a cock or valve for checking or regulating the flow of water, gas, etc., through or from a pipe, etc.
stope	Obsolete	A horizontal working forming one of a series, the working faces of which present the appearance of a flight of steps.
stopen	Obsolete	Stepped; gone; advanced.
stoping		The act of excavating in the form of stopes.
stopless		Not to be stopped.
stoppage		The act of stopping, or arresting progress, motion, or action; also, the state of being stopped; as, the stoppage of the circulation of the blood; the stoppage of commerce.
stopped		Made by complete closure of the mouth organs; shut; -- said of certain consonants (p, b, t, d, etc.).
stopper		One who stops, closes, shuts, or hinders; that which stops or obstructs; that which closes or fills a vent or hole in a vessel.
stopping		Material for filling a cavity.
stopping-out		A method adopted in etching, to keep the acid from those parts which are already sufficiently corroded, by applying varnish or other covering matter with a brush, but allowing the acid to act on the other parts.
stopple		That which stops or closes the mouth of a vessel; a stopper; as, a glass stopple; a cork stopple.
stopship		A remora.
stor	Obsolete	Strong; powerful; hardy; bold; audacious.
storage		The act of depositing in a store or warehouse for safe keeping; also, the safe keeping of goods in a warehouse.
storax		Any one of a number of similar complex resins obtained from the bark of several trees and shrubs of the Styrax family.
store		That which is accumulated, or massed together; a source from which supplies may be drawn; hence, an abundance; a great quantity, or a great number.
stored		Collected or accumulated as a reserve supply; as, stored electricity.
storehouse		A building for keeping goods of any kind, especially provisions; a magazine; a repository; a warehouse.
storekeeper		A man in charge of stores or goods of any kind; as, a naval storekeeper.
storer		One who lays up or forms a store.
storeroom		Room in a storehouse or repository; a room in which articles are stored.
storeship		A vessel used to carry naval stores for a fleet, garrison, or the like.
storey		See Story — a set of rooms on the same floor or level; a floor, or the space between two floors.
storge		Parental affection; the instinctive affection which animals have for their young.
storial	Obsolete	Historical.
storied		Having a history; interesting from the stories which pertain to it; venerable from the associations of the past.
storier	Obsolete	A relater of stories; an historian.
storify	Obsolete	To form or tell stories of; to narrate or describe in a story.
stork		Any one of several species of large wading birds of the family Ciconidæ, having long legs and a long, pointed bill.
stork-billed		Having a bill like that of the stork.
storm		A violent disturbance of the atmosphere, attended by wind, rain, snow, hail, or thunder and lightning; hence, often, a heavy fall of rain, snow, or hail, whether accompanied with wind or not.
storm-beat		Beaten, injured, or impaired by storms.
stormcock		(a) The missel thrush. (b) The fieldfare. (c) The green woodpecker.
stormfinch		The storm petrel.
stormful		Abounding with storms. -- Storm"ful*ness, n.
stormglass		A glass vessel, usually cylindrical, filled with a solution which is sensitive to atmospheric changes, indicating by a clouded appearance, rain, snow, etc., and by clearness, fair weather.
stormily		In a stormy manner.
storminess		The state of being stormy; tempestuousness; biosteruousness; impetuousness.
storming		from Storm, v.
stormless		Without storms.
stormwind		A heavy wind; a wind that brings a storm; the blast of a storm.
stormy		Characterized by, or proceeding from, a storm; subject to storms; agitated with furious winds; biosterous; tempestous; as, a stormy season; a stormy day or week.
storthing		The Parliament of Norway, chosen by indirect election once in three years, but holding annual sessions.
storven		p. p. of Starve — to perish with hunger; to suffer extreme hunger or want; to be very indigent.
story		A set of rooms on the same floor or level; a floor, or the space between two floors.
story-teller		One who tells stories; a narrator of anecdotes,incidents, or fictitious tales; as, an amusing story-teller.
story-telling		Being accustomed to tell stories. -- n.
story-writer		One who writes short stories, as for magazines.
storybook		A book containing stories, or short narratives, either true or false.
stot	English dialect	A young bull or ox, especially one three years old.
stote		See Stoat — the ermine in its summer pelage, when it is reddish brown, but with a black tip to the tail.
stound	Obsolete	A sudden, severe pain or grief; peril; alarm.
stoup	Scots	A flagon; a vessel or measure for liquids.
stour	Obsolete	A battle or tumult; encounter; combat; disturbance; passion.
stout		Strong; lusty; vigorous; robust; sinewy; muscular; hence, firm; resolute; dauntless.
stout-hearted		Having a brave heart; courageous. -- Stout ed*ness, n.
stoutish		Somewhat stout; somewhat corpulent.
stoutly		In a stout manner; lustily; boldly; obstinately; as, he stoutly defended himself.
stoutness		The state or quality of being stout.
stovain		A substance, C14H22O2NCl, the hydrochloride of an amino compound containing benzol, used, in solution with strychnine, as a local anæsthetic, esp. by injection into the sheath of the spinal cord…
stovaine		A substance, C14H22O2NCl, the hydrochloride of an amino compound containing benzol, used, in solution with strychnine, as a local anæsthetic, esp. by injection into the sheath of the spinal cord…
stove		imp. of Stave — one of a number of narrow strips of wood, or narrow iron plates, placed edge to edge to form the sides, covering, or lining of a vessel or structure; esp.…
stovehouse		A hothouse.
stovepipe	Slang	Pipe made of sheet iron in length and angular or curved pieces fitting together, -- used to connect a portable stove with a chimney flue.
stover		Fodder for cattle, especially straw or coarse hay.
stow		To place or arrange in a compact mass; to put in its proper place, or in a suitable place; to pack; as, to stowbags, bales, or casks in a ship's hold; to stow hay in a mow; to stow sheaves.
stowage		The act or method of stowing; as, the stowage of provisions in a vessel.
stowaway		One who conceals himself board of a vessel about to leave port, or on a railway train, in order to obtain a free passage.
stowboard		A place into which rubbish is put.
stowce		(a) A windlass. (b) A wooden landmark, to indicate possession of mining land.
stowing		A method of working in which the waste is packed into the space formed by excavating the vein.
stowre	Obsolete	See Stour, a. See Stour, n.
strabism		Strabismus.
strabismometer		An instrument for measuring the amount of strabismus.
strabismus		An affection of one or both eyes, in which the optic axes can not be directed to the same object, -- a defect due either to undue contraction or to undue relaxation of one or more of the muscles which move the eyeball; squinting…
strabotomy		The operation for the removal of squinting by the division of such muscles as distort the eyeball.
straddle		To part the legs wide; to stand or to walk with the legs far apart.
straddling		Applied to spokes when they are arranged alternately in two circles in the hub.
stradometrical		Of, or relating to, the measuring of streets or roads.
straggle		To wander from the direct course or way; to rove; to stray; to wander from the line of march or desert the line of battle; as, when troops are on the march, the men should not straggle.
straggler		One who straggles, or departs from the direct or proper course, or from the company to which he belongs; one who falls behind the rest; one who rambles without any settled direction.
straggling		from Straggle, v.
stragglingly		In a straggling manner.
stragulum		The mantle, or pallium, of a bird.
straight		Right, in a mathematical sense; passing from one point to another by the nearest course; direct; not deviating or crooked; as, a straight line or course; a straight piece of timber.
straight-joint		Having straight joints. Specifically: (a) Applied to a floor the boards of which are so laid that the joints form a continued line transverse to the length of the boards themselves.
straight-lined		Having straight lines.
straight-out	Colloquial	Acting without concealment, obliquity, or compromise; hence, unqualified; thoroughgoing.
straight-pight	Obsolete	Straight in form or upright in position; erect.
straight-spoken	Colloquial	Speaking with directness; plain-spoken.
straightedge		A board, or piece of wood or metal, having one edge perfectly straight, -- used to ascertain whether a line is straight or a surface even, and for drawing straight lines.
straighten		To make straight; to reduce from a crooked to a straight form.
straightener		One who, or that which, straightens.
straightforth	Obsolete	Straightway.
straightforward		Proceeding in a straight course or manner; not deviating; honest; frank. -- adv.
straighthorn		An orthoceras.
straightly		In a right line; not crookedly.
straightness		The quality, condition, or state, of being straight; as, the straightness of a path.
straightway		Immediately; without loss of time; without delay.
straightways	Obsolete	Straightway.
straik		A strake.
strain		Race; stock; generation; descent; family.
strainable		Capable of being strained.
strainably		Violently.
strained		Subjected to great or excessive tension; wrenched; weakened; as, strained relations between old friends.
strainer		One who strains.
straining		from Strain.
straint	Obsolete	Overexertion; excessive tension; strain.
strait		Narrow; not broad.
strait-handed		Parsimonious; sparing; niggardly. -- Strait"-hand`ed*ness, n.
strait-jacket		A dress of strong materials for restraining maniacs or those who are violently delirious.
strait-laced		Bound with stays.
strait-waistcoat		Same as Strait-jacket.
straiten		To make strait; to make narrow; hence, to contract; to confine.
straitly		In a strait manner; narrowly; strictly; rigorously.
straitness		The quality or condition of being strait; especially, a pinched condition or situation caused by poverty; as, the straitnessof their circumstances.
strake		imp. of Strike — to touch or hit with some force, either with the hand or with an instrument; to smite; to give a blow to, either with the hand or with any instrument or missile.
strale	English dialect	Pupil of the eye.
stram	English dialect	To spring or recoil with violence.
stramash	Scots	To strike, beat, or bang; to break; to destroy.
stramazoun	Obsolete	A direct descending blow with the edge of a sword.
stramineous		Strawy; consisting of straw.
stramonium		A poisonous plant (Datura Stramonium); stinkweed. See Datura, and Jamestown weed.
stramony		Stramonium.
strand		One of the twists, or strings, as of fibers, wires, etc., of which a rope is composed.
strange		Belonging to another country; foreign.
strangely		In the manner of one who does not know another; distantly; reservedly; coldly.
strangeness		The state or quality of being strange (in any sense of the adjective).
stranger		One who is strange, foreign, or unknown. Specifically: -- (a) One who comes from a foreign land; a foreigner.
strangle		To compress the windpipe of (a person or animal) until death results from stoppage of respiration; to choke to death by compressing the throat, as with the hand or a rope.
strangleable		Capable of being strangled.
strangler		One who, or that which, strangles.
strangles		A disease in horses and swine, in which the upper part of the throat, or groups of lymphatic glands elsewhere, swells.
strangulate		Strangulated.
strangulated		(Med.) Having the circulation stopped by compression; attended with arrest or obstruction of circulation, caused by constriction or compression; as, a strangulated hernia.
strangulation		The act of strangling, or the state of being strangled.
strangurious		Of or pertaining to strangury.
strangury		(Med.) A painful discharge of urine, drop by drop, produced by spasmodic muscular contraction.
strany	English dialect	The guillemot.
strap		A long, narrow, pliable strip of leather, cloth, or the like; specifically, a strip of thick leather used in flogging.
strap-shaped		Shaped like a strap; ligulate; as, a strap-shaped corolla.
strappado		A military punishment formerly practiced, which consisted in drawing an offender to the top of a beam and letting him fall to the length of the rope, by which means a limb was often dislocated.
strapper		One who uses strap.
strapping	Colloquial	Tall; strong; lusty; large; as, a strapping fellow.
strapple	Obsolete	To hold or bind with, or as with, a strap; to entangle.
strapwork		A kind of ornament consisting of a narrow fillet or band folded, crossed, and interlaced.
strass		A brilliant glass, used in the manufacture of artificial paste gems, which consists essentially of a complex borosilicate of lead and potassium.
strata		pl. of Stratum — (Geol.) A bed of earth or rock of one kind, formed by natural causes, and consisting usually of a series of layers, which form a rock as it lies between beds of other kinds.
stratagem		An artifice or trick in war for deceiving the enemy; hence, in general, artifice; deceptive device; secret plot; evil machination.
stratagemical		Containing stratagem; as, a stratagemical epistle.
stratarithmetry		The art of drawing up an army, or any given number of men, in any geometrical figure, or of estimating or expressing the number of men in such a figure.
strategetic		Strategic.
strategetical		Strategic.
strategetics		Strategy.
strategic		Of or pertaining to strategy; effected by artifice. -- Stra*te"gic*al*ly, adv.
strategical		Of or pertaining to strategy; effected by artifice. -- Stra*te"gic*al*ly, adv.
strategics		Strategy.
strategist		One skilled in strategy, or the science of directing great military movements.
strategus		The leader or commander of an army; a general.
strategy		The science of military command, or the science of projecting campaigns and directing great military movements; generalship.
strath	Scots	A valley of considerable size, through which a river runs; a valley bottom; -- often used in composition with the name of the river; as, Strath Spey, Strathdon, Strathmore.
strathspey		A lively Scottish dance, resembling the reel, but slower; also, the tune.
straticulate		Characterized by the presence of thin parallel strata, or layers, as in an agate.
stratification		The act or process of laying in strata, or the state of being laid in the form of strata, or layers.
stratified		Having its substance arranged in strata, or layers; as, stratified rock.
stratiform		Having the form of strata.
stratify		To form or deposit in strata, or layers, as substances in the earth; to arrange in strata.
stratigraphic		Pertaining to, or depended upon, the order or arrangement of strata; as, stratigraphical evidence. -- Strat`i*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.
stratigraphical		Pertaining to, or depended upon, the order or arrangement of strata; as, stratigraphical evidence. -- Strat`i*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.
stratigraphy		That branch of geology which treats of the arrangement and succession of strata.
strato-cirrus		An alto-stratus cloud.
strato-cumulus		Large balls or rolls of dark cloud which frequently cover the whole sky, esp. in winter, and give it at times an undulated appearance.
stratocracy		A military government; government by military chiefs and an army.
stratographic		Of or pertaining to stratography.
stratographical		Of or pertaining to stratography.
stratography		A description of an army, or of what belongs to an army.
stratonic		Of or pertaining to an army.
stratotic		Warlike; military.
stratum		(Geol.) A bed of earth or rock of one kind, formed by natural causes, and consisting usually of a series of layers, which form a rock as it lies between beds of other kinds.
stratus		A form of clouds in which they are arranged in a horizontal band or layer.
straught	Scots	imp. & p. p. of Stretch.
straw		To spread or scatter. See Strew, and Strow.
straw-colored		Being of a straw color. See Straw color, under Straw, n.
straw-cutter		An instrument to cut straw for fodder.
strawberry		A fragrant edible berry, of a delicious taste and commonly of a red color, the fruit of a plant of the genus Fragaria, of which there are many varieties.
strawboard		Pasteboard made of pulp of straw.
strawed	Obsolete	imp. & p. p. of Straw.
strawworm		A caddice worm.
strawy		Of or pertaining to straw; made of, or resembling, straw.
stray		To wander, as from a direct course; to deviate, or go out of the way.
strayer		One who strays; a wanderer.
streak		A line or long mark of a different color from the ground; a stripe; a vein.
streaked		Marked or variegated with stripes.
streaky		Same as Streaked,
stream		A current water or other fluid; a liquid flowing continuously in a line or course, either on the earth, as a river, brook, etc., or from a vessel, reservoir, or fountain; specifically, any course of running water; as…
streamer		An ensign, flag, or pennant, which floats in the wind; specifically, a long, narrow, ribbonlike flag.
streamful		Abounding in streams, or in water.
streaminess		The state of being streamy; a trailing.
streaming		Sending forth streams.
streamless		Destitute of streams, or of a stream, as a region of country, or a dry channel.
streamlet		A small stream; a rivulet; a rill.
streamline		Of or pert. to a stream line; designating a motion or flow that is free from turbulence, like that of a particle in a streamline; hence, designating a surface, body, etc.…
streamy		Abounding with streams, or with running water; streamful.
streek	Obsolete	To stretch; also, to lay out, as a dead body. See Streak.
streel	Colloquial	To trail along; to saunter or be drawn along, carelessly, swaying in a kind of zigzag motion.
streen	Obsolete	See Strene — race; offspring; stock; breed; strain.
street		Originally, a paved way or road; a public highway; now commonly, a thoroughfare in a city or village, bordered by dwellings or business houses.
streetwalker		A common prostitute who walks the streets to find customers.
streetward	Obsolete	An officer, or ward, having the care of the streets.
streight	Obsolete	See 2nd Strait.
streighten	Obsolete	See Straiten — to make strait; to make narrow; hence, to contract; to confine.
strein	Obsolete	To strain.
streite	Obsolete	Narrowly; strictly; straitly.
strelitz		A soldier of the ancient Muscovite guard or Russian standing army; also, the guard itself.
strelitzia		A genus of plants related to the banana, found at the Cape of Good Hope.
strene	Obsolete	Race; offspring; stock; breed; strain.
strenger	Obsolete	, the original compar. & superl. of Strong.
strengest	Obsolete	, the original compar. & superl. of Strong.
strength		The quality or state of being strong; ability to do or to bear; capacity for exertion or endurance, whether physical, intellectual, or moral; force; vigor; power; as, strength of body or of the arm; strength of mind, of memory…
strengthen		To make strong or stronger; to add strength to; as, to strengthen a limb, a bridge, an army; to strengthen an obligation; to strengthen authority.
strengthener		One who, or that which, gives or adds strength.
strengthening		That strengthens; giving or increasing strength. -- Strength"en*ing*ly, adv.
strengthful		Abounding in strength; full of strength; strong. -- Strength"ful*ness, n.
strengthing	Obsolete	A stronghold.
strengthless		Destitute of strength.
strengthner		See Strengthener — one who, or that which, gives or adds strength.
strengthy	Obsolete	Having strength; strong.
strenuity	Obsolete	Strenuousness; activity.
strenuous		Eagerly pressing or urgent; zealous; ardent; earnest; bold; valiant; intrepid; as, a strenuous advocate for national rights; a strenuous reformer; a strenuous defender of his country.
strepent		Noisy; loud.
streperous		Loud; boisterous.
strepitores		A division of birds, including the clamatorial and picarian birds, which do not have well developed singing organs.
strepsipter		One of the Strepsiptera.
strepsiptera		A group of small insects having the anterior wings rudimentary, and in the form of short and slender twisted appendages, while the posterior ones are large and membranous.
strepsipteran		One of the Strepsiptera.
strepsipterous		Of or pertaining to Strepsiptera.
strepsorhina		Same as Lemuroidea.
strepsorhine		Having twisted nostrils; -- said of the lemurs. -- n. (Zoöl.) One of the Strepsorhina; a lemur.
streptobacteria		A so-called variety of bacterium, consisting in reality of several bacteria linked together in the form of a chain.
streptococcus		A long or short chain of micrococci, more or less curved.
streptoneura		An extensive division of gastropod Mollusca in which the loop or visceral nerves is twisted, and the sexes separate.
streptothrix		A genus of bacilli occurring of the form of long, smooth and apparently branched threads, either straight or twisted.
stress		Pressure, strain; -- used chiefly of immaterial things; except in mechanics; hence, urgency; importance; weight; significance.
stressful		Having much stress.
stretch		To reach out; to extend; to put forth.
stretcher		One who, or that which, stretches.
stretching		from Stretch, v.
stretto		(a) The crowding of answer upon subject near the end of a fugue. (b) In an opera or oratorio, a coda, or winding up, in an accelerated time.
strew		To scatter; to spread by scattering; to cast or to throw loosely apart; -- used of solids, separated or separable into parts or particles; as, to strew seed in beds; to strew sand on or over a floor; to strew flowers over a grave.
strewing		Anything that is, or may be, strewed; -- used chiefly in the plural.
strewment	Obsolete	Anything scattered, as flowers for decoration.
strewn		p. p. of Strew — to scatter; to spread by scattering; to cast or to throw loosely apart; -- used of solids, separated or separable into parts or particles; as, to strew seed in beds…
stria		A minute groove, or channel; a threadlike line, as of color; a narrow structural band or line; a striation; as, the striæ, or groovings, produced on a rock by a glacier passing over it; the striæ on the surface of a shell…
striate		To mark with striaæ.
striated		Marked with striaæ, or fine grooves, or lines of color; showing narrow structural bands or lines; as, a striated crystal; striated muscular fiber.
striation		The quality or condition of being striated.
striatum		The corpus striatum.
striature		A stria.
strick		A bunch of hackled flax prepared for drawing into slivers.
stricken		Struck; smitten; wounded; as, the stricken deer.
strickle		An instrument to strike grain to a level with the measure; a strike.
strickler		See Strickle — an instrument to strike grain to a level with the measure; a strike.
strickless	English dialect	See Strickle — an instrument to strike grain to a level with the measure; a strike.
strict		Strained; drawn close; tight; as, a strict embrace; a strict ligature.
striction		The act of constricting, or the state of being constricted.
strictly		In a strict manner; closely; precisely.
strictness		Quality or state of being strict.
stricture		A touch of adverse criticism; censure. given myself the liberty of these strictures by way of reflection on all and every passage.
strictured		Affected with a stricture; as, a strictured duct.
strid	English dialect	A narrow passage between precipitous rocks or banks, which looks as if it might be crossed at a stride.
stride		To walk with long steps, especially in a measured or pompous manner.
strident		Characterized by harshness; grating; shrill.
stridor		A harsh, shrill, or creaking noise.
stridulate		To make a shrill, creaking noise; specifically (Zoöl.), to make a shrill or musical sound, such as is made by the males of many insects.
stridulation		The act of stridulating. Specifically: (Zoöl.) (a) The act of making shrill sounds or musical notes by rubbing together certain hard parts, as is done by the males of many insects, especially by Orthoptera, such as crickets…
stridulator		That which stridulates.
stridulatory		Stridulous; able to stridulate; used in stridulating; adapted for stridulation.
stridulous		Making a shrill, creaking sound.
strife		Exertion or contention for superiority; contest of emulation, either by intellectual or physical efforts.
strifeful		Contentious; discordant.
strigate		Having transverse bands of color.
striges		The tribe of birds which comprises the owls.
strigil		An instrument of metal, ivory, etc., used for scraping the skin at the bath.
strigillose		Set with stiff, slender bristles.
strigine		Of or pertaining to owls; owl-like.
strigment	Obsolete	Scraping; that which is scraped off.
strigose		Set with stiff, straight bristles; hispid; as, a strigose leaf.
strigous		Strigose.
strike		To touch or hit with some force, either with the hand or with an instrument; to smite; to give a blow to, either with the hand or with any instrument or missile.
striker		One who, or that which, strikes; specifically, a blacksmith's helper who wieds the sledge.
striking		a. & n. from Strike, v.
strikle		See Strickle — an instrument to strike grain to a level with the measure; a strike.
string		A small cord, a line, a twine, or a slender strip of leather, or other substance, used for binding together, fastening, or tying things; a cord, larger than a thread and smaller than a rope; as, a shoe string; a bonnet string…
stringboard		Same as Stringpiece.
stringcourse		A horizontal band in a building, forming a part of the design, whether molded, projecting, or carved, or in any way distinguished from the rest of the work.
stringed		Having strings; as, a stringed instrument.
stringency		The quality or state of being stringent.
stringendo		Urging or hastening the time, as to a climax.
stringent		Binding strongly; making strict requirements; restrictive; rigid; severe; as, stringent rules.
stringer		One who strings; one who makes or provides strings, especially for bows.
stringhalt		An habitual sudden twitching of the hinder leg of a horse, or an involuntary or convulsive contraction of the muscles that raise the hock.
stringiness		Quality of being stringy.
stringless		Having no strings.
stringpiece		(a) A long piece of timber, forming a margin or edge of any piece of construction; esp.: (b) One of the longitudinal pieces, supporting the treads and rises of a flight or run of stairs.
stringy		Consisting of strings, or small threads; fibrous; filamentous; as, a stringy root.
strip		To deprive; to bereave; to make destitute; to plunder; especially, to deprive of a covering; to skin; to peel; as, to strip a man of his possession, his rights, his privileges, his reputation; to strip one of his clothes…
strip-leaf		Tobacco which has been stripped of its stalks before packing.
stripe		A line, or long, narrow division of anything of a different color or structure from the ground; hence, any linear variation of color or structure; as, a stripe, or streak, of red on a green ground; a raised stripe.
striped		Having stripes of different colors; streaked.
stripling		A youth in the state of adolescence, or just passing from boyhood to manhood; a lad.
stripper		One who, or that which, strips; specifically, a machine for stripping cards.
strippet	Obsolete	A small stream.
stripping		The act of one who strips.
strisores		A division of passerine birds including the humming birds, swifts, and goatsuckers.
strive		To make efforts; to use exertions; to endeavor with earnestness; to labor hard.
strived		Striven.
striven		p. p. of Strive — to make efforts; to use exertions; to endeavor with earnestness; to labor hard.
striver		One who strives.
striving		from Strive. -- Striv"ing*ly, adv.
strix		One of the flutings of a column.
stroam	English dialect	To take long strides in walking.
strobila		(a) A form of the larva of certain Discophora in a state of development succeeding the scyphistoma.
strobilaceous		(a) Of or pertaining to a strobile or cone. (b) Producing strobiles.
strobilation		The act or phenomenon of spontaneously dividing transversely, as do certain species of annelids and helminths; transverse fission.
strobile		(Bot.) A scaly multiple fruit resulting from the ripening of an ament in certain plants, as the hop or pine; a cone.
strobiliform		Shaped like a strobile.
strobiline		Of or pertaining to a strobile; strobilaceous; strobiliform; as, strobiline fruits.
stroboscope		An instrument for studying or observing the successive phases of a periodic or varying motion by means of light which is periodically interrupted.
strockle		A shovel with a turned-up edge, for frit, sand, etc.
strode	Obsolete	See Strude. imp. of Stride.
stroke		The act of striking; a blow; a hit; a knock; esp., a violent or hostile attack made with the arm or hand, or with an instrument or weapon.
stroker		One who strokes; also, one who pretends to cure by stroking.
strokesman		The man who rows the aftermost oar, and whose stroke is to be followed by the rest.
stroking		The act of rubbing gently with the hand, or of smoothing; a stroke.
stroll		To wander on foot; to ramble idly or leisurely; to rove.
stroller		One who strolls; a vagrant.
stroma		(Anat.) (a) The connective tissue or supporting framework of an organ; as, the stroma of the kidney.
stromatic		Miscellaneous; composed of different kinds.
stromatology		The history of the formation of stratified rocks.
stromb		Any marine univalve mollusk of the genus Strombus and allied genera. See Conch, and Strombus.
strombite		A fossil shell of the genus Strombus.
stromboid		Of, pertaining to, or like, Strombus.
strombuliform		(Geol.) Formed or shaped like a top.
strombus		A genus of marine gastropods in which the shell has the outer lip dilated into a broad wing.
stromeyerite		A steel-gray mineral of metallic luster.
strond	Obsolete	Strand; beach.
strong		Having active physical power, or great physical power to act; having a power of exerting great bodily force; vigorous.
strong-minded		Having a vigorous mind; esp., having or affecting masculine qualities of mind; -- said of women. -- Strong"-mind`ed*ness, n.
strong-water		Distilled or ardent spirits; intoxicating liquor.
stronghand		Violence; force; power.
stronghold		A fastness; a fort or fortress; fortfield place; a place of security.
strongish		Somewhat strong.
strongly		In a strong manner; so as to be strong in action or in resistance; with strength; with great force; forcibly; powerfully; firmly; vehemently; as, a town strongly fortified; he objected strongly.
strongylid		Strongyloid.
strongyloid		Like, or pertaining to, Strongylus, a genus of parasitic nematode worms of which many species infest domestic animals.
strontia		An earth of a white color resembling lime in appearance, and baryta in many of its properties.
strontian		Strontia.
strontianite		Strontium carbonate, a mineral of a white, greenish, or yellowish color, usually occurring in fibrous massive forms, but sometimes in prismatic crystals.
strontic		Of or pertaining to strontium; containing, or designating the compounds of, strontium.
strontitic		Strontic.
strontium		A metallic element of the calcium group, always naturally occurring combined, as in the minerals strontianite, celestite, etc. It is isolated as a yellowish metal, somewhat malleable but harder than calcium.
strook	Obsolete	imp. of Strike — to touch or hit with some force, either with the hand or with an instrument; to smite; to give a blow to, either with the hand or with any instrument or missile.
stroot	Obsolete	To swell out; to strut.
strop		A strap; specifically, same as Strap, 3.
strophanthus		A genus of tropical apocynaceous shrubs having singularly twisted flowers.
strophe		In Greek choruses and dances, the movement of the chorus while turning from the right to the left of the orchestra; hence, the strain, or part of the choral ode, sung during this movement.
strophic		Pertaining to, containing, or consisting of, strophes.
strophiolate		Furnished with a strophiole, or caruncle, or that which resembles it.
strophiolated		Furnished with a strophiole, or caruncle, or that which resembles it.
strophiole		A crestlike excrescence about the hilum of certain seeds; a caruncle.
strophulus		See Red-gum, 1.
stroud		A kind of coarse blanket or garment used by the North American Indians.
strouding		Material for strouds; a kind of coarse cloth used in trade with the North American Indians.
strout	Obsolete	To swell; to puff out; to project.
strove		imp. of Strive — to make efforts; to use exertions; to endeavor with earnestness; to labor hard.
strow		Same as Strew.
strowl	Obsolete	To stroll.
strown		p. p. of Strow — same as Strew.
stroy	Obsolete	To destroy.
struck		imp. & p. p. of Strike.
strucken		p. p. of Strike — to touch or hit with some force, either with the hand or with an instrument; to smite; to give a blow to, either with the hand or with any instrument or missile.
structural		Of or pertaining to structure; affecting structure; as, a structural error.
structure		The act of building; the practice of erecting buildings; construction.
structured		Having a definite organic structure; showing differentiation of parts.
structureless		Without a definite structure, or arrangement of parts; without organization; devoid of cells; homogeneous; as, a structureless membrane.
structurist		One who forms structures; a builder; a constructor.
strude	Obsolete	A stock of breeding mares.
struggle		To strive, or to make efforts, with a twisting, or with contortions of the body.
struggler		One who struggles.
strull		A bar so placed as to resist weight.
strum		To play on an instrument of music, or as on an instrument, in an unskillful or noisy way; to thrum; as, to strum a piano.
struma		(Bot.) A cushionlike swelling on any organ; especially, that at the base of the capsule in many mosses.
strumatic		Scrofulous; strumous.
strumose		(Med.) Strumous.
strumous		Scrofulous; having struma.
strumousness		The state of being strumous.
strumpet		To dishonor with the reputation of being a strumpet; hence, to belie; to slander.
strumstrum		A rude musical instrument somewhat like a cittern.
strung		imp. & p. p. of String.
strunt	Scots	Spirituous liquor.
struntian	Scots	A kind of worsted braid, about an inch broad.
struse		A Russian river craft used for transporting freight.
strut		To swell; to bulge out.
struthian		Struthious.
struthio		A genus of birds including the African ostriches.
struthioidea		Same as Struthiones.
struthiones		(a) A division, or order, of birds, including only the African ostriches.
struthionine		Struthious.
struthious		Of or pertaining to the Struthiones, or Ostrich tribe.
strutter		One who struts.
strutting		from Strut, v. -- Strut"ting*ly, adv.
struvite		A crystalline mineral found in guano.
strychnia		Strychnine.
strychnic		Of or pertaining to strychnine; produced by strychnine; as, strychnic compounds; strychnic poisoning; specifically (Chem.), used to designate an acid, called also igasuric acid.
strychnine		A very poisonous alkaloid resembling brucine, obtained from various species of plants, especially from species of Loganiaceæ, as from the seeds of the St. Ignatius bean (Strychnos Ignatia) and from nux vomica.
strychnos		A genus of tropical trees and shrubs of the order Loganiaceæ. See Nux vomica.
stryphnic		Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acid, obtained by the action of acetic acid and potassium nitrite on uric acid, as a yellow crystalline substance, with a bitter, astringent taste.
stub		The stump of a tree; that part of a tree or plant which remains fixed in the earth when the stem is cut down; -- applied especially to the stump of a small tree, or shrub.
stubbed		Reduced to a stub; short and thick, like something truncated; blunt; obtuse.
stubbedness		The quality or state of being stubbed.
stubbiness		The state of being stubby.
stubble	English dialect	The stumps of wheat, rye, barley, oats, or buckwheat, left in the ground; the part of the stalk left by the scythe or sickle.
stubbled		Covered with stubble.
stubbly		Covered with stubble; stubbled.
stubborn		Firm as a stub or stump; stiff; unbending; unyielding; persistent; hence, unreasonably obstinate in will or opinion; not yielding to reason or persuasion; refractory; harsh; -- said of persons and things; as, stubborn wills…
stubby		Abounding with stubs.
stucco		Plaster of any kind used as a coating for walls, especially, a fine plaster, composed of lime or gypsum with sand and pounded marble, used for internal decorations and fine work.
stuccoer		One who stuccoes.
stuccowork		Work done in stucco.
stuck	Obsolete	imp. & p. p. of Stick.
stuck-up	Colloquial	Self-important and supercilious, The airs of small, stuck-up, men.
stuckle		A number of sheaves set together in the field; a stook.
stud		A collection of breeding horses and mares, or the place where they are kept; also, a number of horses kept for a racing, riding, etc. In the studs of Ireland, where care is taken, we see horses bred of excellent shape, vigor…
stud-horse		A stallion, esp. one kept for breeding.
studbook		A genealogical register of a particular breed or stud of horses, esp. thoroughbreds.
studdery	Obsolete	A stud, or collection of breeding horses and mares; also, a place for keeping a stud.
studding		Material for studs, or joists; studs, or joists, collectively; studs.
student		A person engaged in study; one who is devoted to learning; a learner; a pupil; a scholar; especially, one who attends a school, or who seeks knowledge from professional teachers or from books; as, the students of an academy…
studentry		A body of students.
studentship		The state of being a student.
studfish		Any one of several species of small American minnows of the genus Fundulus, as F. catenatus.
studied		Closely examined; read with diligence and attention; made the subject of study; well considered; as, a studied lesson.
studiedly		In a studied manner.
studier		A student.
studio		The working room of an artist.
studious		Given to study; devoted to the acquisition of knowledge from books; as, a studious scholar.
study		A setting of the mind or thoughts upon a subject; hence, application of mind to books, arts, or science, or to any subject, for the purpose of acquiring knowledge.
stufa		A jet of steam issuing from a fissure in the earth.
stuff		Material which is to be worked up in any process of manufacture.
stuffer		One who, or that which, stuffs.
stuffiness		The quality of being stuffy.
stuffing		That which is used for filling anything; as, the stuffing of a saddle or cushion.
stuffy	Scots	Stout; mettlesome; resolute.
stull	English dialect	A framework of timber covered with boards to support rubbish; also, a framework of boards to protect miners from falling stones.
stulm	Dialect	A shaft or gallery to drain a mine.
stulp	English dialect	A short, stout post used for any purpose, a to mark a boundary.
stultification		The act of stultifying, or the state of being stultified.
stultifier		One who stultifies.
stultify		To make foolish; to make a fool of; as, to stultify one by imposition; to stultify one's self by silly reasoning or conduct.
stultiloquence		Silly talk; babbling.
stultiloquent		Given to, or characterized by, silly talk; babbling. -- Stul*til"o*quent*ly, adv.
stultiloquy		Foolish talk; silly discource; babbling.
stulty	Obsolete	Foolish; silly.
stum		Unfermented grape juice or wine, often used to raise fermentation in dead or vapid wines; must.
stumble		To trip in walking or in moving in any way with the legs; to strike the foot so as to fall, or to endanger a fall; to stagger because of a false step.
stumbler		One who stumbles.
stumbling-block		Any cause of stumbling, perplexity, or error.
stumbling-stone		A stumbling-block.
stumblingly		In a stumbling manner.
stump		The part of a tree or plant remaining in the earth after the stem or trunk is cut off; the stub.
stump-tailed		Having a short, thick tail.
stumpage	Dialect	Timber in standing trees, -- often sold without the land at a fixed price per tree or per stump, the stumps being counted when the land is cleared.
stumper		One who stumps.
stumpiness		The state of being stumpy.
stumpy		Full of stumps; hard; strong.
stun		To make senseless or dizzy by violence; to render senseless by a blow, as on the head.
stundist		One of a large sect of Russian dissenters founded, about 1860, in the village of Osnova, near Odessa, by a peasant, Onishchenko, who had apparently been influenced by a German sect settled near there.
stung		imp. & p. p. of Sting.
stunk		imp. & p. p. of Stink.
stunner		One who, or that which, stuns.
stunning		Overpowering consciousness; overpowering the senses; especially, overpowering the sense of hearing; confounding with noise.
stunsail		A contraction of Studding sail.
stunt		To hinder from growing to the natural size; to prevent the growth of; to stint, to dwarf; as, to stunt a child; to stunt a plant.
stunted		Dwarfed. -- Stunt"ed*ness, n.
stuntness		Stuntedness; brevity.
stupa		A mound or monument commemorative of Buddha. See 1st Stupe.
stupe	Obsolete	Cloth or flax dipped in warm water or medicaments and applied to a hurt or sore.
stupefacient		Producing stupefaction; stupefactive. -- n. (Med.) Anything promoting stupefaction; a narcotic.
stupefaction		The act of stupefying, or the state of being stupefied.
stupefactive		Same as Stupefacient.
stupefied		Having been made stupid.
stupefiedness		Quality of being stupid.
stupefier		One who, or that which, stupefies; a stupefying agent.
stupefy		To make stupid; to make dull; to blunt the faculty of perception or understanding in; to deprive of sensibility; to make torpid.
stupendous		Astonishing; wonderful; amazing; especially, astonishing in magnitude or elevation; as, a stupendous pile.
stupeous		Resembling tow; having long, loose scales, or matted filaments, like tow; stupose.
stupid		Very dull; insensible; senseless; wanting in understanding; heavy; sluggish; in a state of stupor; -- said of persons.
stupidity		The quality or state of being stupid; extreme dullness of perception or understanding; insensibility; sluggishness.
stupify		See Stupefy — to make stupid; to make dull; to blunt the faculty of perception or understanding in; to deprive of sensibility; to make torpid.
stupor		Great diminution or suspension of sensibility; suppression of sense or feeling; lethargy.
stupose		Composed of, or having, tufted or matted filaments like tow; stupeous.
stuprate		To ravish; to debauch.
stupration		Violation of chastity by force; rape.
stuprum		Stupration.
sturb	Obsolete	To disturb.
sturdily		In a sturdy manner.
sturdiness		Quality of being sturdy.
sturdy		Foolishly obstinate or resolute; stubborn; unrelenting; unfeeling; stern.
sturgeon		Any one of numerous species of large cartilaginous ganoid fishes belonging to Acipenser and allied genera of the family Acipenseridæ.
sturiones		An order of fishes including the sturgeons.
sturionian		One of the family of fishes of which the sturgeon is the type.
sturk	English dialect	See Stirk — a young bullock or heifer.
sturnoid		Like or pertaining to the starlings.
sturt		(Mining) A bargain in tribute mining by which the tributor profits.
sturtion		A corruption of Nasturtion.
stut	Obsolete	To stutter.
stutter		To hesitate or stumble in uttering words; to speak with spasmodic repetition or pauses; to stammer.
stutterer		One who stutters; a stammerer.
stuttering		The act of one who stutters; -- restricted by some physiologists to defective speech due to inability to form the proper sounds, the breathing being normal, as distinguished from stammering.
sty		A pen or inclosure for swine.
styan		See Sty, a boil.
styca		An anglo-Saxon copper coin of the lowest value, being worth half a farthing.
stycerin		A triacid alcohol, related to glycerin, and obtained from certain styryl derivatives as a yellow, gummy, amorphous substance; - - called also phenyl glycerin.
stye		See Sty, a boil.
stygial		Stygian.
stygian		Of or pertaining to the river Styx; hence, hellish; infernal. See Styx.
stylagalmaic		Performing the office of columns; as, Atlantes and Caryatides are stylagalmaic figures or images.
stylar		See Stilar — of or pertaining to the style of a dial.
stylaster		Any one of numerous species of delicate, usually pink, calcareous hydroid corals of the genus Stylaster.
style		An instrument used by the ancients in writing on tablets covered with wax, having one of its ends sharp, and the other blunt, and somewhat expanded, for the purpose of making erasures by smoothing the wax.
stylet		A small poniard; a stiletto.
styliferous		Bearing one or more styles.
styliform		Having the form of, or resembling, a style, pin, or pen; styloid.
stylish		Having style or artistic quality; given to, or fond of, the display of style; highly fashionable; modish; as, a stylish dress, house, manner. -- Styl ish*ness, n.
stylist		One who is a master or a model of style, especially in writing or speaking; a critic of style.
stylistic		Of or pertaining to style in language.
stylite		One of a sect of anchorites in the early church, who lived on the tops of pillars for the exercise of their patience; -- called also pillarist and pillar saint.
stylo-		A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the styloid process of the temporal bone; as, stylohyal, stylomastoid, stylomaxillary.
stylobate		The uninterrupted and continuous flat band, coping, or pavement upon which the bases of a row of columns are supported.
styloglossal		Of or pertaining to styloid process and the tongue.
stylograph		A stylographic pen.
stylographic		Of or pertaining to stylography; used in stylography; as, stylographic tablets.
stylographical		Same as Stylographic,
stylography		A mode of writing or tracing lines by means of a style on cards or tablets.
stylohyal		A segment in the hyoidean arch between the epihyal and tympanohyal.
stylohyoid		Of or pertaining to the styloid process and the hyoid bone.
styloid		Styliform; as, the styloid process.
stylomastoid		Of or pertaining to the styloid and mastoid processes of the temporal bone.
stylomaxillary		Of or pertaining to the styloid process and the maxilla.
stylometer		An instrument for measuring columns.
stylommata		Same as Stylommatophora.
stylommatophora		A division of Pulmonata in which the eyes are situated at the tips of the tentacles.
stylommatophorous		Of or pertaining to Stylommatophora.
stylopodium		An expansion at the base of the style, as in umbelliferous plants.
stylops		A genus of minute insects parasitic, in their larval state, on bees and wasps.
stylus		An instrument for writing. See Style, n.,
stymie		The position of two balls on the putting green such that, being more than six inches apart, one ball lies directly between the other and the hole at which the latter must be played; also…
styphnate		A salt of styphnic acid.
styphnic		Pertaining to, or designating, a yellow crystalline astringent acid, (NO2)3.C6H.(OH)2, obtained by the action of nitric acid on resorcin.
styptic		Producing contraction; stopping bleeding; having the quality of restraining hemorrhage when applied to the bleeding part; astringent.
styptical		Styptic; astringent.
stypticity		The quality or state of being styptic; astringency.
styracin		A white crystalline tasteless substance extracted from gum storax, and consisting of a salt of cinnamic acid with cinnamic alcohol.
styrax		(Bot.) A genus of shrubs and trees, mostly American or Asiatic, abounding in resinous and aromatic substances.
styrol		See Styrolene — an unsaturated hydrocarbon, C8H8, obtained by the distillation of storax, by the decomposition of cinnamic acid, and by the condensation of acetylene, as a fragrant, aromatic…
styrolene		An unsaturated hydrocarbon, C8H8, obtained by the distillation of storax, by the decomposition of cinnamic acid, and by the condensation of acetylene, as a fragrant, aromatic, mobile liquid; -- called also phenyl ethylene…
styrone		A white crystalline substance having a sweet taste and a hyacinthlike odor, obtained by the decomposition of styracin; -- properly called cinnamic, or styryl, alcohol.
styryl		A hypothetical radical found in certain derivatives of styrolene and cinnamic acid; -- called also cinnyl, or cinnamyl.
stythe		Choke damp.
stythy		See Stithy — an anvil.
styx		The principal river of the lower world, which had to be crossed in passing to the regions of the dead.
