suability		Liability to be sued; the state of being subjected by law to civil process.
suable		Capable of being sued; subject by law to be called to answer in court.
suade	Obsolete	To persuade.
suadible	Obsolete	Suasible.
suage	Obsolete	To assuage.
suant	Dialect	Spread equally over the surface; uniform; even. -- Su"ant*ly, adv.
suasible		Capable of being persuaded; easily persuaded.
suasion		The act of persuading; persuasion; as, moral suasion.
suasive		Having power to persuade; persuasive; suasory.
suasory		Tending to persuade; suasive.
suave		Sweet; pleasant; delightful; gracious or agreeable in manner; bland. -- Suave"ly, adv.
suavify		To make affable or suave.
suaviloquent		Sweetly speaking; using agreeable speech.
suaviloquy		Sweetness of speech.
suavity		The quality of being sweet or pleasing to the mind; agreeableness; softness; pleasantness; gentleness; urbanity; as, suavity of manners; suavity of language, conversation, or address.
sub	Colloquial	A subordinate; a subaltern.
sub-		A prefix signifying under, below, beneath, and hence often, in an inferior position or degree, in an imperfect or partial state, as in subscribe, substruct, subserve, subject, subordinate, subacid, subastringent, subgranular…
sub-base		The lowest member of a base when divided horizontally, or of a baseboard, pedestal, or the like.
sub-bass		The deepest pedal stop, or the lowest tones of an organ; the fundamental or ground bass.
subacetate		An acetate containing an excess of the basic constituent.
subacid		Moderately acid or sour; as, some plants have subacid juices. -- n.
subacrid		Moderalely acrid or harsh.
subacromial		Situated beneath the acromial process of the scapula.
subact	Obsolete	To reduce; to subdue.
subaction	Obsolete	The act of reducing to any state, as of mixing two bodies combletely.
subacute		Moderalely acute.
subaduncate		Somewhat hooked or curved.
subadvocate		An under or subordinate advocate.
subaerial		Beneath the sky; in the open air; specifically (Geol.), taking place on the earth's surface, as opposed to subaqueous.
subagency		A subordinate agency.
subagent		A person employed by an agent to transact the whole, or a part, of the business intrusted to the latter.
subagitation	Obsolete	Unlawful sexual intercourse.
subah		A province; a government, as of a viceroy; also, a subahdar.
subahdar		A viceroy; a governor of a subah; also, a native captain in the British native army.
subahdary		The office or jurisdiction of a subahdar.
subahship		The office or jurisdiction of a subahdar.
subaid		To aid secretly; to assist in a private manner, or indirectly.
subalmoner		An under almoner.
subalpine		Inhabiting the somewhat high slopes and summits of mountains, but considerably below the snow line.
subaltern		Ranked or ranged below; subordinate; inferior; specifically (Mil.), ranking as a junior officer; being below the rank of captain; as, a subaltern officer.
subalternant		A universal proposition. See Subaltern,
subalternate		Succeeding by turns; successive.
subalternating		Subalternate; successive.
subalternation		The state of being subalternate; succession of turns; subordination.
subangular		Slightly angular.
subapennine		Under, or at the foot of, the Apennine mountains; -- applied, in geology, to a series of Tertiary strata of the older Pliocene period.
subapical		Being under the apex; of or pertaining to the part just below the apex.
subaquaneous	Obsolete	Subaqueous.
subaquatic		Being under water, or beneath the surface of water; adapted for use under water; submarine; as, a subaqueous helmet.
subaqueous		Being under water, or beneath the surface of water; adapted for use under water; submarine; as, a subaqueous helmet.
subarachnoid		Situated under the arachnoid membrane.
subarachnoidal		Situated under the arachnoid membrane.
subarctic		Approximately arctic; belonging to a region just without the arctic circle.
subarcuate		Having a figure resembling that of a bow; somewhat curved or arched.
subarcuated		Having a figure resembling that of a bow; somewhat curved or arched.
subarration		The ancient custom of betrothing by the bestowal, on the part of the man, of marriage gifts or tokens, as money, rings, or other presents, upon the woman.
subarytenoid		Situated under the arytenoid cartilage of the larynx.
subastral		Beneath the stars or heavens; terrestrial.
subastringent		Somewhat astringent.
subatom		A hypothetical component of a chemical atom, on the theory that the elements themselves are complex substances; -- called also atomicule.
subaud		To understand or supply in an ellipsis.
subaudition		The act of understanding, or supplying, something not expressed; also, that which is so understood or supplied.
subaxillary		(Anat.) Situated under the axilla, or armpit.
subbasal		Near the base.
subbeadle		An under beadle.
subbrachial		Of or pertaining to the subbrachians.
subbrachiales		A division of soft-finned fishes in which the ventral fins are situated beneath the pectorial fins, or nearly so.
subbrachian		One of the Subbrachiales.
subbreed		A race or strain differing in certain characters from the parent breed; an incipient breed.
subbronchial		Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the bronchi; as, the subbronchial air sacs of birds.
subcaliber		Smaller than the caliber of a firearm.
subcarbonate		A carbonate containing an excess of the basic constituent.
subcarboniferous		Of or pertaining to the lowest division of the Carboniferous formations underlying the proper coal measures.
subcarbureted	Passing out of use	United with, or containing, carbon in less than the normal proportion.
subcartilaginous		(a) Situated under or beneath a cartilage or cartilages. (b) Partially cartilaginous.
subcaudal		Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the tail; as, the subcaudal, or chevron, bones.
subcelestial		Being beneath the heavens; as, subcelestial glories.
subcellar		A cellar beneath another story wholly or partly underground; usually, a cellar under a cellar.
subcentral		Under the center.
subchanter		An underchanter; a precentor's deputy in a cathedral; a succentor.
subcircular		Nearly circular.
subclass		One of the natural groups, more important than an order, into which some classes are divided; as, the angiospermous subclass of exogens.
subclavian		Situated under the clavicle, or collar bone; as, the subclavian arteries.
subcolumnar		Having an imperfect or interrupted columnar structure.
subcommittee		An under committee; a part or division of a committee.
subcompressed		Not fully compressed; partially or somewhat compressed.
subconcave		Slightly concave.
subconformable		Partially conformable.
subconical		Slightly conical.
subconjunctival		Situated under the conjunctiva.
subconscious		Occurring without the possibility or the fact of an attendant consciousness; -- said of states of the soul.
subconsciousness		The state or quality of being subconscious; a state of mind in which perception and other mental processes occur without distinct consciousness.
subconstellation		A subordinate constellation.
subcontract		A contract under, or subordinate to, a previous contract.
subcontracted		Contracted after a former contract.
subcontractor		One who takes a portion of a contract, as for work, from the principal contractor.
subcontrary		Contrary in an inferior degree.
subcoracoid		Situated under the coracoid process of the scapula; as, the subcoracoid dislocation of the humerus.
subcordate		Somewhat cordate; somewhat like a heart in shape.
subcorneous		(a) Situated under a horny part or layer. (b) Partially horny.
subcostal		Situated below the costas, or ribs; as, the subcostal muscles.
subcranial		Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the cranium; facial.
subcrustaceous		Occurring beneath a crust or scab; as, a subcrustaceous cicatrization.
subcrystalline		Imperfectly crystallized.
subcultrate		Having a form resembling that of a colter, or straight on one side and curved on the other.
subcultrated		Having a form resembling that of a colter, or straight on one side and curved on the other.
subcutaneous		Situated under the skin; hypodermic. -- Sub`cu*ta"ne*ous*ly, adv.
subcuticular		Situated under the cuticle, or scarfskin.
subcylindric		Imperfectly cylindrical; approximately cylindrical.
subcylindrical		Imperfectly cylindrical; approximately cylindrical.
subdeacon		One belonging to an order in the Roman Catholic Church, next interior to the order of deacons; also, a member of a minor order in the Greek Church.
subdeaconry		The order or office of subdeacon.
subdeaconship		The order or office of subdeacon.
subdean		An under dean; the deputy or substitute of a dean.
subdeanery		Office or rank of subdean.
subdecanal		Of or pertaining to a subdean or subdeanery.
subdecuple		Containing one part of ten.
subdelegate		A subordinate delegate, or one with inferior powers.
subdented		Indented beneath.
subdepartment		A subordinate department; a bureau. See the Note under Bureau.
subdeposit		That which is deposited beneath something else.
subderisorious		Ridiculing with moderation.
subderivative		A word derived from a derivative, and not directly from the root; as, is a subderivative, being derived from, which is in turn a derivative from
subdiaconate		Of or pertaining to a subdeacon, or to the office or rank of a subdeacon.
subdial		Of or pertaining to the open air; being under the open sky.
subdialect		A subordinate dialect.
subdichotomy		A subordinate, or inferior, division into parts; a subdivision.
subdilated		Partially dilated.
subdititious		Put secretly in the place of something else; foisted in.
subdiversify		To diversify aggain what is already diversified.
subdivide		To divide the parts of (anything) into more parts; to part into smaller divisions; to divide again, as what has already been divided.
subdivine		Partaking of divinity; divine in a partial or lower degree.
subdivisible		Susceptible of subdivision.
subdivision		The act of subdividing, or separating a part into smaller parts.
subdolous		Sly; crafty; cunning; artful.
subdominant		The fourth tone above, or fifth below, the tonic; -- so called as being under the dominant.
subduable		Able to be subdued.
subdual		Act of subduing.
subduce		To withdraw; to take away.
subduct		To withdraw; to take away.
subduction		The act of subducting or taking away.
subdue		To bring under; to conquer by force or the exertion of superior power, and bring into permanent subjection; to reduce under dominion; to vanquish.
subdued		Conquered; overpowered; crushed; submissive; mild.
subduement	Obsolete	Subdual.
subduer		One who, or that which, subdues; a conqueror.
subdulcid		Somewhat sweet; sweetish.
subduple		Indicating one part of two; in the ratio of one to two.
subduplicate		Expressed by the square root; -- said of ratios.
subdural		Situated under the dura mater, or between the dura mater and the arachnoid membrane.
subeditor		An assistant editor, as of a periodical or journal.
subelongate		Not fully elongated; somewhat elongated.
subendocardial		Situated under the endocardium.
subendymal		Situated under the endyma.
subepidermal		Situated immediately below the epidermis.
subepiglottic		Situated under the epiglottis.
subepithelial		Situated under the epithelium.
subequal		Nearly equal.
suberate		A salt of suberic acid.
subereous		Of or pertaining to cork; of the nature of cork; suberose.
suberic		Of or pertaining to cork; specifically, designating an acid, C
suberin		A material found in the cell walls of cork.
suberite		Any sponge of the genus Suberites and allied genera.
suberization		Conversion of the cell walls into cork tissue by development of suberin; -- commonly taking place in exposed tissues, as when a callus forms over a wound.
suberize		To effect suberization of.
suberone		(a) The hypothetical ketone of suberic acid. (b) A colorless liquid, analogous suberone proper, having a pleasant peppermint odor.
suberose		Having a corky texture.
suberous		Having a corky texture.
subesophageal		Situated beneath the esophagus.
subfamily		One of the subdivisions, of more importance than genus, into which certain families are divided.
subfibrous		Somewhat fibrous.
subfuscous		Duskish; moderately dark; brownish; tawny.
subfusk	Obsolete	Subfuscous.
subgelatinous		Imperfectly or partially gelatinous.
subgeneric		Of or pertaining to a subgenus.
subgenus		A subdivision of a genus, comprising one or more species which differ from other species of the genus in some important character or characters; as, the azaleas now constitute a subgenus of Rhododendron.
subglacial		Pertaining or belonging to the under side of a glacier; being beneath a glacier; as, subglacial streams.
subglobose		Not quite globose.
subglobular		Nearly globular.
subglossal		Situated under the tongue; sublingual.
subglottic		Situated below the glottis; -- applied to that part of the cavity of the larynx below the true vocal cords.
subglumaceous		Somewhat glumaceous.
subgovernor		A subordinate or assistant governor.
subgranular		Somewhat granular.
subgroup		A subdivision of a group, as of animals.
subhastation		A public sale or auction.
subhepatic		Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the liver; -- applied to the interlobular branches of the portal vein.
subhornblendic		Containing hornblende in a scattered state; of or relating to rocks containing disseminated hornblende.
subhumerate	Obsolete	To place the shoulders under; to bear.
subhyaloid		Situated under the hyaliod membrane.
subhyoidean		Situated or performed beneath the hyoid bone; as, subhyoidean laryngotomy.
subimago		A stage in the development of certain insects, such as the May flies, intermediate between the pupa and imago.
subincusation	Obsolete	A slight charge or accusation.
subindex		A number or mark placed opposite the lower part of a letter or symbol to distinguish the symbol; thus, a0, b1, c2, xn, have 0, 1, 2, and n as subindices.
subindicate		To indicate by signs or hints; to indicate imperfectly.
subindication		The act of indicating by signs; a slight indication.
subindividual		A division of that which is individual.
subinduce	Obsolete	To insinuate; to offer indirectly.
subinfer	Obsolete	To infer from an inference already made.
subinfeudation		(a) The granting of lands by inferior lords to their dependents, to be held by themselves by feudal tenure.
subingression		Secret entrance.
subintestinal		Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the intestine.
subinvolution		Partial or incomplete involution; as, subinvolution of the uterus.
subitaneous	Obsolete	Sudden; hasty.
subitany	Obsolete	Subitaneous; sudden; hasty.
subito		In haste; quickly; rapidly.
subjacent		Lying under or below.
subject		Placed under the power of another; specifically (International Law), owing allegiance to a particular sovereign or state; as, Jamaica is subject to Great Britain.
subject-matter		The matter or thought presented for consideration in some statement or discussion; that which is made the object of thought or study.
subjected		Reduced to subjection; brought under the dominion of another.
subjection		The act of subjecting, or of bringing under the dominion of another; the act of subduing.
subjectist		One skilled in subjective philosophy; a subjectivist.
subjective		Especially, pertaining to, or derived from, one's own consciousness, in distinction from external observation; ralating to the mind, or intellectual world, in distinction from the outward or material excessively occupied with…
subjectivism		Any philosophical doctrine which refers all knowledge to, and founds it upon, any subjective states; egoism.
subjectivist		One who holds to subjectivism; an egoist.
subjectivity		The quality or state of being subjective; character of the subject.
subjectless		Having no subject.
subjectness		Quality of being subject.
subjicible	Obsolete	Capable of being subjected.
subjoin		To add after something else has been said or written; to ANNEX; as, to subjoin an argument or reason.
subjoinder		An additional remark.
subjugate		To subdue, and bring under the yoke of power or dominion; to conquer by force, and compel to submit to the government or absolute control of another; to vanquish.
subjugation		The act of subjugating, or the state of being subjugated.
subjugator		One who subjugates; a conqueror.
subjunction		Act of subjoining, or state of being subjoined.
subjunctive		Subjoined or added to something before said or written.
subkingdom		One of the several primary divisions of either the animal, or vegetable kingdom, as, in zoölogy, the Vertebrata, Tunicata, Mollusca, Articulata, Molluscoidea, Echinodermata, Coelentera, and the Protozoa; in botany…
sublapsarian		Same as Infralapsarian.
sublapsarianism		Infralapsarianism.
sublapsary		Sublapsarian.
sublate		To take or carry away; to remove.
sublation		The act of taking or carrying away; removal.
sublative		Having power, or tending, to take away.
sublease		A lease by a tenant or lessee to another person; an underlease.
sublessee		A holder of a sublease.
sublet		To underlet; to lease, as when a lessee leases to another person.
sublevation		The act of raising on high; elevation.
sublibrarian		An under or assistant librarian.
sublieutenant		An inferior or second lieutenant; in the British service, a commissioned officer of the lowest rank.
subligation		The act of binding underneath.
sublimable		Capable of being sublimed or sublimated. -- Sub*lim"a*ble*ness, n.
sublimate		To bring by heat into the state of vapor, which, on cooling, returns again to the solid state; as, to sublimate sulphur or camphor.
sublimated		Refined by, or as by, sublimation; exalted; purified. whose weight best suits a sublimated strain.
sublimation		(Chem.) The act or process of subliming, or the state or result of being sublimed.
sublimatory		Used for sublimation; as, sublimatory vessels.
sublime		Lifted up; high in place; exalted aloft; uplifted; lofty.
sublimed		Having been subjected to the process of sublimation; hence, also, purified.
sublimely		In a sublime manner.
sublimeness		The quality or state of being sublime; sublimity.
sublimification		The act of making sublime, or state of being made sublime.
subliminal		Existing in the mind, but below the surface or threshold of consciousness; that is, existing as feeling rather than as clear ideas.
sublimity		The quality or state of being sublime (in any sense of the adjective).
sublineation		A mark of a line or lines under a word in a sentence, or under another line; underlining.
sublingua		A process or fold below the tongue in some animals.
sublingual		(a) Situated under the tongue; as, the sublingual gland. (b) Of or pertaining to the sublingual gland; as, sublingual salvia.
sublition		The act or process of laying the ground in a painting.
sublittoral		Under the shore.
sublobular		Situated under, or at the bases of, the lobules of the liver.
sublumbar		Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the lumbar region of the vertebral column.
sublunar		Situated beneath the moon; hence, of or pertaining to this world; terrestrial; earthly.
sublunary	Obsolete	Situated beneath the moon; hence, of or pertaining to this world; terrestrial; earthly.
subluxation		An incomplete or partial dislocation.
submammary		Situated under the mammæ; as, submammary inflammation.
submarine		Being, acting, or growing, under water in the sea; as, submarine navigators; submarine plants.
submarshal		An under or deputy marshal.
submaxillary		(a) Situated under the maxilla, or lower jaw; inframaxillary; as, the submaxillary gland.
submedial		Lying under the middle.
submedian		Next to the median (on either side); as, the submedian teeth of mollusks.
submediant		The sixth tone of the scale; the under mediant, or third below the keynote; the superdominant.
submental		Situated under the chin; as, the submental artery.
submentum		The basal part of the labium of insects.
submerge		To put under water; to plunge.
submergence		The act of submerging, or the state of being submerged; submersion.
submerse		Submersed.
submersed		Being or growing under water, as the leaves of aquatic plants.
submersion		The act of submerging, or putting under water or other fluid, or of causing to be overflowed; the act of plunging under water, or of drowning.
submetallic		Imperfectly metallic; as, a submetallic luster.
subminister	Obsolete	To supply; to afford.
subministrant	Obsolete	Subordinate; subservient.
subministrate	Obsolete	To supply; to afford; to subminister.
subministration	Obsolete	The act of subministering.
submiss		Gentle; soft; calm; as, submiss voices.
submission		The act of submitting; the act of yielding to power or authority; surrender of the person and power to the control or government of another; obedience; compliance.
submissive		Inclined or ready to submit; acknowledging one's inferiority; yielding; obedient; humble.
submissly	Archaic	In a submissive manner; with a submission.
submissness	Obsolete	Submissiveness.
submit		To put or place under.
submitter		One who submits.
submonish		To suggest; to prompt.
submonition		Suggestion; prompting.
submucous		Situated under a mucous membrane.
submultiple		A number or quality which is contained in another an exact number of times, or is an aliquot part of it; thus, 7 is the submultiple of 56, being contained in it eight times.
submuscular		Situated underneath a muscle or muscles.
subnarcotic		Moderately narcotic.
subnasal		Situated under the nose; as, the subnasal point, or the middle point of the inferior border of the anterior nasal aperture.
subnascent		Growing underneath.
subnect		To tie or fasten beneath; to join beneath.
subnex	Obsolete	To subjoin; to subnect.
subnormal		That part of the axis of a curved line which is intercepted between the ordinate and the normal.
subnotation		A rescript.
subnotochordal		Situated on the ventral side of the notochord; as, the subnotochordal rod.
subnuvolar		Under the clouds; attended or partly covered or obscured by clouds; somewhat cloudy.
subobscurely		Somewhat obscurely or darkly.
subobtuse		Partially obtuse.
suboccipital		Situated under, or posterior to, the occiput; as, the suboccipital, or first cervical, nerve.
suboctave		Containing one part of eight; having the ratio of one to eight.
suboctuple		Containing one part of eight; having the ratio of one to eight.
subocular		Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the eye.
subofficer		An under or subordinate officer.
subopercular		Situated below the operculum; pertaining to the suboperculum. -- n.
suboperculum		The lower opercular bone in fishes.
suborbicular		Almost orbiculate or orbicular.
suborbiculate		Almost orbiculate or orbicular.
suborbital		Situated under or below the orbit.
suborbitar		Situated under or below the orbit.
suborder		A division of an order; a group of genera of a little lower rank than an order and of greater importance than a tribe or family; as, cichoraceous plants form a suborder of Compositæ.
subordinacy		The quality or state of being subordinate, or subject to control; subordination, as, to bring the imagination to act in subordinacy to reason.
subordinance	Obsolete	Subordinacy; subordination.
subordinancy	Obsolete	Subordinacy; subordination.
subordinary		One of several heraldic bearings somewhat less common than an ordinary.
subordinate		Placed in a lower order, class, or rank; holding a lower or inferior position.
subordination		The act of subordinating, placing in a lower order, or subjecting.
subordinative		Tending to subordinate; expressing subordination; used to introduce a subordinate sentence; as, a subordinative conjunction.
suborn		(Law) To procure or cause to take a false oath amounting to perjury, such oath being actually taken.
subornation		(Law) The act of suborning; the crime of procuring a person to take such a false oath as constitutes perjury.
suborner		One who suborns or procures another to take, a false oath; one who procures another to do a bad action.
suboval		Somewhat oval; nearly oval.
subovate		Nearly in the form of an egg, or of the section of an egg, but having the inferior extremity broadest; nearly ovate.
subovated		Subovate.
suboxide		An oxide containing a relatively small amount of oxygen, and less than the normal proportion; as, potassium suboxide, K4O.
subpeduncular		Situated beneath the peduncle; as, the subpeduncular lobe of the cerebellum.
subpedunculate		Supported on, or growing from, a very short stem; having a short peduncle.
subpellucid		Somewhat pellucid; nearly pellucid.
subpena		See Subpoena — a writ commanding the attendance in court, as a witness, of the person on whom it is served, under a penalty…
subpentangular		Nearly or approximately pentangular; almost pentangular.
subpericardial		Situated under the cardiac pericardium.
subperiosteal		Situated under the periosteum.
subperitoneal		Situated under the peritoneal membrane.
subpetiolar		Concealed within the base of the petiole, as the leaf buds of the plane tree.
subpleural		Situated under the pleural membrane.
subpodophyllous		Situated under the podophyllous tissue of the horse's foot.
subpoena		A writ commanding the attendance in court, as a witness, of the person on whom it is served, under a penalty; the process by which a defendant in equity is commanded to appear and answer the plaintiff's bill.
subpoenal		Required or done under penalty.
subpolar		Situated below the poles.
subpolygonal		Approximately polygonal; somewhat or almost polygonal.
subprehensile		Somewhat prehensile; prehensile in an inferior degree.
subprior		The vicegerent of a prior; a claustral officer who assists the prior.
subpubic		Situated under, or posterior to, the pubic bones.
subpulmonary		Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the lungs.
subpurchaser		A purchaser who buys from a purchaser; one who buys at second hand.
subpyriform		Somewhat pyriform.
subquadrate		Nearly or approximately square; almost square.
subquadruple		Containing one part of four; in the ratio of one to four; as, subquadruple proportion.
subquinquefid		Almost quinquefid; nearly quinquefid.
subquintuple		Having the ratio of one to five; as, subquintuple proportion.
subreader		An under reader in the inns of court, who reads the texts of law the reader is to discourse upon.
subrector		An assistant restor.
subreligion		A secondary religion; a belief or principle held in a quasi religious veneration.
subreption		The act of obtaining a favor by surprise, or by unfair representation through suppression or fraudulent concealment of facts.
subreptitious	Obsolete	Surreptitious. -- Sub`rep*ti"tious*ly, adv.
subreptive	Obsolete	Surreptitious.
subrigid		Somewhat rigid or stiff.
subriguous	Obsolete	Watered or wet beneath; well-watered.
subrogate		To put in the place of another; to substitute.
subrogation		The act of subrogating. Specifically: (Law) The substitution of one person in the place of another as a creditor, the new creditor succeeding to the rights of the former…
subrotund		Somewhat rotund.
subsacral		Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the sacrum.
subsaline		Moderately saline or salt.
subsalt		A basic salt. See the Note under Salt.
subsannation	Obsolete	Derision; mockery.
subscapular		Situated beneath the scapula; infrascapular; as, the subscapular muscle.
subscapulary		Situated beneath the scapula; infrascapular; as, the subscapular muscle.
subscribable		Capable of being subscribed.
subscribe		To write underneath, as one's name; to sign (one's name) to a document. subscribed their names under them.
subscriber		One who subscribes; one who contributes to an undertaking by subscribing.
subscript		Written below or underneath; as, iota subscript. (See under Iota.) Specifically (Math.), said of marks, figures, or letters (suffixes), written below and usually to the right of other letters to distinguish them; as, a, n, 2…
subscription		That which is subscribed. Specifically: (a) A paper to which a signature is attached.
subscriptive		Of or pertaining to a subscription, or signature. -- Sub*scrip"tive*ly, adv.
subsecute	Obsolete	To follow closely, or so as to overtake; to pursue.
subsecutive		Following in a train or succession.
subsellium		One of the stalls of the lower range where there are two ranges. See Illust. of Stall.
subsemitone		The sensible or leading note, or sharp seventh, of any key; subtonic.
subsensible		Deeper than the reach of the senses.
subseptuple		Having the ratio of one to seven.
subsequence		The act or state of following; -- opposed to precedence.
subsequency		The act or state of following; -- opposed to precedence.
subsequent		Following in time; coming or being after something else at any time, indefinitely; as, subsequent events; subsequent ages or years; a period long subsequent to the foundation of Rome.
subsequently		At a later time; afterwards.
subserous		Situated under a serous membrane.
subserve		To serve in subordination or instrumentally; to be subservient to; to help forward; to promote.
subservience		The quality or state of being subservient; instrumental fitness or use; hence, willingness to serve another's purposes; in a derogatory sense, servility.
subserviency		The quality or state of being subservient; instrumental fitness or use; hence, willingness to serve another's purposes; in a derogatory sense, servility.
subservient		Fitted or disposed to subserve; useful in an inferior capacity; serving to promote some end; subordinate; hence, servile, truckling.
subserviently		In a subservient manner.
subsesqui-		A prefix (also used adjectively) denoting the combination of constituents (especially electro-negative and electro-positive bodies) in the proportion of two to three; as, a subsesqui acetate, i. e.…
subsextuple		Having the ratio of one to six; as, a subsextuple proportion.
subside		To sink or fall to the bottom; to settle, as lees.
subsidence		The act or process of subsiding.
subsidency		The act or process of subsiding.
subsidiarily		In a subsidiary manner; so as to assist.
subsidiary		Furnishing aid; assisting; auxiliary; helping; tributary; especially, aiding in an inferior position or capacity; as, a subsidiary stream.
subsidize		To furnish with a subsidy; to purchase the assistance of by the payment of a subsidy; to aid or promote, as a private enterprise, with public money; as, to subsidize a steamship line.
subsidy		Support; aid; coöperation; esp., extraordinary aid in money rendered to the sovereign or to a friendly power.
subsign		To sign beneath; to subscribe.
subsignation		The act of writing the name under something, as for attestation.
subsilicate		A basic silicate.
subsist		To be; to have existence; to inhere.
subsistence		Real being; existence.
subsistency		Subsistence.
subsistent		Having real being; as, a subsistent spirit.
subsizar		An under sizar; a student of lower rank than a sizar.
subsoil		The bed, or stratum, of earth which lies immediately beneath the surface soil.
subsolary		Being under the sun; hence, terrestrial; earthly; mundane.
subspecies		A group somewhat lessdistinct than speciesusually are, but based on characters more important than those which characterize ordinary varieties; often, a geographical variety or race.
subsphenoidal		Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the body of the sphenoid bone.
subspherical		Nearly spherical; having a figure resembling that of a sphere.
subspinous		(a) (Anat.) Subvertebral. (b) (Med.) Situated beneath a spinous process, as that of the scapula; as, subspinous dislocation of the humerus.
substance		That which underlies all outward manifestations; substratum; the permanent subject or cause of phenomena, whether material or spiritual; that in which properties inhere; that which is real…
substanceless		Having no substance; unsubstantial.
substant		Substantial; firm.
substantial		Belonging to substance; actually existing; real; as, substantial life.
substantiality		The quality or state of being substantial; corporiety; materiality.
substantialize		To make substantial.
substantially		In a substantial manner; in substance; essentially.
substantialness		The quality or state of being substantial; as, the substantialness of a wall or column.
substantials		Essential parts.
substantiate		To make to exist; to make real.
substantiation		The act of substantiating or proving; evidence; proof.
substantival		Of or pertaining to a substantive; of the nature of substantive. -- Sub`stan*ti"val*ly, adv.
substantive		Betokening or expressing existence; as, the substantive verb, that is, the verb to be.
substantively		In a substantive manner; in substance; essentially.
substantiveness		The quality or state of being substantive.
substantivize		To convert into a substantive; as, to substantivize an adjective.
substile		See Substyle — a right line on which the style, or gnomon, of a dial is erected; being the common section of the face of the dial and a plane perpendicular to it passing through the style.
substituent		Any atom, group, or radical substituted for another, or entering a molecule in place of some other part which is removed.
substitute		One who, or that which, is substituted or put in the place of another; one who acts for another; that which stands in lieu of something else; specifically (Mil.)…
substituted		Exchanged; put in the place of another.
substitution		The act of substituting or putting one person or thing in the place of another; as, the substitution of an agent, attorney, or representative to act for one in his absense…
substitutional		Of or pertaining to substitution; standing in the place of another; substituted. -- Sub`sti*tu"tion*al*ly, adv.
substitutionary		Of or pertaining to substitution; substitutional.
substitutive		Tending to afford or furnish a substitute; making substitution; capable of being substituted.
substract	Obsolete	To subtract; to withdraw.
substraction	Obsolete	Subtraction; deduction.
substractor		One who subtracts.
substrate	Obsolete	A substratum.
substratum		That which is laid or spread under; that which underlies something, as a layer of earth lying under another; specifically (Agric.), the subsoil.
substruct		To build beneath something; to lay as the foundation.
substruction		Underbuilding; the foundation, or any preliminary structure intended to raise the lower floor or basement of a building above the natural level of the ground.
substructure		An under structure; a foundation; groundwork.
substylar		Pertaining to the substyle.
substyle		A right line on which the style, or gnomon, of a dial is erected; being the common section of the face of the dial and a plane perpendicular to it passing through the style.
subsulphate		A sulphate with an excess of the base.
subsulphide		A nonacid compound consisting of one equivalent of sulphur and more than one equivalent of some other body, as a metal.
subsultive		Subsultory.
subsultory		Bounding; leaping; moving by sudden leaps or starts. -- Sub*sul"to*ri*ly, adv.
subsultus		A starting, twitching, or convulsive motion.
subsumable		Capable of being subsumed.
subsume		To take up into or under, as individual under species, species under genus, or particular under universal; to place (any one cognition) under another as belonging to it; to include under something else.
subsumption		The act of subsuming, or of including under another.
subsumptive		Relating to, or containing, a subsumption.
subtangent		The part of the axis contained between the ordinate and tangent drawn to the same point in a curve.
subtartarean		Being or living under Tartarus; infernal.
subtectacle	Obsolete	A space under a roof; a tabernacle; a dwelling.
subtegulaneous		Under the roof or eaves; within doors.
subtenant		One who rents a tenement, or land, etc., of one who is also a tenant; an undertenant.
subtend		To extend under, or be opposed to; as, the line of a triangle which subtends the right angle; the chord subtends an arc.
subtense		A line subtending, or stretching across; a chord; as, the subtense of an arc.
subtepid		Slightly tepid.
subterete		Somewhat terete.
subterfluent		Running under or beneath.
subterfluous		Running under or beneath.
subterfuge		That to which one resorts for escape or concealment; an artifice employed to escape censure or the force of an argument, or to justify opinions or conduct; a shift; an evasion.
subterrane		A cave or room under ground.
subterraneal	Obsolete	Subterranean.
subterranean		Being or lying under the surface of the earth; situated within the earth, or under ground; as, subterranean springs; a subterraneous passage. -- Sub`ter*ra"ne*ous*ly, adv.
subterraneous		Being or lying under the surface of the earth; situated within the earth, or under ground; as, subterranean springs; a subterraneous passage. -- Sub`ter*ra"ne*ous*ly, adv.
subterranity	Obsolete	A place under ground; a subterrany.
subterrany	Obsolete	Subterranean.
subterrene	Obsolete	Subterraneous.
subterrestrial		Subterranean.
subthalamic		Situated under the optic thalamus.
subtile		Thin; not dense or gross; rare; as, subtile air; subtile vapor; a subtile medium.
subtiliate	Obsolete	To make thin or rare.
subtilism		The quality or state of being subtile; subtility; subtlety.
subtility		Subtilty.
subtilization		The act of making subtile.
subtilize		To make thin or fine; to make less gross or coarse.
subtilizer		One who subtilizes.
subtilty		The quality or state of being subtile; thinness; fineness; as, the subtility of air or light.
subtle		Sly in design; artful; cunning; insinuating; subtile; -- applied to persons; as, a subtle foe.
subtleness		The quality or state of being subtle; subtlety.
subtlety		The quality or state of being subtle, or sly; cunning; craftiness; artfulness.
subtly		In a subtle manner; slyly; artfully; cunningly.
subtonic		Applied to, or distinguishing, a speech element consisting of tone, or proper vocal sound, not pure as in the vowels, but dimmed and otherwise modified by some kind of obstruction in the oral or the nasal passage…
subtorrid		Nearly torrid.
subtract		To withdraw, or take away, as a part from the whole; to deduct; as, subtract 5 from 9, and the remainder is 4.
subtracter		One who subtracts.
subtraction		The act or operation of subtracting or taking away a part.
subtractive		Tending, or having power, to subtract.
subtrahend		The sum or number to be subtracted, or taken from another.
subtranslucent		Not perfectly translucent.
subtransparent		Not perfectly transparent.
subtreasurer		The public officer who has charge of a subtreasury.
subtreasury		A subordinate treasury, or place of deposit; as, the United States subtreasury at New York.
subtriangular		Nearly, but not perfectly, triangular.
subtribe		A division of a tribe; a group of genera of a little lower rank than a tribe.
subtrihedral		Approaching the form of a three-sided pyramid; as, the subtrihedral crown of a tooth.
subtriple		Containing a third, or one part to three.
subtriplicate		Expressed by the cube root; -- said especially of ratios.
subtropical		Nearly tropical.
subtrude		To place under; to insert.
subturriculate		Somewhat turriculate.
subtutor		An under tutor.
subtypical		Deviating somewhat from the type of a species, genus, or other group; slightly aberrant.
subulate		Very narrow, and tapering gradually to a fine point from a broadish base; awl-shaped; linear.
subulated		Very narrow, and tapering gradually to a fine point from a broadish base; awl-shaped; linear.
subulicornes		A division of insects having slender or subulate antennæ.
subuliform		Subulate.
subulipalp		One of a group of carabid beetles having slender palpi.
subumbonal		Beneath or forward of the umbos of a bivalve shell.
subumbrella		The integument of the under surface of the bell, or disk-shaped body, of a jellyfish.
subundation	Obsolete	A flood; a deluge.
subungual		Under the nail or hoof.
suburb		An outlying part of a city or town; a smaller place immediately adjacent to a city; in the plural, the region which is on the confines of any city or large town; as, a house stands in the suburbs…
suburban		Of or pertaining to suburbs; inhabiting, or being in, the suburbs of a city.
suburbed		Having a suburb or suburbs on its outer part.
suburbial	Obsolete	Suburban.
suburbian	Obsolete	Suburban.
suburbicarian		Being in the suburbs; -- applied to the six dioceses in the suburbs of Rome subject to the pope as bishop of Rome.
suburbicary		Being in the suburbs; -- applied to the six dioceses in the suburbs of Rome subject to the pope as bishop of Rome.
suburethral		Situated under the urethra, or under its orifice.
subvaginal		Situated under or inside a sheath or vaginal membrane; as, the subvaginal, or subdural, spaces about the optic nerve.
subvariety		A subordinate variety, or a division of a variety.
subvene		To come under, as a support or stay; to happen.
subventaneous	Obsolete	Produced by the wind.
subvention		The act of coming under.
subventionize		To come to the aid of; to subsidize; to support.
subventitious		Helping; aiding; supporting.
subverse	Obsolete	To subvert.
subversion		The act of overturning, or the state of being overturned; entire overthrow; an overthrow from the foundation; utter ruin; destruction; as, the subversion of a government; the subversion of despotic power…
subversionary		Promoting destruction.
subversive		Tending to subvert; having a tendency to overthrow and ruin.
subvert		To overturn from the foundation; to overthrow; to ruin utterly.
subvertant		Reserved.
subvertebral		Situated beneath, or on the ventral side of, the vertebral column; situated beneath, or inside of, the endoskeleton; hypaxial; hyposkeletal.
subverter		One who, or that which, subverts; an overthrower.
subvertible		That may be subverted.
subvitalized		Imperfectly vitalized; having naturally but little vital power or energy.
subvocal		Same as Subtonic.
subway		An underground way or gallery; especially, a passage under a street, in which water mains, gas mains, telegraph wires, etc., are conducted.
subworker		A subordinate worker or helper.
subzonal		Situated under a zone, or zona; -- applied to a membrane between the zona radiata and the umbilical vesicle in the mammal embryo.
subzygomatic		Situated under the zygoma or zygomatic process.
succade		pl. (Com.) Sweetmeats, or preserves in sugar, whether fruit, vegetables, or confections.
succedane	Obsolete	A succedaneum.
succedaneous		Pertaining to, or acting as, a succedaneum; supplying the place of something else; being, or employed as, a substitute for another.
succedaneum		One who, or that which, succeeds to the place of another; that which is used for something else; a substitute; specifically (Med.), a remedy used as a substitute for another.
succeed		To follow in order; to come next after; hence, to take the place of; as, the king's eldest son succeeds his father on the throne; autumn succeeds summer.
succeedant		Succeeding one another; following.
succeeder		A successor.
succeeding		The act of one who, or that which, succeeds; also, that which succeeds, or follows after; consequence.
succentor		A subchanter.
success		That which comes after; hence, consequence, issue, or result, of an endeavor or undertaking, whether good or bad; the outcome of effort.
successary	Obsolete	Succession.
successful		Resulting in success; assuring, or promotive of, success; accomplishing what was proposed; having the desired effect; hence, prosperous; fortunate; happy; as, a successful use of medicine; a successful experiment…
succession		The act of succeeding, or following after; a following of things in order of time or place, or a series of things so following; sequence; as, a succession of good crops; a succession of disasters.
successional		Of or pertaining to a succession; existing in a regular order; consecutive. -- Suc*ces"sion*al*ly, adv.
successionist		A person who insists on the importance of a regular succession of events, offices, etc.; especially (Eccl.), one who insists that apostolic succession alone is valid.
successive		Following in order or in uninterrupted course; coming after without interruption or interval; following one after another in a line or series; consecutive; as, the successive revolution of years; the successive kings of Egypt…
successively		In a successive manner.
successiveness		The quality or state of being successive.
successless		Having no success.
successor		One who succeeds or follows; one who takes the place which another has left, and sustains the like part or character; -- correlative to predecessor; as, the successor of a deceased king.
succiduous		Ready to fall; falling.
succiferous		Producing or conveying sap.
succinamate		A salt of succinamic acid.
succinamic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid amide derivative of succinic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance, and forming a series of salts.
succinate		A salt of succinic acid.
succinct		Girded or tucked up; bound; drawn tightly together.
succinic		Pertaining to, or derived from, amber; specif., designating a dibasic acid, C
succinimide		A white crystalline nitrogenous substance, C2H4.(CO)2.NH, obtained by treating succinic anhydride with ammonia gas.
succinite		(a) Amber. (b) A garnet of an amber color.
succinous		Succinic.
succinurate		A salt of succinuric acid.
succinuric		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid amide, analogous to succinamic acid, which is obtained as a white crystalline substance by heating urea with succinic anhydride.
succinyl		A hypothetical radical characteristic of succinic acid and certain of its derivatives.
succise		Appearing as if a part were cut off at the extremity.
succision		The act of cutting down, as of trees; the act of cutting off.
succor		tiono run to, or run to support; hence, to help or relieve when in difficulty, want, or distress; to assist and deliver from suffering; to relieve; as, to succor a besieged city.
succorable		Capable of being succored or assisted; admitting of relief.
succorer		One who affords succor; a helper.
succorless		Destitute of succor.
succory		A plant of the genus Cichorium. See Chicory.
succotash		Green maize and beans boiled together.
succoteague		The squeteague.
succuba		A female demon or fiend. See Succubus.
succubine		Of or pertaining to succuba.
succubous		Having the leaves so placed that the upper part of each one is covered by the base of the next higher leaf, as in hepatic mosses of the genus Plagiochila.
succubus		A demon or fiend; especially, a lascivious spirit supposed to have sexual intercourse with the men by night; a succuba.
succula		A bare axis or cylinder with staves or levers in it to turn it round, but without any drum.
succulence		The quality or condition of being succulent; juiciness; as, the succulence of a peach.
succulency		The quality or condition of being succulent; juiciness; as, the succulence of a peach.
succulent		Full of juice; juicy.
succulently		In a succulent manner.
succulous		Succulent; juicy.
succumb		To yield; to submit; to give up unresistingly; as, to succumb under calamities; to succumb to disease.
succumbent		Submissive; yielding.
succursal		Serving to aid or help; serving as a chapel of ease; tributary.
succus		The expressed juice of a plant, for medicinal use.
succussation		A shaking; succussion.
succussion		The act of shaking; a shake; esp. (Med.), a shaking of the body to ascertain if there be a liquid in the thorax.
succussive		Characterized by a shaking motion, especially an up and down movement, and not merely tremulous oscillation; as, the succussive motion in earthquakes.
such		Of that kind; of the like kind; like; resembling; similar; as, we never saw such a day; -- followed by that or as introducing the word or proposition which defines the similarity, or the standard of comparison; as…
suchospondylous		Having dorsal vertebræ with long and divided transverse processes; -- applied to certain reptiles.
suchwise		In a such a manner; so.
suck		To draw, as a liquid, by the action of the mouth and tongue, which tends to produce a vacuum, and causes the liquid to rush in by atmospheric pressure; to draw, or apply force to, by exhausting the air.
suckanhock		A kind of seawan. See Note under Seawan.
suckatash		See Succotash — green maize and beans boiled together.
sucken		The jurisdiction of a mill, or that extent of ground astricted to it, the tenants of which are bound to bring their grain thither to be ground.
sucker		One who, or that which, sucks; esp., one of the organs by which certain animals, as the octopus and remora, adhere to other bodies.
sucket		A sweetmeat; a dainty morsel.
suckfish		A sucker fish.
sucking		Drawing milk from the mother or dam; hence, colloquially, young, inexperienced, as, a sucking infant; a sucking calf.
suckler		An animal that suckles its young; a mammal.
suckling		A young child or animal nursed at the breast.
sucrate		A compound of sucrose (or of some related carbohydrate) with some base, after the analogy of a salt; as, sodium sucrate.
sucre		A silver coin of Ecuador, worth 68 cents.
sucrose		A common variety of sugar found in the juices of many plants, as the sugar cane, sorghum, sugar maple, beet root, etc. It is extracted as a sweet, white crystalline substance which is valuable as a food product, and…
suction		The act or process of sucking; the act of drawing, as fluids, by exhausting the air.
suctoria		An order of Infusoria having the body armed with somewhat stiff, tubular processes which they use as suckers in obtaining their food.
suctorial		(Zoöl.) Adapted for sucking; living by sucking; as, the humming birds are suctorial birds.
suctorian		(Zoöl.) A cartilaginous fish with a mouth adapted for suction, as the lampery.
suctorious		Suctorial.
sudamina		Minute vesicles surrounded by an area of reddened skin, produced by excessive sweating.
sudarium		The handkerchief upon which the Savior is said to have impressed his own portrait miraculously, when wiping his face with it, as he passed to the crucifixion.
sudary	Obsolete	A napkin or handkerchief.
sudation	Obsolete	A sweating.
sudatorium		A sudatory.
sudatory		Sweating; perspiring.
sudd		A tangled mass of floating vegetal matter obstructing navigation.
sudden		Happening without previous notice or with very brief notice; coming unexpectedly, or without the common preparation; immediate; instant; speedy.
suddenty	Scots	Suddenness; a sudden.
sudoral		Of or pertaining to sweat; as, sudoral eruptions.
sudoriferous		Producing, or secreting, sweat; sudoriparous.
sudorific		Causing sweat; as, sudorific herbs. -- n.
sudoriparous		Same as Sudoriferous.
sudorous	Obsolete	Consisting of sweat.
sudra		The lowest of the four great castes among the Hindoos. See Caste.
suds	Colloquial	Water impregnated with soap, esp. when worked up into bubbles and froth.
sue		To follow up; to chase; to seek after; to endeavor to win; to woo.
suede		Swedish glove leather, --usually made from lambskins tanned with willow bark.
suent		Uniformly or evenly distributed or spread; even; smooth. See Suant.
suently		Evenly; smoothly.
suer		One who sues; a suitor.
suet		The fat and fatty tissues of an animal, especially the harder fat about the kidneys and loins in beef and mutton, which, when melted and freed from the membranes, forms tallow.
suety		Consisting of, or resembling, suet; as, a suety substance.
suf-		A form of the prefix Sub-.
suffer		To feel, or endure, with pain, annoyance, etc.; to submit to with distress or grief; to undergo; as, to suffer pain of body, or grief of mind.
sufferable		That may be suffered, tolerated, or permitted; allowable; tolerable. -- Suf fer*a*bly, adv.
sufferance		The state of suffering; the bearing of pain; endurance.
sufferer		One who suffers; one who endures or undergoes suffering; one who sustains inconvenience or loss; as, sufferers by poverty or sickness; men are sufferers by fire or by losses at sea.
suffering		The bearing of pain, inconvenience, or loss; pain endured; distress, loss, or injury incurred; as, sufferings by pain or sorrow; sufferings by want or by wrongs.
suffice		To be enough, or sufficient; to meet the need (of anything); to be equal to the end proposed; to be adequate.
sufficience	Obsolete	Sufficiently.
sufficiency		The quality or state of being sufficient, or adequate to the end proposed; adequacy.
sufficient		Equal to the end proposed; adequate to wants; enough; ample; competent; as, provision sufficient for the family; an army sufficient to defend the country.
sufficiently		To a sufficient degree; to a degree that answers the purpose, or gives content; enough; as, we are sufficiently supplied with food; a man sufficiently qualified for the discharge of his official duties.
sufficing		Affording enough; satisfying. -- Suf*fi cing*ness, n.
suffisance	Obsolete	Sufficiency; plenty; abundance; contentment.
suffisant	Obsolete	Sufficient.
suffix		A letter, letters, syllable, or syllables added or appended to the end of a word or a root to modify the meaning; a postfix.
suffixion		The act of suffixing, or the state of being suffixed.
suffixment		Suffixion.
sufflaminate	Obsolete	To retard the motion of, as a carriage, by preventing one or more of its wheels from revolving, either by means of a chain or otherwise.
sufflate		To blow up; to inflate; to inspire.
sufflation		The act of blowing up or inflating.
suffocate		Suffocated; choked.
suffocating		from Suffocate, v. -- Suf"fo*ca`ting*ly, adv.
suffocation		The act of suffocating, or the state of being suffocated; death caused by smothering or choking.
suffocative		Tending or able to choke or stifle.
suffossion		A digging under; an undermining.
suffragan		Assisting; assistant; as, a suffragan bishop.
suffraganship		The office of a suffragan.
suffragant	Obsolete	Suffragan.
suffragate	Obsolete	To vote or vote with.
suffragator	Obsolete	One who assists or favors by his vote.
suffrage		A vote given in deciding a controverted question, or in the choice of a man for an office or trust; the formal expression of an opinion; assent; vote.
suffragette		A woman who advocates the right to vote for women; a woman suffragist.
suffraginous	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to the hock of a beast.
suffragist		One who possesses or exercises the political right of suffrage; a voter.
suffrago		The heel joint.
suffrance	Obsolete	Sufferance.
suffrutescent		Slightly woody at the base.
suffruticose		Woody in the lower part of the stem, but with the yearly branches herbaceous, as sage, thyme, hyssop, and the like.
suffruticous		Suffruticose.
suffumigate		To apply fumes or smoke to the parts of, as to the body in medicine; to fumigate in part.
suffumigation		The operation of suffumigating.
suffumige	Obsolete	A medical fume.
suffuse		To overspread, as with a fluid or tincture; to fill or cover, as with something fluid; as, eyes suffused with tears; cheeks suffused with blushes.
suffusion		The act or process of suffusing, or state of being suffused; an overspreading.
sufi		A title or surname of the king of Persia.
sufism		A refined mysticism among certain classes of Mohammedans, particularly in Persia, who hold to a kind of pantheism and practice extreme asceticism in their lives.
sug		A kind of worm or larva.
sugar		A sweet white (or brownish yellow) crystalline substance, of a sandy or granular consistency, obtained by crystallizing the evaporated juice of certain plants, as the sugar cane, sorghum, beet root, sugar maple…
sugar-house		A building in which sugar is made or refined; a sugar manufactory.
sugared		Sweetened.
sugariness		The quality or state of being sugary, or sweet.
sugaring		The act of covering or sweetening with sugar; also, the sugar thus used.
sugarless		Without sugar; free from sugar.
sugarplum		A kind of candy or sweetneat made up in small balls or disks.
sugary		Resembling or containing sugar; tasting of sugar; sweet.
sugescent		Of or pertaining to sucking.
suggest		To introduce indirectly to the thoughts; to cause to be thought of, usually by the agency of other objects.
suggester		One who suggests.
suggestion		The act of suggesting; presentation of an idea.
suggestive		Containing a suggestion, hint, or intimation. -- Sug*gest ive*ness, n.
suggestment		Suggestion.
suggestress		A woman who suggests.
suggil	Obsolete	To defame.
suggillate		To beat livid, or black and blue.
suggillation		A livid, or black and blue, mark; a blow; a bruise.
suicidal		Partaking of, or of the nature of, the crime or suicide. -- Su"i*ci`dal*ly, adv.
suicide		The act of taking one's own life voluntary and intentionally; self-murder; specifically (Law), the felonious killing of one's self…
suicidical	Obsolete	Suicidal.
suicidism		The quality or state of being suicidal, or self-murdering.
suicism		Selfishness; egoism.
suillage	Obsolete	A drain or collection of filth.
suilline		Of or pertaining to a hog or the Hog family (Suidæ).
suine		A mixture of oleomargarine with lard or other fatty ingredients.
suing	Obsolete	The process of soaking through anything.
suingly	Obsolete	In succession; afterwards.
suint		A peculiar substance obtained from the wool of sheep, consisting largely of potash mixed with fatty and earthy matters.
suiogoths		The Scandinavian Goths. See the Note under Goths.
suist		One who seeks for things which gratify merely himself; a selfish person; a selfist.
suit		The act of suing; the process by which one endeavors to gain an end or an object; an attempt to attain a certain result; pursuit; endeavor.
suitability		The quality or state of being suitable; suitableness.
suitable		Capable of suiting; fitting; accordant; proper; becoming; agreeable; adapted; as, ornaments suitable to one's station; language suitable for the subject. -- Suit a*bly, adv.
suite		A retinue or company of attendants, as of a distinguished personage; as, the suite of an ambassador.
suiting		Among tailors, cloth suitable for making entire suits of clothes.
suitor		One who sues, petitions, or entreats; a petitioner; an applicant.
suitress		A female supplicant.
suji		Indian wheat, granulated but not pulverized; a kind of semolina.
sula		A genus of sea birds including the booby and the common gannet.
sulcate		Scored with deep and regular furrows; furrowed or grooved; as, a sulcated stem.
sulcated		Scored with deep and regular furrows; furrowed or grooved; as, a sulcated stem.
sulcation		A channel or furrow.
sulciform		Having the form of a sulcus; as, sulciform markings.
sulcus		A furrow; a groove; a fissure.
sulk	Obsolete	A furrow.
sulker		One who sulks.
sulkily		In a sulky manner.
sulkiness		The quality or state of being sulky; sullenness; moroseness; as, sulkiness of disposition.
sulks		The condition of being sulky; a sulky mood or humor; as, to be in the sulks.
sulky		Moodly silent; sullen; sour; obstinate; morose; splenetic.
sullage		(Founding) The scoria on the surface of molten metal in the ladle.
sullen		Gloomy; dismal; foreboding.
sullevate	Obsolete	To rouse; to excite.
sulliage	Obsolete	Foulness; filth.
sully		To soil; to dirty; to spot; to tarnish; to stain; to darken; -- used literally and figuratively; as, to sully a sword; to sully a person's reputation.
sulphacid		An acid in which, to a greater or less extent, sulphur plays a part analogous to that of oxygen in an oxyacid; thus, thiosulphuric and sulpharsenic acids are sulphacids; -- called also sulphoacid.
sulphamate		A salt of sulphamic acid.
sulphamic		Of or pertaining to a sulphamide; derived from, or related to, a sulphamide; specifically, designating an amido acid derivative, NH2.SO2.OH, of sulphuric acid (analogous to sulphonic acid) which is not known in the free state…
sulphamide		Any one of a series of amido compounds obtained by treating sulphuryl chloride with various amines.
sulphanilic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, an anilene sulphonic acid which is obtained as a white crystalline substance.
sulphantimonate		A salt of sulphantimonic acid.
sulphantimonic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, a hypothetical sulphacid of antimony (called also thioantimonic acid) analogous to sulpharsenic acid.
sulphantimonious		Of, pertaining to, or designating, a hypothetical sulphacid of antimony (called also thioantimonious acid) analogous to sulpharsenious acid.
sulphantimonite		A salt of sulphantimonious acid.
sulpharsenate		A salt of sulpharsenic acid.
sulpharsenic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, a hypothetical sulphacid (called also thioarsenic acid) analogous to arsenic acid, and known only in its salts.
sulpharsenious		Of, pertaining to, or designating, a hypothetical sulphacid (called also thioarsenious acid) analogous to arsenious acid, and known only in its salts.
sulpharsenite		A salt of sulpharsenious acid.
sulphate		A salt of sulphuric acid.
sulphatic		Of, pertaining to, resembling, or containing, a sulphate or sulphates.
sulphato-		A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting a sulphate as an ingredient in certain double salts; as, sulphato-carbonate.
sulphaurate		A salt of sulphauric acid.
sulphauric		Of, pertaining to, or designating, a hypothetical sulphacid of gold (aurum), known only in its salts.
sulphide		A binary compound of sulphur, or one so regarded; -- formerly called sulphuret.
sulphinate		A salt of a sulphinic acid.
sulphindigotic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, a sulphonic acid obtained, as a blue solution, by dissolving indigo in sulphuric acid; -- formerly called also cerulic sulphuric acid, but properly called indigo-disulphonic acid.
sulphine		Any one of a series of basic compounds which consist essentially of sulphur united with hydrocarbon radicals.
sulphinic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, any one of a series of acids regarded as acid ethereal salts of hyposulphurous acid; as, methyl sulphinic acid, CH3.SO.OH, a thick unstable liquid.
sulphinide		A white or yellowish crystalline substance, C6H4.(SO2.CO).NH, produced artificially by the oxidation of a sulphamic derivative of toluene.
sulphion		A hypothetical radical, SO4, regarded as forming the acid or negative constituent of sulphuric acid and the sulphates in electrolytic decomposition; -- so called in accordance with the binary theory of salts.
sulphionide		A binary compound of sulphion, or one so regarded; thus, sulphuric acid, Hsulphionide.
sulphite		A salt of sulphurous acid.
sulpho-		A prefix (also used adjectively) designating sulphur as an ingredient in certain compounds.
sulphoarsenic		Of, pertaining to, or containing, sulphur and arsenic; -- said of an acid which is the same as arsenic acid with the substitution of sulphur for oxygen.
sulphocarbonate		A salt of sulphocarbonic acid; a thiocarbonate.
sulphocarbonic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, a sulphacid, H2CSO2 (called also thiocarbonic acid), or an acid, H2CS3, analogous to carbonic acid, obtained as a yellow oily liquid of a pungent odor, and forming salts.
sulphocyanate		A salt of sulphocyanic acid; -- also called thiocyanate, and formerly inaccurately sulphocyanide.
sulphocyanic		Of, pertaining to, derived from, or designating, a sulphacid, HSCN, analogous to cyanic acid, and obtained as a colorless deliquescent crystalline substance, having a bitter saline taste, and not poisonous.
sulphocyanide		See Sulphocyanate — a salt of sulphocyanic acid; -- also called thiocyanate, and formerly inaccurately sulphocyanide.
sulphocyanogen	Obsolete	See Persulphocyanogen — an orange-yellow substance, produced by the action of chlorine or boiling dilute nitric acid and sulphocyanate of potassium; -- called also pseudosulphocyanogen, perthiocyanogen…
sulphonal		A substance employed as a hypnotic, produced by the union of mercaptan and acetone.
sulphonate		A salt of sulphonic acid.
sulphone		Any one of a series of compounds analogous to the ketones, and consisting of the sulphuryl group united with two hydrocarbon radicals; as, dimethyl sulphone, (CH.SO
sulphonic		Pertaining to, or derived from, a sulphone; -- used specifically to designate any one of a series of acids (regarded as acid ethereal salts of sulphurous acid) obtained by the oxidation of the mercaptans…
sulphonium		A hypothetical radical, SH3, regarded as the type and nucleus of the sulphines.
sulphophosphate		A salt of sulphophosphoric acid.
sulphophosphite		A salt of sulphophosphorous acid.
sulphophosphoric		Of, pertaining to, or designating, a hypothetical sulphacid of phosphorus, analogous to phosphoric acid, and known in its salts.
sulphophosphorous		Of, pertaining to, or designating, a hypothetical acid of phosphorus, analogous to phosphorous acid, and known in its salts.
sulphosalt		A salt of a sulphacid.
sulphostannate		A salt of sulphostannic acid.
sulphostannic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, a sulphacid of tin (more exactly called metasulphostannic acid), which is obtained as a dark brown amorphous substance, H
sulphotungstate		A salt of sulphotungstic acid.
sulphotungstic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, hypothetical sulphacid of tungsten (called also sulphowolframic acid), analogous to sulphuric acid, and known in its salts.
sulphovinic		Of, pertaining to, and formerly designating, ethylsulphuric acid.
sulphur		(Chem.) A nonmetallic element occurring naturally in large quantities, either combined as in the sulphides (as pyrites) and sulphates (as gypsum), or native in volcanic regions…
sulphur-bottom		A very large whalebone whale of the genus Sibbaldius, having a yellowish belly; especially, S. sulfureus of the North Pacific, and S. borealis of the North Atlantic; -- called also sulphur whale.
sulphurate	Poetic & r	Sulphureous.
sulphuration		The act or process of combining or impregnating with sulphur or its compounds; also, the state of being so combined or impregnated.
sulphurator		An apparatus for impregnating with, or exposing to the action of, sulphur; especially, an apparatus for fumigating or bleaching by means of the fumes of burning sulphur.
sulphureity	Obsolete	The quality or state of being sulphureous.
sulphureous		Consisting of sulphur; having the qualities of sulphur, or brimstone; impregnated with sulphur.
sulphuret	Passing out of use	A sulphide; as, a sulphuret of potassium.
sulphureted		Combined or impregnated with sulphur; sulphurized.
sulphuric		Of or pertaining to sulphur; as, a sulphuric smell.
sulphurine		Sulphureous.
sulphuring		Exposure to the fumes of burning sulphur, as in bleaching; the process of bleaching by exposure to the fumes of sulphur.
sulphurize		To combine or impregnate with sulphur or any of its compounds; as, to sulphurize caoutchouc in vulcanizing.
sulphurous	Obsolete	(Chem.) (a) Derived from, or containing, sulphur; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a lower valence as contrasted with the sulphuric compounds.
sulphurwort		The hog's fennel. See under Fennel.
sulphury		Resembling, or partaking of the nature of, sulphur; having the qualities of sulphur.
sulphuryl		The hypothetical radical SO2; -- called also sulphon.
sulphydrate		A compound, analogous to a hydrate, regarded as a salt of sulphydric acid, or as a derivative of hydrogen sulphide in which one half of the hydrogen is replaced by a base (as potassium sulphydrate, KSH)…
sulphydric		Of, pertaining to, or designating, hydrogen sulphide, which is regarded as an acid, especially when in solution.
sulpician		One of an order of priests established in France in 1642 to educate men for the ministry.
sultan		A ruler, or sovereign, of a Mohammedan state; specifically, the ruler of the Turks; the Padishah, or Grand Seignior; -- officially so called.
sultan-red		Having a deep red color.
sultana		pl. A kind of seedless raisin produced near Smyrna in Asiatic Turkey.
sultanate		The rule or dominion of a sultan; sultanship.
sultaness		A sultana.
sultanic		Pertaining to a sultan.
sultanry		The dominions of a sultan.
sultanship		The office or dignity of a sultan.
sultany	Obsolete	Sultanry.
sultrily		In a sultry manner.
sultriness		The quality or state of being sultry.
sultry		Very hot, burning, and oppressive; as, Libya's sultry deserts.
sulu		A member of the most prominent tribe of the Moro tribes, occupying the Sulu Archipelago; also, their language.
sum		The aggregate of two or more numbers, magnitudes, quantities, or particulars; the amount or whole of any number of individuals or particulars added together; as, the sum of 5 and 7 is 12.
sumac		(Bot.) Any plant of the genus Rhus, shrubs or small trees with usually compound leaves and clusters of small flowers.
sumach		(Bot.) Any plant of the genus Rhus, shrubs or small trees with usually compound leaves and clusters of small flowers.
sumatran		Of or pertaining to Sumatra or its inhabitants. -- n.
sumbul		The musky root of an Asiatic umbelliferous plant, Ferula Sumbul.
sumerian		Of or pertaining to the region of lower Babylonia, which was anciently called Sumer, or its inhabitants or their language.
sumless		Not to be summed up or computed; so great that the amount can not be ascertained; incalculable; inestimable.
summarily		In a summary manner.
summarist		One who summarized.
summarize		To comprise in, or reduce to, a summary; to present briefly.
summary		Formed into a sum; summed up; reduced into a narrow compass, or into few words; short; brief; concise; compendious; as, a summary statement of facts.
summation		The act of summing, or forming a sum, or total amount; also, an aggregate.
summer	English dialect	One who sums; one who casts up an account.
summer-fallow		To plow and work in summer, in order to prepare for wheat or other crop; to plow and let lie fallow.
summerhouse		A rustic house or apartment in a garden or park, to be used as a pleasure resort in summer.
summerliness		The quality or state of being like summer.
summersault		See Somersault, Somerset.
summerset		See Somersault, Somerset.
summerstir		To summer-fallow.
summertide		Summer time.
summertree		A summer. See 2d Summer.
summery		Of or pertaining to summer; like summer; as, a summery day.
summist		One who sums up; one who forms an abridgment or summary.
summit		The top; the highest point.
summitless		Having no summit.
summity	Obsolete	The utmost degree; perfection.
summon		To call, bid, or cite; to notify to come to appear; -- often with up.
summoner		One who summons; one who cites by authority; specifically, a petty officer formerly employed to summon persons to appear in court; an apparitor.
summons		The act of summoning; a call by authority, or by the command of a superior, to appear at a place named, or to attend to some duty.
sumner	Obsolete	A summoner.
sumoom		See Simoom — a hot, dry, suffocating, dust-laden wind, that blows occasionally in Arabia, Syria, and neighboring countries, generated by the extreme heat of the parched deserts or sandy plains.
sump		(Metal.) A round pit of stone, lined with clay, for receiving the metal on its first fusion.
sumph	Scots	A dunce; a blockhead.
sumpitan		A kind of blowgun for discharging arrows, -- used by the savages of Borneo and adjacent islands.
sumpter		An animal, especially a horse, that carries packs or burdens; a baggage horse.
sumption		(Logic) The major premise of a syllogism.
sumptuary		Relating to expense; regulating expense or expenditure.
sumptuosity		Expensiveness; costliness; sumptuousness.
sumptuous		Involving large outlay or expense; costly; expensive; hence, luxurious; splendid; magnificient; as, a sumptuous house or table; sumptuous apparel.
sun		See Sunn — an east Indian leguminous plant (Crotalaria juncea) and its fiber, which is also called sunn hemp.
sun-burner		A circle or cluster of gas-burners for lighting and ventilating public buildings.
sun-dried		Dried by the heat of the sun.
sun-struck		Overcome by, or affected with, sunstroke; as, sun-struck soldiers.
sunbeam		A beam or ray of the sun.
sunbird		(a) Any one of numerous species of small brilliantly colored birds of the family Nectariniidæ, native of Africa, Southern Asia, the East Indies, and Australia.
sunblink	Scots	A glimpse or flash of the sun.
sunbonnet		A bonnet, generally made of some thin or light fabric, projecting beyond the face, and commonly having a cape, -- worn by women as a protection against the sun.
sunbow		A rainbow; an iris.
sunburn		To burn or discolor by the sun; to tan.
sunburning		Sunburn; tan.
sunburst		A burst of sunlight.
suncup		A yellow flowered evening primrose (Taraxia, syn.
sundart		Sunbeam.
sunday		The first day of the week, -- consecrated among Christians to rest from secular employments, and to religious worship; the Christian Sabbath; the Lord's Day.
sunder	English dialect	To disunite in almost any manner, either by rending, cutting, or breaking; to part; to put or keep apart; to separate; to divide; to sever; as, to sunder a rope; to sunder a limb; to sunder friends.
sundew		Any plant of the genus Drosera, low bog plants whose leaves are beset with pediceled glands which secrete a viscid fluid that glitters like dewdrops and attracts and detains insects.
sundial		An instrument to show the time of day by means of the shadow of a gnomon, or style, on a plate.
sundog		A luminous spot occasionally seen a few degrees from the sun, supposed to be formed by the intersection of two or more halos, or in a manner similar to that of halos.
sundown		The setting of the sun; sunset.
sundowner		A tramp or vagabond in the Australian bush; -- so called from his coming to sheep stations at sunset of ask for supper and a bed, when it is too late to work…
sundries		Many different or small things; sundry things.
sundrily		In sundry ways; variously.
sundrops		Any one of the several species of Kneiffia, esp. K. fruticosa (syn.
sundry		Several; divers; more than one or two; various.
sundryman		One who deals in sundries, or a variety of articles.
sunfish		(a) A very large oceanic plectognath fish (Mola mola, Mola rotunda, or Orthagoriscus mola) having a broad body and a truncated tail.
sunflower		Any plant of the genus Helianthus; -- so called probably from the form and color of its flower, which is large disk with yellow rays.
sung		imp. & p. p. of Sing.
sunglass		A convex lens of glass for producing heat by converging the sun's rays into a focus.
sunglow		A rosy flush in the sky seen after sunset.
sunk		imp. & p. p. of Sink.
sunken		Lying on the bottom of a river or other water; sunk.
sunless		Destitute or deprived of the sun or its rays; shaded; shadowed.
sunlight		The light of the sun.
sunlike		Like or resembling the sun.
sunlit		Lighted by the sun.
sunn		An East Indian leguminous plant (Crotalaria juncea) and its fiber, which is also called sunn hemp.
sunna		A collection of traditions received by the orthodox Mohammedans as of equal authority with the Koran.
sunniah		One of the sect of Sunnites.
sunniness		The quality or state of being sunny.
sunnite		One of the orthodox Mohammedans who receive the Sunna as of equal importance with the Koran.
sunnud		A charter or warrant; also, a deed of gift.
sunny		Of or pertaining to the sun; proceeding from, or resembling the sun; hence, shining; bright; brilliant; radiant.
sunproof		Impervious to the rays of the sun.
sunrise		The first appearance of the sun above the horizon in the morning; more generally, the time of such appearance, whether in fair or cloudy weather; as, to begin work at sunrise.
sunrising		The first appearance of the sun above the horizon in the morning; more generally, the time of such appearance, whether in fair or cloudy weather; as, to begin work at sunrise.
sunset		The descent of the sun below the horizon; also, the time when the sun sets; evening.
sunsetting		The descent of the sun below the horizon; also, the time when the sun sets; evening.
sunshade		Anything used as a protection from the sun's rays. Specifically: (a) A small parasol.
sunshine		The light of the sun, or the place where it shines; the direct rays of the sun, the place where they fall, or the warmth and light which they give.
sunshiny		Bright with the rays of the sun; clear, warm, or pleasant; as, a sunshiny day.
sunsquall		Any large jellyfish.
sunsted	Obsolete	Solstice.
sunstone		Aventurine feldspar. See under Aventurine.
sunstroke		Any affection produced by the action of the sun on some part of the body; especially, a sudden prostration of the physical powers, with symptoms resembling those of apoplexy, occasioned by exposure to excessive heat…
sunup	Dialect	Sunrise.
sunward		Toward the sun.
sunwise		In the direction of the sun's apparent motion, or from the east southward and westward, and so around the circle; also, in the same direction as the movement of the hands of a watch lying face upward.
sup	Obsolete	To take into the mouth with the lips, as a liquid; to take or drink by a little at a time; to sip.
supawn	Dialect	Boiled Indian meal; hasty pudding; mush.
supe		A super.
super		A contraction of Supernumerary, in sense
super-		A prefix signifying above, over, beyond, and hence often denoting in a superior position, in excess, over and above, in addition, exceedingly; as in superimpose, supersede, supernatural, superabundance.
superable		Capable of being overcome or conquered; surmountable.
superabound		To be very abundant or exuberant; to be more than sufficient; as, the country superabounds with corn.
superabundance		The quality or state of being superabundant; a superabundant quantity; redundancy; excess.
superabundant		Abounding to excess; being more than is sufficient; redundant; as, superabundant zeal. -- Su`per*a*bun"dant*ly, adv.
superacidulated		Acidulated to excess.
superadd		To add over and above; to add to what has been added; to annex, as something extrinsic.
superaddition		The act of adding something in excess or something extraneous; also, something which is added in excess or extraneously.
superadvenient		Coming upon; coming in addition to, or in assistance of, something.
superalimentation		The act of overfeeding, or making one take food in excess of the natural appetite for it.
superaltar		A raised shelf or stand on the back of an altar, on which different objects can be placed; a predella or gradino.
superangelic		Superior to the angels in nature or rank.
superannuate	Obsolete	To give a pension to, on account of old age or other infirmity; to cause to retire from service on a pension.
superannuation		The state of being superannuated, or too old for office or business; the state of being disqualified by old age; decrepitude.
superb		Grand; magnificent; august; stately; as, a superb edifice; a superb colonnade.
superbiate	Obsolete	To make (a person) haughty.
supercarbonate	Passing out of use	A bicarbonate.
supercarbureted	Passing out of use	Bicarbureted.
supercargo		An officer or person in a merchant ship, whose duty is to manage the sales, and superintend the commercial concerns, of the voyage.
supercarpal		Situated above, or in the upper part of, the carpus.
supercelestial		Situated above the firmament, or great vault of heaven.
supercharge		To charge (a bearing) upon another bearing; as, to supercharge a rose upon a fess.
superchemical		Above or beyond chemistry; inexplicable by chemical laws.
superchery	Obsolete	Deceit; fraud; imposition.
superciliary		Of or pertaining to the eyebrows; supraorbital.
supercilious		Lofty with pride; haughty; dictatorial; overbearing; arrogant; as, a supercilious officer; asupercilious air; supercilious behavior. -- Su`per*cil i*ous*ness, n.
supercilium		The eyebrow, or the region of the eyebrows.
supercolumniation		The putting of one order above another; also, an architectural work produced by this method; as, the putting of the Doric order in the ground story, Ionic above it, and Corinthian or Composite above this.
superconception		Superfetation.
superconsequence	Obsolete	Remote consequence.
supercrescence		That which grows upon another growing thing; a parasite.
supercrescent		Growing on some other growing thing.
supercretaceous		Same as Supracretaceous.
supercurious		Excessively curious or inquisitive.
superdominant		The sixth tone of the scale; that next above the dominant; -- called also submediant.
superdreadnought		See Dreadnought, above.
supereminence		The quality or state of being supereminent; distinguished eminence; as, the supereminence of Cicero as an orator, or Lord Chatham as a statesman.
supereminency		The quality or state of being supereminent; distinguished eminence; as, the supereminence of Cicero as an orator, or Lord Chatham as a statesman.
supereminent		Eminent in a superior degree; surpassing others in excellence; as, a supereminent divine; the supereminent glory of Christ. -- Su`per*em"i*nent*ly, adv.
supererogant	Obsolete	Supererogatory.
supererogate		To do more than duty requires; to perform works of supererogation; to atone (for a dificiency in another) by means of a surplus action or quality.
supererogation		The act of supererogating; performance of more than duty or necessity requires.
supererogative		Supererogatory.
supererogatory		Performed to an extent not enjoined, or not required, by duty or necessity; as, supererogatory services.
superessential		Essential above others, or above the constitution of a thing.
superethical		More than ethical; above ethics.
superexalt		To exalt to a superior degree; to exalt above others.
superexaltation		Elevation above the common degree.
superexcellence		Superior excellence; extraordinary excellence.
superexcellent		Excellent in an uncommon degree; very excellent.
superexcination		Excessive, or more than normal, excitation.
superexcrescence		Something growing superfluously.
superfamily		A group intermediate between a family and a suborder.
superfecundation		Fertilization of two ova, at the same menstruation, by two different acts of coition.
superfecundity		Superabundant fecundity or multiplication of the species.
superfetate		To conceive after a prior conception, but before the birth of the offspring.
superfetation		The formation of a fetus at the result of an impregnation occurring after another impregnation but before the birth of the offspring produced by it.
superfete	Obsolete	To superfetate.
superfice	Obsolete	A superficies.
superficial		Of or pertaining to the superficies, or surface; lying on the surface; shallow; not deep; as, a superficial color; a superficial covering; superficial measure or contents; superficial tillage.
superficialist		One who attends to anything superficially; a superficial or shallow person; a sciolist; a smatterer.
superficiality		The quality or state of being superficial; also, that which is superficial.
superficialize		To attend to, or to treat, superficially, or in a shallow or slighting way.
superficiary		One to whom a right of surface occupation is granted; one who pays quitrent for a house built upon another man's ground.
superficies		The surface; the exterior part, superficial area, or face of a thing.
superfine		Very fine, or most fine; being of surpassing fineness; of extra nice or fine quality; as, superfine cloth.
superfineness		The state of being superfine.
superfinical		Extremely finical.
superfluence	Obsolete	Superfluity.
superfluitant	Obsolete	Floating above or on the surface.
superfluity		A greater quantity than is wanted; superabundance; as, a superfluity of water; a superfluity of wealth.
superfluous		More than is wanted or is sufficient; rendered unnecessary by superabundance; unnecessary; useless; excessive; as, a superfluous price.
superflux		Superabundance; superfluity; an overflowing.
superfoetation		Superfetation.
superfoliation		Excess of foliation.
superfrontal		A cloth which is placed over the top of an altar, and often hangs down a few inches over the frontal.
superfuse	Obsolete	To pour (something) over or on something else.
superheat		To heat too much, to overheat; as, to superheat an oven.
superheater		An apparatus for superheating steam.
superhive		A removable upper part of a hive.
superhuman		Above or beyond what is human; sometimes, divine; as, superhuman strength; superhuman wisdom.
superimpose		To lay or impose on something else; as, a stratum of earth superimposed on another stratum. -- Su`per*im`po*si"tion, n.
superimpregnation		The act of impregnating, or the state of being impregnated, in addition to a prior impregnation; superfetation.
superincumbence		The quality or state of being superincumbent.
superincumbency		The quality or state of being superincumbent.
superincumbent		Lying or resting on something else.
superinduce		To bring in, or upon, as an addition to something.
superinducement		Superinduction.
superinduction		The act of superinducing, or the state of being superinduced.
superinfuse		To infuse over.
superinjection		An injection succeeding another.
superinspect		To over see; to superintend by inspection.
superinstitution		One institution upon another, as when A is instituted and admitted to a benefice upon a title, and B instituted and admitted upon the presentation of another.
superintellectual		Being above intellect.
superintend		To have or exercise the charge and oversight of; to oversee with the power of direction; to take care of with authority; to supervise; as, an officer superintends the building of a ship or the construction of a fort.
superintendence		The act of superintending; care and oversight for the purpose of direction; supervision.
superintendency		The act of superintending; superintendence.
superintendent		Overseeing; superintending.
superintender		A superintendent.
superinvestiture		An outer vestment or garment.
superior		More elevated in place or position; higher; upper; as, the superior limb of the sun; the superior part of an image.
superioress		A woman who acts as chief in a convent, abbey, or nunnery; a lady superior.
superiority		The quality, state, or condition of being superior; as, superiority of rank; superiority in merit.
superiorly		In a superior position or manner.
superjacent		Situated immediately above; as, superjacent rocks.
superlation	Obsolete	Exaltation of anything beyond truth or propriety.
superlative		Lifted up to the highest degree; most eminent; surpassing all other; supreme; as, superlative wisdom or prudence; a woman of superlative beauty; the superlative glory of the divine character.
superlucration	Obsolete	Excessive or extraordinary gain.
superlunar		Being above the moon; not belonging to this world; -- opposed to sublunary.
superlunary		Being above the moon; not belonging to this world; -- opposed to sublunary.
superman		= Overman, above.
supermaterial		Being above, or superior to, matter.
supermaxilla		The supermaxilla.
supermaxillary		Supermaxillary.
supermedial		Above the middle.
supermundane		Being above the world; -- opposed to inframundane.
supermundial	Obsolete	Supermundane.
supernacular		Like supernaculum; first-rate; as, a supernacular wine.
supernaculum		A kind of mock Latin term intended to mean, upon the nail; -- used formerly by topers.
supernal		Being in a higher place or region; locally higher; as, the supernal orbs; supernal regions.
supernatant		Swimming above; floating on the surface; as, oil supernatant on water.
supernatation		The act of floating on the surface of a fluid.
supernatural		Being beyond, or exceeding, the power or laws of nature; miraculous.
supernaturalism		The quality or state of being supernatural; supernaturalness.
supernaturalist		One who holds to the principles of supernaturalism.
supernaturalistic		Of or pertaining to supernaturalism.
supernaturality		The quality or state of being supernatural.
supernaturalize		To treat or regard as supernatural.
supernaturally		In a supernatural manner.
supernaturalness		The quality or state of being supernatural.
supernumerary		Exceeding the number stated or prescribed; as, a supernumerary officer in a regiment.
superoccipital		Supraoccipital.
superorder		A group intermediate in importance between an order and a subclass.
superordination		The ordination of a person to fill a station already occupied; especially, the ordination by an ecclesiastical official, during his lifetime, of his successor.
superoxide	Obsolete	See Peroxide — an oxide containing more oxygen than some other oxide of the same element.
superparticular	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to a ratio when the excess of the greater term over the less is a unit, as the ratio of 1 to 2, or of 3 to 4.
superpartient	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to a ratio when the excess of the greater term over the less is more than a unit, as that of 3 to 5, or 7 to 10.
superphosphate		An acid phosphate.
superphysical		Above or beyond physics; not explainable by physical laws.
superplant	Obsolete	A plant growing on another, as the mistletoe; an epiphyte.
superplease	Obsolete	To please exceedingly.
superplus	Obsolete	Surplus.
superplusage	Obsolete	Surplusage.
superpolitic		More than politic; above or exceeding policy.
superponderate	Obsolete	To wiegh over and above.
superposable		Capable of being superposed, as one figure upon another.
superpose		To lay upon, as one kind of rock on another.
superposition		The act of superposing, or the state of being superposed; as, the superposition of rocks; the superposition of one plane figure on another, in geometry.
superpraise		To praise to excess.
superproportion		Overplus or excess of proportion.
superpurgation		Excessive purgation.
superreflection		The reflection of a reflected image or sound.
superregal		More than regal; worthy of one greater than a king.
superreward		To reward to an excessive degree.
superroyal		Larger than royal; -- said of a particular size of printing and writing paper.
supersacral		Situated over, or on the dorsal side of, the sacrum.
supersaliency	Obsolete	The act of leaping on anything.
supersalient	Obsolete	Leaping upon.
supersalt		An acid salt. See Acid salt (a), under Salt, n.
supersaturate		To add to beyond saturation; as, to supersaturate a solution.
supersaturation		The operation of supersaturating, or the state of being supersaturated.
superscribe		To write or engrave (a name, address, inscription, or the like) on the top or surface; to write a name, address, or the like, on the outside or cover of (anything); as, to superscribe a letter.
superscript	Obsolete	Superscription.
superscription		That which is written or engraved on the surface, outside, or above something else; specifically, an address on a letter, envelope, or the like.
supersecular		Being above the world, or secular things.
supersede		To come, or be placed, in the room of; to replace.
supersedeas		A writ of command to suspend the powers of an officer in certain cases, or to stay proceedings under another writ.
supersedure		The act of superseding, or setting aside; supersession; as, the supersedure of trial by jury.
superseminate	Obsolete	To sow, as seed, over something previously sown.
supersemination	Obsolete	The sowing of seed over seed previously sown.
supersensible		Beyond the reach of the senses; above the natural powers of perception.
supersensitive		Excessively sensitive; morbidly sensitive. -- Su`per*sen"si*tive*ness, n.
supersensual		Supersensible.
supersensuous		Excessively sensuous.
superserviceable		Overofficious; doing more than is required or desired.
supersession		The act of superseding, or the state of being superseded; supersedure.
supersolar		Above the sun.
supersphenoidal		Situated above, or on the dorsal side of, the body of the sphenoid bone.
superspinous		Supraspinuos.
superstition		An excessive reverence for, or fear of, that which is unknown or mysterious.
superstitionist	Obsolete	One addicted to superstition.
superstitious		Of or pertaining to superstition; proceeding from, or manifesting, superstition; as, superstitious rites; superstitious observances.
superstrain		To overstrain.
superstratum		A stratum, or layer, above another.
superstruct		To build over or upon another structure; to erect upon a foundation.
superstruction		The act of superstructing, or building upon.
superstructive		Built or erected on something else.
superstructor		One who builds a superstructure.
superstructure		Any material structure or edifice built on something else; that which is raised on a foundation or basis; esp. (Arch.), all that part of a building above the basement.
supersubstantial		More than substantial; spiritual.
supersubtle		To subtle.
supersulphate	Obsolete	An acid sulphate.
supersulphureted	Obsolete	Supersulphurized.
supersulphurize		To impregnate or combine with an excess of sulphur.
supertax		A tax in addition to the usual or normal tax; specif., in the United Kingdom, an income tax of sixpence for every pound in addition to the normal income tax of one shilling and twopence for every pound, imposed…
supertemporal		That which is more than temporal; that which is eternal.
superterranean		Being above ground.
superterrene		Being above ground, or above the earth.
superterrestrial		Being above the earth, or above what belongs to the earth.
supertonic		The note next above the keynote; the second of the scale.
supertragical		Tragical to excess.
supertuberation		The production of young tubers, as potatoes, from the old while still growing.
supervacaneous	Obsolete	Serving no purpose; superfluous; needless.
supervene		To come as something additional or extraneous; to occur with reference or relation to something else; to happen upon or after something else; to be added; to take place; to happen.
supervenient		Coming as something additional or extraneous; coming afterwards.
supervention		The act of supervening.
supervisal		Supervision.
supervise		To oversee for direction; to superintend; to inspect with authority; as, to supervise the construction of a steam engine, or the printing of a book.
supervision		The act of overseeing; inspection; superintendence; oversight.
supervisive		Supervisory.
supervisor		One who supervises; an overseer; an inspector; a superintendent; as, a supervisor of schools.
supervisory		Of or pertaining to supervision; as, supervisory powers.
supervive	Obsolete	To survive; to outlive.
supervolute		Having a plainted and convolute arrangement in the bud, as in the morning-glory.
supination		(a) The act of turning the hand palm upward; also, position of the hand with the palm upward.
supinator		A muscle which produces the motion of supination.
supine		Lying on the back, or with the face upward; -- opposed to prone.
supinity	Obsolete	Supineness.
suppage	Obsolete	What may be supped; pottage.
suppalpation	Obsolete	The act of enticing by soft words; enticement.
supparasitation	Obsolete	The act of flattering to gain favor; servile approbation.
supparasite	Obsolete	To flatter; to cajole; to act the parasite.
suppawn		See Supawn — boiled Indian meal; hasty pudding; mush.
suppedaneous	Obsolete	Being under the feet.
suppeditate	Obsolete	To supply; to furnish.
suppeditation	Obsolete	Supply; aid afforded.
supper		A meal taken at the close of the day; the evening meal.
supperless		Having no supper; deprived of supper; as, to go supperless to bed.
supping		The act of one who sups; the act of taking supper.
supplace		To replace.
supplant		To remove or displace by stratagem; to displace and take the place of; to supersede; as, a rival supplants another in the favor of a mistress or a prince.
supplantation		The act of supplanting or displacing.
supplanter		One who supplants.
supple		Pliant; flexible; easily bent; as, supple joints; supple fingers.
supple-chapped		Having a limber tongue.
supple-jack		(a) A climbing shrub (Berchemia volubilus) of the Southern United States, having a tough and pliable stem.
supplely		In a supple manner; softly; pliantly; mildly.
supplement		That which fills up, completes, or makes an addition to, something already organized, arranged, or set apart; specifically, a part added to, or issued as a continuation of, a book or paper…
supplemental		Added to supply what is wanted; additional; being, or serving as, a supplement; as, a supplemental law; a supplementary sheet or volume.
supplementary		Added to supply what is wanted; additional; being, or serving as, a supplement; as, a supplemental law; a supplementary sheet or volume.
supplementation		The act of supplementing.
suppleness		The quality or state of being supple; flexibility; pliableness; pliancy.
suppletive		Supplying deficiencies; supplementary; as, a suppletory oath.
suppletory		Supplying deficiencies; supplementary; as, a suppletory oath.
supplial		The act of supplying; a supply.
suppliance		That which supplies a want; assistance; a gratification; satisfaction.
suppliant		Asking earnestly and submissively; entreating; beseeching; supplicating.
supplicancy		Supplication.
supplicant		Entreating; asking submissively.
supplicat		A petition; esp., a written one, with a certificate that the conditions have been complied with.
supplicate		To entreat for; to seek by earnest prayer; to ask for earnestly and humbly; as, to supplicate blessings on Christian efforts to spread the gospel.
supplicatingly		In a supplicating manner.
supplication		The act of supplicating; humble and earnest prayer, as in worship.
supplicator		One who supplicates; a supplicant.
supplicatory		Containing supplication; humble; earnest.
supplier		One who supplies.
supply		To fill up, or keep full; to furnish with what is wanted; to afford, or furnish with, a sufficiency; as, rivers are supplied by smaller streams; an aqueduct supplies an artificial lake…
supplyant	Obsolete	Supplying or aiding; auxiliary; suppletory.
supplyment	Obsolete	A supplying or furnishing; supply.
support		To bear by being under; to keep from falling; to uphold; to sustain, in a literal or physical sense; to prop up; to bear the weight of; as, a pillar supports a structure; an abutment supports an arch…
supportable		Capable of being supported, maintained, or endured; endurable. -- Sup*port a*bly, adv.
supportance	Obsolete	Support.
supportation	Obsolete	Maintenance; support.
supporter		One who, or that which, supports; as, oxygen is a supporter of life.
supportful	Obsolete	Abounding with support.
supportless		Having no support.
supportment	Obsolete	Support.
supportress		A female supporter.
supposable		Capable of being supposed, or imagined to exist; as, that is not a supposable case. -- Sup*pos a*bly, adv.
supposal		The act of supposing; also, that which is supposed; supposition; opinion.
suppose		To represent to one's self, or state to another, not as true or real, but as if so, and with a view to some consequence or application which the reality would involve or admit of; to imagine or admit to exist…
supposeer		One who supposes.
supposition		The act of supposing, laying down, imagining, or considering as true or existing, what is known not to be true, or what is not proved.
suppositional		Resting on supposition; hypothetical; conjectural; supposed.
supposititious		Fraudulently substituted for something else; not being what is purports to be; not genuine; spurious; counterfeit; as, a supposititious child; a supposititious writing.
suppositive		Including or implying supposition, or hypothesis; supposed. -- Sup*pos"i*tive*ly, adv.
suppositor		An apparatus for the introduction of suppositories into the rectum.
suppository		A pill or bolus for introduction into the rectum; esp., a cylinder or cone of medicated cacao butter.
supposure	Obsolete	Supposition; hypothesis; conjecture.
suppress		To overpower and crush; to subdue; to put down; to quell.
suppressible		That may be suppressed.
suppression		The act of suppressing, or the state of being suppressed; repression; as, the suppression of a riot, insurrection, or tumult; the suppression of truth, of reports, of evidence, and the like.
suppressive		Tending to suppress; subduing; concealing.
suppressor		One who suppresses.
supprise	Obsolete	To surprise.
suppurant		A suppurative.
suppurate		To generate pus; as, a boil or abscess suppurates.
suppuration		The matter produced by suppuration; pus.
suppurative		Tending to suppurate; promoting suppuration.
supputate	Obsolete	To suppute.
supputation	Obsolete	Reckoning; account.
suppute	Obsolete	To reckon; to compute; to suppose; to impute.
supra		Over; above; before; also, beyond; besides; -- much used as a prefix.
supra-acromial		Situated above the acromial process of the scapula.
supra-angular		See Surangular — above the angular bone; supra-angular; -- applied to a bone of the lower jaw in many reptiles and birds. -- n.
supra-auricular		Situated above the ear coverts, or auriculars; -- said of certain feathers of birds. -- n.
supra-axillary		Growing above the axil; inserted above the axil, as a peduncle. See Suprafoliaceous.
supra-esophagal		Situated above, or on the dorsal side of, the esophagus; as, the supra-esophageal ganglion of Crustacea.
supra-esophageal		Situated above, or on the dorsal side of, the esophagus; as, the supra-esophageal ganglion of Crustacea.
supra-ethmoid		Above, or on the dorsal side of, the ethmoid bone or cartilage.
supra-ilium		The cartilaginous cap at the sacral end of the ilium of some animals.
supra-oesophagal		See Supra-esophagal — situated above, or on the dorsal side of, the esophagus; as, the supra-esophageal ganglion of Crustacea.
suprabranchial		Situated above the branchiæ; -- applied especially to the upper division of the gill cavity of bivalve mollusks.
suprachoroid		Situated above the choroid; -- applied to the layer of the choroid coat of the eyeball next to the sclerotic.
suprachoroidal		Situated above the choroid; -- applied to the layer of the choroid coat of the eyeball next to the sclerotic.
supraciliary		Superciliary.
supraclavicle		A bone which usually connects the clavicle with the post- temporal in the pectorial arch of fishes.
supraclavicular		(a) Situated above the clavicle. (b) Of or pertaining to the supraclavicle.
supracondylar		Situated above a condyle or condyles.
supracondyloid		Situated above a condyle or condyles.
supracostal		Situated above, or on the outside of, the ribs.
supracranial		Situated above, or in the roof of, the cranium.
supracretaceous		Lying above the chalk; Supercretaceous.
supradecompound		More than decompound; divided many times.
suprafoliaceous		Inserted into the stem above the leaf, petiole, or axil, as a peduncle or flower.
supraglotic		Situated above the glottis; -- applied to that part of the cavity of the larynx above the true vocal cords.
suprahepatic		Situated over, or on the dorsal side of, the liver; -- applied to the branches of the hepatic veins.
suprahyoid		Hyomental.
supralapsarian		One of that class of Calvinists who believed that God's decree of election determined that man should fall, in order that the opportunity might be furnished of securing the redemption of a part of the race…
supralapsarianism		The doctrine, belief, or principles of the Supralapsarians.
supralapsary		Supralapsarian.
supraloral		Situated above the lores; as, the supraloral feathers of a bird. -- n.
supralunar		Beyond the moon; hence, very lofty.
supralunary		Beyond the moon; hence, very lofty.
supramaxilla		The upper jaw or maxilla.
supramaxillary		(a) Situated over the lower jaw; as, the supramaxillary nerve. (b) Of or pertaining to the upper jaw.
supramundane		Being or situated above the world or above our system; celestial.
supranaturalism		The state of being supernatural; belief in supernatural agency or revelation; supernaturalism.
supranaturalist		A supernaturalist.
supranaturalistic		Of or pertaining to supernaturalism; supernaturalistic.
supraoccipital		Situated over, or in the upper part of, the occiput; of or pertaining to the supraoccipital bone. -- n.
supraocular		Above the eyes; -- said of certain scales of fishes and reptiles.
supraorbital		Situated above the orbit of the eye.
supraorbitar		Situated above the orbit of the eye.
suprapedal		Situated above the foot of a mollusk; as, the suprapedal gland.
supraprotest		An acceptance of a bill by a third person after protest for nonacceptance by the drawee.
suprapubian		Situated above, or anterior to, the pubic bone.
suprapubic		Situated above, or anterior to, the pubic bone.
suprarenal		Situated above, or anterior to, the kidneys. -- n.
suprascalpular		Situated above, or on the anterior side of, the scapula.
suprascalpulary		Situated above, or on the anterior side of, the scapula.
suprasphenoidal		Situated above the sphenoidal bone; as, the suprasphenoidal appendage, or pituitary body.
supraspinal		(a) Situated above the vertebral column. (b) Situated above a spine or spines; supraspinate; supraspinous.
supraspinate		Situated above a spine or spines; especially, situated above, or on the dorsal side of, the neural spines of the vertebral column, or above, or in front of, the spine of the scapula.
supraspinous		Situated above a spine or spines; especially, situated above, or on the dorsal side of, the neural spines of the vertebral column, or above, or in front of, the spine of the scapula.
suprastapedial		Of, pertaining to, or designating, that part of the columella of the ear which projects above the connection with the stapes, as in many animals. -- n.
suprasternal		Situated above, or anterior to, the sternum.
supratemporal		Situated above the temporal bone or temporal fossa. -- n.
supratrochlear		Situated over or above a trochlea or trochlear surface; -- applied esp. to one of the subdivisions of the trigeminal nerve.
supravaginal		Situated above or outside a sheath or vaginal membrane.
supravision	Obsolete	Supervision.
supravisor	Obsolete	A supervisor.
supravulgar		Being above the vulgar or common people.
supremacy		The state of being supreme, or in the highest station of power; highest or supreme authority or power; as, the supremacy of a king or a parliament.
supreme		Highest in authority; holding the highest place in authority, government, or power.
supremely		In a supreme manner.
supremity	Obsolete	Supremacy.
sur-		A prefix signifying over, above, beyond, upon.
sura		One of the sections or chapters of the Koran, which are one hundred and fourteen in number.
suradanni		A valuable kind of wood obtained on the shores of the Demerara River in South America, much used for timbers, rails, naves and fellies of wheels, and the like.
suraddition	Obsolete	Something added or appended, as to a name.
surah		A soft twilled silk fabric much used for women's dresses; -- called also surah silk.
sural		Of or pertaining to the calf of the leg; as, the sural arteries.
surance	Obsolete	Assurance.
surangular		Above the angular bone; supra-angular; -- applied to a bone of the lower jaw in many reptiles and birds. -- n.
surbase		(Arch.) A cornice, or series of moldings, on the top of the base of a pedestal, podium, etc. See Illust. of Column.
surbased		(a) Having a surbase, or molding above the base. (b) Etym: Having the vertical height from springing line to crown less than the half span; -- said of an arch; as, a segmental arch is surbased.
surbate	Obsolete	To make sore or bruise, as the feet by travel.
surbeat	Obsolete	Same as Surbate.
surbed		To set edgewise, as a stone; that is, to set it in a position different from that which it had in the quarry.
surbet	Obsolete	Same as Surbate.
surcease	Obsolete	Cessation; stop; end.
surceaseance	Obsolete	Cessation.
surcharge		(Law) (a) To overstock; especially, to put more cattle into, as a common, than the person has a right to do, or more than the herbage will sustain.
surchargement	Obsolete	The act of surcharging; also, surcharge, surplus.
surcharger		One who surcharges.
surcingle		A belt, band, or girth which passes over a saddle, or over anything laid on a horse's back, to bind it fast.
surcingled		Bound with the surcingle.
surcle	Obsolete	A little shoot; a twig; a sucker.
surcloy	Obsolete	To surfeit.
surcoat		A coat worn over the other garments; especially, the long and flowing garment of knights, worn over the armor, and frequently emblazoned with the arms of the wearer.
surcrew	Obsolete	Increase; addition; surplus.
surculate	Obsolete	To purne; to trim.
surculation	Obsolete	Act of purning.
surculose		Producing suckers, or shoots resembling suckers.
surd		A quantity which can not be expressed by rational numbers; thus, *2 is a surd.
surdal		Same as Surd, a., 3.
surdiny	Obsolete	A sardine.
surdity	Obsolete	Deafness.
sure		Certainly knowing and believing; confident beyond doubt; implicity trusting; unquestioning; positive.
sure-footed		Not liable to stumble or fall; as, a sure-footed horse.
surely		In a sure or certain manner; certainly; infallibly; undoubtedly; assuredly.
surement	Obsolete	A making sure; surety.
sureness		The state of being sure; certainty.
suresby	Obsolete	One to be sure of, or to be relied on.
suretiship		Suretyship.
surety		The state of being sure; certainty; security.
suretyship		The state of being surety; the obligation of a person to answer for the debt, default, or miscarriage of another.
surf	English dialect	The swell of the sea which breaks upon the shore, esp. upon a sloping beach.
surface		The exterior part of anything that has length and breadth; one of the limits that bound a solid, esp. the upper face; superficies; the outside; as, the surface of the earth; the surface of a diamond; the surface of the body.
surfacer		A form of machine for dressing the surface of wood, metal, stone, etc.
surfboat		A boat intended for use in heavy surf.
surfeit		Excess in eating and drinking.
surfeit-water	Obsolete	Water for the cure of surfeits.
surfeiter		One who surfeits.
surfel	Obsolete	To wash, as the face, with a cosmetic water, said by some to be prepared from the sulphur.
surfer		The surf duck.
surfle	Obsolete	To wash, as the face, with a cosmetic water, said by some to be prepared from the sulphur.
surfman		One who serves in a surfboat in the life-saving service.
surfoot	Obsolete	Tired or sore of foot from travel; lamed.
surfy		Consisting of, abounding in, or resembling, surf; as, a surfy shore.
surge		A large wave or billow; a great, rolling swell of water, produced generally by a high wind.
surgeful		Abounding in surges; surgy.
surgeless		Free from surges; smooth; calm.
surgent		Rising; swelling, as a flood.
surgeon		One whose profession or occupation is to cure diseases or injuries of the body by manual operation; one whose occupation is to cure local injuries or disorders (such as wounds, dislocations, tumors, etc.)…
surgeoncy		The office or employment of a surgeon, as in the naval or military service.
surgeonry	Obsolete	Surgery.
surgery		The art of healing by manual operation; that branch of medical science which treats of manual operations for the healing of diseases or injuries of the body…
surgical		Of or pertaining to surgeons or surgery; done by means of surgery; used in surgery; as, a surgical operation; surgical instruments.
surgically		By means of surgery.
surgy		Rising in surges or billows; full of surges; resembling surges in motion or appearance; swelling.
suricat		Same as Zenick.
surintendant		Superintendent.
surlily		In a surly manner.
surliness		The quality or state of being surly.
surling	Obsolete	A sour, morose fellow.
surloin		A loin of beef, or the upper part of the loin. See Sirloin, the more usual, but not etymologically preferable, orthography.
surly		Gloomily morose; ill-natured, abrupt, and rude; severe; sour; crabbed; rough; sullen; gloomy; as, a surly groom; a surly dog; surly language; a surly look.
surmark		A mark made on the molds of a ship, when building, to show where the angles of the timbers are to be placed.
surmisable		Capable of being surmised; as, a surmisable result.
surmisal		Surmise.
surmise		A thought, imagination, or conjecture, which is based upon feeble or scanty evidence; suspicion; guess; as, the surmisses of jealousy or of envy. double honor gain From his surmise proved false.
surmiser		One who surmises.
surmising		from Surmise, v.
surmount		To rise above; to be higher than; to overtop.
surmountable		Capable of being surmounted or overcome; superable. -- Sur*mount"a*ble*ness, n.
surmounted		(Arch.) Having its vertical height greater than the half span; -- said of an arch.
surmounter		One who, or that which, surmounts.
surmullet		Any one of various species of mullets of the family Millidæ, esp. the European species (Millus surmulletus), which is highly prized as a food fish.
surmulot		The brown, or Norway, rat.
surname		A name or appellation which is added to, or over and above, the baptismal or Christian name, and becomes a family name.
surnominal		Of or pertaining to a surname or surnames.
suroxidate	Obsolete	To combine with oxygen so as to form a suroxide or peroxide.
suroxide	Obsolete	A peroxide.
surpass		To go beyond in anything good or bad; to exceed; to excel.
surpassable		That may be surpassed.
surpassing		Eminently excellent; exceeding others. -- Sur*pass ing*ness, n.
surphul	Obsolete	To surfel.
surplice		A white garment worn over another dress by the clergy of the Roman Catholic, Episcopal, and certain other churches, in some of their ministrations.
surpliced		Wearing a surplice.
surplus		That which remains when use or need is satisfied, or when a limit is reached; excess; overplus.
surplusage		Surplus; excess; overplus; as, surplusage of grain or goods beyond what is wanted.
surprisal		The act of surprising, or state of being surprised; surprise.
surprise		The act of coming upon, or taking, unawares; the act of seizing unexpectedly; surprisal; as, the fort was taken by surprise.
surprisement	Obsolete	Surprisal.
surpriser		One who surprises.
surprising		Exciting surprise; extraordinary; of a nature to excite wonder and astonishment; as, surprising bravery; a surprising escape from danger. -- Sur*pris ing*ness, n.
surquedous	Obsolete	Having or exhibiting surquedry; arrogant; insolent.
surquedrous	Obsolete	Having or exhibiting surquedry; arrogant; insolent.
surquedry	Obsolete	Overweening pride; arrogance; presumption; insolence.
surquidry	Obsolete	Overweening pride; arrogance; presumption; insolence.
surrebound	Obsolete	To give back echoes; to reëcho.
surrebut		To reply, as a plaintiff to a defendant's rebutter.
surrebuter		The reply of a plaintiff to a defendant's rebutter.
surrein	Obsolete	To override; to exhaust by riding.
surrejoin		To reply, as a plaintiff to a defendant's rejoinder.
surrejoinder		The answer of a plaintiff to a defendant's rejoinder.
surrender		To yield to the power of another; to give or deliver up possession of (anything) upon compulsion or demand; as, to surrender one's person to an enemy or to an officer; to surrender a fort or a ship.
surrenderee		The person to whom a surrender is made.
surrenderer		One who surrenders.
surrenderor		One who makes a surrender, as of an estate.
surrendry	Obsolete	Surrender.
surreption		The act or process of getting in a surreptitious manner, or by craft or stealth.
surreptitious		Done or made by stealth, or without proper authority; made or introduced fraudulently; clandestine; stealthy; as, a surreptitious passage in an old manuscript; a surreptitious removal of goods. -- Sur`rep*ti"tious*ly, adv.
surrey		A four-wheeled pleasure carriage, (commonly two-seated) somewhat like a phaeton, but having a straight bottom.
surrogate		The deputy of an ecclesiastical judge, most commonly of a bishop or his chancellor, especially a deputy who grants marriage licenses.
surrogateship		The office of a surrogate.
surrogation		The act of substituting one person in the place of another.
surround		To inclose on all sides; to encompass; to environ.
surrounding		Inclosing; encircling.
surrow		The thar.
surroyal		One of the terminal branches or divisions of the beam of the antler of the stag or other large deer.
sursanure	Obsolete	A wound healed or healing outwardly only.
surseance	Obsolete	Peace; quiet.
sursolid		The fifth power of a number; as, a is the sursolid of a, or 32 that of
surstyle		To surname.
surtax		An additional or extra tax.
surtout		A man's coat to be worn over his other garments; an overcoat, especially when long, and fitting closely like a body coat.
surturbrand		A fibrous brown coal or bituminous wood.
surucucu		See Bush master, under Bush.
surveillance		Oversight; watch; inspection; supervision.
surveillant		One who watches over another; an overseer; a spy; a supervisor.
survene	Obsolete	To supervene upon; to come as an addition to.
survenue	Obsolete	A sudden or unexpected coming or stepping on.
survey		To inspect, or take a view of; to view with attention, as from a high place; to overlook; as, to stand on a hill, and survey the surrounding country.
surveyance		Survey; inspection.
surveying		That branch of applied mathematics which teaches the art of determining the area of any portion of the earth's surface, the length and directions of the bounding lines, the contour of the surface, etc.…
surveyor		One placed to superintend others; an overseer; an inspector.
surveyorship		The office of a surveyor.
surview	Obsolete	To survey; to make a survey of.
survise	Obsolete	To look over; to supervise.
survival		A living or continuing longer than, or beyond the existence of, another person, thing, or event; an outliving.
survivance		Survivorship.
survivancy		Survivorship.
survive		To live beyond the life or existence of; to live longer than; to outlive; to outlast; as, to survive a person or an event.
survivency		Survivorship.
surviver		One who survives; a survivor.
surviving		Remaining alive; yet living or existing; as, surviving friends; surviving customs.
survivor		One who survives or outlives another person, or any time, event, or thing.
survivorship		(Law) The right of a joint tenant, or other person who has a joint interest in an estate, to take the whole estate upon the death of other.
susceptibility		The state or quality of being susceptible; the capability of receiving impressions, or of being affected.
susceptible		Capable of admitting anything additional, or any change, affection, or influence; readily acted upon; as, a body susceptible of color or of alteration.
susception		The act of taking; reception.
susceptive		Susceptible.
susceptivity		Capacity for receiving; susceptibility.
susceptor		One who undertakes anything; specifically, a godfather; a sponsor; a guardian.
suscipiency		Admission.
suscipient		Receiving; admitting.
suscitability	Obsolete	Capability of being suscitated; excitability.
suscitate	Obsolete	To rouse; to excite; to call into life and action.
suscitation		The act of raising or exciting.
suslik		A ground squirrel (Spermophilus citillus) of Europe and Asia.
suspect		One who, or that which, is suspected; an object of suspicion; -- formerly applied to persons and things; now, only to persons suspected of crime.
suspectable		That may be suspected.
suspected		Distrusted; doubted. -- Sus*pect ed*ness, n.
suspecter		One who suspects.
suspectful		Apt to suspect or mistrust; full of suspicion; suspicious; as, to be suspectful of the motives of others.
suspection	Obsolete	Suspicion.
suspectiousness	Obsolete	Suspiciousness; cause for suspicion.
suspectless		Not suspecting; having no suspicion.
suspend		To attach to something above; to hang; as, to suspend a ball by a thread; to suspend a needle by a loadstone.
suspender		One who, or that which, suspends; esp., one of a pair of straps or braces worn over the shoulders, for holding up the trousers.
suspensation		The act of suspending, or the state of being suspended, especially for a short time; temporary suspension.
suspense		The state of being suspended; specifically, a state of uncertainty and expectation, with anxiety or apprehension; indetermination; indecision; as, the suspense of a person waiting for the verdict of a jury.
suspensely	Obsolete	In suspense.
suspensibility		The quality or state of being suspensible.
suspensible		Capable of being suspended; capable of being held from sinking.
suspension		The act of suspending, or the state of being suspended; pendency; as, suspension from a hook.
suspensive		Tending to suspend, or to keep in suspense; causing interruption or delay; uncertain; doubtful.
suspensor		(Bot.) The cord which suspends the embryo; and which is attached to the radicle in the young state; the proembryo.
suspensorium		Anything which suspends or holds up a part: especially, the mandibular suspensorium (a series of bones, or of cartilages representing them) which connects the base of the lower jaw with the skull in most vertebrates below mammals.
suspensory		Suspended; hanging; depending.
suspicable	Obsolete	Liable to suspicion; suspicious.
suspiciency	Obsolete	Suspiciousness; suspicion.
suspicion		The act of suspecting; the imagination or apprehension of the existence of something (esp. something wrong or hurtful) without proof, or upon very slight evidence, or upon no evidence.
suspicious		Inclined to suspect; given or prone to suspicion; apt to imagine without proof.
suspiral		A breathing hole; a vent or ventiduct.
suspiration		The act of sighing, or fetching a long and deep breath; a deep respiration; a sigh.
suspire	Obsolete	To fetch a long, deep breath; to sigh; to breathe.
suspired	Obsolete	Ardently desired or longed for; earnestly coveted.
sustain		To keep from falling; to bear; to uphold; to support; as, a foundation sustains the superstructure; a beast sustains a load; a rope sustains a weight.
sustainable		Capable of being sustained or maintained; as, the action is not sustainable.
sustained		Held up to a certain pitch, degree, or level; uniform; as, sustained pasion; a sustained style of writing; a sustained note in music.
sustainer		One who, or that which, sustains.
sustainment		The act of sustaining; maintenance; support.
sustaltic		Mournful; -- said of a species of music among the ancient Greeks.
sustenance		The act of sustaining; support; maintenance; subsistence; as, the sustenance of the body; the sustenance of life.
sustentacle	Obsolete	Sustenance.
sustentacular		Supporting; sustaining; as, a sustentacular tissue.
sustentate		To sustain.
sustentation		The act of sustaining, or the state of being sustained; preservation from falling; support; sustenance; maintenance.
sustentative		Adapted to sustain, strengthen, or corroborate; as, sustentative citations or quotations.
sustention		Sustentation.
susu		See Soosoo — a kind of dolphin (Platanista Gangeticus) native of the river Ganges; the Gangetic dolphin.
susurrant		Whispering.
susurration		A whispering; a soft murmur.
susurringly	Obsolete	In the manner of a whisper.
susurrous		Whispering; rustling; full of whispering sounds.
susurrus		The act of whispering; a whisper; a murmur.
sutile		Done by stitching.
sutler		A person who follows an army, and sells to the troops provisions, liquors, and the like.
sutlership		The condition or occupation of a sutler.
sutling		Belonging to sutlers; engaged in the occupation of a sutler.
sutor		A kind of sirup made by the Indians of Arizona from the fruit of some cactaceous plant (probably the Cereus giganteus).
sutra		(a) A precept; an aphorism; a brief rule. (b) A collection of such aphorisms.
suttee		A Hindoo widow who immolates herself, or is immolated, on the funeral pile of her husband; -- so called because this act of self- immolation is regarded as envincing excellence of wifely character.
sutteeism		The practice of self-immolation of widows in Hindostan.
suttle		The weight when the tare has been deducted, and tret is yet to be allowed.
sutural		(Bot.) Taking place at a suture; as, a sutural de.
suturally		In a sutural manner.
suturated		Sewed or knit together; united by a suture; stitched.
suture		The act of sewing; also, the line along which two things or parts are sewed together, or are united so as to form a seam, or that which resembles a seam.
sutured		Having a suture or sutures; knit or united together.
suwarrow		The giant cactus (Cereus giganteus); -- so named by the Indians of Arizona.
suzerain		A superior lord, to whom fealty is due; a feudal lord; a lord paramount.
suzerainty		The dominion or authority of a suzerain; paramount authority.
