swab		To clean with a mop or swab; to wipe when very wet, as after washing; as, to swab the desk of a ship.
swabber		One who swabs a floor or desk.
swad	Low	A lump of mass; also, a crowd.
swaddle		Anything used to swaddle with, as a cloth or band; a swaddling band.
swaddlebill	Dialect	The shoveler.
swaddler		A term of contempt for an Irish Methodist.
swaddling		from Swaddle, v.
swag	English dialect	To hang or move, as something loose and heavy; to sway; to swing.
swag-bellied		Having a prominent, overhanging belly.
swagbelly		A prominent, overhanging belly.
swage	Obsolete	See Assuage — the plague being come to a crisis, its fury began to assuage.
swagger		To walk with a swaying motion; hence, to walk and act in a pompous, consequential manner.
swaggerer		One who swaggers; a blusterer; a bully; a boastful, noisy fellow.
swaggie		A swagman.
swaggy		Inclined to swag; sinking, hanging, or leaning by its weight.
swagman		A bushman carrying a swag and traveling on foot; -- called also swagsman, swagger, and swaggie.
swagsman		A swagman.
swain		A young man dwelling in the country; a rustic; esp., a cuntry gallant or lover; -- chiefly in poetry.
swainish		Pertaining to, or resembling, a swain; rustic; ignorant. -- Swain"ish*ness, n.
swainling		A little swain.
swainmote		A court held before the verders of the forest as judges, by the steward of the court, thrice every year, the swains, or freeholders, within the forest composing the jury.
swainship		The condition of a swain.
swaip	English dialect	To walk proudly; to sweep along.
swal		Swelled.
swale	English dialect	A valley or low place; a tract of low, and usually wet, land; a moor; a fen.
swallet	English dialect	Water breaking in upon the miners at their work; -- so called among tin miners.
swallow		(Zoöl.) Any one of numerous species of passerine birds of the family Hirundinidæ, especially one of those species in which the tail is deeply forked.
swallow-tailed		Having a tail like that of a swallow; hence, like a swallow's tail in form; having narrow and tapering or pointed skirts; as, a swallow- tailed coat.
swallower		One who swallows; also, a glutton.
swallowfish		The European sapphirine gurnard (Trigla hirundo).
swallowtail		(Carp.) A kind of tenon or tongue used in making joints. See Dovetail.
swallowwort		(a) See Celandine. (b) A poisonous plant (Vincetoxicum officinale) of the Milkweed family, at one time used in medicine; -- also called white swallowwort.
swam		imp. of Swim — to be supported by water or other fluid; not to sink; to float; as, any substance will swim, whose specific gravity is less than that of the fluid in which it is immersed.
swamp		Wet, spongy land; soft, low ground saturated with water, but not usually covered with it; marshy ground away from the seashore.
swampy		Consisting of swamp; like a swamp; low, wet, and spongy; as, swampy land.
swan		(Zoöl.) Any one of numerous species of large aquatic birds belonging to Cygnus, Olor, and allied genera of the subfamily Cygninæ.
swan-hopping		A corruption of Swan-upping.
swan-upping		A yearly expedition on the Thames to take up young swans and mark them, as by Companies of Dyers and Vintners; -- called also swan-hopping.
swang	English dialect	imp. of Swing — to move to and fro, as a body suspended in the air; to wave; to vibrate; to oscillate.
swanherd		One who tends or marks swans; as, the royal swanherd of England.
swanimote		See Swainmote — a court held before the verders of the forest as judges, by the steward of the court, thrice every year, the swains, or freeholders, within the forest composing the jury.
swankie	Scots	An active and clever young fellow.
swanky	Scots	An active and clever young fellow.
swanlike		Resembling a swan.
swanmark		A mark of ownership cut on the bill or swan.
swannery		A place where swans are bred.
swanny		Swanlike; as, a swanny glossiness of the neck.
swanpan		The Chinese abacus; a schwanpan.
swanskin		The act of a swan with the down or the feathers on.
swap	Colloquial	To exchange (usually two things of the same kind); to swop.
swape		See Sweep, n., 12.
sward	English dialect	The grassy surface of land; that part of the soil which is filled with the roots of grass; turf.
sward-cutter		(a) A plow for turning up grass land. (b) A lawn mower.
swarded		Covered with sward.
swardy		Covered with sward or grass.
sware	Obsolete	imp. of Swear — to affirm or utter a solemn declaration, with an appeal to God for the truth of what is affirmed; to make a promise, threat, or resolve on oath; also…
swarf	Scots	To grow languid; to faint.
swarm	Colloquial	To climb a tree, pole, or the like, by embracing it with the arms and legs alternately.
swarmspore		(Bot.) One of innumerable minute, motile, reproductive bodies, produced asexually by certain algæ and fungi; a zoöspore.
swart		Of a dark hue; moderately black; swarthy; tawny.
swartback	English dialect	The black-backed gull (Larus marinus); -- called also swarbie.
swarth	English dialect	Swart; swarthy.
swarthily		In a swarthy manner; with a tawny hue; duskily.
swarthiness		The quality or state of being swarthy; a dusky or dark complexion; tawniness.
swarthness		Swarthiness.
swarthy	Obsolete	Being of a dark hue or dusky complexion; tawny; swart; as, swarthy faces.
swartiness	Obsolete	Swarthiness.
swartish		Somewhat swart, dark, or tawny.
swartness		The quality or state of being swart.
swarty	Obsolete	Swarthy; tawny.
swarve	Obsolete	To swerve.
swash	English dialect	An oval figure, whose moldings are oblique to the axis of the work.
swashbuckler		A bully or braggadocio; a swaggering, boastful fellow; a swaggerer.
swasher		One who makes a blustering show of valor or force of arms.
swashing		Swaggering; hectoring.
swashway		Same as 4th Swash, 2.
swashy	English dialect	Soft, like fruit that is too ripe; quashy; swash.
swastica		A symbol or ornament in the form of a Greek cross with the ends of the arms at right angles all in the same direction, and each prolonged to the height of the parallel arm of the cross.
swastika		A symbol or ornament in the form of a Greek cross with the ends of the arms at right angles all in the same direction, and each prolonged to the height of the parallel arm of the cross.
swat		imp. of Sweat — to excrete sensible moisture from the pores of the skin; to perspire.
swatch		A piece, pattern, or sample, generally of cloth.
swate		imp. of Sweat — to excrete sensible moisture from the pores of the skin; to perspire.
swath		A line of grass or grain cut and thrown together by the scythe in mowing or cradling.
swathe		To bind with a swathe, band, bandage, or rollers.
swather		A device attached to a mowing machine for raising the uncut fallen grain and marking the limit of the swath.
swatte		imp. of Sweat — to excrete sensible moisture from the pores of the skin; to perspire.
sway		To move or wield with the hand; to swing; to wield; as, to sway the scepter.
sway-backed		Having the back hollow or sagged, whether naturally or as the result of injury or weakness; -- said of horses and other animals.
sway-bracing		The horizontal bracing of a bridge, which prevents its swaying.
swayed		Bent down, and hollow in the back; sway-backed; -- said of a horse.
swayful		Able to sway.
swaying		An injury caused by violent strains or by overloading; -- said of the backs of horses.
sweal		To melt and run down, as the tallow of a candle; to waste away without feeding the flame.
swear		To affirm or utter a solemn declaration, with an appeal to God for the truth of what is affirmed; to make a promise, threat, or resolve on oath; also, to affirm solemnly by some sacred object, or one regarded as sacred…
swearer		One who swears; one who calls God to witness for the truth of his declaration.
swearing		from Swear, v.
sweat		To excrete sensible moisture from the pores of the skin; to perspire.
sweater		One who sweats.
sweatily		In a sweaty manner.
sweatiness		Quality or state of being sweaty.
sweating		a. & n. from Sweat, v.
sweaty		Moist with sweat; as, a sweaty skin; a sweaty garment.
swede		(Bot.) A Swedish turnip. See under Turnip.
swedenborgian		One who holds the doctrines of the New Jerusalem church, as taught by Emanuel Swedenborg, a Swedish philosopher and religious writer, who was born a. d. 1688 and died 1772.
swedenborgianism		The doctrines of the Swedenborgians.
swedish		Of or pertaining to Sweden or its inhabitants.
sweeny		An atrophy of the muscles of the shoulder in horses; also, atrophy of any muscle in horses.
sweep		To pass a broom across (a surface) so as to remove loose dirt, dust, etc.; to brush, or rub over, with a broom for the purpose of cleaning; as, to sweep a floor, the street, or a chimney.
sweep-saw		A bow-saw.
sweepage	English dialect	The crop of hay got in a meadow.
sweeper		One who, or that which, sweeps, or cleans by sweeping; a sweep; as, a carpet sweeper.
sweeping		Cleaning off surfaces, or cleaning away dust, dirt, or litter, as a broom does; moving with swiftness and force; carrying everything before it; including in its scope many persons or things; as, a sweeping flood…
sweepings		Things collected by sweeping; rubbish; as, the sweepings of a street.
sweepstake		A winning of all the stakes or prizes.
sweepstakes		A winning of all the stakes or prizes; a sweepstake.
sweepwasher		One who extracts the residuum of precious metals from the sweepings, potsherds, etc., of refineries of gold and silver, or places where these metals are used.
sweepy		Moving with a sweeping motion.
sweet		Having an agreeable taste or flavor such as that of sugar; saccharine; -- opposed to sour and bitter; as, a sweet beverage; sweet fruits; sweet oranges.
sweet-breasted	Obsolete	Having a sweet, musical voice, as the nightingale.
sweet-scented		Having a sweet scent or smell; fragrant.
sweet-sop		A kind of custard apple (Anona squamosa). See under Custard.
sweetbread		Either the thymus gland or the pancreas, the former being called neck, or throat, sweetbread, the latter belly sweetbread.
sweetbrier		A kind of rose (Rosa rubiginosa) with minutely glandular and fragrant foliage.
sweeten		To make sweet to the taste; as, to sweeten tea.
sweetener		One who, or that which, sweetens; one who palliates; that which moderates acrimony.
sweetening		The act of making sweet.
sweetheart		A lover of mistress.
sweethearting		Making love.
sweeting		A sweet apple.
sweetish		Somewhat sweet. -- Sweet"ish*ness, n.
sweetly		In a sweet manner.
sweetmeat		Fruit preserved with sugar, as peaches, pears, melons, nuts, orange peel, etc.; -- usually in the plural; a confect; a confection.
sweetness		The quality or state of being sweet (in any sense of the adjective); gratefulness to the taste or to the smell; agreeableness.
sweetroot		Licorice.
sweetwater		A variety of white grape, having a sweet watery juice; -- also called white sweetwater, and white muscadine.
sweetweed		A name for two tropical American weeds (Capraria biflora, and Scoparia dulcis) of the Figwort family.
sweetwood		(a) The true laurel (Laurus nobilis.) (b) The timber of the tree Oreodaphne Leucoxylon, growing in Jamaica.
sweetwort		Any plant of a sweet taste.
sweigh	Obsolete	Sway; movement.
sweinmote	Obsolete	See Swainmote — a court held before the verders of the forest as judges, by the steward of the court, thrice every year, the swains, or freeholders, within the forest composing the jury.
swell		To grow larger; to dilate or extend the exterior surface or dimensions, by matter added within, or by expansion of the inclosed substance; as, the legs swell in dropsy; a bruised part swells; a bladder swells by inflation.
swelldom		People of rank and fashion; the class of swells, collectively.
swellfish		Any plectognath fish that dilates itself, as the bur fish, puffer, or diodon.
swelling		The act of that which swells; as, the swelling of rivers in spring; the swelling of the breast with pride.
swellish	Slang	Dandified; stylish.
swelltoad		A swellfish.
swelt		imp. of Swell — to grow larger; to dilate or extend the exterior surface or dimensions, by matter added within, or by expansion of the inclosed substance; as, the legs swell in dropsy…
swelter		To be overcome and faint with heat; to be ready to perish with heat.
sweltry		Suffocating with heat; oppressively hot; sultry.
swelve	Obsolete	To swallow.
swept		imp. & p. p. of Sweep.
swerd	Obsolete	See Sward, n. & v.
swerve		To go out of a straight line; to deflect.
sweven	Obsolete	A vision seen in sleep; a dream.
swietenia		A genus of meliaceous trees consisting of one species (Sweitenia Mahogoni), the mahogany tree.
swift		Moving a great distance in a short time; moving with celerity or velocity; fleet; rapid; quick; speedy; prompt.
swifter		(a) A rope used to retain the bars of the capstan in their sockets while men are turning it.
swiftfoot		Nimble; fleet.
swiftlet		Any one of numerous species of small East Indian and Asiatic swifts of the genus Collocalia.
swiftly		In a swift manner; with quick motion or velocity; fleetly.
swiftness		The quality or state of being swift; speed; quickness; celerity; velocity; rapidity; as, the swiftness of a bird; the swiftness of a stream; swiftness of descent in a falling body; swiftness of thought, etc.
swig	Colloquial	To drink in long draughts; to gulp; as, to swig cider.
swill		Etym: To drink in great draughts; to swallow greedily.
swiller		One who swills.
swillings		See Swill, n., 1.
swim		To be supported by water or other fluid; not to sink; to float; as, any substance will swim, whose specific gravity is less than that of the fluid in which it is immersed.
swimbel	Obsolete	A moaning or sighing sound or noise; a sough.
swimmer		(Far.) A protuberance on the leg of a horse.
swimmeret		One of a series of flat, fringed, and usually bilobed, appendages, of which several pairs occur on the abdominal somites of many crustaceans.
swimming		That swims; capable of swimming; adapted to, or used in, swimming; as, a swimming bird; a swimming motion.
swimmingly		In an easy, gliding manner, as if swimming; smoothly; successfully; prosperously.
swimmingness		Act or state of swimming; suffusion.
swinck		See Swink — to cause to toil or drudge; to tire or exhaust with labor.
swindle		To cheat defraud grossly, or with deliberate artifice; as, to swindle a man out of his property.
swindler		One who swindles, or defrauds grossly; one who makes a practice of defrauding others by imposition or deliberate artifice; a cheat.
swindlery		Swindling; rougery.
swine	Obsolete	Any animal of the hog kind, especially one of the domestical species.
swine-pox		A variety of the chicken pox, with acuminated vesicles containing a watery fluid; the water pox.
swinebread		The truffle.
swinecase	English dialect	A hogsty.
swinecote	English dialect	A hogsty.
swinecrue	English dialect	A hogsty.
swinefish		The wolf fish.
swineherd		A keeper of swine.
swinepipe	English dialect	The European redwing.
swinery		Same as Piggery.
swinestone		See Stinkstone — one of the varieties of calcite, barite, and feldspar, which emit a fetid odor on being struck; -- called also swinestone.
swinesty		A sty, or pen, for swine.
swing		To move to and fro, as a body suspended in the air; to wave; to vibrate; to oscillate.
swingdevil	English dialect	The European swift.
swinge		To beat soundly; to whip; to chastise; to punish.
swingebuckler	Obsolete	A swashbuckler; a bully; a roiserer.
swingeing	Colloquial	Huge; very large.
swingel		The swinging part of a flail which falls on the grain in thrashing; the swiple.
swinger		One who swings or whirls.
swingle		To clean, as flax, by beating it with a swingle, so as to separate the coarse parts and the woody substance from it; to scutch.
swinglebar		A swingletree.
swingletail		The thrasher, or fox shark. See Thrasher.
swingletree		A whiffletree, or whippletree. See Singletree.
swingling		from Swingle, v. t.
swingtree		The bar of a carriage to which the traces are fastened; the whiffletree.
swinish		Of or pertaining to swine; befitting swine; like swine; hoggish; gross; beasty; as, a swinish drunkard or sot. -- Swin ish*ness, n.
swink	Obsolete	To cause to toil or drudge; to tire or exhaust with labor.
swinker	Obsolete	A laborer.
swinney		See Sweeny — an atrophy of the muscles of the shoulder in horses; also, atrophy of any muscle in horses.
swipe		A strong blow given with a sweeping motion, as with a bat or club.
swiple		That part of a flail which strikes the grain in thrashing; a swingel.
swipper	Obsolete	Nimble; quick.
swirl		To whirl, or cause to whirl, as in an eddy.
swish		To flourish, so as to make the sound swish.
swiss		A native or inhabitant of Switzerland; a Switzer; the people of Switzerland.
switch		A small, flexible twig or rod.
switchel		A beverage of molasses and water, seasoned with vinegar and ginger.
switching		from Switch, v.
switchman		One who tends a switch on a railway.
switchy	Colloquial	Whisking.
swithe	Obsolete	Instantly; quickly; speedily; rapidly.
switzer		A native or inhabitant of Switzerland; a Swiss.
swive	Obsolete	To copulate with (a woman).
swivel		(Mech.) A piece, as a ring or hook, attached to another piece by a pin, in such a manner as to permit rotation about the pin as an axis.
swivel-eyed	English dialect	Squint-eyed.
swizzle	English dialect	To drink; to swill.
swob		See Swab — to clean with a mop or swab; to wipe when very wet, as after washing; as, to swab the desk of a ship.
swobber		See Swabber — one who swabs a floor or desk.
swollen		p. p. of Swell — to grow larger; to dilate or extend the exterior surface or dimensions, by matter added within, or by expansion of the inclosed substance; as, the legs swell in dropsy…
swoln		Contraction of Swollen, p. p.
swom		imp. of Swim — to be supported by water or other fluid; not to sink; to float; as, any substance will swim, whose specific gravity is less than that of the fluid in which it is immersed.
swoon		To sink into a fainting fit, in which there is an apparent suspension of the vital functions and mental powers; to faint; -- often with away.
swooning		from Swoon, v. -- Swoon"ing*ly, adv.
swoop		To fall on at once and seize; to catch while on the wing; as, a hawk swoops a chicken.
swoopstake	Obsolete	See Sweepstake — a winning of all the stakes or prizes.
swop		Same as Swap.
sword		An offensive weapon, having a long and usually sharp
sword-shaped		Shaped like a sword; ensiform, as the long, flat leaves of the Iris, cattail, and the like.
swordbill		A humming bird (Docimastes ensiferus) having a very long, slender bill, exceeding the length of the body of the bird.
sworded		Girded with a sword.
sworder	Obsolete	One who uses, or fights with, a sword; a swordsman; a soldier; a cutthroat.
swordfish		(Zoöl.) (a) A very large oceanic fish (Xiphias gladius), the only representative of the family Xiphiidæ.
swordick	English dialect	The spotted gunnel (Murænoides gunnellus).
swording		Slashing with a sword.
swordless		Destitute of a sword.
swordman		A swordsman.
swordplay		Fencing; a sword fight.
swordplayer		A fencer; a gladiator; one who exhibits his skill in the use of the sword.
swordsman		A soldier; a fighting man.
swordsmanship		The state of being a swordsman; skill in the use of the sword.
swordtail		(a) The limulus. (b) Any hemipterous insect of the genus Uroxiphus, found upon forest trees.
swore		imp. of Swear — to affirm or utter a solemn declaration, with an appeal to God for the truth of what is affirmed; to make a promise, threat, or resolve on oath; also…
sworn		p. p. of Swear — to affirm or utter a solemn declaration, with an appeal to God for the truth of what is affirmed; to make a promise, threat, or resolve on oath; also…
swough	Obsolete	A sound; a groan; a moan; a sough.
swound	English dialect	See Swoon, v. & n.
swum		imp. & p. p. of Swim.
swung		imp. & p. p. of Swing.
swythe	Obsolete	Quickly. See Swithe.
