syb	Obsolete	See Sib — a blood relation.
sybarite		A person devoted to luxury and pleasure; a voluptuary.
sybaritic		Of or pertaining to the Sybarites; resembling the Sybarites; luxurious; wanton; effeminate.
sybaritical		Of or pertaining to the Sybarites; resembling the Sybarites; luxurious; wanton; effeminate.
sybaritism		Luxuriousness; effeminacy; wantonness; voluptuousness.
sycamine		See Sycamore — (a) A large tree (Ficus Sycomorus) allied to the common fig. It is found in Egypt and Syria, and is the sycamore, or sycamine, of Scripture.
sycamore		(a) A large tree (Ficus Sycomorus) allied to the common fig. It is found in Egypt and Syria, and is the sycamore, or sycamine, of Scripture.
syce		A groom.
sycee		Silver, pounded into ingots of the shape of a shoe, and used as currency.
sychnocarpous		Having the capacity of bearing several successive crops of fruit without perishing; as, sychnocarpous plants.
sycite	Obsolete	A nodule of flint, or a pebble, which resembles a fig.
sycoceric		Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained by the oxidation of sycoceryl alcohol.
sycoceryl		A radical, of the aromatic series, regarded as an essential ingredient of certain compounds found in the waxy resin of an Australian species of fig.
sycock	English dialect	The missel thrush.
sycones		A division of calcareous sponges.
syconium		A collective fleshy fruit, in which the ovaries are hidden within a hollow receptacle, as in the fig.
syconus		A collective fleshy fruit, in which the ovaries are hidden within a hollow receptacle, as in the fig.
sycophancy	Obsolete	The character or characteristic of a sycophant. Hence: - (a) False accusation; calumniation; talebearing.
sycophant		A base parasite; a mean or servile flatterer; especially, a flatterer of princes and great men.
sycophantcy	Obsolete	Sycophancy.
sycophantic		Of or pertaining to a sycophant; characteristic of a sycophant; meanly or obsequiously flattering; courting favor by mean adulation; parasitic.
sycophantical		Of or pertaining to a sycophant; characteristic of a sycophant; meanly or obsequiously flattering; courting favor by mean adulation; parasitic.
sycophantish		Like a sycophant; obsequiously flattering. -- Syc"o*phant`ish*ly, adv.
sycophantism		Sycophancy.
sycophantize		To play the sycophant.
sycophantry	Obsolete	Sycophancy.
sycosis		A pustular eruption upon the scalp, or the beared part of the face, whether due to ringworm, acne, or impetigo.
syderolite		A kind of Bohemian earthenware resembling the Wedgwood ware.
syenite		(a) Orig., a rock composed of quartz, hornblende, and feldspar, anciently quarried at Syene, in Upper Egypt, and now called granite.
syenitic		Relating to Syene; as, Syenitic inscriptions.
syke	Obsolete	See Sike — such. See Such.
syker	Obsolete	See Sicker — to percolate, trickle, or ooze, as water through a crack.
syle		A young herring (Clupea harengus).
syllabarium		A syllabary.
syllabary		A table of syllables; more especially, a table of the indivisible syllabic symbols used in certain languages, as the Japanese and Cherokee, instead of letters.
syllabe		Syllable.
syllabic		Of or pertaining to a syllable or syllables; as, syllabic accent.
syllabical		Of or pertaining to a syllable or syllables; as, syllabic accent.
syllabically		In a syllabic manner.
syllabicate		To form or divide into syllables; to syllabify.
syllabication		The act of forming syllables; the act or method of dividing words into syllables.
syllabification		Same as Syllabication.
syllabify		To form or divide into syllables.
syllabism		The expressing of the sounds of a language by syllables, rather than by an alphabet or by signs for words.
syllabist		One who forms or divides words into syllables, or is skilled in doing this.
syllabize		To syllabify.
syllable		An elementary sound, or a combination of elementary sounds, uttered together, or with a single effort or impulse of the voice, and constituting a word or a part of a word.
syllabub		Same as Syllabub.
syllabus		A compendium containing the heads of a discourse, and the like; an abstract.
syllepsis		(Rhet.) A figure of speech by which a word is used in a literal and metaphorical sense at the same time.
sylleptic		Of or pertaining to a syllepsis; containing syllepsis. -- Syl*lep"tic*al*ly, adv.
sylleptical		Of or pertaining to a syllepsis; containing syllepsis. -- Syl*lep"tic*al*ly, adv.
syllidian		Any one of numerous species of marine annelids of the family Syllidæ.
syllogism		The regular logical form of every argument, consisting of three propositions, of which the first two are called the premises, and the last, the conclusion.
syllogistic		Of or pertaining to a syllogism; consisting of a syllogism, or of the form of reasoning by syllogisms; as, syllogistic arguments or reasoning.
syllogistical		Of or pertaining to a syllogism; consisting of a syllogism, or of the form of reasoning by syllogisms; as, syllogistic arguments or reasoning.
syllogistically		In a syllogistic manner.
syllogization	Obsolete	A reasoning by syllogisms.
syllogize		To reason by means of syllogisms.
syllogizer		One who syllogizes.
sylph		An imaginary being inhabiting the air; a fairy.
sylphid		A little sylph; a young or diminutive sylph.
sylphine		Like a sylph.
sylphish		Sylphlike.
sylphlike		Like a sylph; airy; graceful.
sylva		Same as Silva.
sylvan		Of or pertaining to a sylva; forestlike; hence, rural; rustic.
sylvanite		A mineral, a telluride of gold and silver, of a steel-gray, silver-white, or brass-yellow color.
sylvanium		An old name for tellurium.
sylvate		A salt of sylvic acid.
sylvic		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, pine or its products; specifically, designating an acid called also abeitic acid, which is the chief ingredient of common resin (obtained from Pinus sylvestris, and other species).
sylvicoline		Of or pertaining to the family of warblers (Sylvicolidæ). See Warbler.
sylviculture		The cultivation of forest trees for timber or other purposes; forestry; arboriculture.
sylviculturist		One who cultivates forest trees, especially as a business.
sylvine		Native potassium chloride.
sylvite		Native potassium chloride.
sym-		See Syn- — a prefix meaning with, along with, together, at the same time.
symar		See Simar — a woman's long dress or robe; also light covering; a scarf.
symarr		See Simar — a woman's long dress or robe; also light covering; a scarf.
symbal	Obsolete	See Cimbal — a kind of confectionery or cake.
symbiosis		The living together in more or less imitative association or even close union of two dissimilar organisms.
symbiotic		Pertaining to, or characterized by, or living in, a state of symbiosis. -- Sym`bi*ot ic*al*ly (#), adv.
symbol		A visible sign or representation of an idea; anything which suggests an idea or quality, or another thing, as by resemblance or by convention; an emblem; a representation; a type; a figure; as, the lion is the symbol of courage…
symbolic		See Symbolics — the study of ancient symbols; esp. (Theol.), that branch of historic theology which treats of creeds and confessions of faith; symbolism; -- called also symbolic.
symbolical		Of or pertaining to a symbol or symbols; of the nature of a symbol; exhibiting or expressing by resemblance or signs; representative; as, the figure of an eye is symbolic of sight and knowledge. -- Sym*bol ic*al*ness, n.
symbolics		The study of ancient symbols; esp. (Theol.), that branch of historic theology which treats of creeds and confessions of faith; symbolism; -- called also symbolic.
symbolism		The act of symbolizing, or the state of being symbolized; as, symbolism in Christian art is the representation of truth, virtues, vices, etc., by emblematic colors, signs, and forms.
symbolist		One who employs symbols.
symbolistic		Characterized by the use of symbols; as, symbolistic poetry.
symbolistical		Characterized by the use of symbols; as, symbolistic poetry.
symbolization		The act of symbolizing; symbolical representation.
symbolize		To hold the same faith; to agree.
symbolizer		One who symbolizes.
symbological		Pertaining to a symbology; versed in, or characterized by, symbology.
symbologist		One who practices, or who is versed in, symbology.
symbology		The art of expressing by symbols.
symbranchii		An order of slender eel-like fishes having the gill openings confluent beneath the neck.
symmetral	Obsolete	Commensurable; symmetrical.
symmetrian		One eminently studious of symmetry of parts.
symmetric		Symmetrical.
symmetrical		Involving or exhibiting symmetry; proportional in parts; having its parts in due proportion as to dimensions; as, a symmetrical body or building.
symmetrician		Same as Symmetrian.
symmetrist		One eminently studious of symmetry of parts.
symmetrize		To make proportional in its parts; to reduce to symmetry.
symmetry		A due proportion of the several parts of a body to each other; adaptation of the form or dimensions of the several parts of a thing to each other; the union and conformity of the members of a work to the whole.
sympathetic		Inclined to sympathy; sympathizing.
sympathetical		Sympathetic.
sympathetically		In a sympathetic manner.
sympathist		One who sympathizes; a sympathizer.
sympathize		To have a common feeling, as of bodily pleasure or pain.
sympathizer		One who sympathizes.
sympathy		Feeling corresponding to that which another feels; the quality of being affected by the affection of another, with feelings correspondent in kind, if not in degree; fellow-feeling.
sympetalous		Having the petals united; gamopetalous.
symphonic		(Mus.) Relating to, or in the manner of, symphony; as, the symphonic form or style of composition.
symphonious		Agreeing in sound; accordant; harmonious.
symphonist		A composer of symphonies.
symphonize		To agree; to be in harmony.
symphony		A consonance or harmony of sounds, agreeable to the ear, whether the sounds are vocal or instrumental, or both.
symphyla		An order of small apterous insects having an elongated body, with three pairs of thoracic and about nine pairs of abdominal legs.
symphyseal		Of or pertaining to to symphysis.
symphyseotomy		The operation of dividing the symphysis pubis for the purpose of facilitating labor; -- formerly called the Sigualtian section.
symphysis		(a) An articulation formed by intervening cartilage; as, the pubic symphysis.
symphysotomy		Symphyseotomy.
symphytism		Coalescence; a growing into one with another word.
sympiesometer		A sensitive kind of barometer, in which the pressure of the atmosphere, acting upon a liquid, as oil, in the lower portion of the instrument, compresses an elastic gas in the upper part.
symplectic		Plaiting or joining together; -- said of a bone next above the quadrate in the mandibular suspensorium of many fishes, which unites together the other bones of the suspensorium. -- n.
symploce		The repetition of a word or phrase at the beginning and another at the end of successive clauses; as, Justice came down from heaven to view the earth; Justice returned to heaven, and left the earth.
sympode		A sympodium.
sympodial		Composed of superposed branches in such a way as to imitate a simple axis; as, a sympodial stem.
sympodium		An axis or stem produced by dichotomous branching in which one of the branches is regularly developed at the expense of the other, as in the grapevine.
symposiac		Of or pertaining to compotations and merrymaking; happening where company is drinking together; as, symposiac meetings.
symposiarch		The master of a feast.
symposiast		One engaged with others at a banquet or merrymaking.
symposion		A drinking together; a symposium.
symposium		A drinking together; a merry feast.
symptom		(Med.) Any affection which accompanies disease; a perceptible change in the body or its functions, which indicates disease, or the kind or phases of disease; as, the causes of disease often lie beyond our sight…
symptomatic		Of or pertaining to symptoms; happening in concurrence with something; being a symptom; indicating the existence of something else.
symptomatical		Of or pertaining to symptoms; happening in concurrence with something; being a symptom; indicating the existence of something else.
symptomatology		The doctrine of symptoms; that part of the science of medicine which treats of the symptoms of diseases; semeiology.
syn-		A prefix meaning with, along with, together, at the same time.
synacme		Same as Synanthesis.
synacmy		Same as Synanthesis.
synaeresis		The union, or drawing together into one syllable, of two vowels that are ordinarily separated in syllabification; synecphonesis; -- the opposite of diæresis.
synagogical		Of or pertaining to a synagogue.
synagogue		A congregation or assembly of Jews met for the purpose of worship, or the performance of religious rites.
synalepha		A contraction of syllables by suppressing some vowel or diphthong at the end of a word, before another vowel or diphthong; as, th' army, for the army.
synallagmatic		Imposing reciprocal obligations upon the parties; as, a synallagmatic contract.
synallaxine		Having the outer and middle toes partially united; -- said of certain birds related to the creepers.
synaloepha		Same as Synalepha.
synangium		The divided part beyond the pylangium in the aortic trunk of the amphibian heart. -- Syn*an"gi*al, a.
synantherous		Having the stamens united by their anthers; as, synantherous flowers.
synanthesis		The simultaneous maturity of the anthers and stigmas of a blossom.
synanthous		Having flowers and leaves which appear at the same time; -- said of certain plants.
synanthrose		A variety of sugar, isomeric with sucrose, found in the tubers of the Jerusalem artichoke (Helianthus tuberosus), in the dahlia, and other Compositæ.
synapta		A genus of slender, transparent holothurians which have delicate calcareous anchors attached to the dermal plates.
synaptase		A ferment resembling diastase, found in bitter almonds.
synapticula		One of numerous calcareous processes which extend between, and unite, the adjacent septa of certain corals, especially of the fungian corals.
synarchy		Joint rule or sovereignity.
synartesis		A fastening or knitting together; the state of being closely jointed; close union.
synarthrodia		Synarthrosis. -- Syn`ar*thro"di*al, a.
synarthrosis		Immovable articulation by close union, as in sutures.
synastry		Concurrence of starry position or influence; hence, similarity of condition, fortune, etc., as prefigured by astrological calculation.
synaxis		A congregation; also, formerly, the Lord's Supper.
syncarp		A kind of aggregate fruit in which the ovaries cohere in a solid mass, with a slender receptacle, as in the magnolia; also, a similar multiple fruit, as a mulberry.
syncarpium		Same as Syncarp.
syncarpous		Composed of several carpels consolidated into one ovary.
syncategorematic		Not capable of being used as a term by itself; -- said of words, as an adverb or preposition.
synchondrosis		An immovable articulation in which the union is formed by cartilage. -- Syn`chon*dro"si*al, a.
synchondrotomy		Symphyseotomy.
synchoresis		A concession made for the purpose of retorting with greater force.
synchronal		Happening at, or belonging to, the same time; synchronous; simultaneous.
synchronical		Happening at the same time; synchronous.
synchronism		The concurrence of events in time; simultaneousness.
synchronistic		Of or pertaining to synchronism; arranged according to correspondence in time; as, synchronistic tables.
synchronization		The act of synchronizing; concurrence of events in respect to time.
synchronize		To assign to the same date or period of time; as, to synchronize two events of Greek and Roman history.
synchronology		Contemporaneous chronology.
synchronous		Happening at the same time; simultaneous. -- Syn"chro*nous*ly, adv.
synchrony		The concurrence of events in time; synchronism.
synchysis		A derangement or confusion of any kind, as of words in a sentence, or of humors in the eye.
synclastic		Curved toward the same side in all directions; -- said of surfaces which in all directions around any point bend away from a tangent plane toward the same side, as the surface of a sphere; -- opposed to anticlastic.
synclinal		Inclined downward from opposite directions, so as to meet in a common point or line.
syncline		A synclinal fold.
synclinical		Synclinal.
synclinorium		A mountain range owing its origin to the progress of a geosynclinal, and ending in a catastrophe of displacement and upturning.
syncopal		Of or pertaining to syncope; resembling syncope.
syncopate		(Gram.) To contract, as a word, by taking one or more letters or syllables from the middle; as, is a syncopated form of
syncopation		(Gram.) The act of syncopating; the contraction of a word by taking one or more letters or syllables from the middle; syncope.
syncope		(Gram.) An elision or retrenchment of one or more letters or syllables from the middle of a word; as, ne'er for never, ev'ry for every.
syncopist		One who syncopates.
syncopize		To syncopate.
syncotyledonous		Having united cotyledonous.
syncretic		Uniting and blending together different systems, as of philosophy, morals, or religion.
syncretism		Attempted union of principles or parties irreconcilably at variance with each other.
syncretist		One who attempts to unite principles or parties which are irreconcilably at variance; specifically (Eccl. Hist.), an adherent of George Calixtus and other Germans of the seventeenth century…
syncretistic		Pertaining to, or characterized by, syncretism; as, a syncretistic mixture of the service of Jehovah and the worship of idols.
syncrisis		A figure of speech in which opposite things or persons are compared.
syncytium		(Biol.) Tissue in which the cell or partition walls are wholly wanting and the cell bodies fused together, so that the tissue consists of a continuous mass of protoplasm in which nuclei are imbedded, as in ordinary striped muscle.
syndactyl		Having two or more digits wholly or partly united. See Syndactylism.
syndactyle		Having two or more digits wholly or partly united. See Syndactylism.
syndactylic		Syndactilous.
syndactylous		Having the toes firmly united together for some distance, and without an intermediate web, as the kingfishers; gressorial.
syndesmography		A description of the ligaments; syndesmology.
syndesmology		That part of anatomy which treats of ligaments.
syndesmosis		An articulation formed by means of ligaments.
syndetic		Connecting; conjunctive; as, syndetic words or connectives; syndetic references in a dictionary. -- Syn*det"ic*al*ly, adv.
syndetical		Connecting; conjunctive; as, syndetic words or connectives; syndetic references in a dictionary. -- Syn*det"ic*al*ly, adv.
syndic		An officer of government, invested with different powers in different countries; a magistrate.
syndical		Of or pertaining to, or of the nature of, syndicalism.
syndicalism		The theory, plan, or practice of trade-union action (originally as advocated and practiced by the French Confédération Générale du Travail) which aims to abolish the present political and social system by means of the general…
syndicalist		One who advocates or practices syndicalism. --Syn`dic*al*is"tic (#), a.
syndicate	Obsolete	An association of persons officially authorized to undertake some duty or to negotiate some business; also, an association of persons who combine to carry out, on their own account, a financial or industrial project; as…
syndication		Act or process of syndicating or forming a syndicate.
syndrome		Concurrence.
syndyasmian		Pertaining to the state of pairing together sexually; -- said of animals during periods of procreation and while rearing their offspring.
syne	Scots	Late, -- as opposed to soon. shall be discovered either soon or syne.
synecdoche		A figure or trope by which a part of a thing is put for the whole (as, fifty sail for fifty ships), or the whole for a part (as, the smiling year for spring), the species for the genus (as, cutthroat for assassin)…
synecdochical		Expressed by synecdoche; implying a synecdoche.
synecdochically		By synecdoche.
synechia		A disease of the eye, in which the iris adheres to the cornea or to the capsule of the crystalline lens.
synecphonesis		A contraction of two syllables into one; synizesis.
synedral		Growing on the angles of a stem, as the leaves in some species of Selaginella.
synentognathi		An order of fishes, resembling the Physoclisti, without spines in the dorsal, anal, and ventral fins.
synepy		The interjunction, or joining, of words in uttering the clauses of sentences.
syneresis		The union, or drawing together into one syllable, of two vowels that are ordinarily separated in syllabification; synecphonesis; -- the opposite of diæresis.
synergetic		Working together; coöperating; as, synergetic muscles.
synergism		The doctrine or theory, attributed to Melanchthon, that in the regeneration of a human soul there is a coöperation, or joint agency, on the part both of God and of man.
synergist		One who holds the doctrine of synergism.
synergistic		Coöperating; synergetic.
synergy		Combined action; especially (Med.), the combined healty action of every organ of a particular system; as, the digestive synergy.
synesis		A construction in which adherence to some element in the sense causes a departure from strict syntax, as in
syngenesia		A Linnæan class of plants in which the stamens are united by the anthers.
syngenesian		Having the stamens united by the anthers; of or pertaining to the Syngenesia.
syngenesious		Having the stamens united by the anthers; of or pertaining to the Syngenesia.
syngenesis		A theory of generation in which each germ is supposed to contain the germs of all subsequent generations; -- the opposite of epigenesis.
syngnathi		A suborder of lophobranch fishes which have an elongated snout and lack the ventral and first dorsal fins.
syngraph		A writing signed by both or all the parties to a contract or bond.
synizesis		(Med.) An obliteration of the pupil of the eye.
synneorosis		Syndesmosis.
synocha	Obsolete	See Synochus — a continuous fever.
synochal	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to synocha; like synocha.
synochus	Obsolete	A continuous fever.
synocil		A sense organ found in certain sponges.
synod		(Eccl. Hist.) An ecclesiastic council or meeting to consult on church matters.
synodal		(Ch. of Eng.) A tribute in money formerly paid to the bishop or archdeacon, at the time of his Easter visitation, by every parish priest, now made to the ecclesiastical commissioners; a procuration.
synodic		(Eccl.) Of or pertaining to a synod; transacted in, or authorized by, a synod; as, synodical proceedings or forms.
synodical		(Eccl.) Of or pertaining to a synod; transacted in, or authorized by, a synod; as, synodical proceedings or forms.
synodically		In a synodical manner; in a synod; by the authority of a synod.
synodist		An adherent to a synod.
synoecious		Having stamens and pistil in the same head, or, in mosses, having antheridia and archegonia on the same receptacle.
synomocy		Sworn brotherhood; a society in ancient Greece nearly resembling a modern political club.
synonym		One of two or more words (commonly words of the same language) which are equivalents of each other; one of two or more words which have very nearly the same signification, and therefore may often be used interchangeably.
synonyma	Obsolete	Synonyms.
synonymal	Obsolete	Synonymous.
synonymally	Obsolete	Synonymously.
synonyme		Same as Synonym.
synonymic		The science, or the scientific treatment, of synonymous words.
synonymical		Of or pertaining to synonyms, or synonymic; synonymous.
synonymicon		A dictionary of synonyms.
synonymist		One who collects or explains synonyms.
synonymize		To express by a synonym or synonyms; to give the synonym or synonyms corresponding to.
synonymous		Having the character of a synonym; expressing the same thing; conveying the same, or approximately the same, idea. -- Syn*on"y*mous*ly, adv.
synonymy		The quality of being synonymous; sameness of meaning.
synopsis		A general view, or a collection of heads or parts so arranged as to exhibit a general view of the whole; an abstract or summary of a discourse; a syllabus; a conspectus.
synoptic		Affording a general view of the whole, or of the principal parts of a thing; as, a synoptic table; a synoptical statement of an argument. -- Syn*op"tic*al*ly, adv.
synoptical		Affording a general view of the whole, or of the principal parts of a thing; as, a synoptic table; a synoptical statement of an argument. -- Syn*op"tic*al*ly, adv.
synoptist		Any one of the authors of the three synoptic Gospels, which give a history of our Lord's life and ministry, in distinction from the writer of John's Gospel, which gives a fuller record of his teachings.
synosteology		That part of anatomy which treats of joints; arthrology.
synosteosis		Union by means of bone; the complete closing up and obliteration of sutures.
synostosis		Same as Synosteosis.
synovia		A transparent, viscid, lubricating fluid which contains mucin and secreted by synovial membranes; synovial fluid.
synovial		Of or pertaining to synovia; secreting synovia.
synovitis		Inflammation of the synovial membrane.
synpelmous		Having the two main flexor tendons of the toes blended together.
synsepalous		Having united sepals; gamosepalous.
syntactic		Of or pertaining to syntax; according to the rules of syntax, or construction. -- Syn*tac"tic*al*ly, adv.
syntactical		Of or pertaining to syntax; according to the rules of syntax, or construction. -- Syn*tac"tic*al*ly, adv.
syntax		That part of grammar which treats of the construction of sentences; the due arrangement of words in sentences in their necessary relations, according to established usage in any language.
synteresis		(Metaph.) Conscience viewed as the internal repository of the laws of duty.
synteretic	Obsolete	Preserving health; prophylactic.
synteretics	Obsolete	That department of medicine which relates to the preservation of health; prophylaxis.
synthermal		Having the same degree of heat.
synthesis		Composition, or the putting of two or more things together, as in compounding medicines.
synthesist		One who employs synthesis, or who follows synthetic methods.
synthesize		To produce by synthesis; as, to synthesize albumin.
synthetic		Of or pertaining to synthesis; consisting in synthesis or composition; as, the synthetic method of reasoning, as opposed to analytical.
synthetical		Of or pertaining to synthesis; consisting in synthesis or composition; as, the synthetic method of reasoning, as opposed to analytical.
synthetically		In a synthetic manner.
synthetize		To combine; to unite in regular structure.
syntomy		Brevity; conciseness.
syntonic		Of or pert. to syntony; specif., designating, or pert. to, a system of wireless telegraphy in which the transmitting and receiving apparatus are in syntony with, and only with, one another. -- Syn*ton ic*al*ly, adv.
syntonin		A proteid substance (acid albumin) formed from the albuminous matter of muscle by the action of dilute acids; -- formerly called musculin.
syntonize		To adjust or devise so as to emit or respond to electric oscillations of a certain wave length; to tune; specif.…
syntonizer		One that syntonizes; specif., a device consisting essentially of a variable inductance coil and condenser with a pair of adjustable spark balls…
syntony		State of being adjusted to a certain wave length; agreement or tuning between the time period of an apparatus emitting electric oscillations and that of a receiving apparatus, esp. in wireless telegraphy.
syphering		The lapping of chamfered edges of planks to make a smooth surface, as for a bulkhead.
syphilide		A cutaneous eruption due to syphilis.
syphilis		The pox, or venereal disease; a chronic, specific, infectious disease, usually communicated by sexual intercourse or by hereditary transmission, and occurring in three stages known as primary, secondary, and tertiary syphilis.
syphilitic		Of or pertaining to syphilis; of the nature of syphilis; affected with syphilis. -- n.
syphilitically		In a syphilitic manner; with venereal disease.
syphilization		Inoculation with the syphilitic virus, especially when employed as a preventive measure, like vaccination.
syphilize		To inoculate with syphilis.
syphiloderm		A cutaneous affection due to syphilis.
syphilodermatous		Of or pertaining to the cutaneous manifestations of syphilis.
syphiloid		Resembling syphilis.
syphilologist		One skilled in syphilology.
syphilology		That branch of medicine which treats of syphilis.
syphon		See Syphon.
syracuse		A red wine of Italy.
syren		See Siren — an enticing, dangerous woman.
syriac		Of or pertaining to Syria, or its language; as, the Syriac version of the Pentateuch. -- n.
syriacism		A Syrian idiom; a Syrianism.
syrian		Of or pertaining to Syria; Syriac. -- n.
syrianism		A Syrian idiom, or a peculiarity of the Syrian language; a Syriacism.
syriasm		A Syrian idiom; a Syrianism; a Syriacism.
syringa		(a) A genus of plants; the lilac. (b) The mock orange; -- popularly so called because its stems were formerly used as pipestems.
syringe		A kind of small hand-pump for throwing a stream of liquid, or for purposes of aspiration.
syringeal		Of or pertaining to the syrinx; as, the syringeal muscle.
syringin		A glucoside found in the bark of the lilac (Syringa) and extracted as a white crystalline substance; -- formerly called also lilacin.
syringocoele		The central canal of the spinal cord.
syringotome		A small blunt-pointed bistoury, -- used in syringotomy.
syringotomy		The operation of cutting for anal fistula.
syrinx		(Mus.) A wind instrument made of reeds tied together; -- called also pandean pipes.
syrma		A long dress, trailing on the floor, worn by tragic actors in Greek and Roman theaters.
syrphian		Of or pertaining to the syrphus flies. -- n. (Zoöl.) A syrphus fly.
syrt		A quicksand; a bog.
syrtic		Of or pertaining to a syrt; resembling syrt, or quicksand.
syrtis		A quicksand.
syrup		A thick and viscid liquid made from the juice of fruits, herbs, etc., boiled with sugar.
syruped		Moistened, covered, or sweetened with sirup, or sweet juice.
syrupy		Like sirup, or partaking of its qualities.
syssarcosis		The junction of bones by intervening muscles.
systaltic		Capable of, or taking place by, alternate contraction and dilatation; as, the systaltic action of the heart.
systasis		A political union, confederation, or league.
system		An assemblage of objects arranged in regular subordination, or after some distinct method, usually logical or scientific; a complete whole of objects related by some common law, principle, or end…
systematic		Of or pertaining to system; consisting in system; methodical; formed with regular connection and adaptation or subordination of parts to each other, and to the design of the whole; as…
systematical		Of or pertaining to system; consisting in system; methodical; formed with regular connection and adaptation or subordination of parts to each other, and to the design of the whole; as…
systematically		In a systematic manner; methodically.
systematism		The reduction of facts or principles to a system.
systematist		One who forms a system, or reduces to system.
systematization		The act or operation of systematizing.
systematize		To reduce to system or regular method; to arrange methodically; to methodize; as, to systematize a collection of plants or minerals; to systematize one's work; to systematize one's ideas.
systematizer		One who systematizes.
systematology		The doctrine of, or a treatise upon, systems.
systemic		Of or relating to a system; common to a system; as, the systemic circulation of the blood.
systemization		The act or process of systematizing; systematization.
systemize		To reduce to system; to systematize.
systemizer		One who systemizes, or reduces to system; a systematizer.
systemless		Being without system.
systole		(Gram.) The shortening of the long syllable.
systolic		Of or pertaining to systole, or contraction; contracting; esp., ralating to the systole of the heart; as, systolic murmur.
systyle		Having a space equal to two diameters or four modules between two columns; -- said of a portico or building.
syth	Obsolete	See Sith, Sithe.
sythe	Obsolete	See Sith, Sithe.
syzygial		Pertaining to a syzygy.
syzygy		(Astron.) The point of an orbit, as of the moon or a planet, at which it is in conjunction or opposition; -- commonly used in the plural.
