ta	Obsolete	To take.	
taas	Obsolete	A heap. See Tas.	
tab		The flap or latchet of a shoe fastened with a string or a buckle.	
tabacco	Obsolete	Tobacco.	
tabanus		A genus of blood sucking flies, including the horseflies.	
tabard		A sort of tunic or mantle formerly worn for protection from the weather.	
tabarder		One who wears a tabard.	
tabaret		A stout silk having satin stripes, -- used for furniture.	
tabasheer		A concretion in the joints of the bamboo, which consists largely or chiefly of pure silica.	
tabbinet		A fabric like poplin, with a watered surface.	
tabefaction		A wasting away; a gradual losing of flesh by disease.	
tabefy		To cause to waste gradually, to emaciate.	
tabellion		A secretary or notary under the Roman empire; also, a similar officer in France during the old monarchy.	
taber		Same as Tabor.	
taberd		See Tabard — a sort of tunic or mantle formerly worn for protection from the weather.	
tabernacle		A slightly built or temporary habitation; especially, a tent.	
tabernacular		Of or pertaining to a tabernacle, especially the Jewish tabernacle.	
tabes		Progressive emaciation of the body, accompanied with hectic fever, with no well-marked local symptoms.	
tabescent		Withering, or wasting away.	
tabetic		Of or pertaining to tabes; of the nature of tabes; affected with tabes; tabid. -- n.	
tabid		Affected by tabes; tabetic.	Latin tabidus.
tabific		Producing tabes; wasting; tabefying.	
tabifical		Producing tabes; wasting; tabefying.	
tabinet		See Tabbinet — a fabric like poplin, with a watered surface.	
tablature		(Paint.) A painting on a wall or ceiling; a single piece comprehended in one view, and formed according to one design; hence, a picture in general.	
table		To form into a table or catalogue; to tabulate; as, to table fines.	Middle English table.
table-land		A broad, level, elevated area of land; a plateau.	
tableau		A striking and vivid representation; a picture.	French tableau, from Old French tablel.
tablebook		A tablet; a notebook.	
tablecloth		A cloth for covering a table, especially one with which a table is covered before the dishes, etc., are set on for meals.	
tableman		A man at draughts; a piece used in playing games at tables. See Table, n., 10.	
tablement	Obsolete	A table.	
tabler	Obsolete	One who boards.	
tablespoon		A spoon of the largest size commonly used at the table; -- distinguished from teaspoon, dessert spoon, etc.	
tablespoonful		As much as a tablespoon will hold; enough to fill a tablespoon.	
tablet		A small table or flat surface.	Old French tablete.
tableware		Ware, or articles collectively, for table use.	
tabling		A forming into tables; a setting down in order.	
tabloid		A compressed portion of one or more drugs or chemicals, or of food, etc. Compressed or condensed, as into a tabloid; administrated in or as in tabloids, or small condensed bits; as, a tabloid form of imparting information.	
taboo		A total prohibition of intercourse with, use of, or approach to, a given person or thing under pain of death, -- an interdict of religious origin and authority, formerly common in the islands of Polynesia; interdiction.	Tonga (Tonga Islands tapu.
tabor		A small drum used as an accompaniment to a pipe or fife, both being played by the same person.	
taborer		One who plays on the tabor.	
taboret		A small tabor.	Old French tabouret.
taborine		A small, shallow drum; a tabor.	
taborite		One of certain Bohemian reformers who suffered persecution in the fifteenth century; -- so called from Tabor, a hill or fortress where they encamped during a part of their struggles.	
tabour		See Tabor — a small drum used as an accompaniment to a pipe or fife, both being played by the same person.	
tabouret		A seat without arms or back, cushioned and stuffed: a high stool; -- so called from its resemblance to a drum.	
tabrere	Obsolete	A taborer.	
tabret		A taboret.	
tabu		See Taboo — a total prohibition of intercourse with, use of, or approach to, a given person or thing under pain of death, -- an interdict of religious origin and authority…	
tabula		(Zoöl.) One of the transverse plants found in the calicles of certain corals and hydroids.	
tabular		Having the form of, or pertaining to, a table (in any of the uses of the word).	
tabularization		The act of tabularizing, or the state of being tabularized; formation into tables; tabulation.	
tabularize		To tabulate.	
tabulata		An artificial group of stony corals including those which have transverse septa in the calicles.	
tabulate		To form into a table or tables; to reduce to tables or synopses.	Latin tabulatus.
tabulation		The act of forming into a table or tables; as, the tabulation of statistics.	
tac		A kind of customary payment by a tenant; -- a word used in old records.	
tac-au-tac		The parry which is connected with a riposte; also, a series of quick attacks and parries in which neither fencer gains a point.	
tacamahac		A bitter balsamic resin obtained from tropical American trees of the genus Elaphrium (E. tomentosum and E.	Nahuatl languages tecamac.
tacamahaca		A bitter balsamic resin obtained from tropical American trees of the genus Elaphrium (E. tomentosum and E.	
tacaud	English dialect	The bib, or whiting pout.	
tace		The cross, or church, of St. Antony. See Illust. (6), under Cross, n.	
tacet		It is silent; -- a direction for a vocal or instrumental part to be silent during a whole movement.	Latin tacēre.
tache	Obsolete	Something used for taking hold or holding; a catch; a loop; a button.	
tachhydrite		A hydrous chloride of calcium and magnesium occurring in yellowish masses which rapidly deliquesce upon exposure.	
tachina		Any one of numerous species of Diptera belonging to Tachina and allied genera.	
tachistoscope		An apparatus for exposing briefly to view a screen bearing letters or figures.	
tachograph		A recording or registering tachometer; also, its autographic record.	
tachometer		An instrument for measuring the velocity, or indicating changes in the velocity, of a moving body or substance.	
tachometry		Measurement by a tachometer; the science or use of tachometers.	
tachydidaxy		A short or rapid method of instructing.	
tachyglossa		A division of monotremes which comprises the spiny ant-eaters of Australia and New Guinea.	
tachygraph		An example of tachygraphy; esp., an ancient Greek or Roman tachygraphic manuscript.	
tachygrapher		One who writes shorthand; a stenographer; esp., an ancient Greek or Roman notary.	
tachygraphic		Of or pertaining to tachygraphy; written in shorthand.	
tachygraphical		Of or pertaining to tachygraphy; written in shorthand.	
tachygraphy		The art or practice of rapid writing; shorthand writing; stenography.	
tachylyte		A vitreous form of basalt; -- so called because decompposable by acids and readily fusible.	
tachymeter		(Surveying) An instrument, esp. a transit or theodolite with stadia wires, for determining quickly the distances, bearings, and elevations of distant objects.	
tachymetry		The science or use of the tachymeter. -- Ta`chy*met"ric (#), a.	
tachyscope		An early form of antimated-picture machine, devised in 1889 by Otto Anschütz of Berlin, in which the chronophotographs were mounted upon the periphery of a rotating wheel.	
tacit		Done or made in silence; implied, but not expressed; silent; as, tacit consent is consent by silence, or by not interposing an objection. -- Tac"it*ly, adv.	Latin tacitus.
taciturn		Habitually silent; not given to converse; not apt to talk or speak. -- Tac"i*turn*ly, adv.	
taciturnity		Habilual silence, or reserve in speaking.	
tack		A small, short, sharp-pointed nail, usually having a broad, flat head.	
tacker		One who tacks.	
tacket	Scots	A small, broad-headed nail.	
tackey		See Tacky — sticky; adhesive; raw; -- said of paint, varnish, etc., when not well dried.	
tacking		A union of securities given at different times, all of which must be redeemed before an intermediate purchaser can interpose his claim.	
tackle		Apparatus for raising or lowering heavy weights, consisting of a rope and pulley blocks; sometimes, the rope and attachments, as distinct from the block.	Middle English takel.
tackled		Made of ropes tacked together.	
tackling		Furniture of the masts and yards of a vessel, as cordage, sails, etc.	
tacksman		One who holds a tack or lease from another; a tenant, or lessee.	
tacky		Sticky; adhesive; raw; -- said of paint, varnish, etc., when not well dried.	
taconic		Designating, or pertaining to, the series of rocks forming the Taconic mountains in Western New England.	
tact		The sense of touch; feeling.	
tactable		Capable of being touched; tangible.	
tactful		Full of tact; characterized by a discerning sense of what is right, proper, or judicious.	
tactic		Of or pertaining to the art of military and naval tactics. -- Tac"tic*al*ly, adv.	
tactical		Of or pertaining to the art of military and naval tactics. -- Tac"tic*al*ly, adv.	
tactician		One versed in tactics; hence, a skillful maneuverer; an adroit manager.	
tactics		The science and art of disposing military and naval forces in order for battle, and performing military and naval evolutions.	
tactile		Of or pertaining to the organs, or the sense, of touch; perceiving, or perceptible, by the touch; capable of being touched; as, tactile corpuscles; tactile sensations.	French tactile, from Latin tactilis.
tactility		The quality or state of being tactile; perceptibility by touch; tangibleness.	
taction		The act of touching; touch; contact; tangency.	Latin tactio.
tactless		Destitute of tact.	
tactual		Of or pertaining to the sense, or the organs, of touch; derived from touch.	
tadpole		(Zoöl.) The young aquatic larva of any amphibian.	
taedium		See Tedium — irksomeness; wearisomeness; tediousness.	
tael	Poetic & scot	A denomination of money, in China, worth nearly six shillings sterling, or about a dollar and forty cents; also, a weight of one ounce and a third.	Portuguese tael, from Malay (macrolanguage tahil.
taenia		(Zoöl.) A genus of intestinal worms which includes the common tapeworms of man.	
taeniacide		A remedy to destroy tapeworms.	
taeniada		Same as Tænioidea.	
taeniafuge		A remedy to expel tapeworms.	
taeniasis		Ill health due to tænia, or tapeworms.	
taeniata		A division of Ctenophora including those which have a long, ribbonlike body.	
taenidium		The chitinous fiber forming the spiral thread of the tracheæ of insects.	
taenioglossa		An extensive division of gastropod mollusks in which the odontophore is long and narrow, and usually bears seven rows of teeth.	
taenioglossate		Of or pertaining to the Tænioglossa.	
taenioid		Ribbonlike; shaped like a ribbon.	
taenioidea		The division of cestode worms which comprises the tapeworms. See Tapeworm.	
taeniola		One of the radial partitions which separate the internal cavities of certain medusæ.	
taeniosomi		An order of fishes remarkable for their long and compressed form.	
taeping		Pertaining to or designating a dynasty with which one Hung-Siu- Chuen, a half-religious, half-political enthusiast, attempted to supplant the Manchu dynasty by the Taiping rebellion…	
tafferer		See Taffrail — the upper part of a ship's stern, which is flat like a table on the top, and sometimes ornamented with carved work; the rail around a ship's stern.	
taffeta		A fine, smooth stuff of silk, having usually the wavy luster called watering.	French taffetas, from Italian taffettà.
taffety		A fine, smooth stuff of silk, having usually the wavy luster called watering.	
taffrail		The upper part of a ship's stern, which is flat like a table on the top, and sometimes ornamented with carved work; the rail around a ship's stern.	
taffy		A kind of candy made of molasses or brown sugar boiled down and poured out in shallow pans.	
tafia		A variety of rum.	
tag		Any slight appendage, as to an article of dress; something slight hanging loosely; specifically, a direction card, or label.	
tag-rag		The lowest class of people; the rabble.	
tagal		One of a Malayan race, mainly of central Luzon, next to the Visayans the most numerous of the native peoples of the Philippines.	
tagalog		(Ethnol.) Any member of a certain tribe which is one of the leading and most civilized of those native of the Philippine Islands.	
tagbelt	Obsolete	Same as Tagsore.	
tagger		One who, or that which, appends or joins one thing to another.	
taglet		A little tag.	
taglia		A peculiar combination of pulleys.	
tagliacotain		Of or pertaining to Tagliacozzi, a Venetian surgeon; as, the Tagliacotian operation, a method of rhinoplasty described by him.	
taglioni		A kind of outer coat, or overcoat; -- said to be so named after a celebrated Italian family of professional dancers.	
taglock		An entangled lock, as of hair or wool.	
tagnicate		The white-lipped peccary.	
tagsore	Obsolete	Adhesion of the tail of a sheep to the wool from excoriation produced by contact with the feces; -- called also tagbelt.	
tagtail		A worm which has its tail conspicuously colored.	
taguan		A large flying squirrel (Pteromys petuarista).	
taguicati		The white-lipped peccary.	
taha		The African rufous-necked weaver bird (Hyphantornis texor).	
tahaleb		A fox (Vulpes Niloticus) of Northern Africa.	
tahitian		Of or pertaining to Tahiti, an island in the Pacific Ocean. -- n.	
tahr		Same as Thar.	
tai		Designating, or pertaining to, the chief linguistic stock of Indo-China, including the peoples of Siamese and Shan speech.	
tail		Limitation; abridgment.	Middle English tail.
tail-bay		(Arch.) One of the joists which rest one end on the wall and the other on a girder; also, the space between a wall and the nearest girder of a floor.	
tail-water		Water in a tailrace.	
tailage		See Tallage — a certain rate or tax paid by barons, knights, and inferior tenants, toward the public expenses.	
tailblock		A block with a tail. See Tail, 9.	
tailboard		The board at the rear end of a cart or wagon, which can be removed or let down, for convenience in loading or unloading.	
tailed		Having a tail; having (such) a tail or (so many) tails; -- chiefly used in composition; as, bobtailed, longtailed, etc. Snouted and tailed like a boar.	
tailing		(Arch.) The part of a projecting stone or brick inserted in a wall.	
taille		(Mus.) The French name for the tenor voice or part; also, for the tenor viol or viola.	French taille.
tailless		Having no tail.	
taillie		Same as Tailzie.	
tailor		One whose occupation is to cut out and make men's garments; also, one who cuts out and makes ladies' outer garments.	French tailleur.
tailor-made		Made by a tailor or according to a tailor's fashion; -- said specif. of women's garments made with certain closeness of fit, simplicity of ornament, etc.	
tailoress		A female tailor.	
tailoring		The business or the work of a tailor or a tailoress.	
tailpiece		A piece at the end; an appendage.	
tailpin		The center in the spindle of a turning lathe.	
tailrace		(Mining) The channel in which tailings, suspended in water, are conducted away.	
tailstock		The sliding block or support, in a lathe, which carries the dead spindle, or adjustable center.	
tailzie		An entailment or deed whereby the legal course of succession is cut off, and an arbitrary one substituted.	
tain		Thin tin plate; also, tin foil for mirrors.	
taint		To imbue or impregnate with something extraneous, especially with something odious, noxious, or poisonous; hence, to corrupt; to infect; to poison; as, putrid substance taint the air.	French atteinte.
taintless		Free from taint or infection; pure.	
taintlessly		In a taintless manner.	
tainture		Taint; tinge; difilement; stain; spot.	
taintworm		A destructive parasitic worm or insect larva.	
taiping		Pertaining to or designating a dynasty with which one Hung-Siu- Chuen, a half-religious, half-political enthusiast, attempted to supplant the Manchu dynasty by the Taiping rebellion…	
taira		Same as Tayra.	
tairn		See Tarn — a mountain lake or pool.	
tait		A small nocturnal and arboreal Australian marsupial (Tarsipes rostratus) about the size of a mouse.	
tajacu		The common, or collared, peccary.	
tajassu		The common, or collared, peccary.	
take		In an active sense; To lay hold of; to seize with the hands, or otherwise; to grasp; to get into one's hold or possession; to procure; to seize and carry away; to convey.	Middle English taken, from Old English tacan.
take-in	Colloquial	Imposition; fraud.	
take-off		An imitation, especially in the way of caricature.	
take-up		That which takes up or tightens; specifically, a device in a sewing machine for drawing up the slack thread as the needle rises, in completing a stitch.	
taken		p. p. of Take — in an active sense; To lay hold of; to seize with the hands, or otherwise; to grasp; to get into one's hold or possession; to procure; to seize and carry away; to convey.	
taker		One who takes or receives; one who catches or apprehended.	
taking		Apt to take; alluring; attracting.	
taking-off		Removal; murder. See To take off (c), under Take, v. t.	
talapoin		A small African monkey (Cercopithecus, or Miopithecus, talapoin) -- called also melarhine.	
talaria		Small wings or winged shoes represented as fastened to the ankles, -- chiefly used as an attribute of Mercury.	Latin talare.
talbot	Obsolete	A sort of dog, noted for quick scent and eager pursuit of game.	
talbotype		Same as Calotype.	
talc		A soft mineral of a soapy feel and a greenish, whitish, or grayish color, usually occurring in foliated masses.	Middle French talc, from Arabic طلق, from Persian تلک.
talcose		Of or pertaining to talc; composed of, or resembling, talc.	
talcous		Of or pertaining to talc; composed of, or resembling, talc.	
talcum		Same as Talc.	
tale		See Tael — a denomination of money, in China, worth nearly six shillings sterling, or about a dollar and forty cents; also, a weight of one ounce and a third.	Middle English talen, from Old English talian.
talebearer		One who officiously tells tales; one who impertinently or maliciously communicates intelligence, scandal, etc., and makes mischief.	
talebearing		Telling tales officiously.	
taled		A kind of quadrangular piece of cloth put on by the Jews when repeating prayers in the synagogues.	
taleful		Full of stories.	
talegalla		A genus of Australian birds which includes the brush turkey. See Brush turkey.	
talent		Among the ancient Greeks, a weight and a denomination of money equal to 60 minæ or 6,000 drachmæ.	Old English talente.
talented		Furnished with talents; possessing skill or talent; mentally gifted.	
tales		Persons added to a jury, commonly from those in or about the courthouse, to make up any deficiency in the number of jurors regularly summoned, being like, or such as, the latter.	
talesman		A person called to make up a deficiency in the number of jurors when a tales is awarded.	
taleteller		One who tells tales or stories, especially in a mischievous or officious manner; a talebearer; a telltale; a tattler.	
talewise		In a way of a tale or story.	
taliacotian		See Tagliacotian.	
taliation	Obsolete	Retaliation.	
talion		Retaliation.	Middle French talion, from Latin talis.
talipes		The deformity called clubfoot. See Clubfoot.	
talipot		A beautiful tropical palm tree (Corypha umbraculifera), a native of Ceylon and the Malabar coast.	
talisman		A magical figure cut or engraved under certain superstitious observances of the configuration of the heavens, to which wonderful effects are ascribed; the seal, figure, character, or image, of a heavenly sign, constellation…	
talismanic		Of or pertaining to a talisman; having the properties of a talisman, or preservative against evils by occult influence; magical.	
talismanical		Of or pertaining to a talisman; having the properties of a talisman, or preservative against evils by occult influence; magical.	
talk		To utter words; esp., to converse familiarly; to speak, as in familiar discourse, when two or more persons interchange thoughts.	Middle English talken.
talkative		Given to much talking.	Middle English talcatife.
talker		One who talks; especially, one who is noted for his power of conversing readily or agreeably; a conversationist.	
talking		That talks; able to utter words; as, a talking parrot.	
tall		High in stature; having a considerable, or an unusual, extension upward; long and comparatively slender; having the diameter or lateral extent small in proportion to the height; as, a tall person, tree, or mast.	Middle English tall.
tallage		A certain rate or tax paid by barons, knights, and inferior tenants, toward the public expenses.	
tallboy		A kind of long-stemmed wineglass or cup.	
talliage		A certain rate or tax paid by barons, knights, and inferior tenants, toward the public expenses.	
tallier		One who keeps tally.	
tallis		Same as Tallith.	
tallith		(a) An undergarment worn by orthodox Jews, covering the chest and the upper part of the back.	
tallness		The quality or state of being tall; height of stature.	
tallow		The suet or fat of animals of the sheep and ox kinds, separated from membranous and fibrous matter by melting.	
tallow-face		One who has a sickly, pale complexion.	
tallow-faced		Having a sickly complexion; pale.	
tallower		An animal which produces tallow.	
tallowing		The act, or art, of causing animals to produce tallow; also, the property in animals of producing tallow.	
tallowish		Having the qualities of tallow.	
tallowy		Of the nature of tallow; resembling tallow; greasy.	
tallwood	Obsolete	Firewood cut into billets of a certain length.	
tally		Originally, a piece of wood on which notches or scores were cut, as the marks of number; later, one of two books, sheets of paper, etc., on which corresponding accounts were kept.	
tallyho		The huntsman's cry to incite or urge on his hounds.	
tallyman		One who keeps the tally, or marks the sticks.	
talma		(a) A kind of large cape, or short, full cloak, forming part of the dress of ladies.	
talmud		The body of the Jewish civil and canonical law not comprised in the Pentateuch.	
talmudic		Of or pertaining to the Talmud; contained in the Talmud; as, Talmudic Greek; Talmudical phrases.	
talmudical		Of or pertaining to the Talmud; contained in the Talmud; as, Talmudic Greek; Talmudical phrases.	
talmudism		The teachings of the Talmud, or adherence to them.	
talmudist		One versed in the Talmud; one who adheres to the teachings of the Talmud.	
talmudistic		Resembling the Talmud; Talmudic.	
talon		The claw of a predaceous bird or animal, especially the claw of a bird of prey.	
talook		A large estate; esp., one constituting a revenue district or dependency the native proprietor of which is responsible for the collection and payment of the public revenue due from it.	
talookdar		A proprietor of a talook.	
talpa		A genus of small insectivores including the common European mole.	
taluk		A large estate; esp., one constituting a revenue district or dependency the native proprietor of which is responsible for the collection and payment of the public revenue due from it.	
talukdar		A proprietor of a talook.	Hindi taluk.
talus		(Surg.) A variety of clubfoot (Talipes calcaneus). See the Note under Talipes.	French talus.
tam-tam		(a) A kind of drum used in the East Indies and other Oriental countries; -- called also tom-tom.	
tamability		The quality or state of being tamable; tamableness.	
tamable		Capable of being tamed, subdued, or reclaimed from wildness or savage ferociousness. -- Tam"a*ble*ness, n.	
tamale		A Mexican dish made of crushed maize mixed with minced meat, seasoned with red pepper, dipped in oil, and steamed.	
tamandu		A small ant-eater (Tamandua tetradactyla) native of the tropical parts of South America.	
tamanoir		The ant-bear.	
tamarack		(a) The American larch; also, the larch of Oregon and British Columbia (Larix occidentalis).	
tamaric	Obsolete	A shrub or tree supposed to be the tamarisk, or perhaps some kind of heath.	Latin tamarice.
tamarin		Any one of several species of small squirrel-like South American monkeys of the genus Midas, especially M. ursulus.	
tamarind		A leguminous tree (Tamarindus Indica) cultivated both the Indies, and the other tropical countries, for the sake of its shade, and for its fruit.	Old French tamarinde, from Arabic تمر هندي.
tamarisk		Any shrub or tree of the genus Tamarix, the species of which are European and Asiatic.	
tambac	Obsolete	See Tombac — an alloy of copper and zinc, resembling brass, and containing about 84 per cent of copper; -- called also German, or Dutch, brass.	
tambour		(Mus.) A kind of small flat drum; a tambourine.	French tambour.
tambourin		(Mus.) An old Provençal dance of a lively character, common on the stage.	
tambourine		A small drum, especially a shallow drum with only one skin, played on with the hand, and having bells at the sides; a timbrel.	French tambourin.
tambreet		The duck mole.	
tamburin		See Tambourine — a small drum, especially a shallow drum with only one skin, played on with the hand, and having bells at the sides; a timbrel.	
tame		Reduced from a state of native wildness and shyness; accustomed to man; domesticated; domestic; as, a tame deer, a tame bird.	Old English tam.
tameable		Tamable.	
tameless		Incapable of being tamed; wild; untamed; untamable.	
tamely		In a tame manner.	
tameness		The quality or state of being tame.	
tamer		One who tames or subdues.	
tamias		A genus of ground squirrels, including the chipmunk.	
tamil		Of or pertaining to the Tamils, or to their language.	
tamine		A kind of woolen cloth; tammy.	
taminy		A kind of woolen cloth; tammy.	
tamis		A sieve, or strainer, made of a kind of woolen cloth.	
tamkin		A tampion.	
tammuz		A deity among the ancient Syrians, in honor of whom the Hebrew idolatresses held an annual lamentation.	
tammy		A kind of woolen, or woolen and cotton, cloth, often highly glazed, -- used for curtains, sieves, strainers, etc.	French tamis.
tamp		In blasting, to plug up with clay, earth, dry sand, sod, or other material, as a hole bored in a rock, in order to prevent the force of the explosion from being misdirected.	
tampan		A venomous South African tick.	
tampeon		See Tampion — a wooden stopper, or plug, as for a cannon or other piece of ordnance, when not in use.	
tamper		One who tamps; specifically, one who prepares for blasting, by filling the hole in which the charge is placed.	Middle French temprer.
tamperer		One who tampers; one who deals unfairly.	
tamping		The act of one who tamps; specifically, the act of filling up a hole in a rock, or the branch of a mine, for the purpose of blasting the rock or exploding the mine.	
tampion		A wooden stopper, or plug, as for a cannon or other piece of ordnance, when not in use.	
tampoe		The edible fruit of an East Indian tree (Baccaurea Malayana) of the Spurge family.	
tampon		A plug introduced into a natural or artificial cavity of the body in order to arrest hemorrhage, or for the application of medicine.	
tampoon		The stopper of a barrel; a bung.	
tamworth		One of a long-established English breed of large pigs.	
tan		See Picul — a commercial weight varying in different countries and for different commodities.	
tana		Same as Banxring.	
tanager		Any one of numerous species of bright-colored singing birds belonging to Tanagra, Piranga, and allied genera.	Mirandese Tanagra, from Portuguese tangara, from Tupí tangara.
tanagrine		Of or pertaining to the tanagers.	
tanagroid		Tanagrine.	
tanate		An Asiatic wild dog (Canis procyonoides), native of Japan and adjacent countries.	
tandem		One after another; -- said especially of horses harnessed and driven one before another, instead of abreast.	Latin tandem.
tang	English dialect	A coarse blackish seaweed (Fuscus nodosus).	Middle English tang, from Old Norse tangi.
tangalung		An East Indian civet (Viverra tangalunga).	
tangelo		A hybrid between the tangerine orange and the grapefruit, or pomelo; also, the fruit.	
tangence		Tangency.	
tangency		The quality or state of being tangent; a contact or touching.	
tangent		A tangent line curve, or surface; specifically, that portion of the straight line tangent to a curve that is between the point of tangency and a given line, the given line being, for example, the axis of abscissas…	Latin tangentem.
tangental		Tangential.	
tangential		Of or pertaining to a tangent; in the direction of a tangent.	
tangentially		In the direction of a tangent.	
tangerine		A kind of orange, much like the mandarin, but of deeper color and higher flavor.	French fr.
tangfish	English dialect	The common harbor seal.	
tanghinia		The ordeal tree. See under Ordeal.	
tangibility		The quality or state of being tangible.	
tangible		Perceptible to the touch; tactile; palpable.	Latin tangibilis.
tangle		To unite or knit together confusedly; to interweave or interlock, as threads, so as to make it difficult to unravel the knot; to entangle; to ravel.	
tanglefish		The sea adder, or great pipefish of Europe.	
tanglingly		In a tangling manner.	
tangly		Entangled; intricate.	
tango		(a) A difficult dance in two-four time characterized by graceful posturing, frequent pointing positions, and a great variety of steps, including the cross step and turning steps.	
tangram		A Chinese toy made by cutting a square of thin wood, or other suitable material, into seven pieces, as shown in the cut, these pieces being capable of combination in various ways, so as to form a great number of different figures.	
tangue		The tenrec.	
tangun		A piebald variety of the horse, native of Thibet.	
tangwhaup	English dialect	The whimbrel.	
tanier		An aroid plant (Caladium sagittæfolium), the leaves of which are boiled and eaten in the West Indies.	
tanist		In Ireland, a lord or proprietor of a tract of land or of a castle, elected by a family, under the system of tanistry.	Irish tánaiste.
tanistry		In Ireland, a tenure of family lands by which the proprietor had only a life estate, to which he was admitted by election.	
tanite		A firm composition of emery and a certain kind of cement, used for making grinding wheels, slabs, etc.	
tank		A small Indian dry measure, averaging 240 grains in weight; also, a Bombay weight of 72 grains, for pearls.	Portuguese tanque, from Gujarati tankh.
tanka		A kind of boat used in Canton.	Japanese 啖呵.
tankage		Fees charged for storage in tanks.	
tankard		A large drinking vessel, especially one with a cover.	
tankia		See Tanka — a kind of boat used in Canton.	
tankling	Obsolete	A tinkling.	
tanling		One tanned by the sun.	
tannable		That may be tanned.	
tannage		A tanning; the act, operation, or result of tanning.	
tannate		A salt of tannic acid.	
tanner		One whose occupation is to tan hides, or convert them into leather by the use of tan.	
tannery		A place where the work of tanning is carried on.	
tannic		Of or pertaining to tan; derived from, or resembling, tan; as, tannic acid.	
tannier		See Tanier — an aroid plant (Caladium sagittæfolium), the leaves of which are boiled and eaten in the West Indies.	
tannigen		A compound obtained as a yellowish gray powder by the action of acetyl chloride or acetic anhydride or ordinary tannic acid.	
tannin		Same as Tannic acid, under Tannic.	
tanning		The art or process of converting skins into leather. See Tan, v. t., 1.	
tanrec		Same as Tenrec.	
tansy		(Bot.) Any plant of the composite genus Tanacetum.	Old French tanesie.
tant		A small scarlet arachnid.	
tantalate		A salt of tantalic acid.	
tantalic		Of or pertaining to tantalum; derived from, or containing, tantalum; specifically, designating any one of a series of acids analogous to nitric acid and the polyacid compounds of phosphorus.	
tantalism		A punishment like that of Tantalus; a teasing or tormenting by the hope or near approach of good which is not attainable; tantalization.	
tantalite		A heavy mineral of an iron-black color and submetallic luster.	
tantalization		The act of tantalizing, or state of being tantalized.	
tantalize		To tease or torment by presenting some good to the view and exciting desire, but continually frustrating the expectations by keeping that good out of reach; to tease; to torment.	
tantalizer		One who tantalizes.	
tantalizingly		In a tantalizing or teasing manner.	
tantalum		A rare nonmetallic element found in certain minerals, as tantalite, samarskite, and fergusonite, and isolated as a dark powder which becomes steel-gray by burnishing.	
tantalus		A Phrygian king who was punished in the lower world by being placed in the midst of a lake whose waters reached to his chin but receded whenever he attempted to allay his thirst…	Latin Tantalus, from Greek Τανταλος.
tantamount	Obsolete	Equivalent in value, signification, or effect.	
tantivy	Colloquial	Swiftly; speedily; rapidly; -- a fox-hunting term; as, to ride tantivy.	
tantra		A ceremonial treatise related to Puranic and magic literature; esp., one of the sacred works of the worshipers of Sakti. -- Tan"tric (-trik), a.	Sanskrit तन्त्र.
tantrism		The system of doctrines and rites taught in the tantras. -- Tan"trist (#), n.	
tantrum	Colloquial	A whim, or burst of ill-humor; an affected air.	
tanyard		An inclosure where the tanning of leather is carried on; a tannery.	
tanystomata		A division of dipterous insects in which the proboscis is large and contains lancelike mandibles and maxillæ.	
taoism		One of the popular religions of China, sanctioned by the state. -- Ta"o*ist, a. & n.	
taotai		In China, an official at the head of the civil and military affairs of a circuit, which consists of two or more fu, or territorial departments; --called also, by foreigners, intendant of circuit.	
tap		To strike with a slight or gentle blow; to touch gently; to rap lightly; to pat; as, to tap one with the hand or a cane.	Old English tæppian.
tapa		A kind of cloth prepared by the Polynesians from the inner bark of the paper mulberry; -- sometimes called also kapa.	Spanish tapa.
tapadera		One of the leather hoods which cover the stirrups of a Mexican saddle.	
tapadero		One of the leather hoods which cover the stirrups of a Mexican saddle.	
tapayaxin		A Mexican spinous lizard (Phrynosoma orbiculare) having a head somewhat like that of a toad; -- called also horned toad.	
tape		A narrow fillet or band of cotton or linen; a narrow woven fabric used for strings and the like; as, curtains tied with tape.	Old English tæppe.
tapeline		A painted tape, marked with linear dimensions, as inches, feet, etc., and often inclosed in a case, -- used for measuring.	
taper		A small wax candle; a small lighted wax candle; hence, a small light.	Old English tapor.
tapered		Lighted with a taper or tapers; as, a tapered choir.	
tapering		Becoming gradually smaller toward one end. -- Ta"per*ing*ly, adv.	
taperness		The quality or state of being taper; tapering form; taper.	
tapestry		A fabric, usually of worsted, worked upon a warp of linen or other thread by hand, the designs being usually more or less pictorial and the stuff employed for wall hangings and the like.	
tapet		Worked or figured stuff; tapestry.	Old English teped, from Latin tapetum.
tapeti		A small South American hare (Lepus Braziliensis).	
tapetum		An area in the pigmented layer of the choroid coat of the eye in many animals, which has an iridescent or metallic luster and helps to make the eye visible in the dark.	
tapeworm		Any one of numerous species of cestode worms belonging to Tænia and many allied genera.	
taphouse		A house where liquors are retailed.	
taphrenchyma		Same as Bothrenchyma.	
tapinage	Obsolete	A lurking or skulking.	
tapioca		A coarsely granular substance obtained by heating, and thus partly changing, the moistened starch obtained from the roots of the cassava.	Portuguese tapioca.
tapir		Any one of several species of large odd-toed ungulates belonging to Tapirus, Elasmognathus, and allied genera.	French tapir.
tapiroid		Allied to the tapir, or the Tapir family.	
tapis		Tapestry; formerly, the cover of a council table.	
tapiser		A maker of tapestry; an upholsterer.	French tapissier.
tapish	Obsolete	To lie close to the ground, so as to be concealed; to squat; to crouch; hence, to hide one's self.	
taplash	Obsolete	Bad small beer; also, the refuse or dregs of liquor.	
taplings		The strong double leathers by which the two parts of a flail are united.	
tappen		An obstruction, or indigestible mass, found in the intestine of bears and other animals during hibernation.	
tapper	English dialect	The lesser spotted woodpecker (Dendrocopus minor); -- called also tapperer, tabberer, little wood pie, barred woodpecker, wood tapper, hickwall, and pump borer.	
tappester	Obsolete	A female tapster.	
tappet		A lever or projection moved by some other piece, as a cam, or intended to tap or touch something else, with a view to produce change or regulate motion.	
tappice		See Tapish — to lie close to the ground, so as to be concealed; to squat; to crouch; hence, to hide one's self.	
tappis		See Tapish — to lie close to the ground, so as to be concealed; to squat; to crouch; hence, to hide one's self.	
tappoon		A piece of wood or sheet metal fitted into a ditch to dam up the water so as to overflow a field.	
taproom		A room where liquors are kept on tap; a barroom.	
taproot		The root of a plant which penetrates the earth directly downward to a considerable depth without dividing.	
tapster		One whose business is to tap or draw ale or other liquor.	
taqua-nut		A Central American name for the ivory nut.	
tar	Colloquial	A sailor; a seaman.	Middle English terr, from Old English teoru.
taranis		A Celtic divinity, regarded as the evil principle, but confounded by the Romans with Jupiter.	
tarantass		A low four-wheeled carriage used in Russia.	Russian тарантас.
tarantella		(a) A rapid and delirious sort of Neapolitan dance in 6-8 time, which moves in whirling triplets; -- so called from a popular notion of its being a remedy against the poisonous bite of the tarantula.	Italian tarantella.
tarantism		A nervous affection producing melancholy, stupor, and an uncontrollable desire to dance.	
tarantula		Any one of several species of large spiders, popularly supposed to be very venomous, especially the European species (Tarantula apuliæ).	
tarantulated		Bitten by a tarantula; affected with tarantism.	
tarbogan		See Toboggan — a kind of sledge made of pliable board, turned up at one or both ends, used for coasting down hills or prepared inclined planes; also, a sleigh or sledge, to be drawn by dogs, or by hand…	
tarboosh		A red cap worn by Turks and other Eastern nations, sometimes alone and sometimes swathed with linen or other stuff to make a turban.	Arabic طربوس.
tardation	Obsolete	The act of retarding, or delaying; retardation.	Latin tardatio.
tardigrada		(Zoöl.) A tribe of edentates comprising the sloths.	
tardigrade		Moving or stepping slowly; slow-paced.	Latin tardigradus.
tardigradous	Obsolete	Moving slowly; slow-paced.	
tardily		In a tardy manner; slowly.	
tardiness		The quality or state of being tardy.	
tarditation	Obsolete	Tardiness.	
tardity		Slowness; tardiness.	
tardo		Slow; -- a direction to perform a passage slowly.	
tardy		Moving with a slow pace or motion; slow; not swift.	
tare		A weed that grows among wheat and other grain; -- alleged by modern naturalists to be the Lolium temulentum, or darnel.	Middle English tare.
tared		Weighed; determined; reduced to equal or standard weight; as, tared filter papers, used in weighing precipitates.	
tarente		A harmless lizard of the Gecko family (Platydactylus Mauritianicus) found in Southern Europe and adjacent countries, especially among old walls and ruins.	
tarentism		See Tarantism — a nervous affection producing melancholy, stupor, and an uncontrollable desire to dance.	
tarentula		See Tarantula — any one of several species of large spiders, popularly supposed to be very venomous, especially the European species (Tarantula apuliæ).	
targe	Obsolete	A shield or target.	Middle English targe.
target		A kind of small shield or buckler, used as a defensive weapon in war.	
targeted		Furnished, armed, or protected, with a target.	
targeteer		One who is armed with a target or shield.	
targum		A translation or paraphrase of some portion of the Old Testament Scriptures in the Chaldee or Aramaic language or dialect.	Hebrew תרגום‎.
targumist		The writer of a Targum; one versed in the Targums.	
tariff		A schedule, system, or scheme of duties imposed by the government of a country upon goods imported or exported; as, a revenue tariff; a protective tariff; Clay's compromise tariff.	Italian tariffa, from Arabic تعاريف.
tarin		The siskin.	
taring	English dialect	The common tern; -- called also tarret, and tarrock.	
tarlatan		A kind of thin, transparent muslin, used for dresses.	
tarn		A mountain lake or pool.	Old Norse tjǫrn.
tarnish		To soil, or change the appearance of, especially by an alternation induced by the air, or by dust, or the like; to diminish, dull, or destroy the luster of; to sully; as, to tarnish a metal; to tarnish gilding…	Middle French ternir.
tarnisher		One who, or that which, tarnishes.	
taro		A name for several aroid plants (Colocasia antiquorum, var. esculenta, Colocasia macrorhiza, etc.), and their rootstocks.	Maori taro.
tarot		A game of cards; -- called also taroc.	French tarot, from Italian tarocchi.
tarpan		A wild horse found in the region of the Caspian Sea.	
tarpaulin		A piece of canvas covered with tar or a waterproof composition, used for covering the hatches of a ship, hammocks, boats, etc.	
tarpeian		Pertaining to or designating a rock or peak of the Capitoline hill, Rome, from which condemned criminals were hurled.	
tarpon		Same as Tarpum.	
tarpum		A very large marine fish (Megapolis Atlanticus) of the Southern United States and the West Indies.	
tarquinish		Like a Tarquin, a king of ancient Rome; proud; haughty; overbearing.	
tarrace	Obsolete	See Trass — a white to gray volcanic tufa, formed of decomposed trachytic cinders; -- sometimes used as a cement.	
tarragon		A plant of the genus Artemisa (A. dracunculus), much used in France for flavoring vinegar.	Middle French targon.
tarras	Obsolete	See Trass — a white to gray volcanic tufa, formed of decomposed trachytic cinders; -- sometimes used as a cement.	
tarre	Obsolete	To set on, as a dog; to incite.	Middle English tarien, from Old English tirgan.
tarriance	Archaic	The act or time of tarrying; delay; lateness.	
tarrier	Obsolete	One who, or that which, tarries.	
tarrock	English dialect	(a) The young of the kittiwake gull before the first molt. (b) The common guillemot.	
tarry		Consisting of, or covered with, tar; like tar.	Middle English tarien, from Old English tirgan.
tarsal	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to the tarsus (either of the foot or eye). -- n.	
tarsale		One of the bones or cartilages of the tarsus; esp., one of the series articulating with the metatarsals.	
tarse		The male falcon. tarsus.	French tarse, from Latin tarsus, from Greek ταρσός.
tarsectomy		The operation of excising one or more of the bones of the tarsus.	
tarsel	Obsolete	A male hawk. See Tercel.	
tarsi		pl. of Tarsus — (Anat.) (a) The ankle; the bones or cartilages of the part of the foot between the metatarsus and the leg, consisting in man of seven short bones.	
tarsia		A kind of mosaic in woodwork, much employed in Italy in the fifteenth century and later, in which scrolls and arabesques, and sometimes architectural scenes, landscapes, fruits, flowers, and the like…	
tarsiatura		A kind of mosaic in woodwork, much employed in Italy in the fifteenth century and later, in which scrolls and arabesques, and sometimes architectural scenes, landscapes, fruits, flowers, and the like…	
tarsier		See Tarsius — a genus of nocturnal lemurine mammals having very large eyes and ears, a long tail, and very long proximal tarsal bones; -- called also malmag, spectral lemur, podji, and tarsier.	
tarsius		A genus of nocturnal lemurine mammals having very large eyes and ears, a long tail, and very long proximal tarsal bones; -- called also malmag, spectral lemur, podji, and tarsier.	
tarso-		A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the tarsus; as, tarsometatarsus.	
tarsometatarsal		(a) Of or pertaining to both the tarsus and metatarsus; as, the tarsometatarsal articulations.	
tarsometatarsus		The large bone next the foot in the leg of a bird.	
tarsorrhaphy		An operation to diminish the size of the opening between eyelids when enlarged by surrounding cicatrices.	
tarsotomy		The operation of cutting or removing the tarsal cartilages.	
tarsus		(Anat.) (a) The ankle; the bones or cartilages of the part of the foot between the metatarsus and the leg, consisting in man of seven short bones.	Latin tarsus, from Greek ταρσός.
tart		Sharp to the taste; acid; sour; as, a tart apple.	Old French tarte.
tartan		Woolen cloth, checkered or crossbarred with narrow bands of various colors, much worn in the Highlands of Scotland; hence, any pattern of tartan; also, other material of a similar pattern.	French tartane, from Italian tartana.
tartar		(Chem.) A reddish crust or sediment in wine casks, consisting essentially of crude cream of tartar, and used in marking pure cream of tartar, tartaric acid, potassium carbonate, black flux, etc., and, in dyeing…	
tartarated		Tartrated.	
tartarean		Of or pertaining to Tartarus; hellish.	
tartareous		Of or pertaining to Tartarus; hellish.	
tartarian		Of or pertaining to Tartary in Asia, or the Tartars.	
tartaric		Of or pertaining to Tartary in Asia, or the Tartars.	
tartarine	Obsolete	Potassium carbonate, obtained by the incineration of tartar.	
tartarize		To impregnate with, or subject to the action of, tartar.	
tartarous		Containing tartar; consisting of tartar, or partaking of its qualities; tartareous.	
tartarum		See 1st Tartar.	
tartarus		The infernal regions, described in the Iliad as situated as far below Hades as heaven is above the earth, and by later writers as the place of punishment for the spirits of the wicked.	
tartary	Obsolete	Tartarus.	
tartish		Somewhat tart.	
tartlet		A small tart.	
tartly		In a tart manner; with acidity.	
tartness		The quality or state of being tart.	
tartralic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained as a white amorphous deliquescent substance, C8H10O11; -- called also ditartaric, tartrilic, or tartrylic acid.	
tartramate		A salt of tartramic acid.	
tartramic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid which is the primary acid amide derivative of tartaric acid.	
tartramide		An acid amide derivative of tartaric acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance.	
tartrate		A salt of tartaric acid.	
tartrated		Containing, or derived from, tartar; combined with tartaric acid.	
tartrazine		An artificial dyestuff obtained as an orange-yellow powder, and regarded as a phenyl hydrazine derivative of tartaric and sulphonic acids.	
tartrelic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, an anhydride, C4H4O5, of tartaric acid, obtained as a white crystalline deliquescent substance.	
tartro-		A combining form (also used adjectively) used in chemistry to denote the presence of tartar or of some of its compounds or derivatives.	
tartronate		A salt of tartronic acid.	
tartronic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid (called also hydroxy malonic acid) obtained, by reducing mesoxalic acid, as a white crystalline substance.	
tartronyl		A hypothetical radical constituting the characteristic residue of tartronic acid and certain of its derivatives.	
tartrovinic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, a certain acid composed of tartaric acid in combination with ethyl, and now called ethyltartaric acid.	
tartufe		A hypocritical devotee. See the Dictionary of Noted Names in Fiction.	
tartuffe		A hypocritical devotee. See the Dictionary of Noted Names in Fiction.	
tartuffish		Like a tartuffe; precise; hypocritical.	
tartufish		Like a tartuffe; precise; hypocritical.	
tarweed		A name given to several resinous-glandular composite plants of California, esp. to the species of Grindelia, Hemizonia, and Madia.	
tasco		A kind of clay for making melting pots.	
tasimer		An instrument for detecting or measuring minute extension or movements of solid bodies.	
task		Labor or study imposed by another, often in a definite quantity or amount.	Old French tasque.
tasker		One who imposes a task.	
taskmaster		One who imposes a task, or burdens another with labor; one whose duty is to assign tasks; an overseer.	
taskwork		Work done as a task; also, work done by the job; piecework.	
taslet		A piece of armor formerly worn to guard the things; a tasse.	
tasmanian		Of or pertaining to Tasmania, or Van Diemen's Land. -- n.	
tasse		A piece of armor for the thighs, forming an appendage to the ancient corselet.	
tassel		A male hawk. See Tercel.	Old French tassel.
tasset		A defense for the front of the thigh, consisting of one or more iron plates hanging from the belt on the lower edge of the corselet.	
tastable		Capable of worthy of being tasted; savory; relishing.	
taste		To try by the touch of the tongue; to perceive the relish or flavor of (anything) by taking a small quantity into a mouth.	Middle English tasten, from Old French taster.
tasteful		Having a high relish; savory.	
tasteless		Having no taste; insipid; flat; as, tasteless fruit.	
taster		One who tastes; especially, one who first tastes food or drink to ascertain its quality.	
tastily		In a tasty manner.	
tasting		The act of perceiving or tasting by the organs of taste; the faculty or sense by which we perceive or distinguish savors.	
tasto		A key or thing touched to produce a tone.	
tasty		Having a good taste; -- applied to persons; as, a tasty woman. See Taste, n., 5.	
tat		Gunny cloth made from the fiber of the Corchorus olitorius, or jute.	
tataupa		A South American tinamou (Crypturus tataupa).	
tatch	Obsolete	A spot or stain; also, a trick.	
tath	English dialect	The luxuriant grass growing about the droppings of cattle in a pasture.	Middle English tathen, from Old Norse teðja.
tatou		The giant armadillo (Priodontes gigas) of tropical South America.	
tatouay		An armadillo (Xenurus unicinctus), native of the tropical parts of South America.	
tatouhou		The peba.	
tatt		To make (anything) by tatting; to work at tatting; as, tatted edging.	
tatta		A bamboo frame or trellis hung at a door or window of a house, over which water is suffered to trickle, in order to moisten and cool the air as it enters.	
tatter		One who makes tatting.	
tatterdemalion		A ragged fellow; a ragamuffin.	
tatting		A kind of lace made from common sewing thread, with a peculiar stitch.	
tattle		To prate; to talk idly; to use many words with little meaning; to chat.	
tattler		One who tattles; an idle talker; one who tells tales.	
tattlery		Idle talk or chat; tittle-tattle.	
tattling		Given to idle talk; apt to tell tales. -- Tat"tling*ly, adv.	
tattoo		A beat of drum, or sound of a trumpet or bugle, at night, giving notice to soldiers to retreat, or to repair to their quarters in garrison, or to their tents in camp.	Dutch taptoe.
tatty		A mat or screen of fibers, as of the kuskus grass, hung at a door or window and kept wet to moisten and cool the air as it enters.	
tatu		Same as Tatou.	
tatusiid		Any armadillo of the family Tatusiidæ, of which the peba and mule armadillo are examples.	
tau		The common American toadfish; -- so called from a marking resembling the Greek letter tau (t).	Greek ταῦ.
taught		See Taut — (Naut.) Tight; stretched; not slack; -- said esp. of a rope that is tightly strained.	
taunt		Very high or tall; as, a ship with taunt masts.	
taunter		One who taunts.	
taunting		from Taunt, v.	
tauntingly		In a taunting manner.	
tauntress		A woman who taunts.	
taupie	Scots	A foolish or thoughtless young person, esp. a slothful or slovenly woman.	
taur	Obsolete	The constellation Taurus.	
tauricornous		Having horns like those of a bull.	
taurid		Any of a group of meteors appearing November 20-23; -- so called because they appear to radiate from a point in Taurus.	
tauridor		A bull Sir W.	
tauriform		Having the form of a bull.	
taurine		Of or pertaining to the genus Taurus, or cattle.	Latin taurinus.
taurocholate		A salt of taurocholic acid; as, sodium taurocholate, which occurs in human bile.	
taurocholic		Pertaining to, or designating, a conjugate acid (called taurocholic acid) composed of taurine and cholic acid, present abundantly in human bile and in that of carnivora.	
taurocol		Glue made from a bull's hide.	
taurocolla		Glue made from a bull's hide.	Greek ταυρόκολλα.
tauromachian		Of or pertaining to bullfights. -- n.	
tauromachy		Bullfighting.	
taurus		(Astron.) (a) The Bull; the second in order of the twelve signs of the zodiac, which the sun enters about the 20th of April; -- marked thus in almanacs.	
taurylic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid found of a urine of neat cattle, and probably identical with cresol.	
taut		(Naut.) Tight; stretched; not slack; -- said esp. of a rope that is tightly strained.	
tautaug		Same as Tautog.	
tautegorical		Expressing the same thing with different words; -- opposed to allegorical.	
tautochrone		A curved line, such that a heavy body, descending along it by the action of gravity, will always arrive at the lowest point in the same time, wherever in the curve it may begin to fall; as…	
tautochronous		Occupying the same time; pertaining to, or having the properties of, a tautochrone.	
tautog		An edible labroid fish (Haitula onitis, or Tautoga onitis) of the Atlantic coast of the United States.	Narragansett tautauog.
tautologic		Tautological.	
tautological		Involving tautology; having the same signification; as, tautological expression. -- Tau`to*log"ic*al*ly, adv.	
tautologist		One who uses tautological words or phrases.	
tautologize		To repeat the same thing in different words.	
tautologous		Repeating the same thing in different words; tautological.	
tautology		A repetition of the same meaning in different words; needless repetition of an idea in different words or phrases; a representation of anything as the cause, condition, or consequence of itself…	Latin tautologia, from Greek ταυτολογία.
tautomeric		Relating to, or characterized by, tautomerism.	
tautomerism		The condition, quality, or relation of metameric substances, or their respective derivatives, which are more or less interchangeable, according as one form or the other is the more stable.	
tautoousian		Having the same essence; being identically of the same nature.	
tautoousious		Having the same essence; being identically of the same nature.	
tautophonical		Pertaining to, or characterized by, tautophony; repeating the same sound.	
tautophony		Repetition of the same sound.	
tautozonal		Belonging to the same zone; as, tautozonal planes.	
tavern		A public house where travelers and other transient guests are accomodated with rooms and meals; an inn; a hotel; especially, in modern times, a public house licensed to sell liquor in small quantities.	Old French taverne, from Latin taberna.
taverner		One who keeps a tavern.	Old French tavernier.
taverning	Obsolete	A feasting at taverns.	
tavernman	Obsolete	The keeper of a tavern; also, a tippler.	
taw		To dress and prepare, as the skins of sheep, lambs, goats, and kids, for gloves, and the like, by imbuing them with alum, salt, and other agents, for softening and bleaching them.	Middle English tawen, from Old English tawian.
tawdrily		In a tawdry manner.	
tawdriness		Quality or state of being tawdry.	
tawdry	Obsolete	Bought at the festival of St. Audrey.	
tawer		One who taws; a dresser of white leather.	
tawery		A place where skins are tawed.	
tawniness		The quality or state of being tawny.	
tawny		Of a dull yellowish brown color, like things tanned, or persons who are sunburnt; as, tawny Moor or Spaniard; the tawny lion.	
tawpie	Scots	A foolish or thoughtless young person, esp. a slothful or slovenly woman.	
taws	Scots	A leather lash, or other instrument of punishment, used by a schoolmaster.	
tax		A charge, especially a pecuniary burden which is imposed by authority.	
taxability		The quality or state of being taxable; taxableness.	
taxable		Capable of being taxed; liable by law to the assessment of taxes; as, taxable estate; taxable commodities.	
taxaspidean		Having the posterior tarsal scales, or scutella, rectangular and arranged in regular rows; -- said of certain birds.	
taxation		The act of laying a tax, or of imposing taxes, as on the subjects of a state, by government, or on the members of a corporation or company, by the proper authority; the raising of revenue; also, a system of raising revenue.	Latin taxatio.
taxel		The American badger.	
taxeopoda		An order of extinct Mammalia found in the Tertiary formations.	
taxer		One of two officers chosen yearly to regulate the assize of bread, and to see the true gauge of weights and measures is observed.	
taxgatherer		One who collects taxes or revenues. -- Tax"gath`er*ing, n.	
taxiarch		An Athenian military officer commanding a certain division of an army.	
taxicorn		One of a family of beetles (Taxicornes) whose antennæ are largest at the tip.	
taxidermic		Of or pertaining to the art of preparing and preserving the skins of animals.	
taxidermist		A person skilled in taxidermy.	
taxidermy		The art of preparing, preserving, and mounting the skins of animals so as to represent their natural appearance, as for cabinets.	
taxine		A poisonous alkaloid of bitter taste extracted from the leaves and seeds of the European yew (Taxus baccata).	
taxis		Manipulation applied to a hernial tumor, or to an intestinal obstruction, for the purpose of reducing it.	Greek τάξις.
taxless		Free from taxation.	
taxology		Same as Taxonomy.	
taxonomic		Pertaining to, or involving, taxonomy, or the laws and principles of classification; classificatory.	
taxonomist		One skilled in taxonomy.	
taxonomy		That division of the natural sciences which treats of the classification of animals and plants; the laws or principles of classification.	French taxonomie.
taxor		Same as Taxer, n., 2.	
taxpayer		One who is assessed and pays a tax.	
tayra		A South American carnivore (Galera barbara) allied to the grison.	
tazel	Obsolete	The teasel.	
tazza		An ornamental cup or vase with a large, flat, shallow bowl, resting on a pedestal and often having handles.	Italian tazza, from Arabic طاس, from Persian طاس.
