te-hee		A tittering laugh; a titter.
tea		The prepared leaves of a shrub, or small tree (Thea, or Camellia, Chinensis).
tea-saucer		A small saucer in which a teacup is set.
teaberry		The checkerberry.
teach		To impart the knowledge of; to give intelligence concerning; to impart, as knowledge before unknown, or rules for practice; to inculcate as true or important; to exhibit impressively; as, to teach arithmetic, dancing, music…
teachable		Capable of being taught; apt to learn; also, willing to receive instruction; docile.
teachableness		Willingness to be taught.
teache		One of the series of boilers in which the cane juice is treated in making sugar; especially, the last boiler of the series.
teacher		One who teaches or instructs; one whose business or occupation is to instruct others; an instructor; a tutor.
teaching		The act or business of instructing; also, that which is taught; instruction.
teachless		Not teachable.
teacup		A small cup from which to drink tea.
teacupful		As much as a teacup can hold; enough to fill a teacup.
tead	Obsolete	A torch.
teade	Obsolete	A torch.
teagle	English dialect	A hoisting apparatus; an elevator; a crane; a lift.
teague		An Irishman; -- a term used in contempt.
teak		A tree of East Indies (Tectona grandis) which furnishes an extremely strong and durable timber highly valued for shipbuilding and other purposes; also, the timber of the tree.
teakettle		A kettle in which water is boiled for making tea, coffee, etc.
teal		Any one of several species of small fresh-water ducks of the genus Anas and the subgenera Querquedula and Nettion.
team		A group of young animals, especially of young ducks; a brood; a litter.
teamed	Obsolete	Yoked in, or as in, a team.
teaming		The act or occupation of driving a team, or of hauling or carrying, as logs, goods, or the like, with a team.
teamster		One who drives a team.
teamwork		Work done by a team, as distinguished from that done by personal labor.
teapot		A vessel with a spout, in which tea is made, and from which it is poured into teacups.
teapoy		An ornamental stand, usually with three legs, having caddies for holding tea.
tear		(Physiol.) A drop of the limpid, saline fluid secreted, normally in small amount, by the lachrymal gland, and diffused between the eye and the eyelids to moisten the parts and facilitate their motion.
tear-falling	Poetic	Shedding tears; tender.
tear-thumb		A name given to several species of plants of the genus Polygonum, having angular stems beset with minute reflexed prickles.
tearer		One who tears or rends anything; also, one who rages or raves with violence.
tearful		Abounding with tears; weeping; shedding tears; as, tearful eyes. -- Tear ful*ness, n.
tearless		Shedding no tears; free from tears; unfeeling. -- Tear less*ness, n.
tearpit		A cavity or pouch beneath the lower eyelid of most deer and antelope; the lachrymal sinus; larmier.
teary		Wet with tears; tearful.
tease		To stratch, as cloth, for the purpose of raising a nap; teasel.
teasel		(Bot.) A plant of the genus Dipsacus, of which one species (D. fullonum) bears a large flower head covered with stiff, prickly, hooked bracts.
teaseler		One who uses teasels for raising a nap on cloth.
teaseling		The cutting and gathering of teasels; the use of teasels.
teaser		One who teases or vexes.
teasle		See Teasel — (Bot.) A plant of the genus Dipsacus, of which one species (D. fullonum) bears a large flower head covered with stiff, prickly, hooked bracts.
teaspoon		A small spoon used in stirring and sipping tea, coffee, etc., and for other purposes.
teaspoonful		As much as teaspoon will hold; enough to fill a teaspoon; -- usually reckoned at a fluid dram or one quarter of a tablespoonful.
teat		The protuberance through which milk is drawn from the udder or breast of a mammal; a nipple; a pap; a mammilla; a dug; a tit.
teated		Having protuberances resembling the teat of an animal.
teathe	English dialect	See Tath — the luxuriant grass growing about the droppings of cattle in a pasture.
teatish	Obsolete	Peevish; tettish; fretful; -- said of a child. See Tettish.
teaze-hole		The opening in the furnaces through which fuel is introduced.
teazel		See Teasel — (Bot.) A plant of the genus Dipsacus, of which one species (D. fullonum) bears a large flower head covered with stiff, prickly, hooked bracts.
teazer		The stoker or fireman of a furnace, as in glass works.
teazle		See Teasel — (Bot.) A plant of the genus Dipsacus, of which one species (D. fullonum) bears a large flower head covered with stiff, prickly, hooked bracts.
tebeth		The tenth month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, answering to a part of December with a part of January.
techily		In a techy manner.
techiness		The quality or state of being techy.
technic		The method of performance in any art; technical skill; artistic execution; technique.
technical		Of or pertaining to the useful or mechanic arts, or to any science, business, or the like; specially appropriate to any art, science, or business; as, the words of an indictment must be technical.
technicality		The quality or state of being technical; technicalness.
technically		In a technical manner; according to the signification of terms as used in any art, business, or profession.
technicalness		The quality or state of being technical; technicality.
technicals		Those things which pertain to the practical part of an art, science, or profession; technical terms; technics.
technician		A technicist; esp., one skilled particularly in the technical details of his work.
technicist		One skilled to technics or in one or more of the practical arts.
technicological		Technological; technical.
technicology		Technology.
technics		The doctrine of arts in general; such branches of learning as respect the arts.
techniphone		A dumb gymnastic apparatus for training the hands of pianists and organists, as to a legato touch.
technique		Same as Technic, n.
technism		Technicality.
technography		Description of the arts and crafts of tribes and peoples. -- Tech`no*graph ic*al (#), a.
technologic		Technological.
technological		Of or pertaining to technology.
technologist		One skilled in technology; one who treats of arts, or of the terms of arts.
technology		Industrial science; the science of systematic knowledge of the industrial arts, especially of the more important manufactures, as spinning, weaving, metallurgy, etc.
techy		Peevish; fretful; irritable.
tectibranch		One of the Tectibranchiata.
tectibranchia		Same as Tectibranchiata.
tectibranchiata		An order, or suborder, of gastropod Mollusca in which the gills are usually situated on one side of the back, and protected by a fold of the mantle.
tectibranchiate		Having the gills covered by the mantle; of or pertaining to the Tectibranchiata. -- n.
tectly	Obsolete	Covertly; privately; secretly.
tectology		A division of morphology created by Haeckel; the science of organic individuality constituting the purely structural portion of morphology, in which the organism is regarded as composed of organic individuals of different orders…
tectonic		Of or pertaining to building or construction; architectural.
tectonics		The science, or the art, by which implements, vessels, dwellings, or other edifices, are constructed, both agreeably to the end for which they are designed, and in conformity with artistic sentiments and ideas.
tectorial		Of or pertaining to covering; -- applied to a membrane immediately over the organ of Corti in the internal ear.
tectrices		The wing coverts of a bird. See Covert, and Illust. of Bird.
tecum		See Tucum — a fine, strong fiber obtained from the young leaves of a Brazilian palm (Astrocaryum vulgare), used for cordage, bowstrings, etc.; also, the plant yielding this fiber.
ted		To spread, or turn from the swath, and scatter for drying, as new-mowed grass; -- chiefly used in the past participle.
tedder		A machine for stirring and spreading hay, to expedite its drying.
tedesco		German; -- used chiefly of art, literature, etc.
tedge		The gate of a mold, through which the melted metal is poured; runner, geat.
tediosity	Obsolete	Tediousness.
tedious		Involving tedium; tiresome from continuance, prolixity, slowness, or the like; wearisome. -- Te di*ous*ness, n.
tedium		Irksomeness; wearisomeness; tediousness.
tee		(a) The mark aimed at in curling and in quoits. (b) The nodule of earth from which the ball is struck in golf.
tee-to-tum	Colloquial	A workingmen's resort conducted under religious influences as a counteractant to the drinking saloon.
teek	Obsolete	See Teak — a tree of East Indies (Tectona grandis) which furnishes an extremely strong and durable timber highly valued for shipbuilding and other purposes; also, the timber of the tree.
teelseed		The seed of sesame.
teem		To bring forth young, as an animal; to produce fruit, as a plant; to bear; to be pregnant; to conceive; to multiply.
teemer		One who teems, or brings forth.
teemful	Obsolete	Pregnant; prolific. 2.
teeming		Prolific; productive.
teemless	Poetic	Not fruitful or prolific; barren; as, a teemless earth.
teen	Archaic	Grief; sorrow; affiction; pain.
teenage	English dialect	The longer wood for making or mending fences.
teend	Obsolete	To kindle; to burn.
teenful	Obsolete	Full of teen; harmful; grievous; grieving; afflicted.
teens		The years of one's age having the termination -teen, beginning with thirteen and ending with nineteen; as, a girl in her teens.
teeny	Colloquial	Very small; tiny.
teeong		The mino bird.
teest		A tinsmith's stake, or small anvil.
teeswater		A breed of cattle formerly bred in England, but supposed to have originated in Holland and to have been the principal stock from which the shorthorns were derived.
teetan	English dialect	A pipit.
teetee		(Zoöl.) Any one of several species of small, soft-furred South American monkeys belonging to Callithrix, Chrysothrix, and allied genera; as, the collared teetee (Callithrix torquatus)…
teeter		To move up and down on the ends of a balanced plank, or the like, as children do for sport; to seesaw; to titter; to titter- totter. alit upon the flower, and teetered up and down.
teeter-tail		The spotted sandpiper. See the Note under Sandpiper.
teeth		pl. of Tooth — (Anat.) One of the hard, bony appendages which are borne on the jaws, or on other bones in the walls of the mouth or pharynx of most vertebrates…
teething		The process of the first growth of teeth, or the phenomena attending their issue through the gums; dentition.
teetotal	Colloquial	Entire; total.
teetotaler		One pledged to entire abstinence from all intoxicating drinks.
teetotalism		The principle or practice of entire abstinence, esp. from intoxicating drinks.
teetotally	Colloquial	Entirely; totally.
teetotum		A child's toy, somewhat resembling a top, and twirled by the fingers.
teetuck	English dialect	The rock pipit.
teeuck	English dialect	The lapwing.
teewit	English dialect	The pewit.
teg	English dialect	A sheep in its second year; also, a doe in its second year.
tegmen		(Bot.) The inner layer of the coating of a seed, usually thin and delicate; the endopleura.
tegmental		Of or pertaining to a tegument or tegmentum; as, the tegmental layer of the epiblast; the tegmental cells of the taste buds.
tegmentum		A covering; -- applied especially to the bundles of longitudinal fibers in the upper part of the crura of the cerebrum.
teguexin		A large South American lizard (Tejus teguexin).
tegula		A small appendage situated above the base of the wings of Hymenoptera and attached to the mesonotum.
tegular		Of or pertaining to a tile; resembling a tile, or arranged like tiles; consisting of tiles; as, a tegular pavement. -- Teg"u*lar*ly, adv.
tegulated		Composed of small plates, as of horn or metal, overlapping like tiles; -- said of a kind of ancient armor.
tegument		Especially, the covering of a living body, or of some part or organ of such a body; skin; hide.
tegumentary		Of or pertaining to a tegument or teguments; consisting of teguments; serving as a tegument or covering.
teil		The lime tree, or linden; -- called also teil tree.
teind	Scots	A tithe.
teine	Obsolete	See Teyne — a thin plate of metal.
teinland		Land granted by the crown to a thane or lord.
teinoscope		An instrument formed by combining prisms so as to correct the chromatic aberration of the light while linear dimensions of objects seen through the prisms are increased or diminished; -- called also prism telescope.
teint	Obsolete	Tint; color; tinge, See Tint.
teinture	Obsolete	Color; tinge; tincture.
tek		A Siberian ibex.
tel-el-amarna		A station on the Nile, midway between Thebes and Memphis, forming the site of the capital of Amenophis IV., whose archive chamber was discovered there in 1887.
telamones		Same as Atlantes.
telangiectasis		Dilatation of the capillary vessels.
telangiectasy		Telangiectasis.
telarly	Obsolete	In a weblike manner.
telary		Of or pertaining to a web; hence, spinning webs; retiary.
telautogram		A message transmitted and recorded by a teleautograph.
telautograph		A facsimile telegraph for reproducing writing, pictures, maps, etc. In the transmitter the motions of the pencil are communicated by levers to two rotary shafts…
tele-iconograph		An instrument essentially the same as the telemetrograph.
telechirograph		An instrument for telegraphically transmitting and receiving handwritten messages, as photographically by a beam of light from a mirror.
teledu		An East Indian carnivore (Mydaus meliceps) allied to the badger, and noted for the very offensive odor that it emits, somewhat resembling that of a skunk.
telega		A rude four-wheeled, springless wagon, used among the Russians.
telegony		The supposed influence of a father upon offspring subsequent to his own, begotten of the same mother by another father. -- Te*leg"o*nous (#), a.
telegram		A message sent by telegraph; a telegraphic dispatch.
telegrammic		Pertaining to, or resembling, a telegram; laconic; concise; brief.
telegraph		An apparatus, or a process, for communicating intelligence rapidly between distant points, especially by means of preconcerted visible or audible signals representing words or ideas, or by means of words and signs…
telegrapher		One who sends telegraphic messages; a telegraphic operator; a telegraphist.
telegraphic		Of or pertaining to the telegraph; made or communicated by a telegraph; as, telegraphic signals; telegraphic art; telegraphic intelligence.
telegraphical		Telegraphic. -- Tel`e*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.
telegraphist		One skilled in telegraphy; a telegrapher.
telegraphone		An instrument for recording and reproducing sound by local magnetization of a steel wire, disk, or ribbon, moved against the pole of a magnet connected electrically with a telephone receiver, or the like.
telegraphoscope		An instrument for telegraphically transmitting a picture and reproducing its image as a positive or negative.
telegraphy		The science or art of constructing, or of communicating by means of, telegraphs; as, submarine telegraphy.
telehydrobarometer		An instrument for indicating the level of water in a distant tank or reservior.
telelectric		Of or pertaining to transmission, as of music, to a distance by electricity.
telelectroscope		Any apparatus for making distant objects visible by the aid of electric transmission.
telemechanic		Designating, or pert. to, any device for operating mechanisms at a distance. --Tel`e*mech"a*nism (#), n.
telemeteorograph		Any apparatus recording meteorological phenomena at a distance from the measuring apparatus, as by electricity or by compressed air; esp.…
telemeter		An instrument used for measuring the distance of an object from an observer; as, a telescope with a micrometer for measuring the apparent diameter of an object whose real dimensions are known.
telemetrograph		A combination of the camera lucida and telescope for drawing and measuring distant objects. -- Tel`e*me*trog ic (#), a.
telemotor		A hydraulic device by which the movement of the wheel on the bridge operates the steering gear at the stern.
telenergy		Display of force or energy at a distance, or without contact; - - applied to mediumistic phenomena. -- Tel`en*er"gic (#), a.
telengiscope		An instrument of such focal length that it may be used as an observing telescope for objects close at hand or as a long-focused microscope.
teleocephial		An extensive order of bony fishes including most of the common market species, as bass, salmon, cod, perch, etc.
teleological		Of or pertaining to teleology, or the doctrine of design. -- Te`le*o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
teleologist		One versed in teleology.
teleology		The doctrine of the final causes of things; specif. (Biol.), the doctrine of design, which assumes that the phenomena of organic life, particularly those of evolution, are explicable only by purposive causes…
teleophore		Same as Gonotheca.
teleorganic		Vital; as, teleorganic functions.
teleosaur		Any one of several species of fossil suarians belonging to Teleosaurus and allied genera.
teleosaurus		A genus of extinct crocodilian reptiles of the Jurassic period, having a long and slender snout.
teleost		One of the Teleosti.
teleostean		Of or pertaining to the teleosts. -- n.
teleostei		A subclass of fishes including all the ordinary bony fishes as distinguished from the ganoids.
teleostomi		An extensive division of fishes including the ordinary fishes (Teleostei) and the ganoids.
teleozoic		Having tissued composed of cells.
teleozooen		A metazoan.
teleozoon		A metazoan.
telepathy		The sympathetic affection of one mind by the thoughts, feelings, or emotions of another at a distance, without communication through the ordinary channels of sensation. -- Tel`e*path a*thist, n.
telepheme		A message by a telephone.
telephone		An instrument for reproducing sounds, especially articulate speech, at a distance.
telephonic		Conveying sound to a great distance.
telephonically		By telephonic means or processes; by the use of the telephone.
telephony		The art or process of reproducing sounds at a distance, as with the telephone.
telephote		A telelectric apparatus for producing images of visible objects at a distance.
telephoto		Telephotographic; specif., designating a lens consisting of a combination of lenses specially designed to give a large image of a distant object in a camera of relatively short focal length.
telephotograph		A photograph, image, or impression, reproduced by or taken with a telephotographic apparatus.
telephotographic		Designating, or pertaining to, the process of telephotography.
telephotography		The photography of distant objects in more enlarged form than is possible by the ordinary means, usually by a camera provided with a telephoto lens or mounted in place of the eyepiece of a telescope…
telepolariscope		A polariscope arranged to be attached to a telescope.
telerythin		A red crystalline compound related to, or produced from, erythrin.
telescope		An optical instrument used in viewing distant objects, as the heavenly bodies.
telescopic		Of or pertaining to a telescope; performed by a telescope.
telescopical		Of or pertaining to a telescope; performed by a telescope.
telescopically		In a telescopical manner; by or with the telescope.
telescopist		One who uses a telescope.
telescopy		The art or practice of using or making telescopes.
teleseism		A seismic movement or shock far from the recording instrument. -- Tel`e*seis"mic (#), a.
teleseme		A system of apparatus for electric signals providing for automatic transmission of a definite number of different signals or calls, as in connection with hotel annunciators.
telesm	Obsolete	A kind of amulet or magical charm.
telesmatic		Of or pertaining to telesms; magical.
telesmatical		Of or pertaining to telesms; magical.
telespectroscope		A spectroscope arranged to be attached to a telescope for observation of distant objects, as the sun or stars.
telestereograph		An instrument for telegraphically reproducing a photograph. -- Tel`e*ste`re*og"ra*phy (#), n.
telestereoscope		A stereoscope adapted to view distant natural objects or landscapes; a telescopic stereoscope.
telestic		Tending or relating to a purpose or an end.
telestich		A poem in which the final letters of the lines, taken consequently, make a name.
telethermograph		(a) A record of fluctuations of temperature made automatically at a distant station.
telethermometer		An apparatus for determining the temperature of a distant point, as by a thermoelectric circuit or otherwise.
teleutospore		The thick-celled winter or resting spore of the rusts (order Uredinales), produced in late summer.
telford		Designating, or pert. to, a road pavement having a surface of small stone rolled hard and smooth, distinguished from macadam road by its firm foundation of large stones with fragments of stone wedged tightly, in the interstices…
telfordize		To furnish (a road) with a telford pavement.
telharmonic		Of or pertaining to telharmonium.
telharmonium		An instrument for producing music (Tel*har"mo*ny ), at a distant point or points by means of alternating currents of electricity controlled by an operator who plays on a keyboard.
telharmony		An instrument for producing music (Tel*har"mo*ny ), at a distant point or points by means of alternating currents of electricity controlled by an operator who plays on a keyboard.
telic		Denoting the final end or purpose, as distinguished from ecbatic. See Ecbatic.
tell		To mention one by one, or piece by piece; to recount; to enumerate; to reckon; to number; to count; as, to tell money.
tellable		Capable of being told.
tellen		Any species of Tellina.
teller		One who tells, relates, or communicates; an informer, narrator, or describer.
tellership		The office or employment of a teller.
tellina		A genus of marine bivalve mollusks having thin, delicate, and often handsomely colored shells.
telling		Operating with great effect; effective; as, a telling speech. -- Tell"ing*ly, adv.
telltale		Telling tales; babbling.
tellural		Of or pertaining to the earth.
tellurate		A salt of telluric acid.
telluret	Passing out of use	A telluride.
tellureted	Passing out of use	Combined or impregnated with tellurium; tellurized.
tellurhydric		Of, pertaining to, or designating, hydrogen telluride, which is regarded as an acid, especially when in solution.
tellurian		Of or pertaining to the earth.
telluric		Of or pertaining to the earth; proceeding from the earth.
telluride		A compound of tellurium with a more positive element or radical; -- formerly called telluret.
tellurism		An hypothesis of animal magnetism propounded by Dr. Keiser, in Germany, in which the phenomena are ascribed to the agency of a telluric spirit or influence.
tellurite		(Chem.) A salt of tellurous acid.
tellurium		A rare nonmetallic element, analogous to sulphur and selenium, occasionally found native as a substance of a silver-white metallic luster, but usually combined with metals, as with gold and silver in the mineral sylvanite…
tellurize		To impregnate with, or to subject to the action of, tellurium; -- chiefly used adjectively in the past participle; as, tellurized ores.
tellurous		Of or pertaining to tellurium; derived from, or containing, tellurium; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a lower valence as contrasted with telluric compounds; as, tellurous acid…
telodynamic		Relating to a system for transmitting power to a distance by means of swiftly moving ropes or cables driving grooved pulleys of large diameter.
teloogoo		See Telugu — a darvidian language spoken in the northern parts of the Madras presidency.
telotrocha		An annelid larva having telotrochal bands of cilia.
telotrochal		Having both a preoral and a posterior band of cilla; -- applied to the larvæ of certain annelids.
telotrochous		Having both a preoral and a posterior band of cilla; -- applied to the larvæ of certain annelids.
telotype		An electric telegraph which prints the messages in letters and not in signs.
telpher		A contrivance for the conveyance of vehicles or loads by means of electricity.
telpherage		The conveyance of vehicles or loads by means of electricity.
telson		The terminal joint or movable piece at the end of the abdomen of Crustacea and other articulates.
telugu		A Darvidian language spoken in the northern parts of the Madras presidency.
temblor		An earthquake.
temerarious		Unreasonably adventurous; despising danger; rash; headstrong; audacious; reckless; heedless. -- Tem`er*a"ri*ous*ly, adv.
temeration	Obsolete	Temerity.
temerity		Unreasonable contempt of danger; extreme venturesomeness; rashness; as, the temerity of a commander in war.
temerous	Obsolete	Temerarious.
tempean		Of or pertaining to Temple, a valley in Thessaly, celebrated by Greek poets on account of its beautiful scenery; resembling Temple; hence, beautiful; delightful; charming.
temper		To mingle in due proportion; to prepare by combining; to modify, as by adding some new element; to qualify, as by an ingredient; hence, to soften; to mollify; to assuage; to soothe; to calm.
tempera		A mode or process of painting; distemper.
temperable		Capable of being tempered.
temperament		Internal constitution; state with respect to the relative proportion of different qualities, or constituent parts.
temperamental		Of or pertaining to temperament; constitutional.
temperance		Habitual moderation in regard to the indulgence of the natural appetites and passions; restrained or moderate indulgence; moderation; as, temperance in eating and drinking; temperance in the indulgence of joy or mirth…
temperancy		Temperance.
temperate		Moderate; not excessive; as, temperate heat; a temperate climate.
temperately		In a temperate manner.
temperateness		The quality or state of being temperate; moderateness; temperance.
temperative		Having power to temper.
temperature		Constitution; state; degree of any quality.
tempered		Brought to a proper temper; as, tempered steel; having (such) a temper; -- chiefly used in composition; as, a good-tempered or bad- tempered man; a well-tempered sword.
temperer		One who, or that which, tempers; specifically, a machine in which lime, cement, stone, etc., are mixed with water.
tempering		The process of giving the requisite degree of hardness or softness to a substance, as iron and steel; especially, the process of giving to steel the degree of hardness required for various purposes…
tempest		An extensive current of wind, rushing with great velocity and violence, and commonly attended with rain, hail, or snow; a furious storm. caught in a fiery tempest, shall be hurled, Each on his rock transfixed.
tempestive	Obsolete	Seasonable; timely; as, tempestive showers.
tempestivily	Obsolete	The quality, or state, of being tempestive; seasonableness.
tempestuous		Of or pertaining to a tempest; involving or resembling a tempest; turbulent; violent; stormy; as, tempestuous weather; a tempestuous night; a tempestuous debate. -- Tem*pes tu*ous*ness, n.
templar		One of a religious and military order first established at Jerusalem, in the early part of the 12th century, for the protection of pilgrims and of the Holy Sepulcher.
template		Same as Templet.
temple		A contrivence used in a loom for keeping the web stretched transversely.
templed		Supplied with a temple or temples, or with churches; inclosed in a temple.
templet		A gauge, pattern, or mold, commonly a thin plate or board, used as a guide to the form of the work to be executed; as, a mason's or a wheelwright's templet.
tempo		The rate or degree of movement in time.
temporal		Of or pertaining to the temple or temples; as, the temporal bone; a temporal artery.
temporality		The state or quality of being temporary; -- opposed to perpetuity.
temporally		In a temporal manner; secularly.
temporalness		Worldliness.
temporalty		A secular possession; a temporality.
temporaneous	Obsolete	Temporarity.
temporarily		In a temporary manner; for a time.
temporariness		The quality or state of being temporary; -- opposed to perpetuity.
temporary		Lasting for a time only; existing or continuing for a limited time; not permanent; as, the patient has obtained temporary relief.
temporist	Obsolete	A temporizer.
temporization		The act of temporizing.
temporize		To comply with the time or occasion; to humor, or yield to, the current of opinion or circumstances; also, to trim, as between two parties.
temporizer		One who temporizes; one who yields to the time, or complies with the prevailing opinions, fashions, or occasions; a trimmer.
temporizingly		In a temporizing or yielding manner.
temporo-		A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the temple, or temporal bone; as, temporofacial.
temporo-auricular		Of or pertaining to both the temple and the ear; as, the temporo-auricular nerve.
temporofacial		Of or pertaining to both the temple and the face.
temporomalar		Of or pertaining to both the temple and the region of the malar bone; as, the temporomalar nerve.
temporomaxillary		Of or pertaining to both the temple or the temporal bone and the maxilla.
tempse	Obsolete	See Temse — a sieve.
tempt		Ye shall not tempt the Lord your God.
temptability		The quality or state of being temptable; lability to temptation.
temptable		Capable of being tempted; liable to be tempted.
temptation		The act of tempting, or enticing to evil; seduction.
temptationless		Having no temptation or motive; as, a temptationless sin.
temptatious	English dialect	Tempting.
tempter		One who tempts or entices; especially, Satan, or the Devil, regarded as the great enticer to evil.
tempting		Adapted to entice or allure; attractive; alluring; seductive; enticing; as, tempting pleasures. -- Tempt ing*ness, n.
temptress		A woman who entices.
temse	English dialect	A sieve.
temulence		Intoxication; inebriation; drunkenness.
temulency		Intoxication; inebriation; drunkenness.
temulent		Intoxicated; drunken.
temulentive		Somewhat temulent; addicted to drink.
ten		One more than nine; twice five.
ten-pounder		A large oceanic fish (Elops saurus) found in the tropical parts of all the oceans.
ten-strike		(Tenpins) A knocking down of all ten pins at one delivery of the ball.
tenability		The quality or state of being tenable; tenableness.
tenable		Capable of being held, naintained, or defended, as against an assailant or objector, or againts attempts to take or process; as, a tenable fortress, a tenable argument.
tenableness		Same as Tenability.
tenace		The holding by the fourth hand of the best and third best cards of a suit led; also, sometimes, the combination of best with third best card of a suit in any hand.
tenacious		Holding fast, or inclined to hold fast; inclined to retain what is in possession; as, men tenacious of their just rights.
tenacity		The quality or state of being tenacious; as, tenacity, or retentiveness, of memory; tenacity, or persistency, of purpose.
tenaculum		An instrument consisting of a fine, sharp hook attached to a handle, and used mainly for taking up arteries, and the like.
tenacy	Obsolete	Tenaciousness; obstinacy.
tenaille		An outwork in the main ditch, in front of the curtain, between two bastions.
tenaillon		A work constructed on each side of the ravelins, to increase their strength, procure additional ground beyond the ditch, or cover the shoulders of the bastions.
tenancy		(a) A holding, or a mode of holding, an estate; tenure; the temporary possession of what belongs to another.
tenant		(Law) One who holds or possesses lands, or other real estate, by any kind of right, whether in fee simple, in common, in severalty, for life, for years, or at will; also…
tenantable		Fit to be rented; in a condition suitable for a tenant. -- Ten"ant*a*ble*ness, n.
tenantless		Having no tenants; unoccupied; as, a tenantless mansion.
tenantry	Obsolete	The body of tenants; as, the tenantry of a manor or a kingdom. 2.
tench		A European fresh-water fish (Tinca tinca, or T. vulgaris) allied to the carp.
tend		To accompany as an assistant or protector; to care for the wants of; to look after; to watch; to guard; as, shepherds tend their flocks.
tendance	Archaic	The act of attending or waiting; attendance.
tendence	Obsolete	Tendency.
tendency		Direction or course toward any place, object, effect, or result; drift; causal or efficient influence to bring about an effect or result.
tender		One who tends; one who takes care of any person or thing; a nurse.
tender-hearted		Having great sensibility; susceptible of impressions or influence; affectionate; pitying; sensitive. -- Ten der-heart`ed*ness, n.
tender-hefted	Obsolete	Having great tenderness; easily moved.
tenderfoot	Slang	A delicate person; one not inured to the hardship and rudeness of pioneer life.
tenderling		One made tender by too much kindness; a fondling.
tenderloin		A strip of tender flesh on either side of the vertebral column under the short ribs, in the hind quarter of beef and pork.
tenderly		In a tender manner; with tenderness; mildly; gently; softly; in a manner not to injure or give pain; with pity or affection; kindly.
tenderness		The quality or state of being tender (in any sense of the adjective).
tendinous		Pertaining to a tendon; of the nature of tendon.
tendment	Obsolete	Attendance; care.
tendon		A tough insensible cord, bundle, or band of fibrous connective tissue uniting a muscle with some other part; a sinew.
tendonous		Tendinous.
tendosynovitis		See Tenosynovitis — inflammation of the synovial sheath enveloping a tendon.
tendrac		Any one of several species of small insectivores of the family Centetidæ, belonging to Ericulus, Echinope, and related genera, native of Madagascar.
tendre		Tender feeling or fondness; affection.
tendresse	Obsolete	Tender feeling; fondness.
tendril		A slender, leafless portion of a plant by which it becomes attached to a supporting body, after which the tendril usually contracts by coiling spirally.
tendriled		Furnished with tendrils, or with such or so many, tendrils.
tendrilled		Furnished with tendrils, or with such or so many, tendrils.
tendron	Obsolete	A tendril.
tendry	Obsolete	A tender; an offer.
tene	Obsolete	See 1st and 2d Teen.
tenebrae		The matins and lauds for the last three days of Holy Week, commemorating the sufferings and death of Christ, -- usually sung on the afternoon or evening of Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, instead of on the following days.
tenebricose	Obsolete	Tenebrous; dark; gloomy.
tenebrific		Rendering dark or gloomy; tenebrous; gloomy.
tenebrificous		Tenebrific.
tenebrious		Tenebrous.
tenebrose		Characterized by darkness or gloom; tenebrous.
tenebrosity		The quality or state of being tenebrous; tenebrousness.
tenebrous		Dark; gloomy; dusky; tenebrious. -- Ten"e*brous*ness, n.
tenement		(Common Law) Any species of permanent property that may be held, so as to create a tenancy, as lands, houses, rents, commons, an office, an advowson, a franchise, a right of common, a peerage, and the like…
tenemental		Of or pertaining to a tenement; capable of being held by tenants.
tenementary		Capable of being leased; held by tenants.
tenent	Obsolete	A tenet.
teneral		Of, pertaining to, or designating, a condition assumed by the imago of certain Neuroptera, after exclusion from the pupa.
teneriffe		A white wine resembling Madeira in taste, but more tart, produced in Teneriffe, one of the Canary Islands; -- called also Vidonia.
tenerity	Obsolete	Tenderness.
tenesmic		Of or pertaining to tenesmus; characterized by tenesmus.
tenesmus		An urgent and distressing sensation, as if a discharge from the intestines must take place, although none can be effected; -- always referred to the lower extremity of the rectum.
tenet		Any opinion, principle, dogma, belief, or doctrine, which a person holds or maintains as true; as, the tenets of Plato or of Cicero.
tenfold		In tens; consisting of ten in one; ten times repeated.
tenia		See Tænia.
teniacide		A remedy to destroy tapeworms.
teniafuge		A remedy to expel tapeworms.
teniasis		Ill health due to tænia, or tapeworms.
tenioid		See Tænoid.
tennantite		A blackish lead-gray mineral, closely related to tetrahedrite.
tenne		A tincture, rarely employed, which is considered as an orange color or bright brown.
tennis		A play in which a ball is driven to and fro, or kept in motion by striking it with a racket or with the open hand.
tenno		Lit., King of Heaven; -- a title of the emperor of Japan as the head of the Shinto religion.
tennu		The tapir.
tennysonian		Of or pertaining to Alfred (Lord) Tennyson, the English poet (1809-92); resembling, or having some of the characteristics of, his poetry, as simplicity, pictorial quality, sensuousness, etc. TEN-O'CLOCK Ten"-o'*clock`, n.
tenon		A projecting member left by cutting away the wood around it, and made to insert into a mortise, and in this way secure together the parts of a frame; especially…
tenonian		Discovered or described by M.
tenonitis		Inflammation of a tendon.
tenor		A state of holding on in a continuous course; manner of continuity; constant mode; general tendency; course; career.
tenorrhaphy		Suture of a tendon.
tenositis		Inflammation of a tendon.
tenosynovitis		Inflammation of the synovial sheath enveloping a tendon.
tenotome		A slender knife for use in the operation of tenotomy.
tenotomy		The division of a tendon, or the act of dividing a tendon.
tenpenny		Valued or sold at ten pence; as, a tenpenny cake. See 2d Penny, n.
tenpins		A game resembling ninepins, but played with ten pins. See Ninepins.
tenrec		A small insectivore (Centetes ecaudatus), native of Madagascar, but introduced also into the islands of Bourbon and Mauritius; -- called also tanrec.
tense		One of the forms which a verb takes by inflection or by adding auxiliary words, so as to indicate the time of the action or event signified; the modification which verbs undergo for the indication of time.
tensibility		The quality or state of being tensible; tensility.
tensible		Capable of being extended or drawn out; ductile; tensible.
tensile		Of or pertaining to extension; as, tensile strength.
tensiled		Made tensile.
tensility		The quality or state of being tensile, or capable of extension; tensibility; as, the tensility of the muscles.
tension		The act of stretching or straining; the state of being stretched or strained to stiffness; the state of being bent strained; as, the tension of the muscles, tension of the larynx.
tensioned		Extended or drawn out; subjected to tension.
tensity		The quality or state of being tense, or strained to stiffness; tension; tenseness.
tensive		Giving the sensation of tension, stiffness, or contraction.
tensor		(Anat.) A muscle that stretches a part, or renders it tense.
tensure	Obsolete	Tension.
tent		A kind of wine of a deep red color, chiefly from Galicia or Malaga in Spain; -- called also tent wine, and tinta.
tentacle		A more or less elongated process or organ, simple or branched, proceeding from the head or cephalic region of invertebrate animals, being either an organ of sense, prehension, or motion.
tentacled		Having tentacles.
tentacular		Of or pertaining to a tentacle or tentacles.
tentaculata		A division of Ctenophora including those which have two long tentacles.
tentaculate		Having tentacles, or organs like tentacles; tentacled.
tentaculated		Having tentacles, or organs like tentacles; tentacled.
tentaculifera		Same as Suctoria, 1.
tentaculiferous		Producing or bearing tentacles.
tentaculiform		Shaped like a tentacle.
tentaculite		Any one of numerous species of small, conical fossil shells found in Paleozoic rocks.
tentaculocyst		One of the auditory organs of certain medusæ; -- called also auditory tentacle.
tentaculum		(Anat.) One of the stiff hairs situated about the mouth, or on the face, of many animals, and supposed to be tactile organs; a tactile hair.
tentage	Obsolete	A collection of tents; an encampment.
tentation		(Mech.) A mode of adjusting or operating by repeated trials or experiments.
tentative		Of or pertaining to a trial or trials; essaying; experimental. -- Ten*ta"tive*ly, adv.
tented		Covered with tents.
tenter		One who takes care of, or tends, machines in a factory; a kind of assistant foreman.
tentful		As much, or as many, as a tent will hold.
tenth		Next in order after the ninth; coming after nine others.
tenthly		In a tenth manner.
tenthmeter		A unit for the measurement of many small lengths, such that 1010 of these units make one meter; the ten millionth part of a millimeter.
tenthmetre		A unit for the measurement of many small lengths, such that 1010 of these units make one meter; the ten millionth part of a millimeter.
tenthredinides		A group of Hymneoptera comprising the sawflies.
tentif	Obsolete	Attentive.
tentifly	Obsolete	Attentively.
tentiginous	Obsolete	Stiff; stretched; strained.
tentmaker		One whose occupation it is to make tents.
tentorium		A fold of the dura mater which separates the cerebellum from the cerebrum and often incloses a process or plate of the skull called the bony tentorium.
tentory	Obsolete	The awning or covering of a tent.
tentwort		A kind of small fern, the wall rue. See under Wall.
tenuate		To make thin; to attenuate.
tenuifolious		Having thin or narrow leaves.
tenuious	Obsolete	Rare or subtile; tenuous; -- opposed to dense.
tenuiroster		One of the Tenuirostres.
tenuirostral		Thin-billed; -- applied to birds with a slender bill, as the humming birds.
tenuirostres		An artificial group of passerine birds having slender bills, as the humming birds.
tenuis		One of the three surd mutes k, p, t; -- so called in relation to their respective middle letters, or medials, g, b, d, and their aspirates, x, f, th.
tenuity		The quality or state of being tenuous; thinness, applied to a broad substance; slenderness, applied to anything that is long; as, the tenuity of a leaf; the tenuity of a hair.
tenuous		Thin; slender; small; minute.
tenure		The act or right of holding, as property, especially real estate.
teocalli		Literally, God's house; a temple, usually of pyramidal form, such as were built by the aborigines of Mexico, Yucatan, etc. And Aztec priests upon their teocallis Beat the wild war-drums made of serpent's skin.
teosinte		A large grass (Euchlæna luxurians) closely related to maize.
tepal		A division of a perianth.
tepee		An Indian wigwam or tent.
tepefaction		Act of tepefying.
tepefy		To make or become tepid, or moderately warm.
tephramancy		Divination by the ashes of the altar on which a victim had been consumed in sacrifice.
tephrite		An igneous rock consisting essentially of plagioclase and either leucite or nephelite, or both.
tephroite		A silicate of manganese of an ash-gray color.
tephrosia		A genus of leguminous shrubby plants and herbs, mostly found in tropical countries, a few herbaceous species being North American.
tepid		Moderately warm; lukewarm; as, a tepid bath; tepid rays; tepid vapors. -- Tep"id*ness, n.
tepidity		The quality or state of being tepid; moderate warmth; lukewarmness; tepidness.
tepor		Gentle heat; moderate warmth; tepidness.
tequila		An intoxicating liquor made from the maguey in the district of Tequila, Mexico.
ter-		A combining form from L. ter signifying three times, thrice. See Tri-, 2.
ter-tenant		See Terre-tenant — one who has the actual possession of land; the occupant.
teraconic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained by the distillation of terebic acid, and homologous with citraconic acid.
teracrylic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the acrylic series, obtained by the distillation of terpenylic acid, as an only substance having a peculiar cheesy odor.
teraph		See Teraphim — images connected with the magical rites used by those Israelites who added corrupt practices to the patriarchal religion.
teraphim		Images connected with the magical rites used by those Israelites who added corrupt practices to the patriarchal religion.
terapin		See Terrapin — any one of numerous species of tortoises living in fresh and brackish waters.
teratical	Obsolete	Wonderful; ominous; prodigious.
teratogeny		The formation of monsters.
teratoid		Resembling a monster; abnormal; of a pathological growth, exceedingly complex or highly organized.
teratological		Of or pertaining to teratology; as, teratological changes.
teratology		That branch of biological science which treats of monstrosities, malformations, or deviations from the normal type of structure, either in plants or animals.
teratoma		A tumor, sometimes found in newborn children, which is made up of a heterigenous mixture of tissues, as of bone, cartilage and muscle.
terbic		Of, pertaining to, or containing, terbium; also, designating certain of its compounds.
terbium		A rare metallic element, of uncertain identification, supposed to exist in certain minerals, as gadolinite and samarskite, with other rare ytterbium earth.
terce		See Tierce — a cask whose content is one third of a pipe; that is, forty-two wine gallons; also, a liquid measure of forty-two wine, or thirty- five imperial, gallons.
tercel		See Tiercel — the male of various falcons, esp. of the peregrine; also, the male of the goshawk.
tercelet		A male hawk or eagle; a tiercelet.
tercellene		A small male hawk.
tercentenary		Including, or relating to, an interval of three hundred years. -- n.
tercet		(Poetry) A triplet; a group of three lines.
tercine		A cellular layer derived from the nucleus of an ovule and surrounding the embryo sac.
terebate		A salt of terebic acid.
terebene		A polymeric modification of terpene, obtained as a white crystalline camphorlike substance; -- called also camphene.
terebenthene		Oil of turpentine. See Turpentine.
terebic		Pertaining to, or obtained from, terbenthene (oil of turpentine); specifically, designating an acid, C7H10O4, obtained by the oxidation of terbenthene with nitric acid, as a white crystalline substance.
terebilenic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, a complex acid, C7H8O4, obtained as a white crystalline substance by a modified oxidation of terebic acid.
terebinth		The turpentine tree.
terebinthic		Of or pertaining to turpentine; resembling turpentine; terbinthine; as, terbinthic qualities.
terebinthinate		Impregnating with the qualities of turpentine; terbinthine.
terebinthine		Of or pertaining to turpentine; consisting of turpentine, or partaking of its qualities.
terebra		(Zoöl.) A genus of marine gastropods having a long, tapering spire.
terebrant		Boring, or adapted for boring; -- said of certain Hymenoptera, as the sawflies.
terebrantia		A division of Hymenoptera including those which have an ovipositor adapted for perforating plants.
terebrate		To perforate; to bore; to pierce.
terebrating		(Zoöl.) Boring; perforating; -- applied to molluskas which form holes in rocks, wood, etc.
terebration		The act of terebrating, or boring.
terebratula		A genus of brachiopods which includes many living and some fossil species.
terebratulid		Any species of Terebratula or allied genera. Used also adjectively.
terebratuliform		Having the general form of a terebratula shell.
teredine		A borer; the teredo.
teredo		A genus of long, slender, wormlike bivalve mollusks which bore into submerged wood, such as the piles of wharves, bottoms of ships, etc.; -- called also shipworm.
terek		A sandpiper (Terekia cinerea) of the Old World, breeding in the far north of eastern Europe and Asia and migrating to South Africa and Australia.
terephthalate		A salt of terephthalic acid.
terephthalic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, a dibasic acid of the aromatic series, metameric with phthalic acid, and obtained, as a tasteless white crystalline powder, by the oxidation of oil of turpentine…
teret	Obsolete	Round; terete.
terete		Cylindrical and slightly tapering; columnar, as some stems of plants.
teretial		Rounded; as, the teretial tracts in the floor of the fourth ventricle of the brain of some fishes.
tergal		Of or pertaining to back, or tergum. See Dorsal.
tergant		Showing the back; as, the eagle tergant.
tergeminal		Thrice twin; having three pairs of leaflets.
tergeminate		Thrice twin; having three pairs of leaflets.
tergeminous		Threefold; thrice-paired.
tergiferous		Carrying or bearing upon the back.
tergite		The dorsal portion of an arthromere or somite of an articulate animal.
tergiversate		To shift; to practice evasion; to use subterfuges; to shuffle.
tergiversation		The act of tergiversating; a shifting; shift; subterfuge; evasion.
tergiversator		One who tergiversates; one who suffles, or practices evasion.
tergum		(a) The back of an animal. (b) The dorsal piece of a somite of an articulate animal.
terin		A small yellow singing bird, with an ash-colored head; the European siskin.
term		That which limits the extent of anything; limit; extremity; bound; boundary.
terma		The terminal lamina, or thin ventral part, of the anterior wall of the third ventricle of the brain.
termagancy		The quality or state of being termagant; turbulence; tumultuousness; as, a violent termagancy of temper.
termagant		A boisterous, brawling, turbulent person; -- formerly applied to both sexes, now only to women.
termatarium		Any nest or dwelling of termes, or white ants.
termatary		Same as Termatarium.
termer		(Law) One who has an estate for a term of years or for life.
termes		A genus of Pseudoneuroptera including the white ants, or termites. See Termite.
terminable		Capable of being terminated or bounded; limitable. -- Ter"mi*na*ble*ness, n.
terminal		Of or pertaining to the end or extremity; forming the extremity; as, a terminal edge.
terminalia		A festival celebrated annually by the Romans on February 23 in honor of Terminus, the god of boundaries.
terminant		Termination; ending.
terminate		To set a term or limit to; to form the extreme point or side of; to bound; to limit; as, to terminate a surface by a line.
termination		The act of terminating, or of limiting or setting bounds; the act of ending or concluding; as, a voluntary termination of hostilities.
terminational		Of or pertaining to termination; forming a termination.
terminative		Tending or serving to terminate; terminating; determining; definitive.
terminator		One who, or that which, terminates.
terminatory		Terminative.
termine	Obsolete	To terminate.
terminer		A determining; as, in oyer and terminer. See Oyer.
terminism		The doctrine held by the Terminists.
terminist		One of a class of theologians who maintain that God has fixed a certain term for the probation of individual persons, during which period, and no longer, they have the offer to grace.
terminological		Of or pertaining to terminology. -- Ter`mi*no*log"ic*al*ly, adv.
terminology		The terms actually used in any business, art, science, or the like; nomenclature; technical terms; as, the terminology of chemistry.
terminus		(Myth.) The Roman divinity who presided over boundaries, whose statue was properly a short pillar terminating in the bust of a man, woman, satyr, or the like…
termite		Any one of numerous species of pseudoneoropterous insects belonging to Termes and allied genera; -- called also white ant.
termless		Having no term or end; unlimited; boundless; unending; as, termless time.
termly		Occurring every term; as, a termly fee.
termonology		Terminology.
termor		Same as Termer, 2.
tern		Any one of numerous species of long-winged aquatic birds, allied to the gulls, and belonging to Sterna and various allied genera.
ternary		Proceeding by threes; consisting of three; as, the ternary number was anciently esteemed a symbol of perfection, and held in great veneration.
ternate		Having the parts arranged by threes; as, ternate branches, leaves, or flowers. -- Ter"nate*ly, adv.
terneplate		Thin iron sheets coated with an alloy of lead and tin; -- so called because made up of three metals.
ternion		The number three; three things together; a ternary.
terpene		Any one of a series of isomeric hydrocarbons of pleasant aromatic odor, occurring especially in coniferous plants and represented by oil of turpentine, but including also certain hydrocarbons found in some essential oils.
terpentic		Terpenylic.
terpenylic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C8H12O4 (called also terpentic acid), homologous with terebic acid, and obtained as a white crystalline substance by the oxidation of oil of turpentine with chromic acid.
terpilene		A polymeric form of terpene, resembling terbene.
terpin		A white crystalline substance regarded as a hydrate of oil of turpentine.
terpinol		Any oil substance having a hyacinthine odor, obtained by the action of acids on terpin, and regarded as a related hydrate.
terpsichore		The Muse who presided over the choral song and the dance, especially the latter.
terpsichorean		Of or pertaining to Terpsichore; of or pertaining to dancing.
terra		The earth; earth.
terrace		A raised level space, shelf, or platform of earth, supported on one or more sides by a wall, a bank of tuft, or the like, whether designed for use or pleasure.
terraculture		Cultivation on the earth; agriculture. -- Ter`ra*cul"tur*al, a.
terrane		A group of rocks having a common age or origin; -- nearly equivalent to formation, but used somewhat less comprehensively.
terrapin		Any one of numerous species of tortoises living in fresh and brackish waters.
terraqueous		Consisting of land and water; as, the earth is a terraqueous globe.
terrar		See 2d Terrier, 2.
terre-tenant		One who has the actual possession of land; the occupant.
terre-verte		An olive-green earth used as a pigment. See Glauconite.
terreen		See Turren.
terreity	Obsolete	Quality of being earthy; earthiness.
terrel	Obsolete	A spherical magnet so placed that its poles, equator, etc., correspond to those of the earth.
terremote	Obsolete	An earthquake.
terrene		Of or pertaining to the earth; earthy; as, terrene substance.
terrenity	Obsolete	Earthiness; worldliness.
terreous	Obsolete	Consisting of earth; earthy; as, terreous substances; terreous particles.
terreplein		The top, platform, or horizontal surface, of a rampart, on which the cannon are placed.
terrestre	Obsolete	Terrestrial; earthly.
terrestrial		Of or pertaining to the earth; existing on the earth; earthly; as, terrestrial animals. 1 Cor. xv. 40.
terrestrify	Obsolete	To convert or reduce into a condition like that of the earth; to make earthy.
terrestrious	Obsolete	Terrestrial.
terret		One of the rings on the top of the saddle of a harness, through which the reins pass.
terrible		Adapted or likely to excite terror, awe, or dread; dreadful; formidable.
terricolae		A division of annelids including the common earthworms and allied species.
terrienniak		The arctic fox.
terrier		Etym: (Zoöl.) One of a breed of small dogs, which includes several distinct subbreeds, some of which, such as the Skye terrier and Yorkshire terrier, have long hair and drooping ears, while others…
terrific		Causing terror; adapted to excite great fear or dread; terrible; as, a terrific form; a terrific sight.
terrifical		Terrific.
terrifically		In a terrific manner.
terrify		To alarm or shock with fear; to frighten.
terrigenous		Earthborn; produced by the earth.
terrine		A dish or pan, originally of earthenware, such as those in which various dishes are cooked and served; esp., an earthenware jar containing some table delicacy and sold with its contents.
territorial		Of or pertaining to territory or land; as, territorial limits; territorial jurisdiction.
territorialize		To reduce to the condition of a territory.
territorially		In regard to territory; by means of territory.
territoried		Possessed of territory.
territory		A large extent or tract of land; a region; a country; a district.
terror		Extreme fear; fear that agitates body and mind; violent dread; fright.
terrorism		The act of terrorizing, or state of being terrorized; a mode of government by terror or intimidation.
terrorist		One who governs by terrorism or intimidation; specifically, an agent or partisan of the revolutionary tribunal during the Reign of Terror in France.
terrorize		To impress with terror; to coerce by intimidation.
terrorless		Free from terror.
terry		A kind of heavy colored fabric, either all silk, or silk and worsted, or silk and cotton, often called terry velvet, used for upholstery and trimmings.
tersanctus		An ancient ascription of praise (containing the word "Holy Sanctus" -- thrice repeated)…
terse		Refined; accomplished; -- said of persons.
tersulphide		A trisulphide.
tersulphuret		A trisulphide.
tertial		Same as Tertiary.
tertian		Occurring every third day; as, a tertian fever.
tertiary		Being of the third formation, order, or rank; third; as, a tertiary use of a word.
tertiate		(Gun.) To examine, as the thickness of the metal at the muzzle of a gun; or, in general, to examine the thickness of, as ordnance, in order to ascertain its strength.
terutero		The South American lapwing (Vanellus Cayennensis).
terzetto		A composition in three voice parts; a vocal (rarely an instrumental) trio.
tesselar		Formed of tesseræ, as a mosaic.
tessellata		A division of Crinoidea including numerous fossil species in which the body is covered with tessellated plates.
tessellate		To form into squares or checkers; to lay with checkered work.
tessellated		Formed of little squares, as mosaic work; checkered; as, a tessellated pavement.
tessellation		The act of tessellating; also, the mosaic work so formed.
tessera		A small piece of marble, glass, earthenware, or the like, having a square, or nearly square, face, used by the ancients for mosaic, as for making pavements, for ornamenting walls, and like purposes; also…
tesseraic	Obsolete	Diversified by squares; done in mosaic; tessellated.
tesseral		Of, pertaining to, or containing, tesseræ.
tessular		Tesseral.
test		(Metal.) A cupel or cupelling hearth in which precious metals are melted for trial and refinement.
testa		(Zoöl.) The external hard or firm covering of many invertebrate animals.
testable		Capable of being tested or proved.
testacea		Invertebrate animals covered with shells, especially mollusks; shellfish.
testacean		Onr of the Testacea.
testaceography		The science which treats of testaceans, or shellfish; the description of shellfish.
testaceology		The science of testaceous mollusks; conchology.
testaceous		Of or pertaining to shells; consisted of a hard shell, or having a hard shell.
testacy		The state or circumstance of being testate, or of leaving a valid will, or testament, at death.
testament		(Law) A solemn, authentic instrument in writing, by which a person declares his will as to disposal of his estate and effects after his death.
testamental		Of or pertaining to a testament; testamentary.
testamentary		Of or pertaining to a will, or testament; as, letters testamentary.
testamentation		The act or power of giving by testament, or will.
testamentize	Obsolete	To make a will.
testamur		A certificate of merit or proficiency; -- so called from the Latin words, Ita testamur, with which it commences.
testate		Having made and left a will; as, a person is said to die testate.
testation	Obsolete	A witnessing or witness.
testator		A man who makes and leaves a will, or testament, at death.
testatrix		A woman who makes and leaves a will at death; a female testator.
teste		(a) A witness. (b) The witnessing or concluding clause, duty attached; -- said of a writ, deed, or the like.
tester		A flat canopy, as over a pulpit or tomb.
testern	Obsolete	A sixpence; a tester.
testes		pl. of Teste, or of Testis.
testicardines		A division of brachiopods including those which have a calcareous shell furnished with a hinge and hinge teeth.
testicle		One of the essential male genital glands which secrete the semen.
testicond		Having the testicles naturally concealed, as in the case of the cetaceans.
testicular		Of or pertaining to the testicle.
testiculate		(a) Shaped like a testicle, ovate and solid. (b) Having two tubers resembling testicles in form, as some species of orchis.
testiere		A piece of plate armor for the head of a war horse; a tester.
testif	Obsolete	Testy; headstrong; obstinate.
testification		The act of testifying, or giving testimony or evidence; as, a direct testification of our homage to God.
testificator		A testifier.
testifier		One who testifies; one who gives testimony, or bears witness to prove anything; a witness.
testify		To make a solemn declaration, verbal or written, to establish some fact; to give testimony for the purpose of communicating to others a knowledge of something not known to them.
testimonial		A writing or certificate which bears testimony in favor of one's character, good conduct, ability, etc., or of the value of a thing.
testimony		A solemn declaration or affirmation made for the purpose of establishing or proving some fact.
testiness		The quality or state of being testy; fretfulness; petulance.
testing		The act of testing or proving; trial; proof.
testis		A testicle.
teston	Obsolete	A tester; a sixpence.
testone		A silver coin of Portugal, worth about sixpence sterling, or about eleven cents.
testoon		An Italian silver coin.
testudinal		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a tortoise.
testudinarious		Of or pertaining to the shell of a tortoise; resembling a tortoise shell; having the color or markings of a tortoise shell.
testudinata		An order of reptiles which includes the turtles and tortoises.
testudinate		Resembling a tortoise shell in appearance or structure; roofed; arched; vaulted.
testudinated		Resembling a tortoise shell in appearance or structure; roofed; arched; vaulted.
testudineous		Resembling the shell of a tortoise.
testudo		(Zoöl.) A genus of tortoises which formerly included a large number of diverse forms, but is now restricted to certain terrestrial species…
testy		Fretful; peevish; petulant; easily irritated.
tetanic		(Physiol.) Of or pertaining to tetanus; having the character of tetanus; as, a tetanic state; tetanic contraction.
tetanin		A poisonous base (ptomaine) formed in meat broth through the agency of a peculiar microbe from the wound of a person who has died of tetanus; -- so called because it produces tetanus as one of its prominent effects.
tetanization		The production or condition of tetanus.
tetanize		To throw, as a muscle, into a state of permanent contraction; to cause tetanus in.
tetanoid		Resembling tetanus.
tetanomotor		An instrument from tetanizing a muscle by irritating its nerve by successive mechanical shocks.
tetanus		(Med.) A painful and usually fatal disease, resulting generally from a wound, and having as its principal symptom persistent spasm of the voluntary muscles.
tetany		A morbid condition resembling tetanus, but distinguished from it by being less severe and having intermittent spasms.
tetard		A gobioid fish (Eleotris gyrinus) of the Southern United States; -- called also sleeper.
tetartohedral		Having one fourth the number of planes which are requisite to complete symmetry. -- Te*tar`to*he"dral*ly, adv.
tetartohedrism		The property of being tetartohedral.
tetaug		See Tautog — an edible labroid fish (Haitula onitis, or Tautoga onitis) of the Atlantic coast of the United States.
tetchiness		See Techiness — the quality or state of being techy.
tetchy		See Techy — peevish; fretful; irritable.
tete		A kind of wig; false hair.
tete-a-tete		Private conversation; familiar interview or conference of two persons.
tete-de-pont		A work thrown up at the end of a bridge nearest the enemy, for covering the communications across a river; a bridgehead.
tetel		A large African antelope (Alcejaphus tora).
tether		A long rope or chain by which an animal is fastened, as to a stake, so that it can range or feed only within certain limits.
tether-ball		A game played with rackets and a ball suspended by a string from an upright pole, the object of each side being to wrap the string around the pole by striking the ball in a direction opposite to the other.
tethydan		A tunicate.
tethyodea		A division of Tunicata including the common attached ascidians, both simple and compound.
tethys		A genus of a large naked mollusks having a very large, broad, fringed cephalic disk, and branched dorsal gills.
tetra-		A combining form or prefix signifying four, as in tetrabasic, tetrapetalous.
tetrabasic		Capable of neutralizing four molecules of a monacid base; having four hydrogen atoms capable of replacement by bases; quadribasic; -- said of certain acids; thus, normal silicic acid, Si(OH)4, is a tetrabasic acid.
tetraboric		Same as Pyroboric.
tetrabranchiata		An order of Cephalopoda having four gills.
tetrabranchiate		Of or pertaining to the Tetrabranchiata. -- n.
tetracarpel		Composed of four carpels.
tetrachord		A scale series of four sounds, of which the extremes, or first and last, constituted a fourth.
tetrachotomous		Having a division by fours; separated into four parts or series, or into series of fours.
tetracid		Capable of neutralizing four molecules of a monobasic acid; having four hydrogen atoms capable of replacement ba acids or acid atoms; -- said of certain bases; thus, erythrine, C4H6(OH)4, is a tetracid alcohol.
tetracoccous		Having four cocci, or carpels.
tetracolon		A stanza or division in lyric poetry, consisting of four verses or lines.
tetracoralla		Same as Rugosa.
tetractinellid		Any species of sponge of the division Tetractinellida.
tetractinellida		A division of Spongiæ in which the spicules are siliceous and have four branches diverging at right angles.
tetrad		The number four; a collection of four things; a quaternion.
tetradactyl		Tetradactylous.
tetradactyle		Tetradactylous.
tetradactylous		Having, or characterized by, four digits to the foot or hand.
tetradecane		A light oily hydrocarbon, C14H30, of the marsh-gas series; -- so called from the fourteen carbon atoms in the molecule.
tetradecapoda		Same as Arthrostraca.
tetradic		Of or pertaining to a tetrad; possessing or having the characteristics of a tetrad; as, a carbon is a tetradic element.
tetradite		A person in some way remarkable with regard to the number four, as one born on the fourth day of the month, or one who reverenced four persons in the Godhead.
tetradon		See Tetrodon — any one of numerous species of plectognath fishes belonging to Tetrodon and allied genera.
tetradont		See Tetrodont — of or pertaining to the tetrodons. -- n.
tetradrachm		A silver coin among the ancient Greeks, of the value of four drachms.
tetradrachma		A silver coin among the ancient Greeks, of the value of four drachms.
tetradymite		A telluride of bismuth.
tetradynamia		A Linnæan class of plants having six stamens, four of which are longer than the others.
tetradynamian		A plant of the order Tetradynamia.
tetradynamous		Belonging to the order Tetradynamia; having six stamens, four of which are uniformly longer than the others.
tetragon		(Geom.) A plane figure having four sides and angles; a quadrangle, as a square, a rhombus, etc.
tetragonal		(Geom.) Of or pertaining to a tetragon; having four angles or sides; thus, the square, the parallelogram, the rhombus, and the trapezium are tetragonal fingers.
tetragrammaton		The mystic number four, which was often symbolized to represent the Deity, whose name was expressed by four letters among some ancient nations; as, the Hebrew JeHoVaH, Greek qeo`s, Latin deus, etc.
tetragynia		A Linnæan order of plants having four styles.
tetragynian		Belonging to the order Tetragynia; having four styles.
tetragynous		Belonging to the order Tetragynia; having four styles.
tetrahedral		Having, or composed of, four sides.
tetrahedrally		In a tetrahedral manner.
tetrahedrite		A sulphide of antimony and copper, with small quantities of other metals.
tetrahedron		A solid figure inclosed or bounded by four triangles.
tetrahexahedral		Pertaining to a tetrahexahedron.
tetrahexahedron		A solid in the isometric system, bounded by twenty-four equal triangular faces, four corresponding to each face of the cube.
tetrakishexahedron		A tetrahexahedron.
tetrakosane		A hydrocarbon, C24H50, resembling paraffin, and like it belonging to the marsh-gas series; -- so called from having twenty- four atoms of carbon in the molecule.
tetralogy		A group or series of four dramatic pieces, three tragedies and one satyric, or comic, piece (or sometimes four tragedies), represented consequently on the Attic stage at the Dionysiac festival.
tetramera		A division of Coleoptera having, apparently, only four tarsal joints, one joint being rudimentary.
tetramerous		(Bot.) Having the parts arranged in sets of four; as, a tetramerous flower.
tetrameter		A verse or line consisting of four measures, that is, in iambic, trochaic, and anapestic verse, of eight feet; in other kinds of verse, of four feet.
tetramethylene		(a) A hypothetical hydrocarbon, C4H8, analogous to trimethylene, and regarded as the base of well-known series or derivatives.
tetramorph		The union of the four attributes of the Evangelists in one figure, which is represented as winged, and standing on winged fiery wheels, the wings being covered with eyes.
tetrandria		A Linnæan class of plants having four stamens.
tetrandrian		Belonging to the class Tetrandria.
tetrandrous		Belonging to the class Tetrandria.
tetraonid		A bird belonging to the tribe of which the genus Tetrao is the type, as the grouse, partridge, quail, and the like.
tetrapetalous		Containing four distinct petals, or flower leaves; as, a tetrapetalous corolla.
tetrapharmacom		A combination of wax, resin, lard, and pitch, composing an ointment.
tetrapharmacum		A combination of wax, resin, lard, and pitch, composing an ointment.
tetraphenol	Obsolete	Furfuran.
tetraphyllous		Having four leaves; consisting of four distinct leaves or leaflets.
tetrapla		A Bible consisting of four different Greek versions arranged in four columns by Origen; hence, any version in four languages or four columns.
tetrapneumona		A division of Arachnida including those spiders which have four lungs, or pulmonary sacs.
tetrapnuemonian		One of the Tetrapneumona.
tetrapod		An insect characterized by having but four perfect legs, as certain of the butterflies.
tetrapody		A set of four feet; a measure or distance of four feet.
tetrapteran		An insect having four wings.
tetrapterous		Having four wings.
tetraptote		A noun that has four cases only.
tetrarch	Obsolete	A Roman governor of the fourth part of a province; hence, any subordinate or dependent prince; also, a petty king or sovereign.
tetrarchate		A tetrarchy.
tetrarchical		Of or pertaining to a tetrarch or tetrarchy.
tetrarchy		The district under a Roman tetrarch; the office or jurisdiction of a tetrarch; a tetrarchate.
tetraschistic		Characterized by division into four parts.
tetrasepalous		Having four sepals.
tetraspaston		A machine in which four pulleys act together.
tetraspermous		Having four seeds.
tetraspore		A nonsexual spore, one of a group of four regularly occurring in red seaweeds. -- Tet`ra*spor"ic, a.
tetrastich		A stanza, epigram, or poem, consisting of four verses or lines.
tetrastyle		Having four columns in front; -- said of a temple, portico, or colonnade. -- n.
tetrasyllabic		Consisting of, or having, four syllables; quadrisyllabic.
tetrasyllabical		Consisting of, or having, four syllables; quadrisyllabic.
tetrasyllable		A word consisting of four syllables; a quadrisyllable.
tetrathecal		Having four loculaments, or thecæ.
tetrathionate		A salt of tetrathionic acid.
tetrathionic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, a thionic derivative, H
tetratomic		(a) Consisting of four atoms; having four atoms in the molecule, as phosphorus and arsenic.
tetravalence		The quality or state of being tetravalent; quadrivalence.
tetravalent		Having a valence of four; tetratomic; quadrivalent.
tetraxile		Having four branches diverging at right angles; -- said of certain spicules of sponges.
tetrazin		A hypothetical compound, C2H2N4 which may be regarded as benzene with four CH groups replaced by nitrogen atoms; also, any of various derivatives of the same.
tetrazine		A hypothetical compound, C2H2N4 which may be regarded as benzene with four CH groups replaced by nitrogen atoms; also, any of various derivatives of the same.
tetrazo-		A combining form (also used adjectively), designating any one of a series of double derivatives of the azo and diazo compounds containing four atoms of nitrogen.
tetrazole		A crystalline acid substance, CH2N4, which may be regarded as pyrrol in which nitrogen atoms replace three CH groups; also, any of various derivatives of the same.
tetrazone		Any one of a certain series of basic compounds containing a chain of four nitrogen atoms; for example, ethyl tetrazone, (C2H5)2N.N2.N(C2H5)2, a colorless liquid having an odor of leeks.
tetric	Obsolete	Forward; perverse; harsh; sour; rugged. -- Tet"ric*al*ness, n.
tetrical	Obsolete	Forward; perverse; harsh; sour; rugged. -- Tet"ric*al*ness, n.
tetricity	Obsolete	Crabbedness; perverseness.
tetrinic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, a complex ketonic acid, C5H6O3, obtained as a white crystalline substance; -- so called because once supposed to contain a peculiar radical of four carbon atoms.
tetrodon		Any one of numerous species of plectognath fishes belonging to Tetrodon and allied genera.
tetrodont		Of or pertaining to the tetrodons. -- n.
tetrol	Obsolete	A hypothetical hydrocarbon, C4H4, analogous to benzene; -- so called from the four carbon atoms in the molecule.
tetrolic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C3H3.CO2H, of the acetylene series, homologous with propiolic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance.
tetrose		A monosaccharide derived from a certain alcohol.
tetroxide		An oxide having four atoms of oxygen in the molecule; a quadroxide; as, osmium tetroxide, OsO.
tetryl		Butyl; -- so called from the four carbon atoms in the molecule.
tetrylene		Butylene; -- so called from the four carbon atoms in the molecule.
tetter		A vesicular disease of the skin; herpes. See Herpes.
tetter-totter		A certain game of children; seesaw; -- called also titter- totter, and titter-cum-totter.
tetterous		Having the character of, or pertaining to, tetter.
tetterwort		A plant used as a remedy for tetter, -- in England the calendine, in America the bloodroot.
tettigonian		Any one of numerous species of Hemiptera belonging to Tettigonia and allied genera; a leaf hopper.
tettish	Obsolete	Captious; testy.
tettix		(Zoöl.) A genus of small grasshoppers.
tetty	Obsolete	Testy; irritable.
teufit	English dialect	The lapwing; -- called also teuchit.
teuk	English dialect	The redshank.
teuton		One of an ancient German tribe; later, a name applied to any member of the Germanic race in Europe; now used to designate a German, Dutchman, Scandinavian, etc., in distinction from a Celt or one of a Latin race.
teutonic		Of or pertaining to the Teutons, esp. the ancient Teutons; Germanic.
teutonicism		A mode of speech peculiar to the Teutons; a Teutonic idiom, phrase, or expression; a Teutonic mode or custom; a Germanism.
tew	Obsolete	Hence, to beat; to scourge; also, to pull about; to maul; to tease; to vex.
tewan		A tribe of American Indians including many of the Pueblos of New Mexico and adjacent regions.
tewed	Obsolete	Fatigued; worn with labor or hardship.
tewel		A pipe, funnel, or chimney, as for smoke.
tewhit	English dialect	The lapwing; -- called also teewheep.
tewtaw	Obsolete	To beat; to break, as flax or hemp.
texas		A structure on the hurricane deck of a steamer, containing the pilot house, officers' cabins, etc. Knight.
text		A discourse or composition on which a note or commentary is written; the original words of an author, in distinction from a paraphrase, annotation, or commentary.
text-book		A book with wide spaces between the lines, to give room for notes.
text-hand		A large hand in writing; -- so called because it was the practice to write the text of a book in a large hand and the notes in a smaller hand.
textile		Pertaining to weaving or to woven fabrics; as, textile arts; woven, capable of being woven; formed by weaving; as, textile fabrics.
textman		One ready in quoting texts.
textorial		Of or pertaining to weaving.
textrine		Of or pertaining to weaving, textorial; as, the textrine art.
textual		Of, pertaining to, or contained in, the text; as, textual criticism; a textual reading.
textualist		A textman; a textuary.
textually		In a textual manner; in the text or body of a work; in accordance with the text.
textuarist		A textuary.
textuary		Contained in the text; textual.
textuel	Obsolete	Textual.
textuist	Obsolete	A textualist; a textman.
textural		Of or pertaining to texture.
texture		That which woven; a woven fabric; a web.
textury	Obsolete	The art or process of weaving; texture.
teyne	Obsolete	A thin plate of metal.
