th		In Old English, the article the, when the following word began with a vowel, was often written with elision as if a part of the word.	
thack	Obsolete	See Thatch, Thatcher.	Middle English thacce.
thacker	Obsolete	See Thatch, Thatcher.	
thak	Obsolete	To thwack.	
thalamencephalon		The segment of the brain next in front of the midbrain, including the thalami, pineal gland, and pituitary body; the diencephalon; the interbrain.	
thalamic		Of or pertaining to a thalamus or to thalami.	
thalamifloral		Bearing the stamens directly on the receptacle; -- said of a subclass of polypetalous dicotyledonous plants in the system of De Candolle.	
thalamiflorous		Bearing the stamens directly on the receptacle; -- said of a subclass of polypetalous dicotyledonous plants in the system of De Candolle.	
thalamocoele		The cavity or ventricle of the thalamencephalon; the third ventricle.	
thalamophora		Same as Foraminifera.	
thalamus		(Anat.) A mass of nervous matter on either side of the third ventricle of the brain; -- called also optic thalamus.	
thalassian		Any sea tortoise.	
thalassic		Of or pertaining to the sea; -- sometimes applied to rocks formed from sediments deposited upon the sea bottom.	French thalassique.
thalassinian		Any species of Thalaassinidæ, a family of burrowing macrurous Crustacea, having a long and soft abdomen.	
thalassography		The study or science of the life of marine organisms.	
thaler		A German silver coin worth about three shillings sterling, or about 73 cents.	
thalia		(a) That one of the nine Muses who presided over comedy. (b) One of the three Graces.	
thaliacea		A division of Tunicata comprising the free-swimming species, such as Salpa and Doliolum.	
thalian		Of or pertaining to Thalia; hence, of or pertaining to comedy; comic.	
thallate		A salt of a hypothetical thallic acid.	
thallene		A hydrocarbon obtained from coal-tar residues, and remarkable for its intense yellowish green fluorescence.	
thallic		Of or pertaining to thallium; derived from, or containing, thallium; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a higher valence as contrasted with the thallous compounds; as, thallic oxide.	
thalline		Consisting of a thallus.	
thallious		See Thallous — of or pertaining to thallium; derived from, or containing, thallium; specifically…	
thallium		A rare metallic element of the aluminium group found in some minerals, as certain pyrites, and also in the lead-chamber deposit in the manufacture of sulphuric acid.	Greek θαλλός.
thallogen		One of a large class or division of the vegetable kingdom, which includes those flowerless plants, such as fungi, algæ, and lichens, that consist of a thallus only, composed of cellular tissue, or of a congeries of cells…	
thalloid		Resembling, or consisting of, thallus.	
thallophyta		A phylum of plants of very diverse habit and structure, including the algæ, fungi, and lichens.	
thallophyte		Same as Thallogen.	
thallous		Of or pertaining to thallium; derived from, or containing, thallium; specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a lower valence as contrasted with the thallic compounds.	
thallus		A solid mass of cellular tissue, consisting of one or more layers, usually in the form of a flat stratum or expansion, but sometimes erect or pendulous, and elongated and branching, and forming the substance of the thallogens.	Greek θαλλός.
thalweg		(a) A line following the lowest part of a valley, whether under water or not.	
thammuz		A deity among the ancient Syrians, in honor of whom the Hebrew idolatresses held an annual lamentation.	
thamnophile		A bush shrike.	
thamyn		An Asiatic deer (Rucervus Eldi) resembling the swamp deer; -- called also Eld's deer.	
than	Obsolete	A particle expressing comparison, used after certain adjectives and adverbs which express comparison or diversity, as more, better, other, otherwise, and the like.	Middle English than.
thana		A police station.	
thanage		The district in which a thane anciently had jurisdiction; thanedom.	
thanatoid		Deathlike; resembling death.	
thanatology		A description, or the doctrine, of death.	
thanatopsis		A view of death; a meditation on the subject of death.	
thane		A dignitary under the Anglo-Saxons and Danes in England.	Old English þegen.
thanedom		The property or jurisdiction of a thane; thanage.	
thanehood		The character or dignity of a thane; also, thanes, collectively.	
thaneship		The state or dignity of a thane; thanehood; also, the seignioralty of a thane.	
thank	Obsolete	A expression of gratitude; an acknowledgment expressive of a sense of favor or kindness received; obligation, claim, or desert, or gratitude; -- now generally used in the plural.	Old English þancian.
thankful		Obtaining or deserving thanks; thankworthy.	
thankless		Not acknowledging favors; not expressing thankfulness; unthankful; ungrateful.	
thankly	Obsolete	Thankfully.	
thanksgive	Obsolete	To give or dedicate in token of thanks.	
thanksgiver		One who gives thanks, or acknowledges a kindness.	
thanksgiving		The act of rending thanks, or expressing gratitude for favors or mercies.	
thankworthiness		The quality or state of being thankworthy.	
thankworthy		Deserving thanks; worthy of gratitude; mreitorious.	
thar	Obsolete	A goatlike animal (Capra Jemlaica) native of the Himalayas.	
tharms	Obsolete	Twisted guts.	
tharos		A small American butterfly (Phycoides tharos) having the upper surface of the wings variegated with orange and black, the outer margins black with small white crescents; -- called also pearl crescent.	
that		As a demonstrative pronoun (pl. Those), that usually points out, or refers to, a person or thing previously mentioned, or supposed to be understood.	
thatch		Straw, rushes, or the like, used for making or covering the roofs of buildings, or of stacks of hay or grain.	Old English þeccean.
thatcher		One who thatches.	
thatching		The act or art of covering buildings with thatch; so as to keep out rain, snow, etc.	
thaught		See Thwart — situated or placed across something else; transverse; oblique.	
thaumatolatry		Worship or undue admiration of wonderful or miraculous things.	
thaumatrope		An optical instrument or toy for showing the presistence of an impression upon the eyes after the luminous object is withdrawn.	
thaumaturge		A magician; a wonder worker.	
thaumaturgic		Of or pertaining to thaumaturgy; magical; wonderful.	
thaumaturgical		Of or pertaining to thaumaturgy; magical; wonderful.	
thaumaturgics		Feats of legerdemain, or magical performances.	
thaumaturgist		One who deals in wonders, or believes in them; a wonder worker.	
thaumaturgus		A miracle worker; -- a title given by the Roman Catholics to some saints.	
thaumaturgy		The act or art of performing something wonderful; magic; legerdemain.	Greek θαυματουργία.
thave	English dialect	Same as Theave.	
thaw		To melt, dissolve, or become fluid; to soften; -- said of that which is frozen; as, the ice thaws.	Middle English thowen.
thawy		Liquefying by heat after having been frozen; thawing; melting.	
the	Obsolete	See Thee — to thrive; to prosper.	
thea		A genus of plants found in China and Japan; the tea plant.	
theandric		Relating to, or existing by, the union of divine and human operation in Christ, or the joint agency of the divine and human nature.	
theanthropic		Partaking of, or combining, both divinity and humanity.	
theanthropical		Partaking of, or combining, both divinity and humanity.	
theanthropism		A state of being God and man.	
theanthropist		One who advocates, or believes in, theanthropism.	
theanthropy		Theanthropism.	
thearchic		Divinely sovereign or supreme.	
thearchy		Government by God; divine sovereignty; theocracy.	
theater		An edifice in which dramatic performances or spectacles are exhibited for the amusement of spectators; anciently uncovered, except the stage, but in modern times roofed.	Middle English theater.
theatin		One of an order of Italian monks, established in 1524, expressly to oppose Reformation, and to raise the tone of piety among Roman Catholics.	
theatine		One of an order of Italian monks, established in 1524, expressly to oppose Reformation, and to raise the tone of piety among Roman Catholics.	
theatral	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to a theater; theatrical.	Latin theatralis.
theatre		An edifice in which dramatic performances or spectacles are exhibited for the amusement of spectators; anciently uncovered, except the stage, but in modern times roofed.	French théâtre.
theatric		Theatrical.	
theatrical		Of or pertaining to a theater, or to the scenic representations; resembling the manner of dramatic performers; histrionic; hence, artificial; as, theatrical performances; theatrical gestures. -- The*at`ri*cal ric*al*ly, adv.	
theatricals		Dramatic performances; especially, those produced by amateurs.	
theave	English dialect	A ewe lamb of the first year; also, a sheep three years old.	
thebaic		Of or pertaining to Thebes in Egypt; specifically, designating a version of the Bible preserved by the Copts, and esteemed of great value by biblical scholars.	
thebaid		A Latin epic poem by Statius about Thebes in Boeotia.	
thebaine		A poisonous alkaloid, C19H21NO3, found in opium in small quantities, having a sharp, astringent taste, and a tetanic action resembling that of strychnine.	
theban		Of or pertaining to Thebes.	
theca		A sheath; a case; as, the theca, or cell, of an anther; the theca, or spore case, of a fungus; the theca of the spinal cord.	
thecal		Of or pertaining to a theca; as, a thecal abscess.	
thecaphore		(a) A surface or organ bearing a theca, or covered with thecæ. (b) See Basigynium.	
thecasporous		Having the spores in thecæ, or cases.	
thecata		Same as Thecophora.	
thecla		Any one of many species of small delicately colored butterflies belonging to Thecla and allied genera; -- called also hairstreak, and elfin.	
thecodactyl		Any one of a group of lizards of the Gecko tribe, having the toes broad, and furnished with a groove in which the claws can be concealed.	
thecodont		(Anat.) Having the teeth inserted in sockets in the alveoli of the jaws.	
thecodontia		A group of fossil saurians having biconcave vertebræ and the teeth implanted in sockets.	
thecophora		A division of hydroids comprising those which have the hydranths in thecæ and the gonophores in capsules.	
thecosomata		An order of Pteropoda comprising those species which have a shell. See Pteropoda. -- The`co*so"ma*tous, a.	
thedom	Obsolete	Success; fortune; luck; chance.	
thee	Obsolete	To thrive; to prosper.	Middle English theen, from Old English þeon.
theft		(Law) The act of stealing; specifically, the felonious taking and removing of personal property, with an intent to deprive the rightful owner of the same; larceny.	Old English þyft.
theftbote		The receiving of a man's goods again from a thief, or a compensation for them, by way of composition, with the intent that the thief shall escape punishment.	
thegn		Thane. See Thane.	
thegnhood		Thanehood.	
theiform		Having the form of tea.	
theine		See Caffeine — a white, bitter, crystallizable substance, obtained from coffee.	
their		The possessive case of the personal pronoun they; as, their houses; their country.	
theism		The belief or acknowledgment of the existence of a God, as opposed to atheism, pantheism, or polytheism.	
theist		One who believes in the existence of a God; especially, one who believes in a personal God; -- opposed to atheist.	
theistic		Of or pertaining to theism, or a theist; according to the doctrine of theists.	
theistical		Of or pertaining to theism, or a theist; according to the doctrine of theists.	
thelphusian		One of a tribe of fresh-water crabs which live in or on the banks of rivers in tropical countries.	
thelytokous		Producing females only; -- said of certain female insects.	
them		The objective case of they. See They.	
thematic		(Gram.) Of or pertaining to the theme of a word. See Theme, n., 4.	Greek θεματικός.
theme		A subject or topic on which a person writes or speaks; a proposition for discussion or argument; a text.	Old French tesme, from Latin thema, from Greek θέμα.
themis		The goddess of law and order; the patroness of existing rights.	
themselves		The plural of himself, herself, and itself. See Himself, Herself, Itself.	
then		At that time (referring to a time specified, either past or future).	Middle English then.
thenadays		At that time; then; in those days; -- correlative to nowadays.	
thenal		Of or pertaining to the thenar; corresponding to thenar; palmar.	
thenar		Of or pertaining to the thenar; corresponding to thenar; palmar. (a) The palm of the hand.	
thenardite		Anhydrous sodium sulphate, a mineral of a white or brown color and vitreous luster.	
thence		From that place.	
thenceforth		From that time; thereafter.	
thenceforward		From that time onward; thenceforth.	
thencefrom	Obsolete	From that place.	
theobroma		A genus of small trees. See Cacao.	
theobromic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid extracted from cacao butter (from the Theobroma Cacao), peanut oil (from Arachis hypogæa), etc., as a white waxy crystalline substance.	
theobromine		An alkaloidal ureide, C7H8N4O2, homologous with and resembling caffeine, produced artificially, and also extracted from cacao and chocolate (from Theobroma Cacao) as a bitter white crystalline substance…	
theochristic		Anointed by God.	
theocracy		Government of a state by the immediate direction or administration of God; hence, the exercise of political authority by priests as representing the Deity.	
theocrasy		A mixture of the worship of different gods, as of Jehovah and idols.	
theocrat		One who lives under a theocratic form of government; one who in civil affairs conforms to divine law.	
theocratic		Of or pertaining to a theocracy; administred by the immediate direction of God; as, the theocratical state of the Israelites.	
theocratical		Of or pertaining to a theocracy; administred by the immediate direction of God; as, the theocratical state of the Israelites.	
theodicy		A vindication of the justice of God in ordaining or permitting natural and moral evil.	
theodolite		An instrument used, especially in trigonometrical surveying, for the accurate measurement of horizontal angles, and also usually of vertical angles.	
theodolitic		Of or pertaining to a theodolite; made by means of a theodolite; as, theodolitic observations.	
theogonic		Of or relating to theogony.	
theogonism		Theogony.	
theogonist		A writer on theogony.	
theogony		The generation or genealogy of the gods; that branch of heathen theology which deals with the origin and descent of the deities; also, a poem treating of such genealogies; as, the Theogony of Hesiod.	
theologaster		A pretender or quack in theology.	
theologer		A theologian.	
theologian		A person well versed in theology; a professor of theology or divinity; a divine.	
theologic		Theological.	
theological		Of or pertaining to theology, or the science of God and of divine things; as, a theological treatise. -- The`o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.	
theologics		Theology.	
theologist		A theologian.	
theologize		To render theological; to apply to divinity; to reduce to a system of theology.	
theologizer		One who theologizes; a theologian.	
theologue	Colloquial	A student in a theological seminary.	
theology		The science of God or of religion; the science which treats of the existence, character, and attributes of God, his laws and government, the doctrines we are to believe, and the duties we are to practice; divinity…	Old French theologie, from Latin theologia, from Greek θεολογία.
theomachist		One who fights against the gods; one who resists God of the divine will.	
theomachy		A fighting against the gods, as the battle of the gaints with the gods.	
theomancy		A kind of divination drawn from the responses of oracles among heathen nations.	
theopathetic		Of or pertaining to a theopathy.	
theopathic		Of or pertaining to a theopathy.	
theopathy		Capacity for religious affections or worship.	
theophanic		Of or pertaining to a theopany; appearing to man, as a god.	
theophany		A manifestation of God to man by actual appearance, usually as an incarnation.	Latin theophania.
theophilanthropic		Pertaining to theophilanthropy or the theophilanthropists.	
theophilanthropism		The doctrine of the theophilanthropists; theophilanthropy.	
theophilanthropist		A member of a deistical society established at Paris during the French revolution.	
theophilanthropy		Theophilanthropism.	French théophilanthropie.
theophilosophic		Combining theism and philosophy, or pertaining to the combination of theism and philosophy.	
theopneusted		Divinely inspired; theopneustic.	
theopneustic		Given by the inspiration of the Spirit of God.	
theopneusty		Divine inspiration; the supernatural influence of the Divine Spirit in qualifying men to receive and communicate revealed truth.	
theorbist		One who plays on a theorbo.	
theorbo		An instrument made like large lute, but having two necks, with two sets of pegs, the lower set holding the strings governed by frets, while to the upper set were attached the long bass strings used as open notes.	Italian tiorba, from Turkish torba.
theorem		That which is considered and established as a principle; hence, sometimes, a rule.	
theorematic		Of or pertaining to a theorem or theorems; comprised in a theorem; consisting of theorems.	
theorematical		Of or pertaining to a theorem or theorems; comprised in a theorem; consisting of theorems.	
theorematist		One who constructs theorems.	
theoremic		Theorematic.	
theoretic		Pertaining to theory; depending on, or confined to, theory or speculation; speculative; terminating in theory or speculation: not practical; as, theoretical learning; theoretic sciences. -- The`o*ret"ic*al*ly, adv.	Latin theoreticus, from Greek θεωρητικός.
theoretical		Pertaining to theory; depending on, or confined to, theory or speculation; speculative; terminating in theory or speculation: not practical; as, theoretical learning; theoretic sciences. -- The`o*ret"ic*al*ly, adv.	
theoretics		The speculative part of a science; speculation.	
theoric		Of or pertaining to the theorica.	Old French theorique.
theorica		Public moneys expended at Athens on festivals, sacrifices, and public entertainments (especially theatrical performances), and in gifts to the people; -- also called theoric fund.	
theorical	Obsolete	Theoretic.	
theorically	Obsolete	In a theoretic manner.	
theorist		One who forms theories; one given to theory and speculation; a speculatist.	
theorization		The act or product of theorizing; the formation of a theory or theories; speculation.	
theorize		To form a theory or theories; to form opinions solely by theory; to speculate.	
theorizer		One who theorizes or speculates; a theorist.	
theory		A doctrine, or scheme of things, which terminates in speculation or contemplation, without a view to practice; hypothesis; speculation.	Latin theoria, from Greek θεωρία.
theosoph		A theosophist.	
theosopher		A theosophist.	
theosophic		Of or pertaining to theosophy. -- The`o*soph"ic*al*ly, adv.	
theosophical		Of or pertaining to theosophy. -- The`o*soph"ic*al*ly, adv.	
theosophism		Belief in theosophy.	
theosophist		One addicted to theosophy.	
theosophistical		Of or pertaining to theosophy; theosophical.	
theosophize		To practice theosophy.	
theosophy		Any system of philosophy or mysticism which proposes to attain intercourse with God and superior spirits, and consequent superhuman knowledge, by physical processes, as by the theurgic operations of some ancient Platonists…	Latin theosophia, from Greek θεοσοφία.
therapeutae		A name given to certain ascetics said to have anciently dwelt in the neighborhood of Alexandria.	
therapeutic		Of or pertaining to the healing art; concerned in discovering and applying remedies for diseases; curative.	Latin therapeuticus, from Greek θεραπευτικoς.
therapeutical		Of or pertaining to the healing art; concerned in discovering and applying remedies for diseases; curative.	
therapeutics		That part of medical science which treats of the discovery and application of remedies for diseases.	
therapeutist		One versed in therapeutics, or the discovery and application of remedies.	
therapy		Therapeutics.	Greek θεραπεία.
there		In or at that place.	Middle English there.
there-anent	Scots	Concerning that.	
thereabout		Near that place.	
thereabouts		Near that place.	
thereafter		After that; afterward.	
thereagain	Obsolete	In opposition; against one's course.	
thereat		At that place; there.	
therebefore	Obsolete	Before that time; beforehand.	
therebiforn	Obsolete	Before that time; beforehand.	
thereby		By that; by that means; in consequence of that.	
therefor		For that, or this; for it.	
therefore		For that or this reason, referring to something previously stated; for that.	
therefrom		From this or that.	
therein		In that or this place, time, or thing; in that particular or respect.	
thereinto		Into that or this, or into that place.	
thereof		Of that or this.	
thereology		Therapeutios.	
thereon		On that or this.	
thereout	Obsolete	Out of that or this.	
thereto	Obsolete	Besides; moreover.	
theretofore		Up to that time; before then; -- correlative with heretofore.	
thereunder		Under that or this.	
thereunto		Unto that or this; thereto; besides.	
thereupon		Upon that or this; thereon. ii. 7.	
therewhile	Obsolete	At that time; at the same time.	
therewith		With that or this. iv. 11.	Middle English therwith, from Old English þærwiþ.
therewithal		With that or this; therewith; at the same time.	
therf	Obsolete	Not fermented; unleavened; -- said of bread, loaves, etc. Pask and the feast of therf loaves.	
theriac		(Old Med.) An ancient composition esteemed efficacious against the effects of poison; especially, a certain compound of sixty-four drugs, prepared, pulverized, and reduced by means of honey to an electuary…	
theriaca		(Old Med.) An ancient composition esteemed efficacious against the effects of poison; especially, a certain compound of sixty-four drugs, prepared, pulverized, and reduced by means of honey to an electuary…	
theriacal		Of or pertaining to theriac; medicinal.	
therial		Theriac.	
theriodont		One of the Theriodontia. Used also adjectively.	
theriodonta		Same as Theriodontia.	
theriodontia		An extinct order of reptiles found in the Permian and Triassic formations in South Africa.	
theriotomy		Zoötomy.	
thermae		Springs or baths of warm or hot water.	
thermal		Of or pertaining to heat; warm; hot; as, the thermal unit; thermal waters.	
thermally		In a thermal manner.	
thermantidote		A device for circulating and cooling the air, consisting essentially of a kind of roasting fan fitted in a window and incased in wet tatties.	
thermetograph		A self-registering thermometer, especially one that registers the maximum and minimum during long periods.	
thermic		Of or pertaining to heat; due to heat; thermal; as, thermic lines.	
thermidor		The eleventh month of the French republican calendar, -- commencing July 19, and ending August 17.	
thermifugine		An artificial alkaloid of complex composition, resembling thalline and used as an antipyretic, -- whence its name.	
thermo-		A combining form from Gr. qe`rmh heat, qermo`s hot, warm; as in thermochemistry, thermodynamic.	Greek θερμός.
thermoanaesthesia		Loss of power to distinguish heat or cold by touch.	
thermoanesthesia		Loss of power to distinguish heat or cold by touch.	
thermobarograph		An instrument for recording simultaneously the pressure and temperature of a gas; a combined thermograph and barograph.	
thermobarometer		An instrument for determining altitudes by the boiling point of water.	
thermobattery		A thermoelectric battery; a thermopile.	
thermocautery		Cautery by the application of heat.	
thermochemic		Of or pertaining to thermochemistry; obtained by, or employed in, thermochemistry.	
thermochemical		Of or pertaining to thermochemistry; obtained by, or employed in, thermochemistry.	
thermochemistry		That branch of chemical science which includes the investigation of the various relations existing between chemical action and that manifestation of force termed heat, or the determination of the heat evolved by, or employed in…	
thermochroic		Pert. to or designating heat rays that have undergone selective absorption and are therefore analogous to colored light rays.	
thermochrosy		The property possessed by heat of being composed, like light, of rays of different degrees of refrangibility, which are unequal in rate or degree of transmission through diathermic substances.	
thermocouple		A thermoelectric couple.	
thermocurrent		A current, as of electricity, developed, or set in motion, by the action of heat.	
thermodin		A white crystalline substance derived from urethane, used in medicine as an antipyretic, etc.	
thermodynamic		Relating to thermodynamics; caused or operated by force due to the application of heat.	
thermodynamics		The science which treats of the mechanical action or relations of heat.	
thermoelectric		Pertaining to thermoelectricity; as, thermoelectric currents.	
thermoelectricity		Electricity developed in the action of heat. See the Note under Electricity.	
thermoelectrometer		An instrument for measuring the strength of an electric current in the heat which it produces, or for determining the heat developed by such a current.	
thermogen		Caloric; heat; regarded as a material but imponderable substance.	
thermogenic		Relating to heat, or to the production of heat; producing heat; thermogenous; as, the thermogenic tissues.	
thermogenous		Producing heat; thermogenic.	
thermogram		The trace or record made by means of a thermograph.	
thermograph		An instrument for automatically recording indications of the variation of temperature.	
thermography		Any process of writing involving the use of heat.	
thermojunction		A junction of two dissimilar conductors used to produce a thermoelectric current, as in one form of pyrometer; a thermocouple.	
thermology		A discourse on, or an account of, heat.	
thermoluminescence		Luminescence exhibited by a substance on being moderately heated.	
thermolysis		The resolution of a compound into parts by heat; dissociation by heat.	
thermolytic		Of or pertaining to thermolysis.	
thermolyze		To subject to thermolysis; to dissociate by heat.	
thermomagnetism		Magnetism as affected or caused by the action of heat; the relation of heat to magnetism.	
thermometer		An instrument for measuring temperature, founded on the principle that changes of temperature in bodies are accompained by proportional changes in their volumes or dimensions.	French thermomètre.
thermometric		Of or pertaining to a thermometer; as, the thermometrical scale or tube.	
thermometrical		Of or pertaining to a thermometer; as, the thermometrical scale or tube.	
thermometrically		In a thermometrical manner; by means of a thermometer.	
thermometrograph		An instrument for recording graphically the variations of temperature, or the indications of a thermometer.	
thermometry		The estimation of temperature by the use of a thermometric apparatus.	
thermomotor		A heat engine; a hot-air engine.	
thermomultiplier		Same as Thermopile.	
thermoneurosis		(a) A neurosis caused by exposure to heat. (b) A neurosis causing rise or fall of a body's temperature.	
thermoneutrality		Neutrality as regards heat effects.	
thermophilic		Heat-loving; -- applied esp. to certain bacteria.	
thermophone		A portable form of telethermometer, using a telephone in connection with a differential thermometer.	
thermophore		An apparatus for conveying heat, as a case containing material which retains its heat for a considerable period.	
thermopile		An instrument of extreme sensibility, used to determine slight differences and degrees of heat.	
thermoregulator		A device for the automatic regulation of temperature; a thermostat.	
thermoscope		An instrument for indicating changes of temperature without indicating the degree of heat by which it is affected; especially, an instrument contrived by Count Rumford which, as modified by Professor Leslie…	
thermoscopic		Of or pertaining to the thermoscope; made by means of the thermoscope; as, thermoscopic observations.	
thermosiphon		An arrangement of siphon tubes for assisting circulation in a liquid.	
thermostable		Capable of being heated to or somewhat above 55º C. without loss of special properties; -- said of immune substances, etc.	
thermostat		A self-acting apparatus for regulating temperature by the unequal expansion of different metals, liquids, or gases by heat, as in opening or closing the damper of a stove, or the like…	
thermostatic		Of or pertaining to the thermostat; made or effected by means of the thermostat.	
thermosystaltic		Influenced in its contraction by heat or cold; -- said of a muscle.	
thermotactic		Of or retaining to thermotaxis.	
thermotank		A tank containing pipes through which circulates steam, water, air, or the like, for heating or cooling; -- used in some heating and ventilation systems.	
thermotaxic		Pertaining to, or connected with, the regulation of temperature in the animal body; as, the thermotaxic nervous system.	
thermotaxis		(a) The property possessed by protoplasm of moving under the influence of heat.	
thermotensile		Pertaining to the variation of tensile strength with the temperature.	
thermotension		A process of increasing the strength of wrought iron by heating it to a determinate temperature, and giving to it, while in that state…	
thermotherapy		Treatment of disease by heat, esp. by hot air.	
thermotic		Of or pertaining to heat; produced by heat; as, thermotical phenomena.	
thermotical		Of or pertaining to heat; produced by heat; as, thermotical phenomena.	
thermotics		The science of heat.	
thermotonus		A condition of tonicity with respect to temperature.	
thermotropic		Manifesting thermotropism.	
thermotropism		The phenomenon of turning towards a source of warmth, seen in the growing parts of some plants.	
thermotype		A picture (as of a slice of wood) obtained by first wetting the object slightly with hydrochloric or dilute sulphuric acid, then taking an impression with a press, and next strongly heating this impression.	
thermotypy		The art or process of obtaining thermotypes.	
thermovoltaic		Of or relating to heat and electricity; especially, relating to thermal effects produced by voltaic action.	
theroid		Resembling a beast in nature or habit; marked by animal characteristics; as, theroid idiocy.	
theromorpha		See Theriodonta — same as Theriodontia.	
theropoda		An order of carnivorous dinosaurs in which the feet are less birdlike, and hence more like those of an ordinary quadruped, than in the Ornithopoda.	
thesaurus		A treasury or storehouse; hence, a repository, especially of knowledge; -- often applied to a comprehensive work, like a dictionary or cyclopedia.	
these		The plural of this. See This.	
thesicle		A little or subordinate thesis; a proposition.	
thesis		A position or proposition which a person advances and offers to maintain, or which is actually maintained by argument.	Latin thesis, from Greek θέσις.
thesmothete		A lawgiver; a legislator; one of the six junior archons at Athens.	
thespian		Of or pertaining to Thespis; hence, relating to the drama; dramatic; as, the Thespian art. -- n.	
thessalian		Of or pertaining to Thessaly in Greece.	
thessalonian		Of or pertaining to Thessalonica, a city of Macedonia. -- n.	
theta		A letter of the Greek alphabet corresponding to th in English; -- sometimes called the unlucky letter, from being used by the judges on their ballots in passing condemnation on a prisoner…	
thetical		Laid down; absolute or positive, as a law.	
thetine		Any one of a series of complex basic sulphur compounds analogous to the sulphines.	
theurgic		Of or pertaining to theurgy; magical.	
theurgical		Of or pertaining to theurgy; magical.	
theurgist		One who pretends to, or is addicted to, theurgy.	
theurgy		A divine work; a miracle; hence, magic; sorcery.	
thew		Muscle or strength; nerve; brawn; sinew.	Middle English thewen, from Old English þeowan.
thewed		Furnished with thews or muscles; as, a well-thewed limb.	
thewy		Having strong or large thews or muscles; muscular; sinewy; strong.	
they		The plural of he, she, or it.	Middle English they.
thialdine		A weak nitrogenous sulphur base, C6H13NS2.	
thialol		A colorless oily liquid, (C2H5)2S2, having a strong garlic odor; -- called also ethyl disulphide.	
thibetan		Of or pertaining to Thibet. -- n.	
thibetian		Same as Thibetan.	
thible	Obsolete	A slice; a skimmer; a spatula; a pudding stick.	
thick		Measuring in the third dimension other than length and breadth, or in general dimension other than length; -- said of a solid body; as, a timber seven inches thick.	Middle English thicke, from Old English þicce.
thick-headed		Having a thick skull; stupid.	
thick-knee		A stone curlew. See under Stone.	
thick-skinned		Having a thick skin; hence, not sensitive; dull; obtuse.	
thick-skulled		Having a thick skull; hence, dull; heavy; stupid; slow to learn.	
thick-winded		Affected with thick wind.	
thickbill	English dialect	The bullfinch.	
thicken	Obsolete	To make thick (in any sense of the word). Specifically: -- (a) To render dense; to inspissate; as, to thicken paint.	
thickening		Something put into a liquid or mass to make it thicker.	
thicket		A wood or a collection of trees, shrubs, etc., closely set; as, a ram caught in a thicket.	
thickhead	Colloquial	A thick-headed or stupid person.	
thickish		Somewhat thick.	
thickly		In a thick manner; deeply; closely.	
thickness		The quality or state of being thick (in any of the senses of the adjective).	
thickset		Close planted; as, a thickset wood; a thickset hedge.	
thickskin		A coarse, gross person; a person void of sensibility or sinsitiveness; a dullard.	
thickskull		A dullard, or dull person; a blockhead; a numskull.	
thider	Obsolete	Thither.	
thiderward	Obsolete	Thitherward.	
thief		One who steals; one who commits theft or larceny. See Theft.	Old English þeof.
thiefly	Obsolete	Like a thief; thievish; thievishly.	
thienone		A ketone derivative of thiophene obtained as a white crystalline substance, (C4H3S)2.CO, by the action of aluminium chloride and carbonyl chloride on thiophene.	
thienyl		The hypothetical radical C4H3S, regarded as the essential residue of thiophene and certain of its derivatives.	
thieve		To practice theft; to steal.	
thievery		The practice of stealing; theft; thievishness.	
thievish		Given to stealing; addicted to theft; as, a thievish boy, a thievish magpie.	
thigh		(Anat.) The proximal segment of the hind limb between the knee and the trunk.	
thigmotactic		Of or pertaining to thigmotaxis.	
thigmotaxis		The property possessed by living protoplasm of contracting, and thus moving, when touched by a solid or fluid substance.	
thilk	Obsolete	That same; this; that.	
thill		One of the two long pieces of wood, extending before a vehicle, between which a horse is hitched; a shaft.	
thiller		The horse which goes between the thills, or shafts, and supports them; also, the last horse in a team; -- called also thill horse.	
thimble		A kind of cap or cover, or sometimes a broad ring, for the end of the finger, used in sewing to protect the finger when pushing the needle through the material.	Old English þymel.
thimbleberry		A kind of black raspberry (Rubus occidentalis), common in America.	
thimbleeye		The chub mackerel. See under Chub.	
thimbleful		As much as a thimble will hold; a very small quantity.	
thimblerig		A sleight-of-hand trick played with three small cups, shaped like thimbles, and a small ball or little pea.	
thimblerigger		One who cheats by thimblerigging, or tricks of legerdemain.	
thimbleweed		Any plant of the composite genus Rudbeckia, coarse herbs somewhat resembling the sunflower; -- so called from their conical receptacles.	
thin		Having little thickness or extent from one surface to its opposite; as, a thin plate of metal; thin paper; a thin board; a thin covering.	Middle English thin, from Old English þynne.
thin-skinned		Having a thin skin; hence, sensitive; irritable.	
thine		A form of the possessive case of the pronoun thou, now superseded in common discourse by your, the possessive of you, but maintaining a place in solemn discourse, in poetry, and in the usual language of the Friends, or Quakers.	Middle English thyn.
thing		Whatever exists, or is conceived to exist, as a separate entity, whether animate or inanimate; any separable or distinguishable object of thought.	
think		To seem or appear; -- used chiefly in the expressions methinketh or methinks, and methought.	Middle English thinken.
thinkable		Capable of being thought or conceived; cogitable.	
thinker		One who thinks; especially and chiefly, one who thinks in a particular manner; as, a close thinker; a deep thinker; a coherent thinker.	
thinking		Having the faculty of thought; cogitative; capable of a regular train of ideas; as, man is a thinking being. -- Think"ing*ly, adv.	
thinly		In a thin manner; in a loose, scattered manner; scantily; not thickly; as, ground thinly planted with trees; a country thinly inhabited.	
thinner		One who thins, or makes thinner.	
thinness		The quality or state of being thin (in any of the senses of the word).	Middle English thynnesse, from Old English þynnes.
thinnish		Somewhat thin.	
thinolite		A calcareous tufa, in part crystalline, occurring on a large scale as a shore deposit about the Quaternary lake basins of Nevada.	
thio-		A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting the presence of sulphur.	Greek θεῖον.
thiocarbonate		A sulphocarbonate.	
thiocarbonic		Same as Sulphocarbonic.	
thiocyanate		Same as Sulphocyanate.	
thiocyanic		Same as Sulphocyanic.	
thionaphthene		A double benzene and thiophene nucleus, C8H6S, analogous to naphthalene, and like it the base of a large series of derivatives.	
thionic		Of or pertaining to sulphur; containing or resembling sulphur; specifically, designating certain of the thio compounds; as, the thionic acids.	
thionine		An artificial red or violet dyestuff consisting of a complex sulphur derivative of certain aromatic diamines, and obtained as a dark crystalline powder; -- called also phenylene violet.	
thionol		A red or violet dyestuff having a greenish metallic luster.	
thionoline		A beautiful fluorescent crystalline substance, intermediate in composition between thionol and thionine.	
thionyl		The hypothetical radical SO, regarded as an essential constituent of certain sulphurous compounds; as, thionyl chloride.	
thiophene		A sulphur hydrocarbon, C4H4S, analogous to furfuran and benzene, and acting as the base of a large number of substances which closely resemble the corresponding aromatic derivatives.	
thiophenic		Of, pertaining to, or derived from, thiophene; specifically, designating a certain acid analogous to benzoic acid.	
thiophenol		A colorless mobile liquid, C6H5.SH, of an offensive odor, and analogous to phenol; -- called also phenyl sulphydrate.	
thiophthene		A double thiophene nucleus, C6H4S2, analogous to thionaphthene, and the base of a large series of compounds.	
thiosulphate		A salt of thiosulphuric acid; -- formerly called hyposulphite.	
thiosulphuric		Of, pertaining to, or designating, an unstable acid, H2S2O3, analogous to sulphuric acid, and formerly called hyposulphurous acid.	
thiotolene		A colorless oily liquid, C4H3S.CH3, analogous to, and resembling, toluene; -- called also methyl thiophene.	
thioxene		Any one of three possible metameric substances, which are dimethyl derivatives of thiophene, like the xylenes from benzene.	
third		Next after the second; coming after two others; -- the ordinal of three; as, the thirdhour in the day.	Old English þridda.
third-borough		An under constable.	
third-penny		A third part of the profits of fines and penalties imposed at the country court, which was among the perquisites enjoyed by the earl.	
thirdings		The third part of the corn or grain growing on the ground at the tenant's death, due to the lord for a heriot, as within the manor of Turfat in Herefordshire.	
thirdly		In the third place.	
thirl	Obsolete	To bore; to drill or thrill. See Thrill.	Middle English thirlen.
thirlage		The right which the owner of a mill possesses, by contract or law, to compel the tenants of a certain district, or of his sucken, to bring all their grain to his mill for grinding.	
thirst		A sensation of dryness in the throat associated with a craving for liquids, produced by deprivation of drink, or by some other cause (as fear, excitement, etc.) which arrests the secretion of the pharyngeal mucous membrane…	Old English þurst.
thirster		One who thirsts.	
thirstily		In a thirsty manner.	
thirstiness		The state of being thirsty; thirst.	
thirstle	English dialect	The throstle.	
thirsty		Feeling thirst; having a painful or distressing sensation from want of drink; hence, having an eager desire.	
thirteen		One more than twelve; ten and three; as, thirteen ounces or pounds.	Middle English thirttene.
thirteenth		Next in order after the twelfth; the third after the tenth; -- the ordinal of thirteen; as, the thirteenth day of the month.	
thirtieth		Next in order after the twenty-ninth; the tenth after the twentieth; -- the ordinal of thirty; as, the thirtieth day of the month.	
thirty		Being three times ten; consisting of one more than twenty-nine; twenty and ten; as, the month of June consists of thirty days.	Old English þritig.
thirty-second		Being one of thirty-two equal parts into which anything is divided.	
this		As a demonstrative pronoun, this denotes something that is present or near in place or time, or something just mentioned, or that is just about to be mentioned.	
thistle	English dialect	Any one of several prickly composite plants, especially those of the genera Cnicus, Craduus, and Onopordon.	Old English þistel.
thistly		Overgrown with thistles; as, thistly ground.	
thither		To that place; -- opposed to Ant: hither.	Old English þider.
thitherto	Obsolete	To that point; so far.	
thitherward		To ward that place; in that direction.	
thitsee		(Bot.) The varnish tree of Burmah (Melanorrhoea usitatissima).	
thlipsis		Compression, especially constriction of vessels by an external cause.	
thole		A wooden or metal pin, set in the gunwale of a boat, to serve as a fulcrum for the oar in rowing.	Middle English tholen.
thomaean		A member of the ancient church of Christians established on the Malabar coast of India, which some suppose to have been originally founded by the Apostle Thomas.	
thomaism		The doctrine of Thomas Aquinas, esp. with respect to predestination and grace.	
thomean		A member of the ancient church of Christians established on the Malabar coast of India, which some suppose to have been originally founded by the Apostle Thomas.	
thomism		The doctrine of Thomas Aquinas, esp. with respect to predestination and grace.	
thomist		A follower of Thomas Aquinas. See Scotist.	
thomite		A Thomæan.	
thomsenolite		A fluoride of aluminium, calcium, and sodium occurring with the cryolite of Greenland.	
thomsonian		Of or pertaining to Thomsonianism. -- n.	
thomsonianism		An empirical system which assumes that the human body is composed of four elements, earth, air, fire, and water, and that vegetable medicines alone should be used; -- from the founder, Dr. Samuel Thomson, of Massachusetts.	
thomsonite		A zeolitic mineral, occurring generally in masses of a radiated structure.	
thong		A strap of leather; especially, one used for fastening anything.	Middle English thong.
thooid		Of or pertaining to a group of carnivores, including the wovels and the dogs.	
thor		The god of thunder, and son of Odin.	
thoracentesis		The operation of puncturing the chest wall so as to let out liquids contained in the cavity of the chest.	
thoracic		Of or pertaining to the thorax, or chest.	Greek θωρακικός.
thoracica		A division of cirripeds including those which have six thoracic segments, usually bearing six pairs of cirri.	
thoracometer		Same as Stethometer.	
thoracoplasty		A remodeling or reshaping of the thorax; especially, the operation of removing the ribs, so as to obliterate the pleural cavity in cases of empyema.	
thoracostraca		An extensive division of Crustacea, having a dorsal shield or carapec	
thoracotomy		The operation of opening the pleural cavity by incision.	
thoral		Of or pertaining to a bed.	
thorax		(Anat.) The part of the trunk between the neck and the abdomen, containing that part of the body cavity the walls of which are supported by the dorsal vertebræ, the ribs, and the sternum…	Greek θώραξ.
thoria		A rare white earthy substance, consisting of the oxide of thorium; -- formerly called also thorina.	
thoric		Of or pertaining to thorium; designating the compounds of thorium.	
thorite		A mineral of a brown to black color, or, as in the variety orangite, orange-yellow.	
thorium		A metallic element found in certain rare minerals, as thorite, pyrochlore, monazite, etc., and isolated as an infusible gray metallic powder which burns in the air and forms thoria; -- formerly called also thorinum.	
thorn		A hard and sharp-pointed projection from a woody stem; usually, a branch so transformed; a spine.	
thorn-headed		Having a head armed with thorns or spines.	
thornback		(Zoöl.) A European skate (Raia clavata) having thornlike spines on its back.	
thornbill		Any one of several species of small, brilliantly colored American birds of the genus Rhamphomicron.	
thornbird		A small South American bird (Anumbius anumbii) allied to the ovenbirds of the genus Furnarius).	
thornbut		The turbot.	
thornless		Destitute of, or free from, thorns.	
thornset		Set with thorns.	
thorntail		A beautiful South American humming bird (Gouldia Popelairii), having the six outer tail feathers long, slender, and pointed.	
thorny		Full of thorns or spines; rough with thorns; spiny; as, a thorny wood; a thorny tree; a thorny crown.	
thoro		Thorough.	
thorough		Passing through or to the end; hence, complete; perfect; as, a thorough reformation; thorough work; a thorough translator; a thorough poet.	Old English þuruh.
thorough-brace		A leather strap supporting the body of a carriage, and attached to springs, or serving as a spring.	
thorough-lighted		Provided with thorough lights or windows at opposite sides, as a room or building.	
thoroughbred		Bred from the best blood through a long line; pure-blooded; -- said of stock, as horses.	
thoroughfare		A passage through; a passage from one street or opening to another; an unobstructed way open to the public; a public road; hence, a frequented street.	Middle English thurghfare.
thoroughgoing		Going through, or to the end or bottom; very thorough; complete.	
thoroughly		In a thorough manner; fully; entirely; completely.	
thoroughness		The quality or state of being thorough; completeness.	
thoroughpaced		Perfect in what is undertaken; complete; going all lengths; as, a thoroughplaced Tory or Whig.	
thoroughpin		A disease of the hock (sometimes of the knee) of a horse, caused by inflammation of the synovial membrane and a consequent excessive secretion of the synovial fluid…	
thoroughsped		Fully accomplished; thoroughplaced.	
thoroughstitch	Obsolete	So as to go the whole length of any business; fully; completely.	
thoroughwax		(a) An umbelliferous plant (Bupleurum rotundifolium) with perfoliate leaves.	
thoroughwort		Same as Boneset.	
thorow	Obsolete	Through. & Fl.	
thorp		A group of houses in the country; a small village; a hamlet; a dorp; -- now chiefly occurring in names of places and persons; as, Althorp, Mablethorpe.	Middle English thorp.
thorpe		A group of houses in the country; a small village; a hamlet; a dorp; -- now chiefly occurring in names of places and persons; as, Althorp, Mablethorpe.	Old English þorp.
those		The plural of that. See That.	
thoth		(Myth.) The god of eloquence and letters among the ancient Egyptians, and supposed to be the inventor of writing and philosophy.	
thou		The second personal pronoun, in the singular number, denoting the person addressed; thyself; the pronoun which is used in addressing persons in the solemn or poetical style.	Middle English thou.
though		Granting, admitting, or supposing that; notwithstanding that; if.	Middle English thagh, from Old English þeah.
thought		The act of thinking; the exercise of the mind in any of its higher forms; reflection; cogitation.	Middle English thought.
thoughtful		Full of thought; employed in meditation; contemplative; as, a man of thoughtful mind.	
thoughtless		Lacking thought; careless; inconsiderate; rash; as, a thoughtless person, or act.	
thousand		The number of ten hundred; a collection or sum consisting of ten times one hundred units or objects.	Middle English thousend.
thousandfold		Multiplied by a thousand.	Old English þusendfeald.
thousandth		Next in order after nine hundred and ninty-nine; coming last of a thousand successive individuals or units; -- the ordinal of thousand; as, the thousandth part of a thing.	
thowel		(a) A thole pin. (b) A rowlock.	
thowl		(a) A thole pin. (b) A rowlock.	
thracian		Of or pertaining to Thrace, or its people. -- n.	
thrack	Obsolete	To load or burden; as, to thrack a man with property.	
thrackscat	Obsolete	Metal still in the mine.	
thraldom		The condition of a thrall; slavery; bondage; state of servitude.	
thrall		Slavery; bondage; servitude; thraldom.	Old English þræl, from Old Norse þræll.
thrall-less		(a) Having no thralls. (b) Not enslaved; not subject to bonds.	
thrall-like		Resembling a thrall, or his condition, feelings, or the like; slavish.	
thralldom		Thraldom.	
thranite		One of the rowers on the topmost of the three benches in a trireme.	
thrapple	English dialect	Windpipe; throttle.	
thrash		To beat out grain from, as straw or husks; to beat the straw or husk of (grain) with a flail; to beat off, as the kernels of grain; as, to thrash wheat, rye, or oats; to thrash over the old straw.	
thrashel	Obsolete	An instrument to thrash with; a flail.	
thrasher		One who, or that which, thrashes grain; a thrashing machine.	
thrashing		a. & n. from Thrash, v.	
thrasonical		Of or pertaining to Thraso; like, or becoming to, Thraso; bragging; boastful; vainglorious. -- Thra*son"ic*al*ly, adv.	
thraste	Obsolete	To thrust.	
thrave	English dialect	Twenty-four (in some places, twelve) sheaves of wheat; a shock, or stook.	
thraw	Scots	See Throse.	
thread		A very small twist of flax, wool, cotton, silk, or other fibrous substance, drawn out to considerable length; a compound cord consisting of two or more single yarns doubled, or joined together, and twisted.	Middle English threed.
thread-shaped		Having the form of a thread; filiform.	
threadbare		Worn to the naked thread; having the nap worn off; threadbare clothes.	
threadbareness		The state of being threadbare.	
threaden	Obsolete	Made of thread; as, threaden sails; a threaden fillet.	
threader		A device for assisting in threading a needle.	
threadfin		Any one of several species of fishes belonging to Polynemus and allied genera.	
threadfish		(a) The cutlass fish. (b) A carangoid fish (Caranx gallus, or C. crinitus) having the anterior rays of the soft dorsal and anal fins prolonged in the form of long threads.	
threadiness		Quality of being thready.	
threadworm		Any long, slender nematode worm, especially the pinworm and filaria.	
thready		Like thread or filaments; slender; as, the thready roots of a shrub.	
threap	English dialect	To maintain obstinately against denial or contradiction; also, to contend or argue against (another) with obstinacy; to chide; as, he threaped me down that it was so.	Middle English threp.
threat	Obsolete	The expression of an intention to inflict evil or injury on another; the declaration of an evil, loss, or pain to come; meance; threatening; denunciation.	Old English þreat.
threaten		To utter threats against; to menace; to inspire with apprehension; to alarm, or attempt to alarm, as with the promise of something evil or disagreeable; to warn.	
threatener		One who threatens.	
threatening		a. & n. from Threaten, v. -- Threat"en*ing*ly, adv.	
threatful		Full of threats; having a menacing appearance.	
threave	Obsolete	Same as Thrave.	
three		One more than two; two and one. 2 Sam. xxiv. 12.	
three-coat		Having or consisting of three coats; -- applied to plastering which consists of pricking-up, floating, and a finishing coat; or, as called in the United States, a scratch coat, browning, and finishing coat.	
three-color		Designating, or pert. to, a photomechanical process employing printings in three colors, as red, yellow, and blue.	
three-cornered		Having three corners, or angles; as, a three-cornered hat.	
three-decker		A vessel of war carrying guns on three decks.	
three-flowered		Bearing three flowers together, or only three flowers.	
three-handed		Said of games or contests where three persons play against each other, or two against one; as, a three-handed game of cards.	
three-leafed		(a) Producing three leaves; as, three-leaved nightshade. (b) Consisting of three distinct leaflets; having the leaflets arranged in threes.	
three-leaved		(a) Producing three leaves; as, three-leaved nightshade. (b) Consisting of three distinct leaflets; having the leaflets arranged in threes.	
three-lobed		Having three lobes.	
three-mile		Of or pertaining to three miles; as, the three-mile limit, or the limit of the marine belt (the three-mile belt or zone) of three miles included in territorial waters (which see) of a state.	
three-nerved		Having three nerves.	
three-parted		Divided into, or consisting of, three parts; tripartite.	
three-pile		An old name for the finest and most costly kind of velvet, having a fine, thick pile.	
three-piled		Having the quality of three-pile; best; most costly.	
three-ply		Consisting of three distinct webs inwrought together in weaving, as cloth or carpeting; having three strands; threefold.	
three-pointed		Having three acute or setigerous points; tricuspidate.	
three-port		Having three ports; specif.: Designating a type of two-cycle internal-combustion engine in which the mixture enters the crank case through a port uncovered by the piston near the end of its stroke.	
three-quarter		Measuring thirty inches by twenty-five; -- said of portraitures.	
three-score		Thrice twenty; sixty.	
three-sided		Having three sides, especially three plane sides; as, a three- sided stem, leaf, petiole, peduncle, scape, or pericarp.	
three-square		Having a cross section in the form of an equilateral triangle; -- said especially of a kind of file.	
three-valved		Consisting of, or having, three valves; opening with three valves; as, a three-valved pericarp.	
three-way		Connected with, or serving to connect, three channels or pipes; as, a three-way cock or valve.	
threefold		Consisting of three, or thrice repeated; triple; as, threefold justice.	Old English þreofald.
threepence		A small silver coin of three times the value of a penny.	
threepenny		Costing or worth three pence; hence, worth but little; poor; mean.	
threne		Lamentation; threnody; a dirge.	
threnetic		Pertaining to a threne; sorrowful; mournful.	
threnetical		Pertaining to a threne; sorrowful; mournful.	
threnode		A threne, or threnody; a dirge; a funeral song.	
threnodist		One who composes, delivers, or utters, a threnode, or threnody.	
threnody		A song of lamentation; a threnode.	Greek θρηνῳδία.
threpe	Obsolete	To call; to term.	Middle English threp.
threpsology		The doctrine of nutrition; a treatise on nutrition.	
thresh		To beat out grain from, as straw or husks; to beat the straw or husk of (grain) with a flail; to beat off, as the kernels of grain; as, to thrash wheat, rye, or oats; to thrash over the old straw.	Old English þrescan.
thresh-fold	Obsolete	Threshold.	
thresher		One who, or that which, thrashes grain; a thrashing machine.	
threshold		The plank, stone, or piece of timber, which lies under a door, especially of a dwelling house, church, temple, or the like; the doorsill; hence, entrance; gate; door.	Old English þrescold.
threshwold	Obsolete	Threshold.	
threste	Obsolete	To thrust.	
thretteen	Obsolete	Thirteen.	
threw		imp. of Throw — to fling, cast, or hurl with a certain whirling motion of the arm, to throw a ball; -- distinguished from to toss, or to bowl.	
thribble	English dialect	Triple; treble; threefold.	
thrice		In a threefold manner or degree; repeatedly; very.	Middle English thries.
thricecock	English dialect	The missel thrush.	
thrid		To pass through in the manner of a thread or a needle; to make or find a course through; to thread.	
thrifallow		See Thryfallow, and Trifallow.	
thrift		A thriving state; good husbandry; economical management in regard to property; frugality.	Old Norse þrift.
thriftily		In a thrifty manner.	
thriftiness		The quality or state of being thrifty; thrift.	
thriftless		Without thrift; not prudent or prosperous in money affairs. -- Thrift less*ness, n.	
thrifty		Given to, or evincing, thrift; characterized by economy and good menegement of property; sparing; frugal.	
thrill		Hence, to affect, as if by something that pierces or pricks; to cause to have a shivering, throbbing, tingling, or exquisite sensation; to pierce; to penetrate.	Old English þyrlian.
thrillant	Obsolete	Piercing; sharp; thrilling.	
thrilling		Causing a thrill; causing tremulous excitement; deeply moving; as, a thrilling romance. -- Thrill ing*ness, n.	
thring	Obsolete	To press, crowd, or throng.	Middle English thringen, from Old English þringan.
thrips		Any one of numerous small species of Thysanoptera, especially those which attack useful plants, as the grain thrips (Thrips cerealium).	
thrittene	Obsolete	Thirteen.	
thrive		To posper by industry, economy, and good management of property; to increase in goods and estate; as, a farmer thrives by good husbandry.	Old Norse þrífask.
thriven		p. p. of Thrive — to posper by industry, economy, and good management of property; to increase in goods and estate; as, a farmer thrives by good husbandry.	
thriver		One who thrives, or prospers.	
thrivingly		In a thriving manner.	
thrivingness		The quality or condition of one who thrives; prosperity; growth; increase.	
throat		(Anat.) (a) The part of the neck in front of, or ventral to, the vertebral column.	Middle English throte, from Old English þrote.
throatband		Same as Throatlatch.	
throatboll	Obsolete	The Adam's apple in the neck.	
throating		A drip, or drip molding.	
throatlatch		A strap of a bridle, halter, or the like, passing under a horse's throat.	
throatwort		A plant (Campanula Trachelium) formerly considered a remedy for sore throats because of its throat-shaped corolla.	
throaty		Guttural; hoarse; having a guttural voice.	
throb		To beat, or pulsate, with more than usual force or rapidity; to beat in consequence of agitation; to palpitate; -- said of the heart, pulse, etc. My heart Throbs to know one thing.	
throdden	English dialect	To grow; to thrive.	
throe		Extreme pain; violent pang; anguish; agony; especially, one of the pangs of travail in childbirth, or purturition.	Middle English throwe.
thrombin		The fibrin ferment which produces the formation of fibrin from fibrinogen.	
thrombosis		The obstruction of a blood vessel by a clot formed at the site of obstruction; -- distinguished from embolism, which is produced by a clot or foreign body brought from a distance. -- Throm*bot"ic, a.	
thrombus		(a) A clot of blood formed of a passage of a vessel and remaining at the site of coagulation.	
throne		A chair of state, commonly a royal seat, but sometimes the seat of a prince, bishop, or other high dignitary.	
throneless		Having no throne.	
throng		A multitude of persons or of living beings pressing or pressed into a close body or assemblage; a crowd.	
throngly	Obsolete	In throngs or crowds.	
throp	Obsolete	A thorp.	
thropple	English dialect	The windpipe.	
throstle		(Zoöl.) The song thrush. See under Song.	Old English þrostle.
throstling		A disease of bovine cattle, consisting of a swelling under the throat, which, unless checked, causes strangulation.	
throttle		The windpipe, or trachea; the weasand.	Middle English throtlen.
throttler		One who, or that which, throttles, or chokes.	
through		From end to end of, or from side to side of; from one surface or limit of, to the opposite; into and out of at the opposite, or at another, point; as, to bore through a piece of timber, or through a board…	Old English þruh.
throughly		To dare in fields is valor; but how few Dare to be throughly valiant to be true Dryden.	
throughout		Quite through; from one extremity to the other of; also, every part of; as, to search throughout the house.	
throve		imp. of Thrive — to posper by industry, economy, and good management of property; to increase in goods and estate; as, a farmer thrives by good husbandry.	
throw		To fling, cast, or hurl with a certain whirling motion of the arm, to throw a ball; -- distinguished from to toss, or to bowl.	Middle English throwen.
throw-crook		An instrument used for twisting ropes out of straw.	
throw-off		A start in a hunt or a race.	
throwe	English dialect	A turning lathe.	
thrower		One who throws. Specifically: (a) One who throws or twists silk; a throwster.	
throwing		a. & n. from Throw, v.	
thrown		a. & p. p. from Throw, v.	
throwster		One who throws or twists silk; a thrower.	
thru		Through.	
thrum		One of the ends of weaver's threads; hence, any soft, short threads or tufts resembling these.	
thrum-eyed		Having the anthers raised above the stigma, and visible at the throat of the corolla, as in long-stamened primroses; -- the reverse of pin-eyed.	
thrummy		Like thrums; made of, furnished with, or characterized by, thrums.	
thrumwort		A kind of amaranth (Amarantus caudatus).	
thruout		Throughout.	
thrush		(Zoöl.) Any one of numerous species of singing birds belonging to Turdus and allied genera.	
thrushel	English dialect	The song thrush.	
thrusher	English dialect	The song thrush.	
thrust		To push or drive with force; to drive, force, or impel; to shove; as, to thrust anything with the hand or foot, or with an instrument.	Old Norse þrysta.
thruster		One who thrusts or stabs.	
thrusting		The act of pushing with force.	
thrustle	Obsolete	The throstle, or song thrust.	
thryfallow		To plow for the third time in summer; to trifallow.	
thud		A dull sound without resonance, like that produced by striking with, or striking against, some comparatively soft substance; also, the stroke or blow producing such sound; as, the thrud of a cannon ball striking the earth.	Middle English thudden, from Old English þyddan.
thug		One of an association of robbers and murderers in India who practiced murder by stealthy approaches, and from religious motives.	
thuggee		The practice of secret or stealthy murder by Thugs.	
thuggery		Thuggee.	
thuggism		Thuggee.	
thuja		A genus of evergreen trees, thickly branched, remarkable for the distichous arrangement of their branches, and having scalelike, closely imbricated, or compressed leaves.	
thule		The name given by ancient geographers to the northernmost part of the habitable world.	
thulia		Oxide of thulium.	
thulium		A rare metallic element of uncertain properties and identity, said to have been found in the mineral gadolinite.	
thumb	Colloquial	The short, thick first digit of the human hand, differing from the other fingers in having but two phalanges; the pollex.	Middle English thoume.
thumbbird	English dialect	The goldcrest.	
thumbed		Having thumbs.	
thumbkin		An instrument of torture for compressing the thumb; a thumbscrew.	
thumbless		Without a thumb.	
thumbscrew		A screw having a flat-sided or knurled head, so that it may be turned by the thumb and forefinger.	
thummie	English dialect	The chiff-chaff.	
thummim		A mysterious part or decoration of the breastplate of the Jewish high priest.	
thump		The sound made by the sudden fall or blow of a heavy body, as of a hammer, or the like.	
thumper		One who, or that which, thumps.	
thumping	Colloquial	Heavy; large.	
thunder		The sound which follows a flash of lightning; the report of a discharge of atmospheric electricity.	Old English þunor.
thunderbird		An Australian insectivorous singing bird (Pachycephala gutturalis).	
thunderbolt		A shaft of lightning; a brilliant stream of electricity passing from one part of the heavens to another, or from the clouds to the earth.	
thunderburst		A burst of thunder.	
thunderclap		A sharp burst of thunder; a sudden report of a discharge of atmospheric electricity.	
thundercloud		A cloud charged with electricity, and producing lightning and thunder.	
thunderer		One who thunders; -- used especially as a translation of L. tonans, an epithet applied by the Romans to several of their gods, esp. to Jupiter.	
thunderfish		A large European loach (Misgurnus fossilis).	
thunderhead		A rounded mass of cloud, with shining white edges; a cumulus, - - often appearing before a thunderstorm.	
thundering		Emitting thunder.	
thunderless		Without thunder or noise.	
thunderous		Producing thunder.	
thunderproof		Secure against the effects of thunder or lightning.	
thundershower		A shower accompanied with lightning and thunder.	
thunderstone		A thunderbolt, -- formerly believed to be a stone.	
thunderstorm		A storm accompanied with lightning and thunder.	
thunderstrike		To strike, blast, or injure by, or as by, lightning.	
thunderworm		A small, footless, burrowing, snakelike lizard (Rhineura Floridana) allied to Amphisbæna, native of Florida; -- so called because it leaves its burrows after a thundershower.	
thundery		Accompanied with thunder; thunderous.	
thundrous		Thunderous; sonorous.	
thunny		The tunny.	
thurgh	Obsolete	Through.	
thurghfare	Obsolete	Thoroughfare.	
thurible		A censer of metal, for burning incense, having various forms, held in the hand or suspended by chains; -- used especially at mass, vespers, and other solemn services.	
thuriferous		Producing or bearing frankincense.	
thurification		The act of fuming with incense, or the act of burning incense.	
thuringian		Of or pertaining to Thuringia, a country in Germany, or its people. -- n.	
thuringite		A mineral occurring as an aggregation of minute scales having an olive-green color and pearly luster.	
thurl		(Mining) (a) A short communication between adits in a mine. (b) A long adit in a coalpit.	
thurling		Same as Thurl, n., 2 (a).	
thurrok	Obsolete	The hold of a ship; a sink.	
thursday		The fifth day of the week, following Wednesday and preceding Friday.	
thurst		The ruins of the fallen roof resulting from the removal of the pillars and stalls.	
thus		The commoner kind of frankincense, or that obtained from the Norway spruce, the long-leaved pine, and other conifers.	Middle English thus.
thussock	Obsolete	See Tussock — a tuft, as of grass, twigs, hair, or the like; especially, a dense tuft or bunch of grass or sedge.	
thuya		Same as Thuja.	
thuyin		A substance extracted from trees of the genus Thuja, or Thuya, and probably identical with quercitrin.	
thwack		To strike with something flat or heavy; to bang, or thrash: to thump.	
thwaite	Obsolete	The twaite.	Old Norse þveit.
thwart		Situated or placed across something else; transverse; oblique.	Old Norse þvert.
thwarter		A disease in sheep, indicated by shaking, trembling, or convulsive motions.	
thwartingly		In a thwarting or obstructing manner; so as to thwart.	
thwartly		Transversely; obliquely.	
thwartness		The quality or state of being thwart; obliquity; perverseness.	
thwite	Obsolete	To cut or clip with a knife; to whittle.	
thwittle	Obsolete	To cut or whittle.	
thy		Of thee, or belonging to thee; the more common form of thine, possessive case of thou; -- used always attributively, and chiefly in the solemn or grave style, and in poetry.	Middle English thy.
thylacine		The zebra wolf. See under Wolf.	Greek θύλακος.
thymate		A compound of thymol analogous to a salt; as, sodium thymate.	
thyme		Any plant of the labiate genus Thymus.	Greek θύμον.
thymene		A liquid terpene obtained from oil of thyme.	
thymiatechny		The art of employing perfumes in medicine.	
thymic		Of or pertaining to the thymus gland.	
thymol		A phenol derivative of cymene, C10H13.OH, isomeric with carvacrol, found in oil of thyme, and extracted as a white crystalline substance of a pleasant aromatic odor and strong antiseptic properties; -- called also hydroxy cymene.	
thymus		Of, pertaining to, or designating, the thymus gland. -- n.	
thymy		Abounding with thyme; fragrant; as, a thymy vale.	
thyro-		A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the thyroid body or the thyroid cartilage; as, thyrohyal.	
thyroarytenoid		Of or pertaining to both the thyroid and arytenoid cartilages of the larynx.	
thyrohyal		One of the lower segments in the hyoid arch, often consolidated with the body of the hyoid bone and forming one of its great horns, as in man.	
thyrohyoid		Of or pertaining to the thyroid cartilage of the larynx and the hyoid arch.	
thyroid		Shaped like an oblong shield; shield-shaped; as, the thyroid cartilage.	Greek θυρεοειδής.
thyroideal		Thyroid.	
thyrotomy		The operation of cutting into the thyroid cartilage.	
thyrse		A thyrsus.	
thyrsoid		Having somewhat the form of a thyrsus.	
thyrsoidal		Having somewhat the form of a thyrsus.	
thyrsus		A staff entwined with ivy, and surmounted by a pine cone, or by a bunch of vine or ivy leaves with grapes or berries.	Latin thyrsus, from Greek θύρσος.
thysanopter		One of the Thysanoptera.	
thysanoptera		A division of insects, considered by some writers a distinct order, but regarded by others as belonging to the Hemiptera.	
thysanopteran		One of the Thysanoptera.	
thysanopterous		Of or pertaining to the Thysanoptera.	
thysanura		An order of wingless hexapod insects which have setiform caudal appendages, either bent beneath the body to form a spring, or projecting as bristles.	
thysanuran		One of the Thysanura.	
thysanurous		Of or pertaining to the Thysanura.	
thysbe		A common clearwing moth (Hemaris thysbe).	
thyself		An emphasized form of the personal pronoun of the second person; -- used as a subject commonly with thou; as, thou thyself shalt go; that is, thou shalt go, and no other.	
