tiar	Poetic	A tiara.	
tiara		A form of headdress worn by the ancient Persians.	
tiaraed		Adorned with, or wearing, a tiara.	
tib-cat	English dialect	A female cat.	
tibia		(Anat.) The inner, or preaxial, and usually the larger, of the two bones of the leg or hind limb below the knee.	
tibial		Of or pertaining to a tibia.	Latin tibialis.
tibiale		The bone or cartilage of the tarsus which articulates with the tibia and corresponds to a part of the astragalus in man and most mammals.	
tibicinate		To play on a tibia, or pipe.	
tibio-		A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the tibia; as, tibiotarsus, tibiofibular.	
tibiotarsal		(a) Of or pertaining to both to the tibia and the tarsus; as, the tibiotarsal articulation.	
tibiotarsus		The large bone between the femur and tarsometatarsus in the leg of a bird.	
tibrie	English dialect	The pollack.	
tic		A local and habitual convulsive motion of certain muscles; especially, such a motion of some of the muscles of the face; twitching; velication; -- called also spasmodic tic.	French tic.
tical		A bean-shaped coin of Siam, worth about sixty cents; also, a weight equal to 236 grains troy.	
tice	Obsolete	To entice.	
ticement	Obsolete	Enticement.	
tichorrhine		A fossil rhinoceros with a vertical bony medial septum supporting the nose; the hairy rhinoceros.	
tick		Credit; trust; as, to buy on, or upon, tick.	
ticken		See Ticking — a strong, closely woven linen or cotton fabric, of which ticks for beds are made.	
ticker		One who, or that which, ticks, or produces a ticking sound, as a watch or clock, a telegraphic sounder, etc. Ticker tape Tape from or designed to be used in a stock ticker…	
ticket		To distinguish by a ticket; to put a ticket on; as, to ticket goods.	Old French estiquet.
ticketing		A periodical sale of ore in the English mining districts; -- so called from the tickets upon which are written the bids of the buyers.	
ticking		A strong, closely woven linen or cotton fabric, of which ticks for beds are made.	
tickle		To touch lightly, so as to produce a peculiar thrilling sensation, which commonly causes laughter, and a kind of spasm which become dengerous if too long protracted.	Middle English tikelen.
tickle-footed	Obsolete	Uncertain; inconstant; slippery.	
ticklenburg		A coarse, mixed linen fabric made to be sold in the West Indies.	
tickleness	Obsolete	Unsteadiness.	
tickler		One who, or that which, tickles.	
ticklish		Sensible to slight touches; easily tickled; as, the sole of the foot is very ticklish; the hardened palm of the hand is not ticklish.	
tickseed		A seed or fruit resembling in shape an insect, as that of certain plants.	
ticktack		A noise like that made by a clock or a watch.	
ticpolonga		A very venomous viper (Daboia Russellii), native of Ceylon and India; -- called also cobra monil.	
tid		Tender; soft; nice; -- now only used in tidbit.	
tidal		Of or pertaining to tides; caused by tides; having tides; periodically rising and falling, or following and ebbing; as, tidal waters.	
tidbit		A delicate or tender piece of anything eatable; a delicious morsel.	
tidde		imp. of Tide, v. i.	
tidder	Obsolete	To use with tenderness; to fondle.	
tiddle	Obsolete	To use with tenderness; to fondle.	
tiddledywinks		A game in which the object is to snap small disks of bone, ivory, or the like, from a flat surface, as of a table, into a small cup or basket; --called also tiddlywinks.	
tiddlywinks		Same as Tiddledywinks.	
tide		The alternate rising and falling of the waters of the ocean, and of bays, rivers, etc., connected therewith.	Middle English tiden.
tide-rode		Swung by the tide when at anchor; -- opposed to wind-rode.	
tided		Affected by the tide; having a tide.	
tideland		Land that is overflowed by tide water; hence, land near the sea.	
tideless		Having no tide.	
tidesman		A customhouse officer who goes on board of a merchant ship to secure payment of the duties; a tidewaiter.	
tidewaiter		A customhouse officer who watches the landing of goods from merchant vessels, in order to secure payment of duties.	
tideway		Channel in which the tide sets.	
tidife	English dialect	The blue titmouse.	
tidily		In a tidy manner.	
tidiness		The quality or state of being tidy.	
tiding	Obsolete	Tidings.	
tidings		Account of what has taken place, and was not before known; news.	
tidley	English dialect	(a) The wren. (b) The goldcrest.	
tidology		A discourse or treatise upon the tides; that part of science which treats of tides.	
tidy	English dialect	The wren; -- called also tiddy.	
tidytips		A California composite plant (Layia platyglossa), the flower of which has yellow rays tipped with white.	
tie		A bond; an obligation, moral or legal; as, the sacred ties of friendship or of duty; the ties of allegiance.	Old English tigan.
tie-rod		A rod used as a tie. See Tie.	
tiebar		A flat bar used as a tie.	
tiebeam		A beam acting as a tie, as at the bottom of a pair of principal rafters, to prevent them from thrusting out the wall.	
tienda		In Cuba, Mexico, etc., a booth, stall, or shop where merchandise is sold.	
tier		One who, or that which, ties.	
tierce		A cask whose content is one third of a pipe; that is, forty-two wine gallons; also, a liquid measure of forty-two wine, or thirty- five imperial, gallons.	Old French tierce.
tierce-major		See Tierce, 4.	
tiercel		The male of various falcons, esp. of the peregrine; also, the male of the goshawk.	Middle French terçuel, from Latin tertiolus.
tiercelet		The male of various falcons, esp. of the peregrine; also, the male of the goshawk.	
tiercet		A triplet; three lines, or three lines rhyming together.	French tercet.
tietick	English dialect	The meadow pipit..	
tiewig		A wig having a tie or ties, or one having some of the curls tied up; also, a wig tied upon the head.	
tiff		Liquor; especially, a small draught of liquor.	Middle English tiffen.
tiffany		A species of gause, or very silk.	
tiffin		A lunch, or slight repast between breakfast and dinner; -- originally, a Provincial English word, but introduced into India, and brought back to England in a special sense.	
tiffish		Inclined to tiffs; peevish; petulant.	
tift		A fit of pettishness, or slight anger; a tiff.	
tig		A game among children. See Tag.	
tigella		That part of an embryo which represents the young stem; the caulicle or radicle.	
tigelle		Same as Tigella.	
tiger		A very large and powerful carnivore (Felis tigris) native of Southern Asia and the East Indies.	Middle English tygre.
tiger-eye		A siliceous stone of a yellow color and chatoyant luster, obtained in South Africa and much used for ornament.	
tiger-foot		Same as Tiger's-foot.	
tiger-footed		Hastening to devour; furious.	
tigerine		Tigerish; tigrine.	
tigerish		Like a tiger; tigrish.	
tigh	Obsolete	A close, or inclosure; a croft.	
tight		p. p. of Tie — a bond; an obligation, moral or legal; as, the sacred ties of friendship or of duty; the ties of allegiance.	Middle English thight, from Old Norse þéttr.
tighten		To draw tighter; to straiten; to make more close in any manner.	Old English tyhtan.
tightener		That which tightens; specifically (Mach.), a tightening pulley.	
tighter	Obsolete	A ribbon or string used to draw clothes closer.	
tightly		In a tight manner; closely; nearly.	
tightness		The quality or condition of being tight.	
tights		Close-fitting garments, especially for the lower part of the body and the legs.	
tiglic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C4H7CO2H (called also methyl crotonic acid), homologous with crotonic acid, and obtained from croton oil (from Croton Tiglium) as a white crystalline substance.	
tigress		The female of the tiger.	
tigrine		Of or pertaining to a tiger; like a tiger.	Latin tigrinus.
tigrish		Resembling a tiger; tigerish.	
tike		A countryman or clown; a boorish person.	
tikoor		An East Indian tree (Garcinia pedunculata) having a large yellow fleshy fruit with a pleasant acid flavor.	
tikor		A starch or arrow-root made from the tubes of an East Indian zinziberaceous plant (Curcuma angustifolia); also, the plant itself.	
tikur		An East Indian tree (Garcinia pedunculata) having a large yellow fleshy fruit with a pleasant acid flavor.	
tikus		The bulau.	
til	Obsolete	See Till — (Geol.) A deposit of clay, sand, and gravel, without lamination, formed in a glacier valley by means of the waters derived from the melting glaciers…	Middle English til, from Old English til.
tilbury		A kind of gig or two-wheeled carriage, without a top or cover.	
tilde		The accentual mark placed over n, and sometimes over l, in Spanish words, indicating that, in pronunciation, the sound of the following vowel is to be preceded by that of the initial, or consonantal, y.	Spanish tilde, from Latin titulus.
tile		To protect from the intrusion of the uninitiated; as, to tile a Masonic lodge.	Old English tigele.
tile-drain		To drain by means of tiles; to furnish with a tile drain.	
tilefish		A large, edible, deep-water food fish (Lopholatilus chamæleonticeps) more or less thickly covered with large, round, yellow spots.	
tiler		A man whose occupation is to cover buildings with tiles.	
tilery		A place where tiles are made or burned; a tile kiln.	
tileseed		Any plant of the genus Geissois, having seeds overlapping like tiles on a roof.	
tilestone		(Geol.) A kind of laminated shale or sandstone belonging to some of the layers of the Upper Silurian.	
tilia		A genus of trees, the lindens, the type of the family Tiliaceæ, distinguished by the winglike bract coalescent with the peduncle, and by the indehiscent fruit having one or two seeds.	
tiliaceous		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a natural order of plants (Tiliaceæ) of which the linden (Tilia) is the type.	
tiling		A surface covered with tiles, or composed of tiles.	
till		(Geol.) A deposit of clay, sand, and gravel, without lamination, formed in a glacier valley by means of the waters derived from the melting glaciers; -- sometimes applied to alluvium of an upper river terrace, when not laminated…	Old English tilian.
tillable		Capable of being tilled; fit for the plow; arable.	
tillage		The operation, practice, or art of tilling or preparing land for seed, and keeping the ground in a proper state for the growth of crops.	
tillandsia		A genus of epiphytic endogenous plants found in the Southern United States and in tropical America.	
tiller		One who tills; a husbandman; a cultivator; a plowman.	Anglo-Norman telier, from Latin telarium.
tilley		The seeds of a small tree (Croton Pavana) common in the Malay Archipelago.	
tillman	Obsolete	A man who tills the earth; a husbandman.	
tillodont		One of the Tillodontia.	
tillodontia		An extinct group of Mammalia found fossil in the Eocene formation.	
tillot		A bag made of thin glazed muslin, used as a wrapper for dress goods.	
tillow		See 3d Tiller.	
tilly-vally		A word of unknown origin and signification, formerly used as expressive of contempt, or when anything said was reject as trifling or impertinent.	
tilmus		Floccillation.	
tilt		A covering overhead; especially, a tent.	Middle English telt, from Old English teld.
tilt-mill		A mill where a tilt hammer is used, or where the process of tilting is carried on.	
tilt-up		Same as Tip-up.	
tilt-yard		A yard or place for tilting.	
tilter		One who tilts, or jousts; hence, one who fights.	
tilth		The state of being tilled, or prepared for a crop; culture; as, land is good tilth.	Old English tilian.
tilting		The act of one who tilts; a tilt.	
tim-whiskey		A kind of carriage. See Whiskey.	
timal	English dialect	The blue titmouse.	
timaline		Of or pertaining to the genus Timalus or family Timalidæ, which includes the babblers thrushes, and bulbuls.	
timbal		A kettledrum. See Tymbal.	
timbale		A seasoned preparation, as of chicken, lobster, cheese, or fish, cooked in a drum-shaped mold; also, a pastry case, usually small, filled with a cooked mixture.	French timbale.
timber		That sort of wood which is proper for buildings or for tools, utensils, furniture, carriages, fences, ships, and the like; -- usually said of felled trees, but sometimes of those standing.	Middle English tymber, from Old English timber.
timbered		Furnished with timber; -- often compounded; as, a well-timbered house; a low-timbered house.	
timberhead		The top end of a timber, rising above the gunwale, and serving for belaying ropes, etc.; -- called also kevel head.	
timbering		The act of furnishing with timber; also, timbers, collectively; timberwork; timber.	
timberling		A small tree.	
timberman		A man employed in placing supports of timber in a mine.	
timberwork		Work made of timbers.	
timbre		(Mus.) The quality or tone distinguishing voices or instruments; tone color; clang tint; as, the timbre of the voice; the timbre of a violin.	
timbrel		A kind of drum, tabor, or tabret, in use from the highest antiquity.	
timbreled		Sung to the sound of the timbrel.	
timbrelled		Sung to the sound of the timbrel.	
timburine	Obsolete	A tambourine.	
time		Duration, considered independently of any system of measurement or any employment of terms which designate limited portions thereof.	Middle English time.
time-honored		Honored for a long time; venerable, and worthy of honor, by reason of antiquity, or long continuance.	
time-table		A tabular statement of the time at which, or within which, several things are to take place, as the recitations in a school, the departure and arrival of railroad trains or other public conveyances…	
timeful	Obsolete	Seasonable; timely; sufficiently early.	
timekeeper		A clock, watch, or other chronometer; a timepiece.	
timeless		Done at an improper time; unseasonable; untimely.	
timelessly		In a timeless manner; unseasonably.	
timeliness		The quality or state of being timely; seasonableness; opportuneness.	
timeling	Obsolete	A timeserver.	
timely		Being or occurring in good time; sufficiently early; seasonable.	
timenoguy		A rope carried taut between or over obstacles likely to engage or foul the running rigging in working a ship.	
timeous		Timely; seasonable. -- Time"ous*ly, adv.	
timepiece		A clock, watch, or other instrument, to measure or show the progress of time; a chronometer.	
timepleaser		One who complies with prevailing opinions, whatever they may be; a timeserver.	
timer		A timekeeper; especially, a watch by which small intervals of time can be measured; a kind of stop watch.	
timesaving		Saving time; as, a timesaving expedient.	
timeserver		One who adapts his opinions and manners to the times; one who obsequiously compiles with the ruling power; -- now used only in a bad sense.	
timeserving		Obsequiously complying with the spirit of the times, or the humors of those in power.	
timid		Wanting courage to meet danger; easily frightened; timorous; not bold; fearful; shy.	French timide, from Latin timidus.
timidity		The quality or state of being timid; timorousness; timidness.	Latin timiditas.
timist		(Mus.) A performer who keeps good time.	
timmer	Scots	Same as 1st Timber.	
timocracy		(a) A state in which the love of honor is the ruling motive. (b) A state in which honors are distributed according to a rating of property.	
timocratic		Belonging to, or constituted by, timocracy.	
timoneer		A helmsman.	French timonier.
timorous		Fearful of danger; timid; deficient in courage.	Old French temoros, from Latin timorosus.
timorsome	Scots	Easily frightened; timorous.	
timothy		A kind of grass (Phleum pratense) with long cylindrical spikes; -- called also herd's grass, in England, cat's-tail grass, and meadow cat's-tail grass.	
timous	Obsolete	Timely; seasonable.	
timpano		See Tympano — a kettledrum; -- chiefly used in the plural to denote the kettledrums of an orchestra.	
tin		(Chem.) An elementary substance found as an oxide in the mineral cassiterite, and reduced as a soft white crystalline metal, malleable at ordinary temperatures, but brittle when heated.	Old English tin.
tinamides		A division of struthious birds, including the tinamous.	
tinamou		Any one of several species of South American birds belonging to Tinamus and allied genera.	
tincal		Crude native borax, formerly imported from Thibet.	
tinchel	Scots	A circle of sportsmen, who, by surrounding an extensive space and gradually closing in, bring a number of deer and game within a narrow compass.	
tinct	Archaic	Tined; tinged.	Latin tinctus.
tinctorial		Of or relating to color or colors; imparting a color; as, tinctorial matter.	
tincture		(Her.) One of the metals, colors, or furs used in armory.	
tind	Obsolete	To kindle.	
tindal		A petty officer among lascars, or native East Indian sailors; a boatswain's mate; a cockswain.	
tinder		Something very inflammable, used for kindling fire from a spark, as scorched linen.	
tine	Obsolete	Trouble; distress; teen.	
tinea		(Med.) A name applied to various skin diseases, but especially to ringworm.	
tinean		Any species of Tinea, or of the family Tineidæ, which includes numerous small moths, many of which are injurious to woolen and fur goods and to cultivated plants.	
tined		Furnished with tines; as, a three-tined fork.	
tineid		Same as Tinean.	
tineman	Obsolete	An officer of the forest who had the care of vert and venison by night.	
tinet	Obsolete	Brushwood and thorns for making and repairing hedges.	
ting		A sharp sound, as of a bell; a tinkling.	
tinge		To imbue or impregnate with something different or foreign; as, to tinge a decoction with a bitter taste; to affect in some degree with the qualities of another substance, either by mixture, or by application to the surface…	Latin tingo.
tingent		Having the power to tinge.	
tinger		One who, or that which, tinges.	
tingid		Of or pertaining to the genus Tingis.	
tingis		A genus of small hemipterous insects which injure trees by sucking the sap from the leaves.	
tingle		To feel a kind of thrilling sensation, as in hearing a shrill sound.	
tink		To make a sharp, shrill noise; to tinkle.	
tinker		A mender of brass kettles, pans, and other metal ware.	Middle English tinkere.
tinkering		The act or work of a tinker.	
tinkerly		After the manner of a tinker.	
tinkershire	English dialect	The common guillemot.	
tinkle	English dialect	The common guillemot.	
tinkler	English dialect	A tinker.	
tinkling		(Zoöl.) A grackle (Quiscalus crassirostris) native of Jamaica.	
tinman		A manufacturer of tin vessels; a dealer in tinware.	
tinmouth		The crappie.	
tinned		Covered, or plated, with tin; as, a tinned roof; tinned iron.	
tinnen	Obsolete	Made or consisting of tin.	
tinner		One who works in a tin mine.	
tinnient	Obsolete	Emitting a clear sound.	
tinning		The act, art, or process of covering or coating anything with melted tin, or with tin foil, as kitchen utensils, locks, and the like.	
tinnitus		A ringing, whistling, or other imaginary noise perceived in the ears; -- called also tinnitus aurium.	Latin tinnitus.
tinnock	English dialect	The blue titmouse.	
tinny		Pertaining to, abounding with, or resembling, tin.	
tinsel		A shining material used for ornamental purposes; especially, a very thin, gauzelike cloth with much gold or silver woven into it; also, very thin metal overlaid with a thin coating of gold or silver, brass foil, or the like.	French étincelle, from Old French estincelle.
tinselly		Like tinsel; gaudy; showy, but cheap.	
tinsmith		One who works in tin; a tinner.	
tinstone		Cassiterite.	
tint		A slight coloring. Specifically: -- (a) A pale or faint tinge of any color.	
tintamar	Obsolete	A hideous or confused noise; an uproar.	French tintamarre.
tinternell	Obsolete	A certain old dance.	
tintie	English dialect	The wren.	
tintinnabular		Having or making the sound of a bell; tinkling.	
tintinnabulary		Having or making the sound of a bell; tinkling.	
tintinnabulation		A tinkling sound, as of a bell or bells.	
tintinnabulous		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the tinkling of a bell; having a tinkling sound; tintinnabular.	
tintinnabulum		A bell; also, a set or combination of bells or metal plates used as a musical instrument or as a toy.	Latin tintinnabulum.
tinto		A red Madeira wine, wanting the high aroma of the white sorts, and, when old, resembling tawny port.	
tintometer		An apparatus for the determination of colors by comparison with arbitrary standards; a colorimeter.	
tintype		Same as Ferrotype.	
tinware		Articles made of tinned iron.	
tiny		Very small; little; puny.	Middle English tine.
tip		The point or extremity of anything; a pointed or somewhat sharply rounded end; the end; as, the tip of the finger; the tip of a spear.	
tip-up		The spotted sandpiper; -- called also teeter-tail. See under Sandpiper.	
tipcart		A cart so constructed that the body can be easily tipped, in order to dump the load.	
tipcat		A game in which a small piece of wood pointed at both ends, called a cat, is tipped, or struck with a stick or bat, so as to fly into the air.	
tipper		A kind of ale brewed with brackish water obtained from a particular well; -- so called from the first brewer of it, one Thomas Tipper.	
tippet		A cape, or scarflike garment for covering the neck, or the neck and shoulders, -- usually made of fur, cloth, or other warm material.	
tipping		A distinct articulation given in playing quick notes on the flute, by striking the tongue against the roof of the mouth; double- tonguing.	
tipple		To drink spirituous or strong liquors habitually; to indulge in the frequent and improper used of spirituous liquors; especially, to drink frequently in small quantities, but without absolute drunkeness.	
tippled		Intoxicated; inebriated; tipsy; drunk.	
tippler		One who habitually indulges in the excessive use of spirituous liquors, whether he becomes intoxicated or not.	
tippling-house		A house in which liquors are sold in drams or small quantities, to be drunk on the premises.	
tipsify	Colloquial	To make tipsy.	
tipsily		In a tipsy manner; like one tipsy.	
tipsiness		The state of being tipsy.	
tipstaff		A staff tipped with metal.	
tipster		One who makes a practice of giving or selling tips, or private hints or information, esp. for use in gambling upon the probable outcome of events, as horse races.	
tipstock		The detachable or movable fore part of a gunstock, lying beneath the barrel or barrels, and forming a hold for the left hand.	
tipsy		Being under the influence of strong drink; rendered weak or foolish by liquor, but not absolutely or completely drunk; fuddled; intoxicated.	
tiptoe		The end, or tip, of the toe.	
tiptop	Colloquial	The highest or utmost degree; the best of anything.	
tipula		Any one of many species of long-legged dipterous insects belonging to Tipula and allied genera.	
tipulary		Of or pertaining to the tipulas.	
tirade		A declamatory strain or flight of censure or abuse; a rambling invective; an oration or harangue abounding in censorious and bitter language.	
tirailleur		Formerly, a member of an independent body of marksmen in the French army.	French tirailler.
tire		A covering for the head; a headdress.	Middle English tiren.
tire-woman		A lady's maid.	
tired		Weary; fatigued; exhausted.	
tiredness		The state of being tired, or weary.	
tireless		Untiring.	
tireling	Obsolete	Tired; fatigued.	
tiresome		Fitted or tending to tire; exhausted; wearisome; fatiguing; tedious; as, a tiresome journey; a tiresome discourse. -- Tire some*ness, n.	
tiring-house	Obsolete	A tiring-room.	
tiring-room		The room or place where players dress for the stage.	
tirl		To quiver; to vibrate; to veer about.	
tirma	English dialect	The oyster catcher.	
tiro		Same as Tyro.	Latin tiro.
tironian		Of or pertaining to Tiro, or a system of shorthand said to have been introduced by him into ancient Rome.	
tirralirra		A verbal imitation of a musical sound, as of the note of a lark or a horn.	
tirrit		A word from the vocabulary of Mrs.	
tirwit	English dialect	The lapwing.	
tisane		See Ptisan — a decoction of barley with other ingredients; a farinaceous drink.	Old French ptisane.
tisar		The fireplace at the side of an annealing oven.	French tisard.
tisic		Consumptive, phthisical.	
tisical		Consumptive, phthisical.	
tisicky		Consumptive, phthisical.	
tisri		The seventh month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, answering to a part of September with a part of October.	
tissue		A woven fabric.	Old French tissu.
tissued		Clothed in, or adorned with, tissue; also, variegated; as, tissued flowers.	
tit		Etym: (Zoöl.) (a) Any one of numerous species of small singing birds belonging to the families Paridæ and Leiotrichidæ; a titmouse.	Old English titt.
titan		Titanic.	
titanate		A salt of titanic acid.	
titanic		Of or relating to Titans, or fabled giants of ancient mythology; hence, enormous in size or strength; as, Titanic structures.	
titaniferous		Containing or affording titanium; as, titaniferous magnetite.	
titanite		See Sphene — a mineral found usually in thin, wedge-shaped crystals of a yellow or green to black color.	
titanitic		Pertaining to, or containing, titanium; as, a titanitic mineral.	
titanium		An elementary substance found combined in the minerals manaccanite, rutile, sphene, etc., and isolated as an infusible iron- gray amorphous powder, having a metallic luster.	
titano-		A combining form (also used adjectively) designating certain double compounds of titanium with some other elements; as, titano- cyanide, titano-fluoride, titano-silicate, etc.	
titanotherium		A large American Miocene mammal, allied to the rhinoceros, and more nearly to the extinct Brontotherium.	
titanous		Designating certain compounds of titanium in which that element has a lower valence as contrasted with titanic compounds.	
titbit		Same as Tidbit.	
tith	Obsolete	Tight; nimble.	
tithable		Subject to the payment of tithes; as, tithable lands.	
tithe		A tenth; the tenth part of anything; specifically, the tenthpart of the increase arising from the profits of land and stock, allotted to the clergy for their support, as in England, or devoted to religious or charitable uses.	Old English tēoþa.
tither		One who collects tithes.	
tithing		The act of levying or taking tithes; that which is taken as tithe; a tithe.	Old English teoþung.
tithingman		(Law) A peace officer; an under constable.	
tithly	Obsolete	Tightly; nimbly. & Fl.	
tithonic		Of, pertaining to, or denoting, those rays of light which produce chemical effects; actinic.	
tithonicity		The state or property of being tithonic; actinism.	
tithonographic		Of, relating to, or produced by, the chemical action of rays of light; photographic.	
tithonometer		An instrument or apparatus for measuring or detecting tithonicity; an actinometer.	
tithymal		Any kind of spurge, esp. Euphorbia Cyparissias.	
titi		Same as Teetee.	
titillate		To tickle; as, to titillate the nose with a feather.	Latin titillo.
titillation		The act of tickling, or the state of being tickled; a tickling sensation.	
titillative		Tending or serving to titillate, or tickle; tickling.	
titivate		To dress or smarten up; to spruce. --Tit`i*va tion (#), n.	
titlark		Any one of numerous small spring birds belonging to Anthus, Corydalla, and allied genera, which resemble the true larks in color and in having a very long hind claw; especially, the European meadow pipit (Anthus pratensis).	
title		An inscription put over or upon anything as a name by which it is known.	Latin titulus.
title-page		The page of a book which contains it title.	
titled		Having or bearing a title.	
titleless		Not having a title or name; without legitimate title.	
titler		A large truncated cone of refined sugar.	
titling		(Zoöl.) (a) The hedge sparrow; -- called also titlene.	
titmal	English dialect	The blue titmouse.	
titmouse		Any one of numerous species of small insectivorous singing birds belonging to Parus and allied genera; -- called also tit, and tomtit.	Middle English titmose.
titrate		To analyse, or determine the strength of, by means of standard solutions.	French titrer.
titrated		Standardized; determined or analyzed by titration; as, titrated solutions.	
titration		The act or process of titrating; a substance obtained by titrating.	
titter		To laugh with the tongue striking against the root of the upper teeth; to laugh with restraint, or without much noise; to giggle.	
titter-totter		See Teeter — to move up and down on the ends of a balanced plank, or the like, as children do for sport; to seesaw; to titter; to titter- totter. alit upon the flower, and teetered up and down.	
titterel	English dialect	The whimbrel.	
tittimouse	English dialect	Titmouse.	
tittivate		To dress or smarten up; to spruce. --Tit`i*va tion (#), n.	
tittle		A particle; a minute part; a jot; an iota.	Latin titulus.
tittle-tattle		Idle, trifling talk; empty prattle.	
tittle-tattling		The act or habit of parting idly or gossiping.	
tittlebat	English dialect	The three-spined stickleback.	
tittup		To behave or move in a lively or restless manner, as an impatient horse; to caper; to prance; to frisk.	
tittuppy		Given to tittuping; gay; lively; prancing; also, shaky; unsteady.	
titty		A little teat; a nipple.	
titubate		To rock or roll, as a curved body on a plane.	
titubation		The act of stumbling, rocking, or rolling; a reeling.	
titular		Existing in title or name only; nominal; having the title to an office or dignity without discharging its appropriate duties; as, a titular prince.	Latin titulus.
titularity		The quality or state of being titular.	
titularly		In a titular manner; nominally; by title only.	
titulary		A person invested with a title, in virtue of which he holds an office or benefice, whether he performs the duties of it or not.	
tituled	Obsolete	Having a title.	
tiver	English dialect	A kind of ocher which is used in some parts of England in marking sheep.	
tivoli		A game resembling bagatelle, played on a special oblong board or table (Tivoli board or table), which has a curved upper end, a set of numbered compartments at the lower end, side alleys…	
tivy		With great speed; -- a huntsman's word or sound.	
tiza		See Ulexite — a mineral occurring in white rounded crystalline masses.	
