to		The preposition to primarily indicates approach and arrival, motion made in the direction of a place or thing and attaining it, access; and also, motion or tendency without arrival; movement toward; -- opposed to Ant: from.	Middle English to, from Old English ta.
to-		An obsolete intensive prefix used in the formation of compound verbs; as in to-beat, to-break, to-hew, to-rend, to-tear.	Middle English to, from Old English ta.
to-beat	Obsolete	To beat thoroughly or severely.	
to-break	Obsolete	To break completely; to break in pieces.	
to-brest	Obsolete	To burst or break in pieces.	
to-day		On this day; on the present day.	
to-do	Colloquial	Bustle; stir; commotion; ado.	
to-fall		A lean-to. See Lean-to.	
to-name	Scots	A name added, for the sake of distinction, to one's surname, or used instead of it.	Middle English toname.
to-rend	Obsolete	To rend in pieces.	
toad	English dialect	Any one of numerous species of batrachians belonging to the genus Bufo and allied genera, especially those of the family Bufonidæ.	
toadeater		A fawning, obsequious parasite; a mean sycophant; a flatterer; a toady.	
toadfish		(a) Any marine fish of the genus Batrachus, having a large, thick head and a wide mouth, and bearing some resemblance to a toad.	
toadflax		An herb (Linaria vulgaris) of the Figwort family, having narrow leaves and showy orange and yellow flowers; -- called also butter and eggs, flaxweed, and ramsted.	
toadhead	Dialect	The golden plover.	
toadish	Obsolete	Like a toad.	
toadlet		A small toad.	
toadstone		(Min.) A local name for the igneous rocks of Derbyshire, England; -- said by some to be derived from the German todter stein, meaning dead stone, that is, stone which contains no ores.	
toadstool		A name given to many umbrella-shaped fungi, mostly of the genus Agaricus.	
toady		A mean flatterer; a toadeater; a sycophant.	
toadyism		The practice of meanly fawning on another; base sycophancy; servile adulation.	
toast		To dry and brown by the heat of a fire; as, to toast bread.	Old French toster.
toaster		One who toasts.	
toasting		a. & n. from Toast, v.	
toastmaster		A person who presides at a public dinner or banquet, and announces the toasts.	
toat		The handle of a joiner's plane.	
tobacco		(Bot.) An American plant (Nicotiana Tabacum) of the Nightshade family, much used for smoking and chewing, and as snuff.	
tobacconing	Obsolete	Smoking tobacco.	
tobacconist		A dealer in tobacco; also, a manufacturer of tobacco.	
tobie	Dialect	A kind of inferior cigar of a long slender shape, tapered at one end.	
tobine		A stout twilled silk used for dresses.	
tobit		A book of the Apocrypha.	
toboggan		A kind of sledge made of pliable board, turned up at one or both ends, used for coasting down hills or prepared inclined planes; also, a sleigh or sledge, to be drawn by dogs, or by hand, over soft and deep snow.	
tobogganer		One who practices tobogganing.	
tobogganist		One who practices tobogganing.	
toby		A small jug, pitcher, or mug, generally used for ale, shaped somewhat like a stout man, with a cocked hat forming the brim.	
toccata		An old form of piece for the organ or harpsichord, somewhat in the free and brilliant style of the prelude, fantasia, or capriccio.	Italian toccata.
toccatella		A short or simple toccata.	
toccatina		A short or simple toccata.	
tocher	Scots	Dowry brought by a bride to her husband.	Scots tocher, from Middle Irish (900-1200 tochar.
tockay		A spotted lizard native of India.	
toco		A toucan (Ramphastos toco) having a very large beak. See Illust. under Toucan.	
tocology		The science of obstetrics, or midwifery; that department of medicine which treats of parturition.	Greek τόκος.
tocororo		A cuban trogon (Priotelus temnurus) having a serrated bill and a tail concave at the end.	
tocsin		An alarm bell, or the ringing of a bell for the purpose of alarm.	Old French toquesain, from Occitan (post 1500 tocasenh.
tod		A bush; a thick shrub; a bushy clump.	
toddle		To walk with short, tottering steps, as a child.	
toddler		One who toddles; especially, a young child.	
toddy		A juice drawn from various kinds of palms in the East Indies; or, a spirituous liquor procured from it by fermentation.	
tody		Any one of several species of small insectivorous West Indian birds of the genus Todus.	
toe		(Anat.) One of the terminal members, or digits, of the foot of a man or an animal.	Middle English to, from Old English ta.
toed		Having (such or so many) toes; -- chiefly used in composition; as, narrow-toed, four-toed.	
toff	Slang	A fop; a beau; a swell.	
toft	English dialect	A grove of trees; also, a plain.	
toftman		The owner of a toft. See Toft, 3.	
tofus		(Min.) Tufa. See under Tufa, and Toph.	
tog	Colloquial	To put toggery, or togs, on; to dress; -- usually with out, implying care, elaborateness, or the like.	Latin toga.
toga		The loose outer garment worn by the ancient Romans, consisting of a single broad piece of woolen cloth of a shape approaching a semicircle.	Latin toga.
togated		Dressed in a toga or gown; wearing a gown; gowned.	Latin togatus.
toged	Obsolete	Togated.	
together		In company or association with respect to place or time; as, to live together in one house; to live together in the same age; they walked together to the town.	
toggery	Colloquial	Clothes; garments; dress; as, fishing toggery. togs	
toggle		(Naut.) A wooden pin tapering toward both ends with a groove around its middle, fixed transversely in the eye of a rope to be secured to any other loop or bight or ring…	
togider	Obsolete	Together.	
togidres	Obsolete	Together.	
togs	Colloquial	Clothes; garments; toggery.	
togue		The namaycush.	
tohew	Obsolete	To hew in pieces.	Middle English tohewen, from Aragonese toheawan.
tohubohu		Chaos; confusion.	
toil		A net or snare; any thread, web, or string spread for taking prey; -- usually in the plural.	Middle English toilen.
toiler		One who toils, or labors painfully.	
toilet		A covering of linen, silk, or tapestry, spread over a table in a chamber or a dressing room.	
toilette		See Toilet, 3.	
toilful		Producing or involving much toil; laborious; toilsome; as, toilful care.	
toilinette		A cloth, the weft of which is of woolen yarn, and the warp of cotton and silk, -- used for w	French toilinet.
toilless		Free from toil.	
toilsome		Attended with toil, or fatigue and pain; laborious; wearisome; as, toilsome work.	
toise		An old measure of length in France, containing six French feet, or about 6.3946 French feet.	French toise, from Old French teise, from Italian tesa.
toison		A sheep's fleece.	
tokay		(Bot.) A grape of an oval shape and whitish color.	Hungarian tokaji.
token		Something intended or supposed to represent or indicate another thing or an event; a sign; a symbol; as, the rainbow is a token of God's covenant established with Noah.	Middle English token.
tokened	Obsolete	Marked by tokens, or spots; as, the tokened pestilence.	
tokenless		Without a token.	
tokin	Obsolete	A tocsin.	Japanese と金.
tol		To take away. See Toll.	
tola		A weight of British India.	Hindi तोला.
tolane		A hydrocarbon, C14H10, related both to the acetylene and the aromatic series, and produced artificially as a white crystalline substance; -- called also diphenyl acetylene.	
tolbooth		See Tollbooth — in Scotland, a burgh jail; hence, any prison, especially a town jail.	
told		imp. & p. p. of Tell.	
tole		To draw, or cause to follow, by displaying something pleasing or desirable; to allure by some bait.	French tôle.
toledo		A sword or sword blade made at Toledo in Spain, which city was famous in the 16th and 17th centuries for the excellence of its weapons.	
tolerability		The quality or state of being tolerable.	
tolerable		Capable of being borne or endured; supportable, either physically or mentally.	
tolerance		The power or capacity of enduring; the act of enduring; endurance.	Middle French tolérance, from Latin tolerantia.
tolerant		Inclined to tolerate; favoring toleration; forbearing; ingulgent.	Old French tolerant, from Latin tolerans.
tolerate		To suffer to be, or to be done, without prohibition or hindrance; to allow or permit negatively, by not preventing; not to restrain; to put up with; as, to tolerate doubtful practices.	Latin toleratus.
toleration		The act of tolerating; the allowance of that which is not wholly approved.	
toll		To take away; to vacate; to annul.	Latin tolleo.
tollable		Subject to the payment of toll; as, tollable goods.	
tollage		Payment of toll; also, the amount or quantity paid as toll.	
tollbooth		In Scotland, a burgh jail; hence, any prison, especially a town jail.	
toller		A toll gatherer.	
tolletane	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to Toledo in Spain; made in Toledo.	
tollgate		A gate where toll is taken.	
tollhouse		A house occupied by a receiver of tolls.	
tollman		One who receives or collects toll; a toll gatherer.	
tolmen		See Dolmen — a cromlech. See Cromlech.	
tolsester		A toll or tribute of a sextary of ale, paid to the lords of some manors by their tenants, for liberty to brew and sell ale.	Latin tolsestrum.
tolsey	Obsolete	A tollbooth; also, a merchants' meeting place, or exchange.	
tolstoian		Of or pertaining to Tolstoy (1828-1910). -- n.	
tolstoyan		Of or pertaining to Tolstoy (1828-1910). -- n.	
tolt		A writ by which a cause pending in a court baron was removed into a country court.	
toltec		One of a race which formerly occupied Mexico. -- Tol"te*can, a.	
tolu		A fragrant balsam said to have been first brought from Santiago de Tolu, in New Granada.	
toluate		A salt of any one of the toluic acids.	
toluene		A hydrocarbon, C6H5.CH3, of the aromatic series, homologous with benzene, and obtained as a light mobile colorless liquid, by distilling tolu balsam, coal tar, etc.; -- called also methyl benzene, phenyl methane, etc.	
toluic		Pertaining to, or designating, one of three metameric acids, CH3.C6H4.CO2H, which are related to toluene and analogous to benzoic acids.	
toluid		A complex double tolyl and toluidine derivative of glycocoll, obtained as a white crystalline substance.	
toluidine		Any one of three metameric amido derivatives of toluene analogous to aniline, and called respectively orthtoluidine, metatoluidine, and paratoluidine; especially, the commonest one, or paratoluidine…	
toluol		Same as Toluene.	
toluole		Same as Toluene.	
toluric		Of, pertaining to, or designating, any one of three isomeric crystalline acids, C9H10ON.CO2H, which are toluyl derivatives of glycocoll.	
tolutation	Obsolete	A pacing or ambling.	
toluyl		Any one of the three hypothetical radicals corresponding to the three toluic acids.	
toluylene		(a) Same as Stilbene. (b) Sometimes, but less properly, tolylene.	
tolyl		The hydrocarbon radical, CH3.C6H4, regarded as characteristic of certain compounds of the aromatic series related to toluene; as, tolyl carbinol.	
tolylene		A hydrocarbon radical, C6H4.(CH2)2, regarded as characteristic of certain toluene derivatives.	
tolypeutine		The apar.	
tom	Obsolete	The knave of trumps at gleek.	
tom-tom		See Tam-tam — (a) A kind of drum used in the East Indies and other Oriental countries; -- called also tom-tom.	
tomahawk		A kind of war hatchet used by the American Indians.	
tomaley		The liver of the lobster, which becomes green when boiled; -- called also tomalline.	
toman		A money of account in Persia, whose value varies greatly at different times and places.	Persian تومان, from Mongolian түмэн.
tomato		The fruit of a plant of the Nightshade family (Lycopersicum esculentun); also, the plant itself.	Spanish tomate, from Nahuatl languages xitomatl.
tomb		A pit in which the dead body of a human being is deposited; a grave; a sepulcher.	Latin tumba, from Greek τύμβος.
tombac		An alloy of copper and zinc, resembling brass, and containing about 84 per cent of copper; -- called also German, or Dutch, brass.	
tombester	Obsolete	A female dancer.	
tombless		Destitute of a tomb.	
tomboy	Colloquial	A romping girl; a hoiden.	
tombstone		A stone erected over a grave, to preserve the memory of the deceased.	
tomcat		A male cat, especially when full grown or of large size.	
tomcod		(a) A small edible American fish (Microgadus tomcod) of the Codfish family, very abundant in autumn on the Atlantic coast of the Northen United States; -- called also frostfish.	
tome		As many writings as are bound in a volume, forming part of a larger work; a book; -- usually applied to a ponderous volume.	
tomelet		All small tome, or volume.	
tomentose		Covered with matted woolly hairs; as, a tomentose leaf; a tomentose leaf; a tomentose membrane.	
tomentous		Tomentose.	
tomentum		The closely matted hair or downy nap covering the leaves or stems of some plants.	
tomfool		A great fool; a trifler.	
tomfoolery		Folly; trifling.	
tomium		The cutting edge of the bill of a bird.	
tomjohn		A kind of open sedan used in Ceylon, carried by a single pole on men's shoulders.	
tommy	Slang	Bread, -- generally a penny roll; the supply of food carried by workmen as their daily allowance.	
tomnoddy		(Zoöl.) A sea bird, the puffin.	
tomopteris		A genus of transparent marine annelids which swim actively at the surface of the sea.	
tomorn	Obsolete	To-morrow.	Middle English tomorn.
tomorrow		On the day after the present day; on the next day; on the morrow.	Middle English tomorwe.
tompion		(Mus.) A plug in a flute or an organ pipe, to modulate the tone.	
tompon		An inking pad used in lithographic printing.	
tomrig		A rude, wild, wanton girl; a hoiden; a tomboy.	
tomtate		A Florida and West Indian grunt (Bathystoma, or Hæmulon, rimator); also, any of various allied species.	
tomtit		(a) A titmouse, esp. the blue titmouse. (b) The wren.	
ton		pl. of Toe — (Anat.) One of the terminal members, or digits, of the foot of a man or an animal.	
tonality		The principle of key in music; the character which a composition has by virtue of the key in which it is written, or through the family relationship of all its tones and chords to the keynote, or tonic, of the whole.	
tone		Sound, or the character of a sound, or a sound considered as of this or that character; as, a low, high, loud, grave, acute, sweet, or harsh tone. smooths her charming tones.	Middle English tone.
toned		Having (such) a tone; -- chiefly used in composition; as, high- toned; sweet-toned.	
toneless		Having no tone; unmusical.	
tonga		A drug useful in neuralgia, derived from a Fijian plant supposed to be of the aroid genus Epipremnum.	Hindi टाँगा.
tongkang		A kind of boat or junk used in the seas of the Malay Archipelago.	
tongo		The mangrove; -- so called in the Pacific Islands.	
tongs		An instrument, usually of metal, consisting of two parts, or long shafts, jointed together at or near one end, or united by an elastic bow, used for handling things, especially hot coals or metals; -- often called a pair of tongs.	
tongue		(Anat.) an organ situated in the floor of the mouth of most vertebrates and connected with the hyoid arch.	Middle English tonge, from Old English tunge.
tongue-pad	Obsolete	A great talker.	
tongue-shaped		Shaped like a tongue; specifically (Bot.), linear or oblong, and fleshy, blunt at the end, and convex beneath; as, a tongue-shaped leaf.	
tongue-shell		Any species of Lingula.	
tongue-tie		Impeded motion of the tongue because of the shortness of the frænum, or of the adhesion of its margins to the gums.	
tongue-tied		Destitute of the power of distinct articulation; having an impediment in the speech, esp. when caused by a short frænum.	
tonguebird	English dialect	The wryneck.	
tongued		Having a tongue.	
tonguefish		A flounder (Symphurus plagiusa) native of the southern coast of the United States.	
tongueless		Hence, speechless; mute.	
tonguelet		A little tongue.	
tonguester	Poetic	One who uses his tongue; a talker; a story-teller; a gossip.	
tongueworm		Any species of Linguatulina.	
tonguy	Colloquial	Ready or voluble in speaking; as, a tonguy speaker.	Middle English tungy.
tonic		Of or relating to tones or sounds; specifically (Phon.), applied to, or distingshing, a speech sound made with tone unmixed and undimmed by obstruction, such sounds, namely, the vowels and diphthongs…	Greek τονικός.
tonicity		The state of healty tension or partial contraction of muscle fibers while at rest; tone; tonus.	
tonight		On this present or coming night.	Old English toniht.
tonite		An explosive compound; a preparation of gun cotton.	
tonnage		The weight of goods carried in a boat or a ship.	
tonneau		In France, a light-wheeled vehicle with square or rounded body and rear entrance.	French tonneau.
tonnihood	English dialect	The female of the bullfinch; -- called also tonyhoop.	
tonnish		In the ton; fashionable; modish. -- Ton"nish*ness, n.	
tonometer		(Physics.) An instrument for determining the rate of vibrations in tones.	
tonometry		The act of measuring with a tonometer; specifically (Med.), measurement of tension, esp. the tension of the eyeball.	
tonophant		A modification of the kaleidophon, for showing composition of acoustic vibrations.	
tonous		Abounding in tone or sound.	
tonsil		One of the two glandular organs situated in the throat at the sides of the fauces.	Latin tonsilla.
tonsilar		Of or pertaining to the tonsils; tonsilitic.	
tonsile		Capable of being clipped.	Latin tonsilis.
tonsilitic		Tonsilar.	
tonsilitis		Inflammation of the tonsil; quinsy.	
tonsilotome		An instrument for removing the tonsils.	
tonsilotomy		The operation of removing the tonsil, or a portion thereof.	
tonsor		A barber.	
tonsorial		Of or pertaining to a barber, or shaving.	Latin tonsor.
tonsure		The act of clipping the hair, or of shaving the crown of the head; also, the state of being shorn.	Latin tonsura.
tonsured		Having the tonsure; shaven; shorn; clipped; hence, bald.	
tontine		An annuity, with the benefit of survivorship, or a loan raised on life annuities with the benefit of survivorship.	
tonus		Tonicity, or tone; as, muscular tonus.	
tony		A simpleton.	
too		Over; more than enough; -- noting excess; as, a thing is too long, too short, or too wide; too high; too many; too much.	Middle English to, from Old English ta.
took		imp. of Take — in an active sense; To lay hold of; to seize with the hands, or otherwise; to grasp; to get into one's hold or possession; to procure; to seize and carry away; to convey.	
tool		An instrument such as a hammer, saw, plane, file, and the like, used in the manual arts, to facilitate mechanical operations; any instrument used by a craftsman or laborer at his work; an implement; as, the tools of a joiner…	Middle English tool, from Old English tol.
tool-post		The part of a toolrest in which a cutting tool is clamped.	
tool-rest		the part that supports a tool-post or a tool.	
tool-stock		The part of a toolrest in which a cutting tool is clamped.	
tooling		Work perfomed with a tool.	
toon		pl. of Toe — (Anat.) One of the terminal members, or digits, of the foot of a man or an animal.	
toonwood		Same as Toon.	
toot	Obsolete	To stand out, or be prominent.	
tooter		One who toots; one who plays upon a pipe or horn.	
tooth		(Anat.) One of the hard, bony appendages which are borne on the jaws, or on other bones in the walls of the mouth or pharynx of most vertebrates, and which usually aid in the prehension and mastication of food.	Middle English tooth, from Old English toþ.
toothache		Pain in a tooth or in the teeth; odontalgia.	
toothback		Any notodontian.	
toothbill		A peculiar fruit-eating ground pigeon (Didunculus strigiostris) native of the Samoan Islands, and noted for its resemblance, in several characteristics, to the extinct dodo.	
toothbrush		A brush for cleaning the teeth.	
toothdrawer		One whose business it is to extract teeth with instruments; a dentist.	
toothed		Having teeth; furnished with teeth.	
toothful	Obsolete	Toothsome.	
toothing		The act or process of indenting or furnishing with teeth.	
toothless		Having no teeth.	
toothlet		A little tooth, or like projection.	
toothleted		Having a toothlet or toothlets; as, a toothleted leaf.	
toothpick		A pointed instument for clearing the teeth of substances lodged between them.	
toothpicker	Obsolete	A toothpick.	
toothshell		Any species of Dentalium and allied genera having a tooth- shaped shell.	
toothsome		Grateful to the taste; palable. -- Tooth some*ness, n.	
toothwort		A plant whose roots are fancied to resemble teeth, as certain plants of the genus Lathræa, and various species of Dentaria.	
toothy		Toothed; with teeth.	
tootle		To toot gently, repeatedly, or continuously, on a wind instrument, as a flute; also, to make a similar noise by any means.	
toozoo	English dialect	The ringdove.	
top		A child's toy, commonly in the form of a conoid or pear, made to spin on its point, usually by drawing off a string wound round its surface or stem, the motion being sometimes continued by means of a whip.	Old English top.
top-armor		A top railing supported by stanchions and equipped with netting.	
top-block		A large ironbound block strapped with a hook, and, when used, hung to an eyebolt in the cap, -- used in swaying and lowering the topmast.	
top-boots		High boots, having generally a band of some kind of light- colored leather around the upper part of the leg; riding boots.	
top-chain		A chain for slinging the lower yards, in time of action, to prevent their falling, if the ropes by which they are hung are shot away.	
top-cloth		A piece of canvas used to cover the hammocks which are lashed to the top in action to protect the topmen.	
top-drain		To drain the surface of, as land; as, to top-drain a field or farm.	
top-draining		The act or practice of drining the surface of land.	
top-dress		To apply a surface dressing of manureto,as land.	
top-dressing		The act of applying a dressing of manure to the surface of land; also, manure so applied.	
top-hamper		The upper rigging, spars, etc., of a ship.	
top-heavy		Having the top or upper part too heavy for the lower part.	
top-light		A lantern or light on the top of a vessel.	
top-proud		Proud to the highest degree.	
top-rope		A rope used for hoisting and lowering a topmast, and for other purposes.	
top-shaped		Having the shape of a top; (Bot.) cone-shaped, with the apex downward; turbinate.	
top-shell		Any one of numerous species of marine top_shaped shells of the genus Thochus, or family Trochidæ.	
top-tackle		A tackle used in hoisting and lowering the topmast.	
top-timbers		The highest timbers on the side of a vessel, being those above the futtocks.	
top-tool		A tool applied to the top of the work, in distinction from a tool inserted in the anvil and on which the work is placed.	
toparch		The ruler or principal man in a place or country; the governor of a toparchy.	Latin toparcha.
toparchy		A small state, consisting of a few cities or towns; a petty country governed by a toparch; as, Judea was formerly divided into ten toparchies.	Latin toparchia.
topau		The rhinocerous bird (a).	
topaz		(Min.) A mineral occurring in rhombic prisms, generally yellowish and pellucid, also colorless, and of greenesh, bluish, or brownish shades.	
topazolite		A topaz-yellow variety of garnet.	
topcoat		An outer coat; an overcoat.	
tope		A moundlike Buddhist sepulcher, or memorial monument. often erected over a Buddhish relic.	
topek		An ESkimo house made of material other than snow, esp. one having walls of turf, driftwood, rock, or skin, and a roof of skins of the walrus or seal.	
toper		One who topes, or drinks frequently or to excess; a drunkard; a sot.	
topet	English dialect	The European crested titmouse.	
topful		Full to the top, ore brim; brimfull. was so topful of himself, that he let it spill on all the company.	
topgallant		(Naut.) Situated above the topmast and below the royal mast; designatb, or pertaining to, the third spars in order from the deck; as, the topgallant mast, yards, braces, and the like.	
toph		kind of sandstone.	Latin tophus.
tophaceous		Gritty; sandy; rough; stony.	Latin tophaceus.
tophet		A place lying east or southeast of Jerusalem, in the valley of Hinnom.	
tophin		Same as Toph.	
tophus		(Med.) One of the mineral concretions about the joints, and in other situations, occurring chiefly in gouty persons.	
topi		An antelope (Damaliscus corrigum jimela) having a glossy purplish brown coat.	
topiarian		Of or pertaining to the ornamental cutting and trimming of trees, hedges, etc.; practicing ornamental gardening.	
topiary		Of or pertaining to ornamental gardening; produced by cutting, trimming, etc.; topiarian.	Latin topiarius, from Greek τόπια.
topic		(a) One of the various general forms of argument employed in probable as distinguished from demonstrative reasoning, -- denominated by Aristotle to`poi (literally, places)…	Latin topica, from Greek τοπικός.
topical		Of or pertaining to a place; limited; logical application; as, a topical remedy; a topical claim or privilege.	
topically		In a topical manner; with application to, or limitation of, a particular place or topic.	
topknot		A crest or knot of feathers upon the head or top, as of a bird; also, an orgamental knot worn on top of the head, as by women.	
topless		Having no top, or no visble fop; hence, fig.: very lofty; supreme; unequaled. & Fl.	
topman		See Topsman, 2. 2. (Naut.) A man stationed in the top.	
topmast		The second mast, or that which is next above the lower mast, and below the topgallant mast.	
topmost		Highest; uppermost; as, the topmost cliff; the topmost branch of a tree.	
topographer		One who is skilled in the science of topography; one who describes a particular place, town, city, or tract of land.	
topographic		Of or pertaining to topography; descriptive of a place. -- Top`o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.	
topographical		Of or pertaining to topography; descriptive of a place. -- Top`o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.	
topographist		A topographer.	
topography		The description of a particular place, town, manor, parish, or tract of land; especially, the exact and scientific delineation and description in minute detail of any place or region.	
topology		The art of, or method for, assisting the memory by associating the thing or subject to be remembered with some place.	
toponomy		The designation of position and direction.	
toponym		A name of a place; more broadly, a name, as in the binomial name of a plant, based on, or derived from, a place name, or based on the location of the thing named.	
toponymy		A system of toponyms; the use of toponyms. -- To*pon ic (#), Top`o*nym"ic*al (#), a.	
topophone		A double ear trumpet for estimating the direction from which sounds proceed, esp. for the use of navigators.	
topper	Colloquial	One that tops, in any sense of the verb; specif.: (a) A cover of a top layer or part.	
toppiece		A small wig for the top of the head; a toupee.	
topping		Rising above; surpassing.	
toppingly	Obsolete	In a topping or proud manner.	
topple		To fall forward; to pitch or tumble down.	
tops-and-bottoms		Small rolls of dough, baked, cut in halves, and then browned in an oven, -- used as food for infants.	
topsail		In a square-rigged vessel, the sail next above the lowermost sail on a mast.	
topsman		The chief drover of those who drive a herd of cattle.	
topsoil		The upper layer of soil; surface soil.	
topsoiling		The act or art of taking off the top soil of land before an excavation or embankment is begun.	
topstone		A stone that is placed on the top, or which forms the top.	
topsy-turvy		In an inverted posture; with the top or head downward; upside down; as, to turn a carriage topsy-turvy.	
toque		A kind of cap worn in the 16th century, and copied in modern fashions; -- called also toquet.	
toquet		See Toque, 1.	
tor	English dialect	High-pointed hill; a rocky pinnacle.	Middle English tor.
tora		(a) A law; a precept.	
torace	Obsolete	To scratch to pieces.	Middle English toracen.
torah		(a) A law; a precept.	
toran		A gateway, commonly of wood, but sometimes of stone, consisting of two upright pillars carrying one to three transverse lintels.	
torana		A gateway, commonly of wood, but sometimes of stone, consisting of two upright pillars carrying one to three transverse lintels.	
torase	Obsolete	To scratch to pieces.	
torbernite		A mineral occurring in emerald-green tabular crystals having a micaceous structure.	
torc		Same as Torque, 1.	
torch		A light or luminary formed of some combustible substance, as of resinous wood; a large candle or flambeau, or a lamp giving a large, flaring flame.	Old French torche.
torchbearer		One whose office it is to carry a torch.	
torcher	Obsolete	One who gives light with a torch, or as if with a torch.	
torchlight		The light of a torch, or of torches.	
torchwood		The inflammable wood of certain trees (Amyris balsamifera, A.	
torchwort		The common mullein, the stalks of which, dipped in suet, anciently served for torches.	
tore	English dialect	imp. of Tear — (Physiol.) A drop of the limpid, saline fluid secreted, normally in small amount, by the lachrymal gland…	Middle English tor.
toreador		A bullfighter.	Spanish toreador.
toret	Obsolete	A Turret.	
toreumatography		A description of sculpture such as bas-relief in metal.	
toreumatology		The art or the description of scupture such as bas-relief in metal; toreumatography.	
toreutic		In relief; pertaining to sculpture in relief, especially of metal; also, pertaining to chasing such as surface ornamentation in metal.	
torgoch	English dialect	The saibling.	
torilto		A species of Turnix (Turnix sylvatica) native of Spain and Northen Africa.	
torinese		Of or pertaining to Turin. -- n. sing. & pl. A native or inhabitant of Turin; collectively, the people of Turin.	
torment		Extreme pain; anguish; torture; the utmost degree of misery, either of body or mind.	Old French torment, from Latin tormentum.
tormenter		One who, or that which, torments; a tormentor.	
tormentful		Full of torment; causing, or accompainied by, torment; excruciating.	
tormentil		A rosaceous herb (Potentilla Tormentilla), the root of which is used as a powerful astringent, and for alleviating gripes, or tormina, in diarrhea.	
tormenting		Causing torment; as, a tormenting dream. -- Tor*ment"ing*ly, adv.	
tormentise	Obsolete	Torture; torment.	
tormentor		One who, or that which, torments; one who inflicts penal anguish or tortures.	
tormentress		A woman who torments.	
tormentry	Obsolete	Anything producing torment, annoyance, or pain.	
tormina		acute, colicky pains; gripes.	
torminous		Affected with tormina; griping.	
torn		p. p. of Tear — (Physiol.) A drop of the limpid, saline fluid secreted, normally in small amount, by the lachrymal gland…	
tornado		A violent whirling wind; specifically (Meteorol.), a tempest distinguished by a rapid whirling and slow progressive motion, usually accompaned with severe thunder, lightning, and torrents of rain…	
tornaria		The peculiar free swimming larva of Balanoglossus. See Illust. in Append.	
torose		Cylindrical with alternate swellings and contractions; having the surface covered with rounded prominences.	
torosity		The quality or state of being torose.	
torpedinous		Of or pertaining to a torpedo; resembling a torpedo; exerting a benumbing influence; stupefying; dull; torpid.	
torpedo		(Zoöl.) Any one of numerous species of elasmobranch fishes belonging to Torpedo and allied genera.	Latin torpedo, from Icelandic torpedo.
torpedoist		One skilled in the theory or use of torpedoes; also, one who favors the use of torpedoes.	
torpent	Obsolete	Having no motion or activity; incapable of motion; benumbed; torpid.	
torpescence		The quality or state or being torpescent; torpidness; numbness; stupidity.	
torpescent		Becoming torpid or numb.	
torpid		Having lost motion, or the power of exertion and feeling; numb; benumbed; as, a torpid limb.	
torpidity		Same as Torpidness.	
torpidly		In a torpid manner.	
torpidness		The qualityy or state of being torpid.	
torpify		To make torpid; to numb, or benumb.	
torpitude	Obsolete	Torpidness.	
torpor		Loss of motion, or of the motion; a state of inactivity with partial or total insensibility; numbness.	Latin torpor.
torporific		Tending to produce torpor.	
torquate		Collared; having a torques, or distinct colored ring around the neck.	
torquated		Having or wearing a torque, or neck chain.	Latin torquatus.
torque		A collar or neck chain, usually twisted, especially as worn by ancient barbaric nations, as the Gauls, Germans, and Britons.	Latin torqueo.
torqued		Wreathed; twisted.	
torques		A cervical ring of hair or feathers, distinguished by its color or structure; a collar.	
torrefaction		The act or process of torrefying, or the state of being torrefied.	
torrefy		(Metal.) To subject to scorching heat, so as to drive off volatile ingredients; to roast, as ores.	Latin torrefacio.
torrent		A violent stream, as of water, lava, or the like; a stream suddenly raised and running rapidly, as down a precipice.	
torrential		Of or pertaining to a torrent; having the character of a torrent; caused by a torrent.	
torrentine		Of or pertaining to a torrent; having the character of a torrent; caused by a torrent.	
torricellian		Of or pertaining to Torricelli, an Italian philosopher and mathematician, who, in 1643, discovered that the rise of a liquid in a tube, as in the barometer, is due to atmospheric pressure.	
torrid		Parched; dried with heat; as, a torrid plain or desert.	Latin torridus.
torridity		Torridness.	
torridness		The quality or state of being torrid or parched.	
torril	English dialect	A worthless woman; also, a worthless horse.	
torsade		A twisted cord; also, a molded or worked ornament of similar form.	
torsal		A torsel.	
torse		Etym: (Geom.) A developable surface. See under Developable.	
torsel		A plate of timber for the end of a beam or joist to rest on.	
torsibillty		The tendency, as of a rope, to untwist after being twisted.	
torsion		The act of turning or twisting, or the state of being twisted; the twisting or wrenching of a body by the exertion of a lateral force tending to turn one end or part of it about a longitudinal axis…	
torsional		Of or pertaining to torsion; resulting from torsion, or the force with which a thread or wire returns to a state of rest after having been twisted round its axis; as, torsional force.	
torsk		(a) The cusk. See Cusk. (b) The codfish.	
torso		The human body, as distinguished from the head and limbs; in sculpture, the trunk of a statue, mutilated of head and limbs; as, the torso of Hercules.	Italian torso, from Latin thyrsus, from Greek θύρσος.
tort		(Law) Any civil wrong or injury; a wrongful act (not involving a breach of contract) for which an action will lie; a form of action, in some parts of the United States, for a wrong or injury.	Old French tort.
torta		a flat heap of moist, crushed silver ore, prepared for the patio process.	
torteau		A roundel of a red color.	Old French torteau.
torticollis		See Wryneck — a twisted or distorted neck; a deformity in which the neck is drawn to one side by a rigid contraction of one of the muscles of the neck; torticollis.	
tortile		Twisted; wreathed; coiled.	Latin tortilis.
tortility		The quality or state of being tortile, twisted, or wreathed.	
tortilla		An unleavened cake, as of maize flour, baked on a heated iron or stone.	
tortion	Obsolete	Torment; pain.	Latin tortio.
tortious		(Law) Imploying tort, or privat injury for which the law gives damages; involing tort.	
tortiously		In a tortous manner.	
tortive		Twisted; wreathed.	
tortoise		(Zoöl.) Any one of numerous species of reptiles of the order Testudinata.	Middle English tortuse.
tortricid		Of or pertaining to Tortix, or the family Tortricidæ.	
tortrix		(Zoöl.) Any one of numerous species of small moths of the family Tortricidæ, the larvæ of which usually roll up the leaves of plants on which they live; -- also called leaf roller.	
tortulous		Swelled out at intervals like a knotted cord.	
tortuose		Wreathed; twisted; winding.	
tortuoslty		the quality or state of being tortuous.	
tortuous		Bent in different directions; wreathed; twisted; winding; as, a tortuous train; a tortuous train; a tortuous leaf or corolla.	
torturable		Capable of being tortured.	
torture		Extreme pain; anguish of body or mind; pang; agony; torment; as, torture of mind.	Latin tortura.
torturer		One who tortures; a tormentor.	
torturingly		So as to torture.	
torturous		Involving, or pertaining to, torture.	
torula		(a) A chain of special bacteria. (b) A genus of budding fungi.	
torulaform		Having the appearance of a torula; in the form of a little chain; as, a torulaform string of micrococci.	
torulose		Same as Torose.	
torulous		Same as Torose.	
torus		(Arch.) A lage molding used in the bases of columns.	Latin torus.
torved	Obsolete	Stern; grim. See Torvous.	
torvity	Obsolete	Sourness or severity of countenance; sterness.	Latin torvitas.
torvous	Obsolete	Sour of aspect; of a severe countenance; stern; grim.	Latin torvus.
tory		(Eng.Politics) A member of the conservative party, as opposed to the progressive party which was formerly called the Whig, and is now called the Liberal, party; an earnest supporter of exsisting royal and ecclesiastical authority.	
toryism		The principles of the Tories.	
toscatter	Obsolete	To scatter in pieces; to divide.	
tose	Obsolete	To tease, or comb, as wool.	Middle English tosen.
tosh	Scots	Neat; trim.	
toshred	Obsolete	To cut into shreads or pieces.	
toss		To throw with the hand; especially, to throw with the palm of the hand upward, or to throw upward; as, to toss a ball.	
tossel		See Tassel — a male hawk. See Tercel.	
tosser		Ohe who tosser.	
tossily		In a tossy manner.	
tossing		The act of throwing upward; a rising and falling suddenly; a rolling and tumbling.	
tosspot		A toper; one habitually given to strong drink; a drunkard.	
tossy		Tossing the head, as in scorn or pride; hence, proud; contemptuous; scornful; affectedly indifferent; as, a tossy commonplace.	
tost		imp. & p. p. of Toss.	
tosto		Quick; rapid.	
toswink	Obsolete	To labor excessively.	Middle English toswinken.
tot		Anything small; -- frequently applied as a term of endearment to a little child.	
tota		The grivet.	
total		Whole; not divided; entire; full; complete; absolute; as, a total departure from the evidence; a total loss.	Middle English total, from Latin totalis.
totalis		The total.	
totalisator		Same as Totalizator.	
totality		The quality or state of being total; as, the totality of an eclipse.	
totalization		Act of totalizing, or state of being totalized.	
totalizator		A machine for registering and indicating the number and nature of bets made on horse races, as in Australia and South Africa.	
totalize		To make total, or complete;to reduce to completeness.	
totalizer		Same as Totalizator.	
totally		In a total manner; wholly; entirely.	
totalness		The quality or state of being total; entireness; totality.	
totara		A coniferous tree (Podocarpus totara), next to the kauri the most valuable timber tree of New Zeland.	
tote	Colloquial	To carry or bear; as, to tote a child over a stream; -- a colloquial word of the Southern States, and used esp. by negroes.	
totear	Obsolete	To tear or rend in pieces.	Middle English toteren, from Old English toteran.
totem		A rude picture, as of a bird, beast, or the like, used by the Nord American Indians as a symbolic designation, as of a family or a clan.	Ojibwa doodem.
totemic		Of or pertaining to a totem, or totemism.	
totemism		The system of distinguishing families, clans, etc., in a tribe by the totem.	
totemist		One belonging to a clan or tribe having a totem. -- To`tem*is"tic, a.	
toter		The stone roller. See Stone roller (a), under Stone.	
totipalmate		Having all four toes united by a web;-said of certain sea birds, as the pelican and the gannet.	
totipalmi		A division of swimming birds including those that have totipalmate feet.	
totipresence	Obsolete	Omnipresence.	
totipresent	Obsolete	Omnipresence.	
totter		To shake so as to threaten a fall; to vacillate; to be unsteady; to stagger; as,an old man totters with age. lxii. 3.	Middle English totren.
totterer		One who totters.	
totteringly		In a tottering manner.	
tottery		Trembling or vaccilating, as if about to fall; unsteady; shaking.	
tottle	Colloquial	To walk in a wavering, unsteady manner; to toddle; to topple.	
tottlish	Colloquial	Trembling or tottering, as if about to fall; un steady.	
totty	Obsolete	Unsteady; dizzy; tottery.	
toucan		(Zoöl.) Any one of numerous species of fruit-eating birds of tropical America belonging to Ramphastos, Pteroglossus, and allied genera of the family Ramphastidæ.	
toucanet		A small toucan.	
touch		To come in contact with; to hit or strike lightly against; to extend the hand, foot, or the like, so as to reach or rest on.	Middle English touchen.
touch-box		A box containing lighted tinder, formerly carried by soldiers who used matchlocks, to kindle the match.	
touch-me-not		(a) See Impatiens. (b) Squirting cucumber. See under Cucumber.	
touch-needle		A small bar of gold and silver, either pure, or alloyed in some known proportion with copper, for trying the purity of articles of gold or silver by comparison of the streaks made by the article and the bar on a touchstone.	
touch-paper		Paper steeped in saltpeter, which burns slowly, and is used as a match for firing gunpowder, and the like.	
touchable		Capable of being touched; tangible. -- Touch"a*ble*ness, n.	
touchback		The act of touching the football down by a player behind his own goal line when it received its last impulse from an opponent; -- distinguished from safety touchdown.	
touchdown		The act of touching the football down behind the opponents' goal.	
touchhole		The vent of a cannot or other firearm, by which fire is communicateed to the powder of the charge.	
touchily		In a touchy manner.	
touchiness		The quality or state of being touchy peevishness; irritability; irascibility.	
touching		Affecting; moving; pathetic; as, a touching tale. -- Touch"ing*ly, adv.	
touchstone		(Min.) Lydian stone; basanite; -- so called because used to test the purity of gold and silver by the streak which is left upon the stone when it is rubbed by the metal.	
touchwood		Wood so decayed as to serve for tinder; spunk, or punk.	
touchy	Colloquial	Peevish; irritable; irascible; techy; apt to take fire.	
tough		Having the quality of flexibility without brittleness; yielding to force without breaking; capable of resisting great strain; as, the ligaments of animals are remarkably tough.	Old English toh.
tough-cake		See Tough-pitch (b).	
tough-head		The ruddy duck.	
tough-pitch		(a) The exact state or quality of texture and consistency of well reduced and refined copper.	
toughen		To grow or make tough, or tougher.	
toughish		Tough in a slight degree.	
toughly		In a tough manner.	
toughness		The quality or state of being tough.	
touite	English dialect	The wood warbler.	
toupee		A little tuft; a curl or artificial lock of hair.	
toupet		A little tuft; a curl or artificial lock of hair.	
toupettit	English dialect	The crested titmouse.	
tour		A going round; a circuit; hence, a journey in a circuit; a prolonged circuitous journey; a comprehensive excursion; as, the tour of Europe; the tour of France or England.	Old French tour.
touraco		Same as Turacou.	
tourbillion		An ornamental firework which turns round, when in the air, so as to form a scroll of fire.	
tourist		One who makes a tour, or performs a journey in a circuit.	
tourmaline		A mineral occurring usually in three-sided or six-sided prisms terminated by rhombohedral or scalenohedral planes.	
tourn	English dialect	A spinning wheel.	
tournament		A mock fight, or warlike game, formerly in great favor, in which a number of combatants were engaged, as an exhibition of their address and bravery; hence, figuratively, a real battle.	Old French tornoiement.
tournery	Obsolete	Work turned on a lathe; turnery. See Turnery.	
tourney		A tournament.	
tourniquet		An instrument for arresting hemorrhage.	French tourniquet.
tournois		A former French money of account worth 20 sous, or a franc.	
tournure		Turn; contour; figure.	
tous-les-mois		A kind of starch with very large, oval, flattened grains, often sold as arrowroot, and extensively used for adulterating cocoa.	
tousche		A lithographic drawing or painting material of the same nature as lithographic ink.	German tuschen, from French toucher, from Middle French toucher.
touse	English dialect	To pull; to haul; to tear; to worry.	
tousel	Colloquial	Same as Tousle.	
touser	English dialect	One who touses.	
tousle	Colloquial	To put into disorder; to tumble; to touse.	
tousy	Colloquial	Tousled; tangled; rough; shaggy.	
tout	English dialect	To ply or seek for customers.	
tout-ensemble		All together; hence, in costume, the fine arts, etc., the general effect of a work as a whole, without regard to the execution of the separate perts.	
touter	Colloquial	One who seeks customers, as for an inn, a public conveyance, shops, and the like: hence, an obtrusive candidate for office.	
touze	English dialect	To pull; to haul; to tear; to worry.	
tow		The coarse and broken part of flax or hemp, separated from the finer part by the hatchel or swingle.	Old English togian.
tow-head	Colloquial	An urchin who has soft, whitish hair.	
towage		The price paid for towing.	
towall	Obsolete	A towel.	
toward		In the direction of; to.	Old English toweard.
towardliness		The quality or state of being towardly; docility; tractableness.	
towardly		He's towardly and will come on apace.	
towardness		Quality or state of being toward.	
towards		In the direction of; to.	
towboat		A vessel constructed for being towed, as a canal boat.	
towel	English dialect	A cloth used for wiping, especially one used for drying anything wet, as the person after a bath.	Middle English towel.
toweling		Cloth for towels, especially such as is woven in long pieces to be cut at will, as distinguished from that woven in towel lengths with borders, etc.	
tower		(Arch.) (a) A mass of building standing alone and insulated, usually higher than its diameter, but when of great size not always of that proportion.	Old English torr, from Latin turris, from Greek τύρρις.
towered		Adorned or defended by towers.	
towering		Very high; elevated; rising aloft; as, a towering height.	
towery		Having towers; adorned or defended by towers.	
towhee		The chewink.	
towilly	English dialect	The sanderling; -- so called from its cry.	
towline		A line used to tow vessels; a towrope.	
town		Any number or collection of houses to which belongs a regular market, and which is not a city or the see of a bishop.	
town-crier		A town officer who makes proclamations to the people; the public crier of a town.	
towned	Obsolete	Having towns; containing many towns.	
townhall		A public hall or building, belonging to a town, where the public offices are established, the town council meets, the people assemble in town meeting, etc.	
townhouse		A building devoted to the public used of a town; a townhall.	
townish		Of or pertaining to the inhabitants of a town; like the town.	
townless		Having no town.	
townlet		A small town.	
townsfolk		The people of a town; especially, the inhabitants of a city, in distinction from country people; townspeople.	
township		In surveys of the public land of the United States, a division of territory six miles square, containing 36 sections.	Old English tunscipe.
townsman		An inhabitant of a town; one of the same town with another.	
townspeople		The inhabitants of a town or city, especially in distinction from country people; townsfolk.	
townward		Toward a town.	
townwards		Toward a town.	
towpath		A path traveled by men or animals in towing boats; -- called also towing path.	
towrope		A rope used in towing vessels.	
towser		A familiar name for a dog.	
towy		Composed of, or like, tow.	
toxaemia		Blood poisoning. See under Blood.	
toxalbumin		Any of a class of toxic substances of protein nature; a toxin.	
toxemia		Blood poisoning. See under Blood.	
toxic		Of or pertaining to poison; poisonous; as, toxic medicines.	French toxique, from Latin toxicus, from Greek τοξικόν.
toxical		Of or pertaining to poison; poisonous; as, toxic medicines.	
toxicant		A poisonous agent or drug, as opium; an intoxicant.	
toxication		Poisoning.	
toxicity		The quality or state of being toxic or poisonous; poisonousness.	
toxicogenic		Producing toxic products; as, toxicogenic germs or bacteria.	
toxicological		Of or pertaining to toxicology. -- Tox`i*co*log"ic*al*ly, adv.	
toxicologist		One versed in toxicology; the writer of a treatise on poisons.	
toxicology		The science which treats of poisons, their effects, antidotes, and recignition; also, a discourse or treatise on the science.	French toxicologie.
toxicomania		(Med.) An insane desire for intoxicating or poisonous drugs, as alcohol or opium.	
toxifera		Same as Toxoglossa.	
toxin		A poisonous product formed by pathogenic bacteria, as a toxic proteid or poisonous ptomaine.	Latin toxicum, from Greek τοξικόν.
toxine		A poisonous product formed by pathogenic bacteria, as a toxic proteid or poisonous ptomaine.	
toxiphobia		An insane or greatly exaggerated dread of poisons.	
toxodon		A gigantic extinct herbivorous mammal from South America, having teeth bent like a bow.	
toxodonta		An extinct order of Mammalia found in the South American Tertiary formation.	
toxoglossa		A division of marine gastropod mollusks in which the radula are converted into poison fangs.	
toxoid		An altered form of a toxin, possessing little or no toxic power.	
toxophilite		A lover of archery; one devoted to archery.	
toxotes		A genus of fishes comprising the archer fishes. See Archer fish.	Greek τοξότης.
toy		A plaything for children; a bawble.	Middle English toye.
toyear	Obsolete	This year.	Middle English toyere.
toyer		One who toys; one who is full of trifling tricks; a trifler.	
toyful	Obsolete	Full of trifling play.	
toyhouse		A house for children to play in or to play with; a playhouse.	
toyingly		In a toying manner.	
toyish		Sportive; trifling; wanton.	
toyman		One who deals toys.	
toyshop		A shop where toys are sold.	
toysome		Disposed to toy; trifling; wanton.	
toze	Obsolete	To pull violently; to touse.	
tozy		Soft, like wool that has been teased. -- To"zi*ness, n.	
