trabea		A toga of purple, or ornamented with purple horizontal stripes. -- worn by kings, consuls, and augurs.	
trabeated		Furnished with an entablature.	
trabeation		Same as Entablature.	
trabecula		A small bar, rod, bundle of fibers, or septal membrane, in the framework of an organ part.	Latin trabecula.
trabecular		Of or pertaining to a trabecula or trabeculæ; composed of trabeculæ.	
trabeculate		Crossbarred, as the ducts in a banana stem.	
trabu		Same as Trubu.	
trace		One of two straps, chains, or ropes of a harness, extending from the collar or breastplate to a whiffletree attached to a vehicle or thing to be drawn; a tug.	
traceable		Capable of being traced. -- Trace a/bly, adv.	
tracer		One who, or that which, traces.	
tracery		Ornamental work with rambled lines. Especially: -- (a) The decorative head of a Gothic window.	
trachea		(Zoöl.) One of the respiratory tubes of insects and arachnids.	Latin trachia, from Greek τραχεῖα.
tracheal		Of or pertaining to the trachea; like a trachea.	
trachearia		A division of Arachnida including those that breathe only by means of tracheæ.	
tracheary		Tracheal; breathing by means of tracheæ. -- n. (Zoöl.) One of the Trachearia.	
tracheata		An extensive division of arthropods comprising all those which breathe by tracheæ, as distinguished from Crustacea, which breathe by means of branchiæ.	
tracheate		Breathing by means of tracheæ; of or pertaining to the Tracheata.	
tracheid		A wood cell with spiral or other markings and closed throughout, as in pine wood.	German Tracheïde.
tracheitis		Inflammation of the trachea, or windpipe.	
trachelidan		Any one of a tribe of beetles (Trachelides) which have the head supported on a pedicel.	
trachelipod		One of the Trachelipoda.	
trachelipoda		An extensive artificial group of gastropods comprising all those which have a spiral shell and the foot attached to the base of the neck.	
trachelipodous		Having the foot united with the neck; of or pertainingto the Trachelipoda.	
trachelobranchiate		Having the gills situated upon the neck; -- said of certain mollusks.	
trachelorrhaphy		The operation of sewing up a laceration of the neck of the uterus.	
trachenchyma		A vegetable tissue consisting of tracheæ.	
tracheobranchia		One of the gill-like breathing organs of certain aquatic insect larvæ.	
tracheobronchial		Pertaining both to the tracheal and bronchial tubes, or to their junction; -- said of the syrinx of certain birds.	
tracheocele		(a) Goiter. (b) A tumor containing air and communicating with the trachea.	
tracheophonae		A group of passerine birds having the syrinx at the lower end of the trachea.	
tracheoscopy		Examination of the interior of the trachea by means of a mirror.	
tracheotomy		The operation of making an opening into the windpipe.	
trachinoid		Of, pertaining to, or like, Trachinus, a genus of fishes which includes the weevers.	
trachitis		Tracheitis.	
trachoma		Granular conjunctivitis due to a specific micrococcus. -- Tra*chom"a*tous (#), a.	
trachycarpous		Rough-fruited.	
trachymedusae		A division of acalephs in which the development is direct from the eggs, without a hydroid stage.	
trachyspermous		Rough-seeded.	
trachystomata		An order of tailed aquatic amphibians, including Siren and Pseudobranchus.	
trachyte		An igneous rock,usually light gray in color and breaking with a rough surface.	French trachyte, from Greek τρᾱχύς.
trachytic		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, trachyte.	
trachytoid		Resembling trachyte; -- used to define the structure of certain rocks.	
tracing		The act of one who traces; especially, the act of copying by marking on thin paper, or other transparent substance, the lines of a pattern placed beneath; also, the copy thus producted.	
track		A mark left by something that has passed along; as, the track, or wake, of a ship; the track of a meteor; the track of a sled or a wheel.	
track-road		A towing path.	
trackage		The act of tracking, or towing, as a boat; towage.	
tracker		One who, or that which, tracks or pursues, as a man or dog that follows game.	
tracklayer		Any workman engaged in work involved in putting the track in place. -- Track"lay`ing, n.	
trackless		Having no track; marked by no footsteps; untrodden; as, a trackless desert.	
trackman		One employed on work on the track; specif., a trackwalker.	
trackmaster		One who has charge of the track; --called also roadmaster.	
trackscout		See Trackschuyt.	Dutch trekschuit.
trackwalker		A person employed to walk over and inspect a section of tracks.	
trackway		Any of two or more narrow paths, of steel, smooth stone, or the like, laid in a public roadway otherwise formed of an inferior pavement, as cobblestones, to provide an easy way for wheels.	
tract		A written discourse or dissertation, generally of short extent; a short treatise, especially on practical religion.	Latin tractus.
tractability		The quality or state of being tractable or docile; docility; tractableness.	
tractable		Capable of being easily led, taught, or managed; docile; manageable; governable; as, tractable children; a tractable learner.	Latin tractabilis.
tractarian		One of the writers of the Oxford tracts, called issued during the period 1833-1841, in which series of papers the sacramental system and authority of the Church, and the value of tradition, were brought into prominence.	
tractarianism		The principles of the Tractarians, or of those persons accepting the teachings of the	
tractate		A treatise; a tract; an essay.	Latin tractatus.
tractation	Obsolete	Treatment or handling of a subject; discussion.	
tractator		One who writes tracts; specif., a Tractarian.	
tractile		Capable of being drawn out in length; ductile.	Latin trahere.
tractility		The quality of being tractile; ductility.	
traction		The act of drawing, or the state of being drawn; as, the traction of a muscle.	Latin tractus.
tractional		Of or relating to traction.	
tractite		A Tractarian.	
tractitious		Treating of; handling.	
tractive		Serving to draw; pulling; attracting; as, tractive power.	
tractor		That which draws, or is used for drawing.	Latin tractus.
tractoration		See Perkinism — a remedial treatment, by drawing the pointed extremities of two rods, each of a different metal, over the affected part; tractoration, -- first employed by Dr. Elisha Perkins of Norwich…	
tractory		A tractrix.	
tractrix		A curve such that the part of the tangent between the point of tangency and a given straight line is constant…	
trad		imp. of Tread — to set the foot; to step.	
trade		Specifically: The act or business of exchanging commodities by barter, or by buying and selling for money; commerce; traffic; barter.	Middle English trade.
trade-mark		A peculiar distinguishing mark or device affixed by a manufacturer or a merchant to his goods, the exclusive right of using which is recognized by law.	
trade-unionist		A member of a trades union, or a supporter of trades unions.	
traded	Obsolete	Professional; practiced.	
tradeful		Full of trade; busy in traffic; commercial.	
tradeless		Having no trade or traffic.	
trader		One engaged in trade or commerce; one who makes a business of buying and selling or of barter; a merchant; a trafficker; as, a trader to the East Indies; a country trader.	
trades-unionist		A member of a trades union, or a supporter of trades unions.	
tradescantia		A genus including spiderwort and Wandering Jew.	
tradesfolk		People employed in trade; tradesmen.	
tradesman		One who trades; a shopkeeper.	
tradespeople		People engaged in trade; shopkeepers.	
tradeswoman		A woman who trades, or is skilled in trade.	
trading		Carrying on trade or commerce; engaged in trade; as, a trading company.	
tradition		The act of delivering into the hands of another; delivery.	Latin traditio.
traditional		Of or pertaining to tradition; derived from tradition; communicated from ancestors to descendants by word only; transmitted from age to age without writing; as, traditional opinions; traditional customs…	
traditionalism		A system of faith founded on tradition; esp., the doctrine that all religious faith is to be based solely upon what is delivered from competent authority, exclusive of rational processes.	
traditionalist		An advocate of, or believer in, traditionalism; a traditionist.	
traditionally		In a traditional manner.	
traditionarily		By tradition.	
traditionary		Traditional.	
traditioner		One who adheres to tradition.	
traditionist		One who adheres to tradition.	
traditive		Transmitted or transmissible from father to son, or from age, by oral communication; traditional.	Latin tradere.
traditor		A deliverer; -- a name of infamy given to Christians who delivered the Scriptures, or the goods of the church, to their persecutors to save their lives.	Latin traditor.
traduce	Obsolete	To transfer; to transmit; to hand down; as, to traduce mental qualities to one's descendants.	Latin traduco.
traducement		The act of traducing; misrepresentation; ill-founded censure; defamation; calumny.	
traducent		Slanderous.	
traducer		One who traduces; a slanderer; a calumniator.	
traducian		A believer in traducianism.	Latin traducianus.
traducianism		The doctrine that human souls are produced by the act of generation; -- opposed to creationism, and infusionism.	
traducible		Capable of being traduced or calumniated.	
traducingly		In a traducing manner; by traduction; slanderously.	
traduct	Obsolete	To derive or deduce; also, to transmit; to transfer.	
traduction		Derivation by descent; propagation.	
traductive		Capable of being deduced; derivable.	
traffic		To pass goods and commodities from one person to another for an equivalent in goods or money; to buy or sell goods; to barter; to trade.	French trafic.
trafficable	Obsolete	Capable of being disposed of in traffic; marketable.	
trafficker		One who traffics, or carries on commerce; a trader; a merchant.	
trafficless		Destitute of traffic, or trade.	
tragacanth		A kind of gum procured from a spiny leguminous shrub (Astragalus gummifer) of Western Asia, and other species of Astragalus.	
tragedian		A writer of tragedy.	Greek τραγωδός.
tragedienne		A woman who plays in tragedy.	French tragédienne.
tragedious	Obsolete	Like tragedy; tragical.	
tragedy		A dramatic poem, composed in elevated style, representing a signal action performed by some person or persons, and having a fatal issue; that species of drama which represents the sad or terrible phases of character and life.	
tragi-comedy		A kind of drama representing some action in which serious and comic scenes are blended; a composition partaking of the nature both of tragedy and comedy.	
tragi-comi-pastoral		Partaking of the nature of, or combining, tragedy, comedy, and pastoral poetry.	
tragi-comic		Of or pertaining to tragi-comedy; partaking of grave and comic scenes. -- Trag`-com"ic*al*ly, adv.	
tragi-comical		Of or pertaining to tragi-comedy; partaking of grave and comic scenes. -- Trag`-com"ic*al*ly, adv.	
tragic		Of or pertaining to tragedy; of the nature or character of tragedy; as, a tragic poem; a tragic play or representation.	Greek τραγικός.
tragical		Of or pertaining to tragedy; of the nature or character of tragedy; as, a tragic poem; a tragic play or representation.	
tragopan		Any one of several species of Asiatic pheasants of the genus Ceriornis.	
tragus		The prominence in front of the external opening of the ear. See Illust. under Ear.	
trail		To hunt by the track; to track.	Latin trahere.
trailer		One who, or that which, trails.	
trailing		a. & vb. n. from Trail.	
train		To draw along; to trail; to drag.	Anglo-Norman trayne.
trainable		Capable of being trained or educated; as, boys trainable to virtue.	
trainband		A band or company of an organized military force instituted by James I. and dissolved by Charles II.; -- afterwards applied to the London militia.	
trainbearer		One who holds up a train, as of a robe.	
trainel	Obsolete	A dragnet.	
trainer		One who trains; an instructor; especially, one who trains or prepares men, horses, etc., for exercises requiring physical agility and strength.	
training		The act of one who trains; the act or process of exercising, disciplining, etc.; education.	
trainy	Obsolete	Belonging to train oil.	
traipse	Colloquial	To walk or run about in a slatternly, careless, or thoughtless manner.	
trait		A distinguishing or marked feature; a peculiarity; as, a trait of character.	
traiteur		The keeper of an eating house, or restaurant; a restaurateur.	
traitor		One who violates his allegiance and betrays his country; one guilty of treason; one who, in breach of trust, delivers his country to an enemy, or yields up any fort or place intrusted to his defense…	Old French traïtor, from Latin traditor.
traitoress	Obsolete	A traitress.	
traitorly	Obsolete	Like a traitor; treacherous; traitorous.	
traitorous		Guilty of treason; treacherous; perfidious; faithless; as, a traitorous officer or subject.	
traitory	Obsolete	Treachery.	
traitress		A woman who betrays her country or any trust; a traitoress.	French traîtresse.
traject		To throw or cast through, over, or across; as, to traject the sun's light through three or more cross prisms.	
trajection		The act of trajecting; a throwing or casting through or across; also, emission.	
trajectory		The curve which a body describes in space, as a planet or comet in its orbit, or stone thrown upward obliquely in the air.	
trajet	Obsolete	See Treget, Tregetour, and Tregetry.	
trajetour	Obsolete	See Treget, Tregetour, and Tregetry.	
trajetry	Obsolete	See Treget, Tregetour, and Tregetry.	
tralation	Obsolete	The use of a word in a figurative or extended sense; ametaphor; a trope.	Latin tralatio.
tralatition		A change, as in the use of words; a metaphor.	
tralatitious		Passed along; handed down; transmitted.	
tralineate	Obsolete	To deviate; to stray; to wander.	
tralucency	Obsolete	Translucency; as, the tralucency of a gem.	
tralucent	Obsolete	Translucent.	
tram		A four-wheeled truck running on rails, and used in a mine, as for carrying coal or ore.	
trama		The loosely woven substance which lines the chambers within the gleba in certain Gasteromycetes.	
tramble		To wash, as tin ore, with a shovel in a frame fitted for the purpose.	
trammel		A kind of net for catching birds, fishes, or other prey.	French tramail, from Latin tremaculum.
trammeled		Having blazes, or white marks, on the fore and hind foot of one side, as if marked by trammels; -- said of a horse.	
trammeler		One who uses a trammel net.	
tramming		The act or process of forming trams. See 2d Tram.	
tramontana		A dry, cold, violent, northerly wind of the Adriatic.	Italian tramontana.
tramontane		Lying or being beyond the mountains; coming from the other side of the mountains; hence, foreign; barbarous.	
tramp		To tread upon forcibly and repeatedly; to trample.	
tramper		One who tramps; a stroller; a vagrant or vagabond; a tramp.	
trample		To tread under foot; to tread down; to prostrate by treading; as, to trample grass or flowers.	
trampler		One who tramples; one who treads down; as, a trampler on nature's law.	
trampoose		To walk with labor, or heavily; to tramp.	
tramrail		An overhead rail forming a track on which a trolley runs to convey a load, as in a shop.	
tramroad		A road prepared for easy transit of trams or wagons, by forming the wheel tracks of smooth beams of wood, blocks of stone, or plates of iron.	
tramway		A railway laid in the streets of a town or city, on which cars for passengers or for freight are drawn by horses; a horse railroad.	
tranation	Obsolete	The act of swimming over.	Latin tranare.
trance	English dialect	A tedious journey.	Middle English traunce, from Anglo-Norman traunce, from Old French trance.
tranect	Obsolete	A ferry.	
trangram		Something intricately contrived; a contrived; a puzzle.	
trannel		A treenail.	
tranquil		Quiet; calm; undisturbed; peaceful; not agitated; as, the atmosphere is tranquil; the condition of the country is tranquil.	Latin tranquillus.
tranquilization		The act of tranquilizing, or the state of being tranquilized.	
tranquilize		To render tranquil; to allay when agitated; to compose; to make calm and peaceful; as, to tranquilize a state disturbed by factions or civil commotions; to tranquilize the mind.	
tranquilizer		One who, or that which, tranquilizes.	
tranquilizing		Making tranquil; calming. -- Tran quil*li`zing*ly, adv.	
tranquillity		The quality or state of being tranquil; calmness; composure.	
tranquillization		The act of tranquilizing, or the state of being tranquilized.	
tranquillize		To render tranquil; to allay when agitated; to compose; to make calm and peaceful; as, to tranquilize a state disturbed by factions or civil commotions; to tranquilize the mind.	
tranquillizer		One who, or that which, tranquilizes.	
tranquillizing		Making tranquil; calming. -- Tran quil*li`zing*ly, adv.	
tranquilly		In a tranquil manner; calmly.	
tranquilness		Quality or state of being tranquil.	
trans-		A prefix, signifying over, beyond, through and through, on the other side, as in transalpine, beyond the Alps; transform, to form through and through, that is, anew, transfigure.	Latin trans.
transact		To carry through; to do; perform; to manage; as, to transact commercial business; to transact business by an agent.	
transaction		The doing or performing of any business; management of any affair; performance.	Latin transactio.
transactor		One who transacts, performs, or conducts any business.	
transalpine		Being on the farther side of the Alps in regard to Rome, that is, on the north or west side of the Alps; of or pertaining to the region or the people beyond the Alps; as, transalpine Gaul; -- opposed to cisalpine. & Fl.	
transanimate		To animate with a soul conveyed from another body.	
transanimation		The conveyance of a soul from one body to another.	
transatlantic		Lying or being beyond the Atlantic Ocean.	
transaudient		Permitting the passage of sound.	
transcalency		The quality or state of being transcalent.	
transcalent		Pervious to, or permitting the passage of, heat.	
transcend		To rise above; to surmount; as, lights in the heavens transcending the region of the clouds.	Old French transcender.
transcendence		The quality or state of being transcendent; superior excellence; supereminence.	
transcendency		The quality or state of being transcendent; superior excellence; supereminence.	
transcendent		Very excellent; superior or supreme in excellence; surpassing others; as, transcendent worth; transcendent valor.	
transcendental		Supereminent; surpassing others; as, transcendental being or qualities.	
transcendentalism		(Kantian Philos.) The transcending, or going beyond, empiricism, and ascertaining a priori the fundamental principles of human knowledge.	
transcendentalist		One who believes in transcendentalism.	
transcendentality		The quality or state of being transcendental.	
transcendentally		In a transcendental manner.	
transcendently		In a transcendent manner.	
transcendentness		Same as Transcendence.	
transcension	Obsolete	The act of transcending, or surpassing; also, passage over.	
transcolate	Obsolete	To cause to pass through a sieve or colander; to strain, as through a sieve.	
transcolation	Obsolete	Act of transcolating, or state of being transcolated.	
transcontinental		Extending or going across a continent; as, a transcontinental railroad or journey.	
transcorporate	Obsolete	To transmigrate.	
transcribbler		A transcriber; -- used in contempt.	
transcribe		To write over again, or in the same words; to copy; as, to transcribe Livy or Tacitus; to transcribe a letter.	Latin transcribo.
transcriber		One who transcribes, or writes from a copy; a copier; a copyist.	
transcript		That which has been transcribed; a writing or composition consisting of the same words as the original; a written copy.	Latin transcriptum.
transcription		The act or process of transcribing, or copying; as, corruptions creep into books by repeated transcriptions.	
transcriptive		Done as from a copy; having the style or appearance of a transcription. -- Tran*scrip"tive*ly, adv.	
transcur	Obsolete	To run or rove to and fro.	
transcurrence		A roving hither and thither.	Latin transcurrens.
transcursion	Obsolete	A rambling or ramble; a passage over bounds; an excursion.	
transdialect		To change or translate from one dialect into another.	
transduction		The act of conveying over.	
transe	Obsolete	See Trance — a tedious journey.	
transelement	Obsolete	To change or transpose the elements of; to transubstantiate.	
transelementate	Obsolete	To change or transpose the elements of; to transubstantiate.	
transelementation	Obsolete	Transubstantiation.	
transenne	Obsolete	A transom.	
transept		The transversal part of a church, which crosses at right angles to the greatest length, and between the nave and choir.	
transexion	Obsolete	Change of sex.	
transfeminate	Obsolete	To change into a woman, as a man.	
transfer		To convey from one place or person another; to transport, remove, or cause to pass, to another place or person; as, to transfer the laws of one country to another; to transfer suspicion.	Latin transfero.
transferability		The quality or state of being transferable.	
transferable		Capable of being transferred or conveyed from one place or person to another.	
transferee		The person to whom a transfer in made.	
transference		The act of transferring; conveyance; passage; transfer.	
transferography		The act or process of copying inscriptions, or the like, by making transfers.	
transferrence		See Transference — the act of transferring; conveyance; passage; transfer.	
transferrer		One who makes a transfer or conveyance.	
transferrible		Capable of being transferred; transferable.	
transfigurate		To transfigure; to transform.	
transfiguration		A change of form or appearance; especially, the supernatural change in the personal appearance of our Savior on the mount.	
transfigure		To change the outward form or appearance of; to metamorphose; to transform.	
transfix		To pierce through, as with a pointed weapon; to impale; as, to transfix one with a dart.	
transfixion		The act of transfixing, or the state of being transfixed, or pierced.	
transfluent		Flowing or running across or through; as, a transfluent stream.	
transflux		A flowing through, across, or beyond.	
transforate	Obsolete	To bore through; to perforate.	
transform		To change the form of; to change in shape or appearance; to metamorphose; as, a caterpillar is ultimately transformed into a butterfly.	Old French transformer.
transformable		Capable of being transformed or changed.	
transformation		The act of transforming, or the state of being transformed; change of form or condition.	
transformative		Having power, or a tendency, to transform.	
transformer		One who, or that which, transforms.	
transformism		The hypothesis, or doctrine, that living beings have originated by the modification of some other previously existing forms of living matter; -- opposed to abiogenesis.	
transfreight	Obsolete	To transfrete.	
transfretation	Obsolete	The act of passing over a strait or narrow sea.	
transfrete	Obsolete	To pass over a strait or narrow sea.	
transfuge		One who flees from one side to another; hence, a deserter; a turncoat; an apostate.	
transfugitive		One who flees from one side to another; hence, a deserter; a turncoat; an apostate.	
transfund	Obsolete	To pour from one vessel into another; to transfuse.	
transfuse		To pour, as liquid, out of one vessel into another; to transfer by pouring. 2 2 (Med.) To transfer, as blood, from the veins or arteries of one man or animal to those of another. 3.	
transfusible		Capable of being transfused; transferable by transfusion.	
transfusion		The act of transfusing, or pouring, as liquor, out of one vessel into another.	
transfusive		Tending to transfuse; having power to transfuse.	
transgress		To pass over or beyond; to surpass.	
transgression		The act of transgressing, or of passing over or beyond any law, civil or moral; the violation of a law or known principle of rectitude; breach of command; fault; offense; crime; sin.	Latin transgressus.
transgressional		Of pertaining to transgression; involving a transgression.	
transgressive		Disposed or tending to transgress; faulty; culpable. -	
transgressively		In a transgressive manner Adam, perhaps, … from the transgressive infirmities of himself, might have erred alone.	
transgressor		One who transgresses; one who breaks a law, or violates a command; one who violates any known rule or principle of rectitude; a sinner.	
transhape		To transshape.	
tranship		Same as Transship.	
transhipment		Same as Transshipment.	
transhuman		More than human; superhuman.	
transhumanize		To make more than human; to purity; to elevate above humanity.	
transience		The quality of being transient; transientness.	
transiency		The quality of being transient; transientness.	
transient		Passing before the sight or perception, or, as it were, moving over or across a space or scene viewed, and then disappearing; hence, of short duration; not permanent; not lasting or durable; not stationary; passing; fleeting…	
transilience		A leap across or from one thing to another.	
transiliency		A leap across or from one thing to another.	
transire		A customhouse clearance for a coasting vessel; a permit.	
transisthmian		Extending across an isthmus, as at Suez or Panama.	
transit		The act of passing; passage through or over.	
transition		Passage from one place or state to another; charge; as, the transition of the weather from hot to cold.	
transitional		Of or pertaining to transition; involving or denoting transition; as, transitional changes; transitional stage.	
transitionary		Transitional.	
transitive		Having the power of making a transit, or passage.	Latin transitivus.
transitorily		In a transitory manner; with brief continuance.	
transitoriness		The quality or state of being transitory; speedy passage or departure.	
transitory		Continuing only for a short time; not enduring; fleeting; evanescent.	
translatable		Capable of being translated, or rendered into another language.	
translate		To change to another condition, position, place, or office; to transfer; hence, to remove as by death.	Middle English translaten.
translation		The act of translating, removing, or transferring; removal; also, the state of being translated or removed; as, the translation of Enoch; the translation of a bishop.	Latin translatio.
translatitious	Obsolete	Metaphorical; tralatitious; also, foreign; exotic.	
translative		tropical; figurative; as, a translative sense.	
translator		One who translates; esp., one who renders into another language; one who expresses the sense of words in one language by equivalent words in another.	Latin translator.
translatorship		The office or dignity of a translator.	
translatory		Serving to translate; transferring.	
translatress		A woman who translates.	
translavation	Obsolete	A laving or lading from one vessel to another.	
transliterate		To express or represent in the characters of another alphabet; as, to transliterate Sanskrit words by means of English letters.	Latin transliteratum.
transliteration		The act or product of transliterating, or of expressing words of a language by means of the characters of another alphabet.	
translocation		removal of things from one place to another; substitution of one thing for another.	
translucence		The quality or state of being translucent; clearness; partial transparency.	
translucency		The quality or state of being translucent; clearness; partial transparency.	
translucent		Transmitting rays of light without permitting objects to be distinctly seen; partially transparent.	Latin translucentem.
translucently		In a translucent manner.	
translucid		Translucent.	
translunary	Obsolete	Being or lying beyond the moon; hence, ethereal; -- opposed to sublunary.	
transmarine		Lying or being beyond the sea.	Latin transmarinus.
transmeable	Obsolete	Capable of being passed over or traversed; passable.	
transmeatable	Obsolete	Capable of being passed over or traversed; passable.	
transmeate	Obsolete	To pass over or beyond.	
transmeation	Obsolete	The act of transmeating; a passing through or beyond.	
transmew	Archaic	To transmute; to transform; to metamorphose.	Middle French transmuer, from Latin transmutare.
transmigrant		Migrating or passing from one place or state to another; passing from one residence to another. -- n.	
transmigrate		To pass from one country or jurisdiction to another for the purpose of residence, as men or families; to migrate.	
transmigration		The act of passing from one country to another; migration.	Latin transmigratio.
transmigrator		One who transmigrates.	
transmigratory		Passing from one body or state to another.	
transmissibility		The quality of being transmissible.	
transmissible		Capable of being transmitted from one to another; capable of being passed through any body or substance.	
transmission		The act of transmitting, or the state of being transmitted; as, the transmission of letters, writings, papers, news, and the like, from one country to another; the transmission of rights, titles, or privileges…	Latin transmissionem.
transmissionist		An adherent of a theory, the transmission theory, that the brain serves to rather than to originate, conclusions, and hence that consciousness may exist independently of the brain.	
transmissive		Capable of being transmitted; derived, or handed down, from one to another.	
transmit		To cause to pass over or through; to communicate by sending; to send from one person or place to another; to pass on or down as by inheritance; as, to transmit a memorial; to transmit dispatches; to transmit money…	Middle English transmitten, from Latin transmitto.
transmittal		Transmission.	
transmittance		Transmission.	
transmitter		One who, or that which, transmits; specifically, that portion of a telegraphic or telephonic instrument by means of which a message is sent; -- opposed to receiver.	
transmittible		Capable of being transmitted; transmissible.	
transmogrification	Colloquial	The act of transmogrifying, or the state of being transmogrified; transformation.	
transmogrify	Colloquial	To change into a different shape; to transform.	
transmove	Obsolete	To move or change from one state into another; to transform.	
transmutability		The quality of being transmutable.	
transmutable		Capable of being transmuted or changed into a different substance, or into into something of a different form a nature; transformable.	
transmutation		The act of transmuting, or the state of being transmuted; as, the transmutation of metals.	
transmutationist		One who believes in the transmutation of metals or of species.	
transmute		To change from one nature, form, or substance, into another; to transform.	
transmuter		One who transmutes.	
transmutual		Reciprocal; commutual.	
transnatation		The act of swimming across, as a river.	
transnature	Obsolete	To transfer or transform the nature of.	
transom		(Arch.) A horizontal crossbar in a window, over a door, or between a door and a window above it.	
transpadane		Lying or being on the further side of the river Po with reference to Rome, that is, on the north side; -- opposed to cispadane.	
transpalatine		Situated beyond or outside the palatine bone; -- said of a bone in the skull of some reptiles.	
transpare	Obsolete	To be, or cause to be, transparent; to appear, or cause to appear, or be seen, through something.	
transparence		The quality or state of being transparent; transparency.	
transparency		The quality or condition of being transparent; transparence.	
transparent		Having the property of transmitting rays of light, so that bodies can be distinctly seen through; pervious to light; diaphanous; pellucid; as, transparent glass; a transparent diamond; -- opposed to Ant: opaque.	Latin transpārentis.
transpass	Obsolete	To pass over; as, Alexander transpassed the river.	
transpassable	Obsolete	Capable of being transpassed, or crossed over.	
transpatronize	Obsolete	To transfer the patronage of.	
transpeciate	Obsolete	To change from one species to another; to transform.	
transpicuous		Transparent; pervious to the sight.	
transpierce		To pierce through; to penetrate; to permeate; to pass through.	
transpirable		Capable of being transpired, or of transpiring.	
transpiration		(Physiol.) The act or process of transpiring or excreting in the form of vapor; exhalation, as through the skin or other membranes of the body; as, pulmonary transpiration, or the excretion of aqueous vapor from the lungs.	
transpiratory		Of or relating to transpiration.	
transpire		(Physiol.) To pass off in the form of vapor or insensible perspiration; to exhale.	
transplace		To remove across some space; to put in an opposite or another place.	
transplant		To remove, and plant in another place; as, to transplant trees.	
transplantation		The act of transplanting, or the state of being transplanted; also, removal.	
transplanter		One who transplants; also, a machine for transplanting trees.	
transplendency		Quality or state of being transplendent.	
transplendent		Resplendent in the highest degree. -- Tran*splen"dent*ly, adv.	
transport		To carry or bear from one place to another; to remove; to convey; as, to transport goods; to transport troops.	
transportability		The quality or state of being transportable.	
transportable		Capable of being transported.	
transportal		Transportation; the act of removing from one locality to another.	
transportance	Obsolete	Transportation.	
transportant	Obsolete	Transporting; as, transportant love.	
transportation		The act of transporting, or the state of being transported; carriage from one place to another; removal; conveyance.	
transported		Conveyed from one place to another; figuratively, carried away with passion or pleasure; entranced. -- Trans*port ed*ness, n.	
transporter		One who transports.	
transporting		That transports; fig., ravishing.	
transportingly		So as to transport.	
transportment		The act of transporting, or the state of being transported; transportation.	
transposable		That may transposed; as, a transposable phrase.	
transposal		The act of transposing, or the state of being transposed; transposition.	
transpose		To change the place or order of; to substitute one for the other of; to exchange, in respect of position; as, to transpose letters, words, or propositions.	
transposer		One who transposes.	
transposition		The act of transposing, or the state of being transposed. Specifically: --(a) (Alg.) The bringing of any term of an equation from one side over to the other without destroying the equation.	
transpositional		Of or pertaining to transposition; involving transposition.	
transpositive		Made by transposing; consisting in transposition; transposable.	
transprint		To transfer to the wrong place in printing; to print out of place.	
transprose	Obsolete	To change from prose into verse; to versify; also, to change from verse into prose.	
transregionate	Obsolete	Foreign.	
transshape		To change into another shape or form; to transform.	
transship		To transfer from one ship or conveyance to another.	
transshipment		The act of transshipping, or transferring, as goods, from one ship or conveyance to another.	
transsummer		See Transom, 2.	
transubstantiate		To change into another substance.	
transubstantiation		A change into another substance.	
transubstantiator		One who maintains the doctrine of transubstantiation.	
transudation		The act or process of transuding.	
transudatory		Of or pertaining to transudation; passing by transudation.	
transude		To pass, as perspirable matter does, through the pores or interstices of textures; as, liquor may transude through leather or wood.	
transume		To change; to convert.	Latin transūmō.
transumpt	Obsolete	A copy or exemplification of a record.	Latin transumere.
transumption		Act of taking from one place to another.	Latin transumptio.
transumptive		Taking from one to another; metaphorical.	Latin transumptivus.
transvasate	Obsolete	To pour out of one vessel into another.	
transvasation	Obsolete	The act or process of pouring out of one vessel into another.	
transvection		The act of conveying or carrying over.	
transverberate	Obsolete	To beat or strike through.	
transversal		Running or lying across; transverse; as, a transversal line. -- Trans*ver"sal*ly, adv.	Latin transversalis.
transverse		Lying or being across, or in a crosswise direction; athwart; -- often opposed to Ant: longitudinal.	
transversely		In a transverse manner.	
transversion		The act of changing from prose into verse, or from verse into prose.	
transvert	Obsolete	To cause to turn across; to transverse.	Latin transvertere.
transvertible		Capable of being transverted.	
transvolation		The act of flying beyond or across.	
trant	Obsolete	To traffic in an itinerary manner; to peddle.	Middle English tranten.
tranter	Obsolete	One who trants; a peddler; a carrier.	
trap		To dress with ornaments; to adorn; -- said especially of horses.	Middle English trappe, from Old English træppe.
trapan		A snare; a stratagem; a trepan. See 3d Trepan.	
trapanner		One who trapans, or insnares.	
trapball		An old game of ball played with a trap. See 4th Trap, 4.	
trapdoor		(Arch.) A lifting or sliding door covering an opening in a roof or floor.	
trape	Obsolete	To walk or run about in an idle or slatternly manner; to traipse.	
trapes	Obsolete	A slattern; an idle, sluttish, or untidy woman.	
trapezate		Having the form of a trapezium; trapeziform.	
trapeze		A swinging horizontal bar, suspended at each end by a rope; -- used by gymnasts.	French trapèze, from Latin trapezium.
trapeziform		Having the form of a trapezium; trapezoid.	
trapezium		(Geom.) A plane figure bounded by four right lines, of which no two are parallel.	
trapezohedral		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a trapezohedron.	
trapezohedron		(a) A solid bounded by twenty-four equal and similar trapeziums; a tetragonal trisoctahedron.	
trapezoid		(Geom.) A plane four-sided figure, having two sides parallel to each other.	
trapezoidal		Having the form of a trapezoid; trapezoid.	
traphole		See Trou-de-loup — a pit in the form of an inverted cone or pyramid, constructed as an obstacle to the approach of an enemy, and having a pointed stake in the middle.	
trappean		Of or pertaining to trap; being of the nature of trap.	
trapper		One who traps animals; one who makes a business of trapping animals for their furs.	
trappings		That which serves to trap or adorn; ornaments; dress; superficial decorations.	
trappist		A monk belonging to a branch of the Cistercian Order, which was established by Armand de Rancé in 1660 at the monastery of La Trappe in Normandy.	
trappous		Of or performance to trap; resembling trap, or partaking of its form or qualities; trappy.	
trappures	Obsolete	Trappings for a horse.	
trappy		Same as Trappous.	
traps	Colloquial	Small or portable articles for dress, furniture, or use; goods; luggage; things.	
trapstick		A stick used in playing the game of trapball; hence, fig., a slender leg.	
trash		That which is worthless or useless; rubbish; refuse.	
trashily		In a trashy manner.	
trashiness		The quality or state of being trashy.	
trashy		Like trash; containing much trash; waste; rejected; worthless; useless; as, a trashy novel.	
trass		A white to gray volcanic tufa, formed of decomposed trachytic cinders; -- sometimes used as a cement.	
traulism	Obsolete	A stammering or stuttering.	
traumatic		(a) Of or pertaining to wounds; applied to wounds.	
traumatism		A wound or injury directly produced by causes external to the body; also, violence producing a wound or injury; as, rupture of the stomach caused by traumatism.	
traunce	Obsolete	See Trance — a tedious journey.	
traunt	Obsolete	Same as Trant.	
traunter	Obsolete	Same as Tranter.	
travail		Labor with pain; severe toil or exertion.	Old French travail, from Latin tripalium.
travailous	Obsolete	Causing travail; laborious.	
trave		A wooden frame to confine an unruly horse or ox while shoeing.	
travel		To go or march on foot; to walk; as, to travel over the city, or through the streets.	Middle English travelen.
travel-tainted	Obsolete	Harassed; fatigued with travel.	
traveled		Having made journeys; having gained knowledge or experience by traveling; hence, knowing; experienced.	
traveler		One who travels; one who has traveled much.	
travers	Obsolete	Across; athwart.	French travers.
traversable		Capable of being traversed, or passed over; as, a traversable region.	
traverse		Lying across; being in a direction across something else; as, paths cut with traverse trenches.	
traverser		One who, or that which, traverses, or moves, as an index on a scale, and the like.	
traversing		Adjustable laterally; having a lateral motion, or a swinging motion; adapted for giving lateral motion.	
travertine		A white concretionary form of calcium carbonate, usually hard and semicrystalline.	
travesty		Disguised by dress so as to be ridiculous; travestied; -- applied to a book or shorter composition.	French travestir, from Italian travestire.
travois		A primitive vehicle, common among the North American Indians, usually two trailing poles serving as shafts and bearing a platform or net for a load.	
trawl		To take fish, or other marine animals, with a trawl.	
trawlboat		A boat used in fishing with trawls or trawlnets.	
trawler		One who, or that which, trawls.	
trawlerman	Obsolete	A fisherman who used unlawful arts and engines to catch fish.	
trawlnet		Same as Trawl, n., 2.	
trawlwarp		A rope passing through a block, used in managing or dragging a trawlnet.	
tray		A small trough or wooden vessel, sometimes scooped out of a block of wood, for various domestic uses, as in making bread, chopping meat, etc.	Middle English trayen, from Old French trair, from Latin trado.
tray-trip	Obsolete	An old game played with dice.	
trayful		As much as a tray will hold; enough to fill a tray.	
treacher	Obsolete	A traitor; a cheat.	
treacherous		Like a traitor; involving treachery; violating allegiance or faith pledged; traitorous to the state or sovereign; perfidious in private life; betraying a trust; faithless.	
treachery		Violation of allegiance or of faith and confidence; treasonable or perfidious conduct; perfidy; treason.	Middle English trecherie, from Old French tricherie.
treachetour	Obsolete	A traitor.	
treachour	Obsolete	A traitor.	
treacle		(Old Med.) A remedy against poison. See Theriac,	Old French triacle.
treacly		Like, or composed of, treacle.	
tread		To set the foot; to step.	Middle English treden, from Old English tredan.
tread-softly		Spurge nettle. See under Nettle.	
treadboard		See Tread, n., 5.	
treader		One who treads.	
treadle		The part of a foot lathe, or other machine, which is pressed or moved by the foot.	
treadmill		A mill worked by persons treading upon steps on the periphery of a wide wheel having a horizontal axis.	
treadwheel		A wheel turned by persons or animals, by treading, climbing, or pushing with the feet, upon its periphery or face.	
treague	Obsolete	A truce.	Latin tregua.
treason		The offense of attempting to overthrow the government of the state to which the offender owes allegiance, or of betraying the state into the hands of a foreign power; disloyalty; treachery.	Middle English tresoun.
treasonable		Pertaining to treason; consisting of treason; involving the crime of treason, or partaking of its guilt.	
treasonous		Treasonable.	
treasure		Wealth accumulated; especially, a stock, or store of money in reserve.	Old French tresor, from Latin thesaurus, from Greek θησαυρός.
treasure-house		A house or building where treasures and stores are kept.	
treasure-trove		Any money, bullion, or the like, found in the earth, or otherwise hidden, the owner of which is not known.	
treasurer		One who has the care of a treasure or treasure or treasury; an officer who receives the public money arising from taxes and duties, or other sources of revenue, takes charge of the same…	Anglo-Norman tresorer.
treasurership		The office of treasurer.	
treasuress		A woman who is a treasurer.	
treasury		A place or building in which stores of wealth are deposited; especially, a place where public revenues are deposited and kept, and where money is disbursed to defray the expenses of government; hence, also…	Old French tresorie.
treat		To handle; to manage; to use; to bear one's self toward; as, to treat prisoners cruelly; to treat children kindly.	Anglo-Norman treter.
treatable	Obsolete	Manageable; tractable; hence, moderate; not violent.	
treatably	Obsolete	In a treatable manner.	
treater		One who treats; one who handles, or discourses on, a subject; also, one who entertains.	
treatise		A written composition on a particular subject, in which its principles are discussed or explained; a tract.	
treatiser	Obsolete	One who writes a treatise.	
treatment		The act or manner of treating; management; manipulation; handling; usage; as, unkind treatment; medical treatment.	
treature	Obsolete	Treatment.	
treaty		The act of treating for the adjustment of differences, as for forming an agreement; negotiation.	Old French traité, from Latin tractatus.
treble		Threefold; triple.	Old French treble, from Latin triplus, from Greek τριπλοῦς.
trebleness		The quality or state of being treble; as, the trebleness of tones.	
treblet		Same as Triblet.	
trebly		In a treble manner; with a threefold number or quantity; triply.	
trebuchet		A cucking stool; a tumbrel.	Old French trebuchet.
trebucket		A cucking stool; a tumbrel.	
trecentist		A member of the trecento, or an imitator of its characteristics.	
trecento		The fourteenth century, when applied to Italian art, literature, etc. It marks the period of Dante, Petrarch, and boccaccio in literature, and of Giotto in painting.	Italian trecento.
trechometer		An odometer for vehicles.	
treckschuyt		A covered boat for goods and passengers, used on the Dutch and Flemish canals.	
treddle		See Treadle — the part of a foot lathe, or other machine, which is pressed or moved by the foot.	Middle English tridel.
tredille		A game at cards for three.	
tree		(Bot.) Any perennial woody plant of considerable size (usually over twenty feet high) and growing with a single trunk.	Middle English tree.
treebeard		A pendulous branching lichen (Usnea barbata); -- so called from its resemblance to hair.	
treeful		The quantity or number which fills a tree.	
treeless		Destitute of trees.	
treen	Obsolete	Made of wood; wooden.	Middle English treen, from Old English treowen.
treenail		A long wooden pin used in fastening the planks of a vessel to the timbers or to each other.	
tref		Ceremonially unclean, according to the Jewish law; -- opposed to kosher.	
trefle		A species of time; -- so called from its resemblance in form to a trefoil.	
trefoil		(Bot.) Any plant of the genus Trifolium, which includes the white clover, red clover, etc.; -- less properly, applied also to the nonesuch, or black medic.	Esperanto trifolio, from Latin trifolium.
trefoiled		Same as Tréflé.	
treget	Obsolete	Guile; trickery.	
tregetour	Obsolete	A juggler who produces illusions by the use of elaborate machinery.	
tregetry	Obsolete	Trickery; also, a trick.	
trehala		An amorphous variety of manna obtained from the nests and cocoons of a Syrian coleopterous insect (Larinus maculatus, L. nidificans, etc.) which feeds on the foliage of a variety of thistle.	Latin trehala.
trehalose		Mycose; -- so called because sometimes obtained from trehala.	
treillage		Latticework for supporting vines, etc.; an espalier; a trellis.	French treillage.
trek		To travel, esp. by ox wagon; to go from place to place; to migrate.	Afrikaans trek.
trekker		One that treks.	
trekometer		A field range finger used in the British service.	
trellis		A structure or frame of crossbarred work, or latticework, used for various purposes, as for screens or for supporting plants.	Middle English trelis, from Anglo-Norman treleis, from Old French treille.
trellised		Having a trellis or trellises.	
tremando		Trembling; -- used as a direction to perform a passage with a general shaking of the whole chord.	
trematode		One of the Trematodea.	
trematodea		An extensive order of parasitic worms.	
trematoid		f or pertaining to the Trematodea. See Illustration in Appendix.	
tremble		To shake involuntarily, as with fear, cold, or weakness; to quake; to quiver; to shiver; to shudder; -- said of a person or an animal.	
trembler		One who trembles.	
trembling		Shaking; tottering; quivering. -- Trem"bling*ly, adv.	
tremella		A genus of gelatinous fungi found in moist grounds.	
tremendous		Fitted to excite fear or terror; such as may astonish or terrify by its magnitude, force, or violence; terrible; dreadful; as, a tremendous wind; a tremendous shower; a tremendous shock or fall.	Latin tremendus.
tremex		A genus of large hymenopterous insects allied to the sawflies.	
tremie		An apparatus for depositing and consolidating concrete under water, essentially a tube of wood or sheet metal with a hooperlike top.	
tremolando		Same as Tremando.	Italian tremolando.
tremolite		A white variety of amphibole, or hornblende, occurring in long, bladelike crystals, and coarsely fibrous masses.	
tremolo		(a) The rapid reiteration of tones without any apparent cessation, so as to produce a tremulous effect.	
tremor		A trembling; a shivering or shaking; a quivering or vibratory motion; as, the tremor of a person who is weak, infirm, or old.	
tremulant		Tremulous; trembling; shaking.	
tremulent		Tremulous; trembling; shaking.	
tremulous		Shaking; shivering; quivering; as, a tremulous limb; a tremulous motion of the hand or the lips; the tremulous leaf of the poplar.	Latin tremulus.
tren	Obsolete	A fish spear.	
trenail		Same as Treenail.	
trench		To cut; to form or shape by cutting; to make by incision, hewing, or the like.	Old French trenchier.
trench-plough		To plow with deep furrows, for the purpose of loosening the land to a greater depth than usual.	
trench-plow		To plow with deep furrows, for the purpose of loosening the land to a greater depth than usual.	
trenchand	Obsolete	Trenchant.	
trenchant		Fitted to trench or cut; gutting; sharp.	
trenchantly		In a trenchant, or sharp, manner; sharply; severely.	
trencher		One who trenches; esp., one who cuts or digs ditches.	
trencher-man		A feeder; a great eater; a gormandizer.	
trenchmore	Obsolete	A kind of lively dance of a rude, boisterous character.	
trend	English dialect	To have a particular direction; to run; to stretch; to tend; as, the shore of the sea trends to the southwest.	
trender	English dialect	One whose business is to free wool from its filth.	
trendle	Obsolete	A wheel, spindle, or the like; a trundle.	
trennel		Corrupt form of Treenail.	
trepan		(Surg.) A crown-saw or cylindrical saw for perforating the skull, turned, when used, like a bit or gimlet.	French trephine.
trepang		Any one of several species of large holothurians, some of which are dried and extensively used as food in China; -- called also bêche de mer, sea cucumber, and sea slug.	Malay (macrolanguage teripang.
trepanize	Obsolete	To trepan.	
trepanner		One who trepans.	
trepeget	Obsolete	A trebuchet.	
trephine		An instrument for trepanning, being an improvement on the trepan.	
trepid		Trembling; quaking.	Latin trepidus.
trepidation		An involuntary trembling, sometimes an effect of paralysis, but usually caused by terror or fear; quaking; quivering.	Latin trepidatio.
trepidity		Trepidation.	
tres-tine		The third tine above the base of a stag's antler; the royal antler.	
tres-tyne		In the antler of a stag, the third tyne above the base.	Latin tris.
tresayle	Obsolete	A grandfather's grandfather.	French trisaïeul, from Latin tris.
tresor	Obsolete	Treasure.	
trespass		(Law) To commit a trespass; esp., to enter unlawfully upon the land of another.	
trespasser		One who commits a trespass; as: (a) (Law) One who enters upon another's land, or violates his rights.	
tress		A braid, knot, or curl, of hair; a ringlet.	Old French tresce.
tressed		Having tresses.	
tressel		A trestle.	
tressure		A kind of border similar to the orle, but of only half the breadth of the latter.	
tressured		Provided or bound with a tressure; arranged in the form of a tressure.	
tressy		Abounding in tresses.	
trestle		A movable frame or support for anything, as scaffolding, consisting of three or four legs secured to a top piece, and forming a sort of stool or horse, used by carpenters, masons, and other workmen; also…	
trestletree		One of two strong bars of timber, fixed horizontally on the opposite sides of the masthead, to support the crosstrees and the frame of the top; -- generally used in the plural.	
trestlework		A viaduct, pier, scaffold, or the like, resting on trestles connected together.	
tret		3d pers. sing. pres. of Tread, for treadeth.	
tretable	Obsolete	Tractable; moderate.	
trething	Obsolete	A tax; an impost.	
tretis	Obsolete	A treatise; also, a treaty.	
tretys	Obsolete	A treatise; also, a treaty.	
trevat		A weaver's cutting instrument; for severing the loops of the pile threads of velvet.	
trevet		A stool or other thing supported by three legs; a trivet.	
trews		Trowsers; especially, those of the Scotch Highlanders.	
trey		Three, at cards, dice, or dominoes; a card, die, or domino of three spots or pips.	
tri-		A prefix meaning three, thrice, threefold; as in tricolored, tridentate.	
triable		Fit or possible to be tried; liable to be subjected to trial or test.	
triableness		Quality or state of being triable.	
triacid		Capable of neutralizing three molecules of a monobasic acid or the equivalent; having three hydrogen atoms which may be acid radicals; -- said of certain bases; thus, glycerin is a triacid base.	
triacle	Obsolete	See Treacle — (Old Med.) A remedy against poison. See Theriac,	
triacontahedral		Having thirty sides.	
triaconter		A vessel with thirty banks of oars, or, as some say, thirty ranks of rowers.	
triad		A union of three; three objects treated as one; a ternary; a trinity; as, a triad of deities.	
triadelphous		Having stamens joined by filaments into three bundles. See Illust. under Adelphous.	
triadic		Having the characteristics of a triad; as, boron is triadic.	
triakisoctahedron		A trigonal trisoctahedron.	
trial		The act of trying or testing in any manner. Specifically: -- (a) Any effort or exertion of strength for the purpose of ascertaining what can be done or effected. defy thee to the trial of mortal fight.	Latin trialis.
triality		Three united; state of being three.	
trialogue		A discourse or colloquy by three persons.	
triamide		An amide containing three amido groups.	
triamine		An amine containing three amido groups.	
triander		Any one of the Triandria.	
triandria		A Linnæan class of plants having three distinct and equal stamens.	
triandrian		Of or pertaining to the Triandria; having three distinct and equal stamens in the same flower.	
triandrous		Of or pertaining to the Triandria; having three distinct and equal stamens in the same flower.	
triangle		(Geom.) A figure bounded by three lines, and containing three angles.	Old French triangle.
triangled		Having three angles; triangular.	
triangular		Having three angles; having the form of a triangle.	
triangulares		The triangular, or maioid, crabs. See Illust. under Maioid, and Illust. of Spider crab, under Spider.	
triangularity		The quality or state of being triangular.	
triangularly		In a triangular manner; in the form of a triangle.	
triangulate		To divide into triangles; specifically, to survey by means of a series of triangles properly laid down and measured.	
triangulation		The series or network of triangles into which the face of a country, or any portion of it, is divided in a trigonometrical survey…	
triarchy		Government by three persons; a triumvirate; also, a country under three rulers.	
triarian	Obsolete	Occupying the third post or rank.	Latin triarii.
triarticulate		Having three joints.	
trias		The formation situated between the Permian and Lias, and so named by the Germans, because consisting of three series of strata, which are called in German the Bunter sandstein, Muschelkalk, and Keuper.	
triassic		Of the age of, or pertaining to, the Trias. -- n.	
triatic		A term used in the phrase triatic stay. See under Stay.	
triatomic		(a) Having three atoms; -- said of certain elements or radicals. (b) Having a valence of three; trivalent; sometimes, in a specific sense, having three hydroxyl groups, whether acid or basic; thus, glycerin, glyceric acid…	
tribal		Of or pertaining to a tribe or tribes; as, a tribal scepter.	
tribalism		The state of existing in tribes; also, tribal feeling; tribal prejudice or exclusiveness; tribal peculiarities or characteristics.	
tribasic		Capable of neutralizing three molecules of a monacid base, or their equivalent; having three hydrogen atoms capable of replacement by basic elements on radicals; -- said of certain acids; thus, citric acid is a tribasic acid.	
tribble		A frame on which paper is dried.	
tribe		A family, race, or series of generations, descending from the same progenitor, and kept distinct, as in the case of the twelve tribes of Israel, descended from the twelve sons of Jacob. v. 5.	
triblet		A goldsmith's tool used in making rings.	
tribolet		A goldsmith's tool used in making rings.	
tribometer		An instrument to ascertain the degree of friction in rubbing surfaces.	
tribrach		A poetic foot of three short syllables, as, mèlì\'dcs.	
tribracteate		Having three bracts.	
tribromophenol		A colorless crystalline substance prepared by the reaction of carbolic acid with bromine.	
tribromphenol		A colorless crystalline substance prepared by the reaction of carbolic acid with bromine.	
tribual		Of or relating to a tribe; tribal; as, a tribual characteristic; tribular worship.	
tribular		Of or relating to a tribe; tribal; as, a tribual characteristic; tribular worship.	
tribulation		That which occasions distress, trouble, or vexation; severe affliction.	Middle English tribulation, from Old French tribulacion, from Latin tribulatio.
tribunal		The seat of a judge; the bench on which a judge and his associates sit for administering justice.	Old French tribunal, from Latin tribunal.
tribunary		Of or pertaining to tribunes; as, tribunary powers or authority.	
tribunate		The state or office of a tribune; tribuneship.	
tribune		Anciently, a bench or elevated place, from which speeches were delivered; in France, a kind of pulpit in the hall of the legislative assembly, where a member stands while making an address; any place occupied by a public orator.	Latin tribunus.
tribuneship		The office or power of a tribune.	
tribunician		Of or pertaining to tribunes; befitting a tribune; as, tribunitial power or authority.	
tribunitial		Of or pertaining to tribunes; befitting a tribune; as, tribunitial power or authority.	
tribunitian		Of or pertaining to tribunes; befitting a tribune; as, tribunitial power or authority.	
tribunitious	Obsolete	Tribunician; tribunitial.	
tributarily		In a tributary manner.	
tributariness		The quality or state of being tributary.	
tributary		Paying tribute to another, either from compulsion, as an acknowledgment of submission, or to secure protection, or for the purpose of purchasing peace. unto Rome made them tributary.	Middle English tributarie, from Latin tributarius.
tribute		An annual or stated sum of money or other valuable thing, paid by one ruler or nation to another, either as an acknowledgment of submission, or as the price of peace and protection, or by virtue of some treaty; as…	
tributer		One who works for a certain portion of the ore, or its value.	
trica		An apothecium in certain lichens, having a spherical surface marked with spiral or concentric ridges and furrows.	
tricarballylic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, a complex tribasic organic acid, C3H5.(CO2H)3 occurring naturally in unripe beet roots, and produced artificially from glycerin as a white crystalline substance.	
tricarbimide		See under Cyanuric.	
trice		(Naut.) To haul and tie up by means of a rope.	
tricennarious		Of or pertaining to thirty years; tricennial.	
tricennial		Of or pertaining to thirty years; consisting of thirty years; occurring once in every thirty years.	
tricentenary		Including, or relating to, the interval of three hundred years; tercentenary. -- n.	
triceps		A muscle having three heads; specif., the great extensor of the forearm, arising by three heads and inserted into the olecranon at the elbow.	Latin triceps.
trichiasis		A disease of the eye, in which the eyelashes, being turned in upon the eyeball, produce constant irritation by the motion of the lids.	
trichina		A small, slender nematoid worm (Trichina spiralis) which, in the larval state, is parasitic, often in immense numbers, in the voluntary muscles of man, the hog, and many other animals.	
trichiniasis		Trichinosis.	
trichinize		To render trichinous; to affect with trichinæ; -- chiefly used in the past participle; as, trichinized pork.	
trichinoscope		An apparatus for the detection of trichinæ in the flesh of animals, as of swine.	
trichinosis		The disease produced by the presence of trichinæ in the muscles and intestinal track.	Latin trichinosis.
trichinous		Of or pertaining to trichinæ or trichinosis; affected with, or containing, trichinæ; as, trichinous meat.	
trichite		(Min.) A kind of crystallite resembling a bunch of hairs, common in obsidian.	
trichiuriform		Like or pertaining to the genus Trichiurus or family Trichiuridæ, comprising the scabbard fishes and hairtails.	
trichiuroid		Of, like, or pertaining to, Trichiurus.	
trichiurus		A genus of fishes comprising the hairtails. See Hairtail.	
trichloride		A chloride having three atoms of chlorine in the molecule.	
trichobranchia		The gill of a crustacean in which the branchial filaments are slender and cylindrical, as in the crawfishes.	
trichocyst		A lasso cell.	
trichogyne		The slender, hairlike cell which receives the fertilizing particles, or antherozoids, in red seaweeds. -- Trich`o*gyn"ic, a.	
trichomanes		Any fern of the genus Trichomanes.	
trichomatose		Affected with a disease which causes agglutination and matting together; -- said of the hair when affected with plica.	
trichome		A hair on the surface of leaf or stem, or any modification of a hair, as a minute scale, or star, or gland.	
trichophore		(Bot.) The special cell in red algæ which produces or bears a trichogyne.	
trichopter		One of the Trichoptera.	
trichoptera		A suborder of Neuroptera usually having the wings covered with minute hairs.	
trichopteran		One of the Trichoptera.	
trichopterous		Of, pertaining to, or characterizing, the Trichoptera.	
trichord		An instrument, as a lyre or harp, having three strings.	
trichoscolices		An extensive group of wormlike animals characterized by being more or less covered with cilia.	
trichotomous		Divided into three parts, or into threes; three-forked; as, a trichotomous stem.	
trichotomy		Division into three parts.	
trichroic		Exhibiting trichroism; pleochroic; pleochroism.	
trichroism		The quality possessed by some crystals of presenting different colors in three different directions.	
trichromatic		Having or existing in three different phases of color; having three distinct color varieties; -- said of certain birds and insects.	
trichromatism		The quality, state, or phenomenon of being trichromatic.	
trichromic		If, pertaining to, or consisting of, three colors or color sensations.	
tricipital		Having three heads, or three origins; as, a tricipital muscle.	
trick		An artifice or stratagem; a cunning contrivance; a sly procedure, usually with a dishonest intent; as, a trick in trade. tricks of the trade mean simply specialized knowledge, in a good or neutral sense.	
tricker	Obsolete	One who tricks; a trickster.	
trickery		The art of dressing up; artifice; stratagem; fraud; imposture.	
trickiness		The quality of being tricky.	
tricking		Given to tricks; tricky.	
trickish		Given to tricks; artful in making bargains; given to deception and cheating; knavish. -- Trick ish*ness, n.	
trickle		To flow in a small, gentle stream; to run in drops.	
trickment	Obsolete	Decoration. & Fl.	
tricksiness		The quality or state of being tricksy; trickiness.	
trickster		One who tricks; a deceiver; a tricker; a cheat.	
tricksy		Exhibiting artfulness; trickish. he tricksy policy which in the seventeenth century passed for state wisdom.	
tricktrack		An old game resembling backgammon.	French trictrac.
tricky		Given to tricks; practicing deception; trickish; knavish.	
triclinate		Triclinic.	
tricliniary		Of or pertaining to a triclinium, or to the ancient mode of reclining at table.	Latin tricliniaris.
triclinic		Having, or characterized by, three unequal axes intersecting at oblique angles.	
triclinium		(a) A couch for reclining at meals, extending round three sides of a table, and usually in three parts.	Latin triclinium, from Greek τρικλίνιον.
tricoccous		Having three cocci, or roundish carpels.	
tricolor		The national French banner, of three colors, blue, white, and red, adopted at the first revolution.	
tricolored		Having three colors.	
tricornigerous		Having three horns.	
tricorporal		Represented with three bodies conjoined to one head, as a lion.	
tricorporate		Represented with three bodies conjoined to one head, as a lion.	
tricostate		Three-ribbed; having three ribs from the base.	
tricot		A fabric of woolen, silk, or cotton knitted, or women to resemble knitted work.	
tricrotic		Of or pertaining to tricrotism; characterized by tricrotism.	
tricrotism		That condition of the arterial pulse in which there is a triple beat.	
tricrotous		Tricrotic.	
tricurvate		Curved in three directions; as, a tricurvate spicule (see Illust. of Spicule).	
tricuspid		Having three cusps, or points; tricuspidate; as, a tricuspid molar.	
tricuspidate		Three-pointed; ending in three points; as, a tricuspidate leaf.	
tricycle		A three-wheeled velocipede. See Illust. under Velocipede.	
tridacna		A genus of very large marine bivalve shells found on the coral reefs of the Indian and Pacific Oceans.	
tridactyl		Having three fingers or toes, or composed of three movable parts attached to a common base.	
tridactyle		Having three fingers or toes, or composed of three movable parts attached to a common base.	
tridactylous		Tridactyl.	
triddler	Dialect	The jacksnipe.	
tride		Short and ready; fleet; as, a tride pace; -- a term used by sportsmen.	
tridecane		A hydrocarbon, C13H28, of the methane series, which is a probable ingredient both of crude petroleum and of kerosene, and is produced artificially as a light colorless liquid.	
tridecatoic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, that acid of the fatty acids heterologous with tridecane.	
tridecatylene		A hydrocarbon, C13H26, of the ethylene series, corresponding to tridecane, and obtained from Burmah petroleum as a light colorless liquid; -- called also tridecylene, and tridecene.	
trident		(Class Myth.) A kind of scepter or spear with three prongs, -- the common attribute of Neptune.	Latin tridens.
tridentate		Having three teeth; three-toothed.	
tridentated		Having three teeth; three-toothed.	
tridented		Having three prongs; trident; tridentate; as, a tridented mace.	
tridentiferous		Bearing a trident.	
tridentine		Of or pertaining to Trent, or the general church council held in that city.	
tridiapason		A triple octave, or twenty-second.	
tridimensional		Having three dimensions; extended in three different directions.	
triding		A riding. See Trithing.	
triduan		Lasting three lays; also, happening every third day.	Latin triduum.
tridymite		Pure silica, like quartz, but crystallizing in hexagonal tables.	
tried		imp. & p. p. of Try.	
triedral		See Trihedral — having three sides or faces; thus, a trihedral angle is a solid angle bounded by three plane angles.	
triennial		Continuing three years; as, triennial parliaments; a triennial reign.	Latin triennium.
triennially		Once in three years.	
triens		A Roman copper coin, equal to one third of the as. See 3d As, 2.	
trier		One who tries; one who makes experiments; one who examines anything by a test or standard.	
trierarch		(a) The commander of a trireme. (b) At Athens, one who (singly, or jointly with other citizens) had to fit out a trireme for the public service.	
trierarchy		The office duty of a trierarch.	
trieterical		Kept or occurring once in three years; triennial.	Latin trietericus.
trieterics		Festival games celebrated once in three years.	
triethylamine		A tertiary amine analogous to trimethylamine.	
trifacial		See Trigeminal — of, pertaining to, or designating, the fifth pair of cranial nerves, which divide on each side of the head into three main branches distributed to the orbits, jaws, and parts of the mouth…	
trifallow		To plow the third time before sowing, as land.	
trifarious		Facing three ways; arranged in three vertical ranks, as the leaves of veratrum.	
trifasciated		Having, or surrounded by, three fasciæ, or bands.	
trifid		Cleft to the middle, or slightly beyond the middle, into three parts; three-cleft.	
trifistulary		Having three pipes.	
trifle		A thing of very little value or importance; a paltry, or trivial, affair.	
trifler		One who trifles.	
trifling		Being of small value or importance; trivial; paltry; as, a trifling debt; a trifling affair. -- Tri fling*ness, n.	
trifloral		Three-flowered; having or bearing three flowers; as, a triflorous peduncle.	
triflorous		Three-flowered; having or bearing three flowers; as, a triflorous peduncle.	
trifluctuation	Obsolete	A concurrence of three waves.	
trifoliate		Having three leaves or leaflets, as clover. See Illust. of Shamrock.	
trifoliated		Having three leaves or leaflets, as clover. See Illust. of Shamrock.	
trifoliolate		(Bot.) Having three leaflets.	
trifolium		A genus of leguminous herbs with densely spiked flowers and usually trifoliate leaves; trefoil.	
trifoly	Obsolete	Sweet trefoil.	Latin trifolium, from English trefoil, from Esperanto trifolio.
triforium		The gallery or open space between the vaulting and the roof of the aisles of a church, often forming a rich arcade in the interior of the church, above the nave arches and below the clearstory windows.	
triform		Having a triple form or character.	
triformity		The state of being triform, or of having a threefold shape.	Latin triformitas.
trifurcate		Having three branches or forks; trichotomous.	
trifurcated		Having three branches or forks; trichotomous.	
trig	Obsolete	To fill; to stuff; to cram.	Middle English trig.
trigamist		One who has been married three times; also, one who has three husbands or three wives at the same time.	
trigamous		Having three sorts of flowers in the same head, -- male, female, and hermaphrodite, or perfect, flowers.	
trigamy		The act of marrying, or the state of being married, three times; also, the offense of having three husbands or three wives at the same time.	
trigastric		Having three bellies; -- said of a muscle.	
trigeminal		Of, pertaining to, or designating, the fifth pair of cranial nerves, which divide on each side of the head into three main branches distributed to the orbits, jaws, and parts of the mouth; trifacial.	
trigeminous		Born three together; being one of three born at the same birth; also, threefold.	
trigenic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C4H7N3O2, obtained, by the action of the vapor of cyanic acid on cold aldehyde, as a white crystalline substance having a slightly acid taste and faint smell…	
trigesimo-secundo		Having thirty-two leaves to a sheet; as, a trigesimo-secundo form, book, leaf, size, etc. A book composed of sheets so folded that each one makes thirty- two leaves; hence, indicating, more or less definitely, a size of book…	
trigger		A catch to hold the wheel of a carriage on a declivity.	
trigintal		A trental.	Latin trigintate.
triglyceride		A glyceride formed by the replacement of three hydrogen atoms in glycerin by acid radicals.	
triglyph		An ornament in the frieze of the Doric order, repeated at equal intervals.	
triglyphic		Containing three sets of characters or sculptures.	
triglyphical		Containing three sets of characters or sculptures.	
trigness		The quality or state of being trig; smartness; neatness.	
trigon		A figure having three angles; a triangle.	Greek τρίγωνον.
trigonal		Having three angles, or corners; triangular; as, a trigonal stem, one having tree prominent longitudinal angles.	
trigone		A smooth triangular area on the inner surface of the bladder, limited by the apertures of the ureters and urethra.	
trigonia		A genus of pearly bivalve shells, numerous extinct species of which are characteristic of the Mesozoic rocks.	
trigonid		The cutting region of the crown of an upper molar, usually the anterior part.	
trigonocerous		Having horns with three angles, like those of some species of goats.	
trigonodont		See Trituberculy — a theory of the development of mammalian molar teeth.	
trigonometric		Of or pertaining to trigonometry; performed by the rules of trigonometry. --Trig`o*no*met"ric*al*ly, adv.	
trigonometrical		Of or pertaining to trigonometry; performed by the rules of trigonometry. --Trig`o*no*met"ric*al*ly, adv.	
trigonometry		That branch of mathematics which treats of the relations of the sides and angles of triangles, which the methods of deducing from certain given parts other required parts…	Latin trigonometria.
trigonous		Same as Trigonal.	Latin trigonus.
trigram		Same as Trigraph.	
trigrammatic		Containing three letters or characters, or three sets of letters or characters.	
trigrammic		Same as Trigrammatic.	
trigraph		Three letters united in pronunciation so as to have but one sound, or to form but one syllable, as -ieu in adieu; a triphthong.	
trigyn		Any one of the Trigynia.	
trigynia		A Linnæan order of plants having three pistils or styles.	
trigynian		Having three pistils or styles; of or pertaining to the Trigynia.	
trigynous		Having three pistils or styles; of or pertaining to the Trigynia.	
trihedral		Having three sides or faces; thus, a trihedral angle is a solid angle bounded by three plane angles.	
trihedron		A figure having three sides.	
trihoral		Occurring once in every three hours.	
trihybrid		A hybrid whose parents differ by three pairs of contrasting Mendelian characters.	
trijugate		In three pairs; as, a trijugate leaf, or a pinnate leaf with three pairs of leaflets.	
trijugous		Same as Trijugate.	
trikosane		A hydrocarbon, C23H48, of the methane series, resembling paraffin; -- so called because it has twenty-three atoms of carbon in the molecule.	
trilateral		Having three sides; being three-sided; as, a trilateral triangle. -- Tri*lat er*al*ness, n.	
trilemma		(Logic) A syllogism with three conditional propositions, the major premises of which are disjunctively affirmed in the minor.	
trilinear		Of, pertaining to, or included by, three lines; as, trilinear coördinates.	
trilingual		Containing, or consisting of, three languages; expressed in three languages.	
trilinguar		See Trilingual — containing, or consisting of, three languages; expressed in three languages.	
triliteral		Consisting of three letters; trigrammic; as, a triliteral root or word. -- n.	
triliteralism		Same as Triliterality.	
triliterality		The quality of being triliteral; as, the triliterality of Hebrew roots.	
triliteralness		The quality of being triliteral; as, the triliterality of Hebrew roots.	
trilith		Same as Trilithon.	
trilithic		Pertaining to a trilith.	
trilithon		A monument consisting of three stones; especially, such a monument forming a kind of doorway, as among the ancient Celts.	
trill		A sound, of consonantal character, made with a rapid succession of partial or entire intermissions, by the vibration of some one part of the organs in the mouth -- tongue, uvula, epiglottis, or lip -- against another part; as…	Middle English trillen.
trillachan	English dialect	The oyster catcher.	
trilling		One of tree children born at the same birth.	
trillion		According to the French notation, which is used upon the Continent generally and in the United States, the number expressed by a unit with twelve ciphers annexed; a million millions; according to the English notation…	French trillion.
trillium		A genus of liliaceous plants; the three-leaved nightshade; -- so called because all the parts of the plant are in threes.	
trillo		A trill or shake. See Trill.	
trilobate		Having three lobes.	
trilobation		The state of being trilobate.	
trilobed		Same as Trilobate.	
trilobita		An extinct order of arthropods comprising the trilobites.	
trilobite		Any one of numerous species of extinct arthropods belonging to the order Trilobita.	
trilobitic		Of, pertaining to or containing, trilobites; as, trilobitic rocks.	
trilocular		Having three cells or cavities; as, a trilocular capsule; a trilocular heart.	
trilogy		A series of three dramas which, although each of them is in one sense complete, have a close mutual relation, and form one historical and poetical picture.	
triluminar		Having three lights	
triluminous		Having three lights	
trim		To make trim; to put in due order for any purpose; to make right, neat, or pleasing; to adjust.	Old English trymman.
trimaculated		Marked with three spots, or maculæ.	
trimellic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, a certain tribasic acid (called also trimellitic acid) metameric with trimesitic acid.	
trimembral		Having, or consisting of, three members.	
trimera		A division of Coleoptera including those which have but three joints in the tarsi.	
trimeran		One of the Trimera.	
trimerous		Having the parts in threes.	
trimesitic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, a tribasic acid, C6H3.(CO2)3, of the aromatic series, obtained, by the oxidation of mesitylene, as a white crystalline substance.	
trimester		A term or period of three months.	French trimestre.
trimestral		Trimestrial.	
trimestrial		Of or pertaining to a trimester, or period of three months; occurring once in every three months; quarterly.	
trimeter		Consisting of three poetical measures. -- n.	
trimethyl		(Chem.) A prefix or combining form (also used adjectively) indicating the presence of three methyl groups.	
trimethylamine		A colorless volatile alkaline liquid, N.(CH3)3, obtained from herring brine, beet roots, etc., with a characteristic herringlike odor.	
trimethylene		A gaseous hydrocarbon, C3H6, isomeric with propylene and obtained from it indirectly.	
trimetric		Same as Orthorhombic.	
trimetrical		Same as Trimeter.	
trimly		In a trim manner; nicely.	
trimmer		One who trims, arranges, fits, or ornaments.	
trimming		The act of one who trims.	
trimmingly		In a trimming manner.	
trimness		The quality or state of being trim; orderliness; compactness; snugness; neatness.	
trimorph		A substance which crystallizes in three distinct forms, or which has three distinct physical states; also, any one of these distinct forms.	
trimorphic		Of, pertaining to, or characterized by, trimorphism; -- contrasted with monomorphic, dimorphic, and polymorphic.	
trimorphism		(Crystallog.) The property of crystallizing in three forms fundamentally distinct, as is the case with titanium dioxide, which crystallizes in the forms of rutile, octahedrite, and brookite.	
trimorphous		Of, pertaining to, or characterized by, trimorphism; -- contrasted with monomorphic, dimorphic, and polymorphic.	
trimurti		The triad, or trinity, of Hindoo gods, consisting of Brahma, the Creator, Vishnu, the Preserver, and Siva, the Destroyer.	
trimyarian		A lamellibranch which has three muscular scars on each valve.	
trinal		Threefold.	Latin trinalis.
trindle		See Trundle — a round body; a little wheel.	Middle English trindel, from Old English tryndel.
trine		Threefold; triple; as, trine dimensions, or length, breadth, and thickness.	Middle French trin, from Latin trinus.
trinervate		Having three ribs or nerves extending unbranched from the base to the apex; -- said of a leaf.	
trinerve		Same as Trinervate.	
trinerved		Same as Trinervate.	
tringa		A genus of limicoline birds including many species of sandpipers. See Dunlin, Knot, and Sandpiper.	
tringle		A curtain rod for a bedstead.	French tringle.
tringoid		Of or pertaining to Tringa, or the Sandpiper family.	
trinitarian		Of or pertaining to the Trinity, the doctrine of the Trinity, or believers in that doctrine.	
trinitarianism		The doctrine of the Trinity; the doctrine that there are three distinct persons in the Godhead.	
trinitrocellulose		Gun cotton; -- so called because regarded as containing three nitro groups.	
trinitrophenol		Picric acid.	
trinity		(Christian Theol.) The union of three persons (the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost) in one Godhead, so that all the three are one God as to substance, but three persons as to individuality.	Old French trinité, from Latin trinitas.
triniunity	Obsolete	Triunity; trinity.	
trink	Obsolete	A kind of fishing net.	
trinket		A three-cornered sail formerly carried on a ship's foremast, probably on a lateen yard.	
trinketer	Obsolete	One who trinkets.	
trinketry		Ornaments of dress; trinkets, collectively.	
trinkle	Obsolete	To act secretly, or in an underhand way; to tamper.	
trinoctial		Lasting during three nights; comprising three nights.	
trinodal		(Bot.) Having three knots or nodes; having three points from which a leaf may shoot; as, a trinodal stem.	
trinomial		A quantity consisting of three terms, connected by the sign + or -; as, x + y + z, or ax + 2b - c2.	
trinominal		Trinomial.	
trinucleus		A genus of Lower Silurian trilobites in which the glabella and cheeks form three rounded elevations on the head.	
trio		Three, considered collectively; three in company or acting together; a set of three; three united.	
triobolar	Obsolete	Of the value of three oboli; hence, mean; worthless.	
triobolary	Obsolete	Of the value of three oboli; hence, mean; worthless.	
trioctile		An aspect of two planets with regard to the earth when they are three octants, or three eighths of a circle, that is, 135 degrees, distant from each other.	
trioecia		The third order of the Linnæan class Polygamia.	
trioecious		Having three sorts of flowers on the same or on different plants, some of the flowers being staminate, others pistillate, and others both staminate and pistillate; belonging to the order Trioecia.	
triole		Same as Triplet.	
triolein		See Olein — a fat, liquid at ordinary temperatures, but solidifying at temperatures below 0° C., found abundantly in both the animal and vegetable kingdoms (see Palmitin).	
triolet		A short poem or stanza of eight lines, in which the first line is repeated as the fourth and again as the seventh line, the second being, repeated as the eighth.	
trional		A compound similar to sulphonal, used as a hypnotic in medicine.	
trionychoidea		A division of chelonians which comprises Trionyx and allied genera; -- called also Trionychoides, and Trionychina.	
trionyx		A genus of fresh-water or river turtles which have the shell imperfectly developed and covered with a soft leathery skin.	
trior		Same as Trier, 2 and 3.	
triose		(a) A sugar derived from a trihydric alcohol. (b) A trisaccharide.	
trioxide		An oxide containing three atoms of oxygen; as, sulphur trioxide, SO3; -- formerly called tritoxide.	
trip		To move with light, quick steps; to walk or move lightly; to skip; to move the feet nimbly; -- sometimes followed by it.	Old French tripper.
tripalmitate		A palmitate derived from three molecules of palmitic acid.	
tripalmitin		See Palmitin — a solid crystallizable fat, found abundantly in animals and in vegetables.	
tripang		See Trepang — any one of several species of large holothurians, some of which are dried and extensively used as food in China; -- called also bêche de mer, sea cucumber, and sea slug.	
triparted		(Her.) Parted into three piece; having three parts or pieces; -- said of the field or of a bearing; as, a cross triparted.	
tripartible		Divisible into three parts.	
tripartient		Dividing into three parts; -- said of a number which exactly divides another into three parts.	
tripartite		Divided into three parts; triparted; as, a tripartite leaf.	Latin tripartitus.
tripartitely		In a tripartite manner.	
tripartition		A division by threes, or into three parts; the taking of a third part of any number or quantity.	
tripaschal		Including three passovers.	
tripe		The large stomach of ruminating animals, when prepared for food.	
tripe-de-roche		Same as Rock tripe, under Rock.	
tripedal		Having three feet.	
tripel		Same as Tripoli.	
tripeman		A man who prepares or sells tripe.	
tripennate		Same as Tripinnate.	
tripersonal		Consisting of three persons.	
tripersonalist		A Trinitarian.	
tripersonality		The state of existing as three persons in one Godhead; trinity.	
tripery		A place where tripe is prepared or sold.	
tripestone		A variety of anhydrite composed of contorted plates fancied to resemble pieces of tripe.	
tripetaloid		Having the form or appearance of three petals; appearing as if furnished with three petals.	
tripetalous		Having three petals, or flower leaves; three-petaled.	
triphane		Spodumene.	
triphthong		A combination of three vowel sounds in a single syllable, forming a simple or compound sound; also, a union of three vowel characters, representing together a single sound; a trigraph; as, eye, -ieu in adieu, -eau in beau…	
triphthongal		Of or pertaining to a triphthong; consisting of three vowel sounds pronounced together in a single syllable.	
triphyline		Triphylite.	
triphylite		A mineral of a grayish-green or bluish color, consisting of the phosphates of iron, manganese, and lithia.	
triphyllous		Having three leaves; three-leaved.	
tripinnate		Having bipinnate leaflets arranged on each side of a rhachis.	
tripinnatifid		Thrice pinnately cleft; -- said of a pinnatifid leaf when its segments are pinnatifid, and the subdivisions of these also are pinnatifid.	
tripitaka		The three divisions, or (pitakas), of buddhist scriptures, -- the Vinayapitaka, or Basket of Discipline; Suttapitaka, or Basket of Discourses; and Abhidhammapitaka, or Basket of Metaphysics.	
triplasian	Obsolete	Three-fold; triple; treble.	
triple		Consisting of three united; multiplied by three; threefold; as, a triple knot; a triple tie.	
triple-crowned		Having three crowns; wearing the triple crown, as the pope.	
triple-headed		Having three heads; three-headed; as, the triple-headed dog Cerberus.	
triple-tail		An edible fish (Lobotes Surinamensis) found in the warmer parts of all the oceans, and common on the southern and middle coasts of the United States.	
triplet		A collection or combination of three of a kind; three united.	
triplex		Havingthree principal operative parts or motions, so as to produce a three-fold effect.	Latin triplex.
triplicate		Made thrice as much; threefold; tripled.	
triplicate-ternate		Triternate.	
triplication		The act of tripling, or making threefold, or adding three together.	
triplicity		The quality or state of being triple, or threefold; trebleness.	
triplicostate		Three-ribbed.	
triplite		A mineral of a dark brown color, generally with a fibrous, massive structure.	
triploblastic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, that condition of the ovum in which there are three primary germinal layers, or in which the blastoderm splits into three layers.	
triploidite		A manganese phosphate near triplite, but containing hydroxyl instead of fluorine.	
triply		In a triple manner.	
tripmadam		Same as Prickmadam.	
tripod		Any utensil or vessel, as a stool, table, altar, caldron, etc., supported on three feet.	
tripodian		An ancient stringed instrument; -- so called because, in form, it resembled the Delphic tripod.	
tripody		Three metrical feet taken together, or included in one measure.	
tripoli		An earthy substance originally brought from Tripoli, used in polishing stones and metals.	
tripoline		Of or pertaining to Tripoli or its inhabitants; Tripolitan.	
tripolitan		Of or pertaining to Tripoli or its inhabitants; Tripoline. -- n.	
tripos		A university examination of questionists, for honors; also, a tripos paper; one who prepares a tripos paper.	
trippant		See Tripping, a., 2.	
tripper		One who trips or supplants; also, one who walks or trips nimbly; a dancer.	
trippet		A cam, wiper, or projecting piece which strikes another piece repeatedly.	
tripping		Quick; nimble; stepping lightly and quickly.	
trippingly		In a tripping manner; with a light, nimble, quick step; with agility; nimbly.	
tripsis		(a) Trituration. (b) Shampoo.	
triptote		A noun having three cases only.	
triptych		Anything in three parts or leaves. Specifically: -- (a) A writing tablet in three parts, two of which fold over on the middle part.	
tripudiary		Of or pertaining to dancing; performed by dancing.	
tripudiate		To dance.	
tripudiation		The act of dancing.	Latin tripudiatio.
triquadrantal		Having three quadrants; thus, a triquadrantal triangle is one whose three sides are quadrants, and whose three angles are consequently right angles.	
triquetral		Triquetrous.	
triquetrous		Three sided, the sides being plane or concave; having three salient angles or edges; trigonal.	Latin triquetrus.
triquetrum		One of the bones of the carpus; the cuneiform. See Cuneiform (b).	
triradiate		Having three rays.	
triradiated		Having three rays.	
trirectangular		Having three right angles. See Triquadrantal.	
trireme		An ancient galley or vessel with tree banks, or tiers, of oars.	Latin triremis.
trirhomboidal		Having three rhombic faces or sides.	
trisaccharid		A complex sugar, as raffinose, yielding by hydrolysis three simple sugar molecules.	
trisaccharide		A complex sugar, as raffinose, yielding by hydrolysis three simple sugar molecules.	
trisacramentarian		One who recognizes three sacraments, and no more; -- namely, baptism, the Lord's Supper, and penance.	
trisagion		An ancient anthem, -- usually known by its Latin name tersanctus.See Tersanctus.	
trisect		To cut or divide into three parts.	
trisected		Divided into three parts or segments by incisions extending to the midrib or to the base; -- said of leaves.	
trisection		The division of a thing into three parts, Specifically: (Geom.) the division of an angle into three equal parts.	
triseralous		Having three sepals, or calyx leaves.	
triserial		Arranged in three vertical or spiral rows.	
triseriate		Arranged in three vertical or spiral rows.	
triskele		A figure composed of three branches, usually curved, radiating from a center, as the figure composed of three human legs, with bent knees, which has long been used as a badge or symbol of Sicily and of the Isle of Man.	
triskelion		A figure composed of three branches, usually curved, radiating from a center, as the figure composed of three human legs, with bent knees, which has long been used as a badge or symbol of Sicily and of the Isle of Man.	
trismus		The lockjaw.	
trisnitrate		A nitrate formed from three molecules of nitric acid; also, less properly, applied to certain basic nitrates; as, trisnitrate of bismuth.	
trisoctahedron		A solid of the isometric system bounded by twenty-four equal faces, three corresponding to each face of an octahedron.	
trispast		A machine with three pulleys which act together for raising great weights.	
trispaston		A machine with three pulleys which act together for raising great weights.	
trispermous		Containing three seeds; three-seeded; as, a trispermous capsule.	
trisplanchnic		Of or pertaining to the three great splanchnic cavities, namely, that of the head, the chest, and the abdomen; -- applied to the sympathetic nervous system.	
trist	Obsolete	A secret meeting, or the place of such meeting; a tryst. See Tryst.	French triste.
triste	English dialect	A cattle fair.	
tristearate		Tristearin.	
tristearin		See Stearin — one of the constituents of animal fats and also of some vegetable fats, as the butter of cacao.	
tristful		Sad; sorrowful; gloomy.	
tristfully		In a tristful manner; sadly.	
tristichous		Arranged in three vertical rows.	
tristigmatic		Having, or consisting of, three stigmas.	
tristigmatose		Having, or consisting of, three stigmas.	
tristitiate	Obsolete	To make sad.	
tristoma		Any one of numerous species of trematode worms belonging to Tristoma and allied genera having a large posterior sucker and two small anterior ones.	
tristy	Obsolete	See Trist, a.	
trisulc	Obsolete	Something having three forks or prongs, as a trident.	
trisulcate		Having three furrows, forks, or prongs; having three grooves or sulci; three-grooved.	
trisulphide		A sulphide containing three atoms of sulphur.	
trisyllabic		Of or pertaining to a trisyllable; consisting of three syllables; as, is a trisyllabic word. -- Tris`yllab"ic*al*ly, adv.	
trisyllabical		Of or pertaining to a trisyllable; consisting of three syllables; as, is a trisyllabic word. -- Tris`yllab"ic*al*ly, adv.	
trisyllable		A word consisting of three syllables only; as, a-ven-ger.	
trite		Worn out; common; used until so common as to have lost novelty and interest; hackneyed; stale; as, a trite remark; a trite subject. -- Trite ness, n.	Latin tritus.
triternate		Three times ternate; -- applied to a leaf whose petiole separates into three branches, each of which divides into three parts which each bear three leafiets.	
tritheism		The opinion or doctrine that the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are three distinct Gods.	
tritheist		One who believes in tritheism.	
tritheistic		Of or pertaining to tritheism.	
tritheistical		Of or pertaining to tritheism.	
tritheite	Obsolete	A tritheist.	
trithing		One of three ancient divisions of a county in England; -- now called riding.	
trithionate		A salt of trithionic acid.	
trithionic		Of or pertaining to, or designating, a certain thionic acid, H2S3O6 which is obtained as a colorless, odorless liquid.	
triticin		A carbohydrate isomeric with dextrin, obtained from quitch grass (Agropyrum, formerly Triticum, repens) as a white amorphous substance.	
triticum		A genus of grasses including the various species of wheat.	
triton		A fabled sea demigod, the son of Neptune and Amphitrite, and the trumpeter of Neptune.	
tritone		A superfluous or augmented fourth.	
tritorium		Same as Triturium.	
tritovum		An embryonic insect which has twice cast its skin previous to hatching from the egg.	
tritozooid		A zooid of the third generation in asexual reproduction.	
tritubercular		(a) Having or designating teeth with three cusps or tubercles; tricuspid.	
trituberculy		A theory of the development of mammalian molar teeth.	
triturable		Capable of being triturated.	
triturate		To rub, grind, bruise, or thrash.	
trituration		The act of triturating, or reducing to a fine or impalpable powder by grinding, rubbing, bruising, etc. Paley.	
triture	Obsolete	A rubbing or grinding; trituration.	
triturium		A vessel for separating liquids of different densities.	
tritylene		Propylene.	
triumph		A state of joy or exultation for success.	Old French triumphe, from Latin triumphus.
triumphal	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to triumph; used in a triumph; indicating, or in honor of, a triumph or victory; as, a triumphal crown; a triumphal arch.	
triumphant		Rejoicing for victory; triumphing; exultant.	
triumphantly		In a triumphant manner.	
triumpher		One who triumphs or rejoices for victory.	
triumphing		Having or celebrating a triumph; victorious; triumphant. -- Tri"umph*ing*ly, adv.	
triumvir		One of tree men united in public office or authority.	
triumvirate		Government by three in coalition or association; the term of such a government.	Latin triumviratus.
triumviry	Obsolete	A triumvirate.	
triune		Being three in one; -- an epithet used to express the unity of a trinity of persons in the Godhead.	
triungulus		The active young larva of any oil beetle.	
triunity		The quality or state of being triune; trinity.	
trivalence		The quality or state of being trivalent.	
trivalent		Having a valence of three; capable of being combined with, substituted for, or compared with, three atoms of hydrogen; -- said of triad atoms or radicals; thus, nitrogen is trivalent in ammonia.	
trivalve		Anything having three valves, especially a shell.	
trivalvular		Having three valves; three-valved.	
trivant	Obsolete	A truant.	
triverbial		Pertaining to, or designating, certain days allowed to the pretor for hearing causes, when be might speak the three characteristic words of his office, do, dico, addico.	
trivet		A tree-legged stool, table, or other support; especially, a stand to hold a kettle or similar vessel near the fire; a tripod.	
trivial		Ordinary; commonplace; trifling; vulgar.	Latin trivialis.
trivialism		A trivial matter or method; a triviality.	
triviality		The quality or state of being trivial; trivialness.	
trivially		In a trivial manner.	
trivialness		Quality or state of being trivial.	
trivium		The three arts, grammar, logic, and rhetoric; -- being a triple way, as it were, to eloquence.	
triweekly		Occurring or appearing three times a week; thriceweekly; as, a triweekly newspaper. -- adv.	
troad	Obsolete	See Trode.	
troat		To cry, as a buck in rutting time.	
trocar		A stylet, usually with a triangular point, used for exploring tissues or for inserting drainage tubes, as in dropsy.	
trocha		A line of fortifications, usually rough, constructed to prevent the passage of an enemy across a region.	
trochaic		A trochaic verse or measure.	
trochaical		Of or pertaining to trochees; consisting of trochees; as, trochaic measure or verse.	
trochal		Resembling a wheel.	
trochanter		(Anat.) One of two processes near the head of the femur, the outer being called the great trochanter, and the inner the small trochanter.	Greek τροχαντήρ.
trochanteric		Of or pertaining to one or both of the trochanters.	
trochantine		The second joint of the leg of an insect, -- often united with the coxa.	
trochar		See Trocar — a stylet, usually with a triangular point, used for exploring tissues or for inserting drainage tubes, as in dropsy.	
troche		A medicinal tablet or lozenge; strictly, one of circular form.	
trochee		A foot of two syllables, the first long and the second short, as in the Latin word ante, or the first accented and the second unaccented, as in the English word motion; a choreus.	
trochil		The crocodile bird.	Latin trochilus.
trochili		A division of birds comprising the humming birds.	
trochilic		OF or pertaining to rotary motion; having power to draw out or turn round.	
trochilics		The science of rotary motion, or of wheel work.	
trochilidist		One who studies, or is versed in, the nature and habits of humming birds, or the Trochilidæ.	
trochilos		The crocodile bird, or trochil.	
trochilus		(Arch.) An annular molding whose section is concave, like the edge of a pulley; -- called also scotia.	
troching		One of the small branches of a stag's antler.	
trochiscus		A kind of tablet or lozenge; a troche.	
trochisk	Obsolete	See Trochiscus — a kind of tablet or lozenge; a troche.	
trochite		A wheel-like joint of the stem of a fossil crinoid.	
trochlea		(Anat.) A pulley, or a structure resembling a pulley; as, the trochlea, or pulleylike end, of the humerus, which articulates with the ulna; or the trochlea, or fibrous ring, in the upper part of the orbit…	
trochlear		Shaped like, or resembling, a pulley; pertaining to, or connected with, a trochlea; as, a trochlear articular surface; the trochlear muscle of the eye.	Latin trochlea.
trochleary		Pertaining to, or connected with, a trochlea; trochlear; as, the trochleary, or trochlear, nerve.	
trochoid		The curve described by any point in a wheel rolling on a line; a cycloid; a roulette; in general…	Greek τροχοειδής.
trochoidal		(Geom.) Of or pertaining to a trochoid; having the properties of a trochoid.	
trochometer		A contrivance for computing the revolutions of a wheel; an odometer.	
trochosphere		A young larval form of many annelids, mollusks, and bryozoans, in which a circle of cilia is developed around the anterior end.	
trochus		Any one of numerous species of marine univalve shells belonging to Trochus and many allied genera of the family Trochidæ.	
troco		An old English game; -- called also lawn billiards.	
trod		imp. & p. p. of Tread.	
trodden		p. p. of Tread — to set the foot; to step.	
trode	Obsolete	imp. of Tread — to set the foot; to step.	
troglodyte		(Ethnol.) One of any savage race that dwells in caves, instead of constructing dwellings; a cave dweller.	Latin troglodyta, from Greek τρωγλοδύτης.
troglodytes		(Zoöl.) A genus of apes including the chimpanzee.	
troglodytic		Of or pertaining to a troglodyte, or dweller in caves.	
troglodytical		Of or pertaining to a troglodyte, or dweller in caves.	
trogon		Any one of numerous species of beautiful tropical birds belonging to the family Trogonidæ.	
trogonoid		Like or pertaining to the trogons.	
trogue		A wooden trough, forming a drain.	
troic		Pertaining to Troy; Trojan.	
troilite		Native iron protosulphide, FeS.	
troilus		A large, handsome American butterfly (Euphoeades, or Papilio, troilus).	
trojan		Of or pertaining to ancient Troy or its inhabitants. -- n.	
troll		A supernatural being, often represented as of diminutive size, but sometimes as a giant, and fabled to inhabit caves, hills, and like places; a witch.	Middle English trollen.
troller		One who trolls.	
trolley		(a) A form of truck which can be tilted, for carrying railroad materials, or the like.	
trollmydames	Obsolete	The game of nineholes.	French trou-madame.
trollop		A stroller; a loiterer; esp., an idle, untidy woman; a slattern; a slut; a whore.	
trollopee	Obsolete	A kind of loose dress for women.	
trolly		(a) A form of truck which can be tilted, for carrying railroad materials, or the like.	
trombone		(Mus.) A powerful brass instrument of the trumpet kind, thought by some to be the ancient sackbut, consisting of a tube in three parts, bent twice upon itself and ending in a bell.	Italian trombone.
trommel		A revolving buddle or sieve for separating, or sizing, ores.	
tromp	Obsolete	A blowing apparatus, in which air, drawn into the upper part of a vertical tube through side holes by a stream of water within, is carried down with the water into a box or chamber below which it is led to a furnace.	French trombe, from Italian tromba.
trompe	Obsolete	A trumpet; a trump.	
trompil		An aperture in a tromp.	
tron		See 3d Trone,	
trona		A native double salt, consisting of a combination of neutral and acid sodium carbonate, Na2CO3.2HNaCO3.2H2O, occurring as a white crystalline fibrous deposit from certain soda brine springs and lakes; -- called also urao…	
tronage	Obsolete	A toll or duty paid for weighing wool; also, the act of weighing wool.	
tronator	Obsolete	An officer in London whose duty was to weigh wool.	
trone	Scots	A form of weighing machine for heavy wares, consisting of two horizontal bars crossing each other, beaked at the extremities, and supported by a wooden pillar.	
trones	Scots	A form of weighing machine for heavy wares, consisting of two horizontal bars crossing each other, beaked at the extremities, and supported by a wooden pillar.	
troop		Soldiers, collectively; an army; -- now generally used in the plural.	
troopbird		Any troupial.	
trooper		A soldier in a body of cavalry; a cavalryman; also, the horse of a cavalryman.	
troopfowl	Dialect	The American scaup duck.	
troopial		Same as Troupial.	
troopmeal	Obsolete	By troops; in crowds.	
troopship		A vessel built or fitted for the conveyance of troops; a transport.	
troostite		Willemite.	
tropaeolin		A name given to any one of a series of orange-red dyestuffs produced artificially from certain complex sulphonic acid derivatives of azo and diazo hydrocarbons of the aromatic series…	
trope		(a) The use of a word or expression in a different sense from that which properly belongs to it; the use of a word or expression as changed from the original signification to another…	Latin tropus, from Greek τρόπος.
tropeine		Any one of a series of artificial ethereal salts derived from the alkaloidal base tropine.	
trophi		The mouth parts of an insect, collectively, including the labrum, labium, maxillæ, mandibles, and lingua, with their appendages.	
trophic		Of or connected with nutrition; nitritional; nourishing; as, the so-called trophic nerves, which have a direct influence on nutrition.	Greek τροφικός.
trophied		Adorned with trophies.	
trophonian		Of or pertaining to Trophonius, his architecture, or his cave and oracle.	
trophosome		The nutritive zooids of a hydroid, collectively, as distinguished from the gonosome, or reproductive zooids.	
trophosperm		The placenta.	
trophy		The representation of such a memorial, as on a medal; esp. (Arch.), an ornament representing a group of arms and military weapons, offensive and defensive.	Middle French trophée, from Latin trophæum.
tropic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from atropine and certain other alkaloids, as a white crystalline substance slightly soluble in water.	Latin tropicus, from Greek τροπικός.
tropical		Of or pertaining to the tropics; characteristic of, or incident to, the tropics; being within the tropics; as, tropical climate; tropical latitudes; tropical heat; tropical diseases.	
tropically		In a tropical manner; figuratively; metaphorically.	
tropidine		An alkaloid, C8H13N, obtained by the chemical dehydration of tropine, as an oily liquid having a coninelike odor.	
tropilidene		A liquid hydrocarbon obtained by the dry distillation of tropine with quicklime.	
tropine		A white crystalline alkaloid, C8H15NO, produced by decomposing atropine.	
tropism		Modification of the direction of growth.	
tropist		One who deals in tropes; specifically, one who avoids the literal sense of the language of Scripture by explaining it as mere tropes and figures of speech.	
tropologic		Characterized by tropes; varied by tropes; tropical.	
tropological		Characterized by tropes; varied by tropes; tropical.	
tropologize		To use in a tropological sense, as a word; to make a trope of.	
tropology		A rhetorical mode of speech, including tropes, or changes from the original import of the word.	Modern Greek (1453- τροπολογία.
troppo		Too much; as, allegro ma non troppo, brisk but not too much so.	
trossers	Obsolete	Trousers.	
trot		To proceed by a certain gait peculiar to quadrupeds; to ride or drive at a trot.	Middle English trotten, from Old French trotter.
troth		Belief; faith; fidelity.	Middle English trouthe, from Old English treoth.
trothless		Faitless; false; treacherous.	
trothplight	Obsolete	To betroth.	
trothplighted		Having fidelity pledged.	
trotter		One that trots; especially, a horse trained to be driven in trotting matches.	
trottoir		Footpath; pavement; sidewalk.	
trou-de-loup		A pit in the form of an inverted cone or pyramid, constructed as an obstacle to the approach of an enemy, and having a pointed stake in the middle.	
troubadour		One of a school of poets who flourished from the eleventh to the thirteenth century, principally in Provence, in the south of France, and also in the north of Italy.	
troublable	Obsolete	Causing trouble; troublesome. troublable ire." Chaucer.	
trouble		To put into confused motion; to disturb; to agitate.	
troubler		One who troubles or disturbs; one who afflicts or molests; a disturber; as, a troubler of the peace.	
troublesome		Giving trouble or anxiety; vexatious; burdensome; wearisome.	
troublous		Full of trouble; causing trouble.	Old French troubleus.
trough		A long, hollow vessel, generally for holding water or other liquid, especially one formed by excavating a log longitudinally on one side; a long tray; also, a wooden channel for conveying water, as to a mill wheel.	Old English trog.
trough-shell		Any bivalve shell of the genus Mactra. See Mactra.	
troul		See Troll — a supernatural being, often represented as of diminutive size, but sometimes as a giant, and fabled to inhabit caves, hills, and like places; a witch.	
trounce	Colloquial	To punish or beat severely; to whip smartly; to flog; to castigate.	
troupe		A company or troop, especially the company pf performers in a play or an opera.	
troupial		Any one of numerous species of bright-colored American birds belonging to Icterus and allied genera, especially Icterus icterus, a native of the West Indies and South America.	
trouse	Obsolete	Trousers.	
trousering		Cloth or material for making trousers.	
trousers		A garment worn by men and boys, extending from the waist to the knee or to the ankle, and covering each leg separately. pants; used attrib. in the singular, as a trouser leg; see pant	
trousse		A case for small implements; as, a surgeon's trousse.	
trousseau		The collective lighter equipments or outfit of a bride, including clothes, jewelry, and the like; especially, that which is provided for her by her family.	French trousseau.
trout		(Zoöl.) Any one of numerous species of fishes belonging to Salmo, Salvelinus, and allied genera of the family Salmonidæ.	Old English truht.
trout-colored		White, with spots of black, bay, or sorrel; as, a trout-colored horse.	
troutbird	Dialect	The American golden plover.	
troutlet		A little trout; a troutling.	
troutling		A little trout; a troutlet.	
trouvere		One of a school of poets who flourished in Northern France from the eleventh to the fourteenth century.	
trouveur		One of a school of poets who flourished in Northern France from the eleventh to the fourteenth century.	
trover		(a) The gaining possession of any goods, whether by finding or by other means.	
trow	Archaic	A boat with an open well amidships.	Old English truwian.
trowel		A mason's tool, used in spreading and dressing mortar, and breaking bricks to shape them.	Middle English truel, from Middle French truelle.
troweled		Formed with a trowel; smoothed with a trowel; as, troweled stucco, that is, stucco laid on and ready for the reception of paint.	
trowelful		As much as a trowel will hold; enough to fill a trowel.	
trowl		See Troll — a supernatural being, often represented as of diminutive size, but sometimes as a giant, and fabled to inhabit caves, hills, and like places; a witch.	
trowsed	Obsolete	Wearing trousers.	
trowsers		Same as Trousers.	
troy		Troy weight.	
troyounce		See Troy ounce, under Troy weight, above, and under Ounce.	
truage	Obsolete	A pledge of truth or peace made on payment of a tax.	Old French treuage.
truancy		The act of playing truant, or the state of being truant; as, addicted to truancy.	
truand	Obsolete	See Truant — one who stays away from business or any duty; especially, one who stays out of school without leave; an idler; a loiterer; a shirk.	
truant		One who stays away from business or any duty; especially, one who stays out of school without leave; an idler; a loiterer; a shirk.	Middle English truant.
truantly		Like a truant; in idleness.	
truantship		The conduct of a truant; neglect of employment; idleness; truancy.	
trub	Obsolete	A truffle.	
trubtall	Obsolete	A short, squat woman.	
trubu		An East India herring (Clupea toli) which is extensively caught for the sake of its roe and for its flesh.	
truce		(Mil.) A suspension of arms by agreement of the commanders of opposing forces; a temporary cessation of hostilities, for negotiation or other purpose; an armistice.	Middle English trewes.
trucebreaker		One who violates a truce, covenant, or engagement.	
truceless		Without a truce; unforbearing.	
truchman	Obsolete	An interpreter. See Dragoman.	
trucidation	Obsolete	The act of killing.	Latin trucido.
truck		A small wheel, as of a vehicle; specifically (Ord.), a small strong wheel, as of wood or iron, for a gun carriage.	Middle English trukien, from Old English trucian.
truckage		The practice of bartering goods; exchange; barter; truck.	
trucker		One who trucks; a trafficker.	
trucking		The business of conveying goods on trucks.	
truckle		A small wheel or caster.	Middle English trokel.
truckle-bed		A low bed on wheels, that may be pushed under another bed; a trundle-bed.	
truckler		One who truckles, or yields servilely to the will of another.	
truckman		Etym: One who does business in the way of barter or exchange.	
truculence		The quality or state of being truculent; savageness of manners; ferociousness.	
truculency		The quality or state of being truculent; savageness of manners; ferociousness.	
truculent		Fierce; savage; ferocious; barbarous; as, the truculent inhabitants of Scythia.	
truculently		In a truculent manner.	
trudge		To walk or march with labor; to jog along; to move wearily.	
trudgeman	Obsolete	A truchman.	
true		Conformable to fact; in accordance with the actual state of things; correct; not false, erroneous, inaccurate, or the like; as, a true relation or narration; a true history; a declaration is true when it states the facts.	Middle English trewe, from Old English triewe.
true-blue		Of inflexible honesty and fidelity; -- a term derived from the true, or Coventry, blue, formerly celebrated for its unchanging color.	
true-born		Of genuine birth; having a right by birth to any title; as, a true-born Englishman.	
true-bred		Of a genuine or right breed; as, a true-bred beast.	
true-hearted		Of a faithful heart; honest; sincere; not faithless or deceitful; as, a truhearted friend. -- True"-heart`ed*ness, n.	
true-penny		An honest fellow.	
truelove		One really beloved.	
trueness		The quality of being true; reality; genuineness; faithfulness; sincerity; exactness; truth.	
truffle		Any one of several kinds of roundish, subterranean fungi, usually of a blackish color.	
truffled		Provided or cooked with truffles; stuffed with truffles; as, a truffled turkey.	
trug		A trough, or tray. Specifically: (a) A hod for mortar. (b) An old measure of wheat equal to two thirds of a bushel.	
trugging-house	Obsolete	A brothel.	
truism		An undoubted or self-evident truth; a statement which is pliantly true; a proposition needing no proof or argument; -- opposed to falsism.	
truismatic		Of or pertaining to truisms; consisting of truisms.	
truite		Having a delicately crackled surface; --applied to porcelian, etc.	
trull		A drab; a strumpet; a harlot; a trollop.	German Trulle.
trullization		The act of laying on coats of plaster with a trowel.	
truly		In a true manner; according to truth; in agreement with fact; as, to state things truly; the facts are truly represented.	
trump		A winning card; one of a particular suit (usually determined by chance for each deal) any card of which takes any card of the other suits.	
trumpery		Something serving to deceive by false show or pretense; falsehood; deceit; worthless but showy matter; hence, things worn out and of no value; rubbish.	
trumpet		(Mus.) A wind instrument of great antiquity, much used in war and military exercises, and of great value in the orchestra.	Middle English trumpette.
trumpet-shaped		Tubular with one end dilated, as the flower of the trumpet creeper.	
trumpet-tongued		Having a powerful, far-reaching voice or speech.	
trumpeter		One who sounds a trumpet.	
trumpeting		A channel cut behind the brick lining of a shaft.	
trumpets		A plant (Sarracenia flava) with long, hollow leaves.	
trumpetweed		(a) An herbaceous composite plant (Eupatorium purpureum), often having hollow stems, and bearing purplish flowers in small corymbed heads.	
trumpetwood		A tropical American tree (Cecropia peltata) of the Breadfruit family, having hollow stems, which are used for wind instruments; -- called also snakewood, and trumpet tree.	
trumpie		The Richardson's skua (Stercorarius parasiticus).	
trumplike		Resembling a trumpet, esp. in sound; as, a trumplike voice.	
truncal		Of or pertaining to the trunk, or body.	
truncate		To cut off; to lop; to maim.	Latin truncatus.
truncated		Cut off; cut short; maimed.	
truncation		The act of truncating, lopping, or cutting off.	Latin truncatio.
trunch	Obsolete	A stake; a small post.	
truncheon		A short staff, a club; a cudgel; a shaft of a spear.	Old French tronchon.
truncheoned		Having a truncheon.	
truncheoneer		A person armed with a truncheon.	
truncus		The thorax of an insect. See Trunk, n., 5.	
trundle		A round body; a little wheel.	
trundle-bed		A low bed that is moved on trundles, or little wheels, so that it can be pushed under a higher bed; a truckle-bed; also, sometimes, a simiral bed without wheels.	
trundlehead		(Gearing) One of the disks forming the ends of a lantern wheel or pinion.	
trundletail		A round or curled-up tail; also, a dog with such a tail.	
trunk		The stem, or body, of a tree, apart from its limbs and roots; the main stem, without the branches; stock; stalk.	Middle English trunke, from Old French tronc, from Latin truncus.
trunkback		The leatherback.	
trunked		Having (such) a trunk.	
trunkfish		Any one of several species of plectognath fishes, belonging to the genus Ostracion, or the family Ostraciontidæ, having an angular body covered with a rigid integument consisting of bony scales.	
trunkful		As much as a trunk will hold; enough to fill a trunk.	
trunkwork	Obsolete	Work or devices suitable to be concealed; a secret stratagem.	
trunnel		A trundle. See Treenail.	
trunnion		(Gun.) A cylindrical projection on each side of a piece, whether gun, mortar, or howitzer, serving to support it on the cheeks of the carriage.	French trognon.
trunnioned		Provided with trunnions; as, the trunnioned cylinder of an oscillating steam engine.	
trusion		The act of pushing or thrusting.	Latin trudere.
truss		(Surg.) A bandage or apparatus used in cases of hernia, to keep up the reduced parts and hinder further protrusion, and for other purposes.	Old French trousse.
trussing		(Arch. & Engin.) The timbers, etc., which form a truss, taken collectively.	
trust		Assured resting of the mind on the integrity, veracity, justice, friendship, or other sound principle, of another person; confidence; reliance; reliance.	Middle English truste, from Old Norse traust.
trustee		A person to whom property is legally committed in trust, to be applied either for the benefit of specified individuals, or for public uses; one who is intrusted with property for the benefit of another; also…	
trusteeship		The office or duty of a trustee.	
truster		One who trusts, or credits.	
trustful		Full of trust; trusting.	
trustily		In a trusty manner.	
trustiness		The quality or state of being trusty.	
trusting		Having or exercising trust; confiding; unsuspecting; trustful. -- Trust"ing*ly, adv.	
trustless		That may not be trusted; not worthy of trust; unfaithful. -- Trust"less*ness, n.	
trustworthy		Worthy of trust or confidence; trusty. -- Trust"wor`thi*ness, n.	
trusty		Admitting of being safely trusted; justly deserving confidence; fit to be confided in; trustworthy; reliable.	
truth		The quality or being true; as: -- (a) Conformity to fact or reality; exact accordance with that which is, or has been; or shall be.	
truth-lover		One who loves the truth.	
truth-teller		One who tells the truth.	
truthful		Full of truth; veracious; reliable. -- Truth ful*ness, n.	
truthless		Devoid of truth; dishonest; dishonest; spurious; faithless. -- Truth"less*ness, n.	
truthy		Truthful; likely; probable.	
trutination	Obsolete	The act of weighing.	
truttaceous		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a trout; as, fish of the truttaceous kind.	
try		To purify or refine, as metals; to melt out, and procure in a pure state, as oil, tallow, lard, etc. Shak.	Middle English trien, from Anglo-Norman trier.
try-square		An instrument used by carpenters, joiners, etc., for laying off right angles off right angles, and testing whether work is square.	
trygon		Any one of several species of large sting rays belonging to Trygon and allied genera.	
trying		Adapted to try, or put to severe trial; severe; afflictive; as, a trying occasion or position.	
tryout		A test by which the fitness of a player or contestant to remain in a certain class is determined.	
trypsin		A proteolytic ferment, or enzyme, present in the pancreatic juice.	
trypsinogen		The antecedent of trypsin, a substance which is contained in the cells of the pancreas and gives rise to the trypsin.	
tryptic		Relating to trypsin or to its action; produced by trypsin; as, trypsin digestion.	
tryptone		The peptone formed by pancreatic digestion; -- so called because it is formed through the agency of the ferment trypsin.	
trysail		A fore-and-aft sail, bent to a gaff, and hoisted on a lower mast or on a small mast, called the trysail mast, close abaft a lower mast; -- used chiefly as a storm sail.	
tryst	Scots	An appointment to meet; also, an appointed place or time of meeting; as, to keep tryst; to break tryst.	Middle English tryst.
tryster		One who makes an appointment, or tryst; one who meets with another.	
trysting		An appointment; a tryst.	
