tu-whit		Words imitative of the notes of the owl.	
tu-whoo		Words imitative of the notes of the owl.	
tuatara		A large iguanalike reptile (Sphenodon punctatum) formerly common in New Zealand, but now confined to certain islets near the coast.	Maori tuatara.
tuatera		See Hatteria — a new Zealand lizard, which, in anatomical character, differs widely from all other existing lizards.	
tub		An open wooden vessel formed with staves, bottom, and hoops; a kind of short cask, half barrel, or firkin, usually with but one head, -- used for various purposes.	
tuba		(a) An ancient trumpet. (b) A sax-tuba. See Sax-tuba.	Latin tuba.
tubal		Of or pertaining to a tube; specifically, of or pertaining to one of the Fallopian tubes; as, tubal pregnancy.	
tubbing		The forming of a tub; also, collectively, materials for tubs.	
tubby		Resembling a tub; specifically sounding dull and without resonance, like a tub; wanting elasticity or freedom of sound; as, a tubby violin.	
tube		A hollow cylinder, of any material, used for the conveyance of fluids, and for various other purposes; a pipe.	Middle French tube, from Latin tubus.
tube-nosed		(a) Having the nostrils prolonged in the form of horny tubes along the sides of the beak; -- said of certain sea birds.	
tube-shell		Any bivalve mollusk which secretes a shelly tube around its siphon, as the watering-shell.	
tubeform		In the form of a tube; tubular; tubiform.	
tuber		(Bot.) (a) A fleshy, rounded stem or root, usually containing starchy matter, as the potato or arrowroot; a thickened root-stock.	Latin tuber.
tubercle		A small knoblike prominence or excrescence, whether natural or morbid; as, a tubercle on a plant; a tubercle on a bone; the tubercles appearing on the body in leprosy.	
tubercled		Having tubercles; affected with, tubercles; tuberculate; as, a tubercled lung or stalk.	
tubercular		Having tubercles; affected with tubercles; tubercled; tuberculate.	
tubercularize		To infect with tuberculosis. --Tu*ber`cu*lar*i*za"tion (#), n.	
tuberculate		Tubercled; tubercular.	
tuberculated		Tubercled; tubercular.	
tuberculin		A fluid containing the products formed by the growth of the tubercle bacillus in a suitable culture medium.	
tuberculization		The development of tubercles; the condition of one who is affected with tubercles.	
tuberculocidin		A special substance contained in tuberculin, supposed to be the active agent of the latter freed from various impurities.	
tuberculoid		Resembling a tubercle.	
tuberculose		Having tubercles; affected with, or characterized by, tubercles; tubercular.	
tuberculosed		Affected with tuberculosis.	
tuberculosis		A constitutional disease characterized by the production of tubercles in the internal organs, and especially in the lungs, where it constitutes the most common variety of pulmonary consumption.	
tuberculous		Having tubercles; affected with, or characterized by, tubercles; tubercular.	
tuberculum		A tubercle.	
tuberiferous		Producing or bearing tubers.	
tuberose		A plant (Polianthes tuberosa) with a tuberous root and a liliaceous flower.	
tuberosity		The state of being tuberous.	
tuberous		Covered with knobby or wartlike prominences; knobbed.	
tubeworm		Any annelid which constructs a tube; one of the Tubicolæ.	
tubfish	English dialect	The sapphirine gurnard (Trigla hirundo). See Illust. under Gurnard.	
tubful		As much as a tub will hold; enough to fill a tub.	
tubicinate		To blow a trumpet.	
tubicolae		A division of annelids including those which construct, and habitually live in, tubes.	
tubicolar		Tubicolous.	
tubicole		One of the Tubicolæ.	
tubicolous		Inhabiting a tube; as, tubicolous worms.	
tubicorn		Any ruminant having horns composed of a bony axis covered with a horny sheath; a hollow-horned ruminant.	
tubicornous		Having hollow horns.	
tubiform		Having the form of a tube; tubeform.	
tubinares		A tribe of sea birds comprising the petrels, shearwaters, albatrosses, hagdons, and allied birds having tubular horny nostrils.	
tubing		The act of making tubes.	
tubipora		A genus of halcyonoids in which the skeleton, or coral (called organ-pipe coral), consists of a mass of parallel cylindrical tubes united at intervals by transverse plates.	
tubipore		Any species of the genus Tubipora.	
tubiporite		Any fossil coral of the genus Syringopora consisting of a cluster of upright tubes united together by small transverse tubules.	
tubivalve		A shell or tube formed by an annelid, as a serpula.	
tubman		One of the two most experienced barristers in the Court of Exchequer.	
tubular		Having the form of a tube, or pipe; consisting of a pipe; fistular; as, a tubular snout; a tubular calyx.	
tubularia		A genus of hydroids having large, naked, flowerlike hydranths at the summits of long, slender, usually simple, stems.	
tubulariae		See Tubularida — an extensive division of Hydroidea; the tubularians; -- called also Athecata, Gymnoblastea, and Tubulariæ.	
tubularian		Any hydroid belonging to the suborder Tubularida.	
tubularida		An extensive division of Hydroidea; the tubularians; -- called also Athecata, Gymnoblastea, and Tubulariæ.	
tubulate		Tubular; tubulated; tubulous.	Latin tubulatus.
tubulated		Made in the form of a small tube; provided with a tube, or elongated opening.	
tubulation		The act of shaping or making a tube, or of providing with a tube; also, a tube or tubulure; as, the tubulation of a retort.	
tubulature		A tubulure.	
tubule		A small pipe or fistular body; a little tube.	
tubulibranchian		One of the Tubulibranchiata.	
tubulibranchiata		A group of gastropod mollusks having a tubular shell.	
tubulicole		Any hydroid which has tubular chitinous stems.	
tubulidentate		Having teeth traversed by canals; -- said of certain edentates.	
tubuliform		Having the form of a small tube.	
tubulipore		Any one of numerous species of Bryozoa belonging to Tubulipora and allied genera, having tubular calcareous calicles.	
tubulose		Resembling, or in the form of, a tube; longitudinally hollow; specifically (Bot.), having a hollow cylindrical corolla, often expanded or toothed at the border; as, a tubulose flower.	
tubulous		Resembling, or in the form of, a tube; longitudinally hollow; specifically (Bot.), having a hollow cylindrical corolla, often expanded or toothed at the border; as, a tubulose flower.	
tubulure		A short tubular opening at the top of a retort, or at the top or side of a bottle; a tubulation.	
tucan		The Mexican pocket gopher (Geomys Mexicanus).	
tucet	Obsolete	See Tucket, a steak.	
tuch	Obsolete	A dark-colored kind of marble; touchstone.	
tuck		To draw up; to shorten; to fold under; to press into a narrower compass; as, to tuck the bedclothes in; to tuck up one's sleeves.	Old French estoc, from Italian stocco.
tuck-net		See Tuck, n., 2.	
tuckahoe		A curious vegetable production of the Southern Atlantic United States, growing under ground like a truffle and often attaining immense size.	Powhatan tockawhoughe.
tucker		One who, or that which, tucks; specifically, an instrument with which tuck are made.	Middle English tokker.
tucket	Obsolete	A slight flourish on a trumpet; a fanfare.	
tucum		A fine, strong fiber obtained from the young leaves of a Brazilian palm (Astrocaryum vulgare), used for cordage, bowstrings, etc.; also, the plant yielding this fiber.	
tucuma		A Brazilian palm (Astrocaryum Tucuma) which furnishes an edible fruit.	
tudor		Of or pertaining to a royal line of England, descended from Owen Tudor of Wales, who married the widowed queen of Henry V.	
tue		The parson bird.	
tue-iron		See Tuyère.	
tue-irons		A pair of blacksmith's tongs.	
tuefall		See To-fall — a lean-to. See Lean-to.	
tuesday		The third day of the week, following Monday and preceding Wednesday.	
tuet	English dialect	The lapwing.	
tuf-taffeta		A silk fabric formerly in use, having a nap or pile.	
tufa		(a) A soft or porous stone formed by depositions from water, usually calcareous; -- called also calcareous tufa.	Italian tufo.
tufaceous		Pertaining to tufa; consisting of, or resembling, tufa.	
tuff		Same as Tufa.	French tuffe.
tuffoon		See Typhoon — a violent whirlwind; specifically, a violent whirlwind occurring in the Chinese seas.	
tuft		A collection of small, flexible, or soft things in a knot or bunch; a waving or bending and spreading cluster; as, a tuft of flowers or feathers.	Middle English toft(e).
tufted		Adorned with a tuft; as, the tufted duck.	
tufthunter		A hanger-on to noblemen, or persons of quality, especially in English universities; a toady.	
tufthunting		The practice of seeking after, and hanging on, noblemen, or persons of quality, especially in English universities.	
tufty		Abounding with tufts.	
tug		To pull or draw with great effort; to draw along with continued exertion; to haul along; to tow; as, to tug a loaded cart; to tug a ship into port.	Middle English tuggen.
tugan		Same as Tucan.	
tugboat		See Tug, n., 3.	
tugger		One who tugs.	
tuggingly		In a tugging manner; with laborious pulling.	
tuille		In plate armor, a suspended plate in from of the thigh. See Illust. of Tasses.	Middle English toile, from Old French teuille.
tuition		Superintending care over a young person; the particular watch and care of a tutor or guardian over his pupil or ward; guardianship.	
tuitionary		Of or pertaining to tuition.	
tuko-tuko		A burrowing South American rodent (Ctenomys Braziliensis).	
tule		A large bulrush (Scirpus lacustris, and S.	Spanish tule, from Classical Nahuatl tollin.
tulip		Any plant of the liliaceous genus Tulipa.	
tulip-eared		Having erect, pointed ears; prick-eared; -- said of certain dogs.	
tulip-shell		A large, handsomely colored, marine univalve shell (Fasciolaria tulipa) native of the Southern United States.	
tulipist		A person who is especially devoted to the cultivation of tulips.	
tulipomania		A violent passion for the acquisition or cultivation of tulips; -- a word said by Beckman to have been coined by Menage.	
tulipomaniac		One who is affected with tulipomania.	
tulipwood		The beautiful rose-colored striped wood of a Brazilian tree (Physocalymna floribunda), much used by cabinetmakers for inlaying.	
tull	Obsolete	To allure; to tole.	
tulle		A kind of silk lace or light netting, used for veils, etc.	
tullian		Belonging to, or in the style of, Tully (Marcus Tullius Cicero).	
tullibee		A whitefish (Coregonus tullibee) found in the Great Lakes of North America; -- called also mongrel whitefish.	
tum-tum		A dish made in the West Indies by beating boiled plantain quite soft in a wooden mortar.	
tumble		To roll over, or to and fro; to throw one's self about; as, a person on pain tumbles and tosses.	
tumble-down	Colloquial	Ready to fall; dilapidated; ruinous; as, a tumble-down house.	
tumblebug		See Tumbledung — any one of numerous species of scaraboid beetles belonging to Scarabæus, Copris, Phanæus, and allied genera.	
tumbledung		Any one of numerous species of scaraboid beetles belonging to Scarabæus, Copris, Phanæus, and allied genera.	
tumbler		One who tumbles; one who plays tricks by various motions of the body; an acrobat.	
tumblerful		As much as a tumbler will hold; enough to fill a tumbler.	
tumbleweed		Any plant which habitually breaks away from its roots in the autumn, and is driven by the wind, as a light, rolling mass, over the fields and prairies; as witch grass, wild indigo, Amarantus albus, etc.	
tumbling		a. & vb. n. from Tumble, v.	
tumbrel		A cucking stool for the punishment of scolds.	
tumbril		A cucking stool for the punishment of scolds.	Old French tumberel.
tumefacient		Producing swelling; tumefying.	
tumefaction		The act or process of tumefying, swelling, or rising into a tumor; a swelling.	
tumefy		To swell; to cause to swell, or puff up.	
tumescence		The act of becoming tumid; the state of being swollen; intumescence.	
tumescent		Slightly tumid; swollen, as certain moss capsules.	Latin tumescens.
tumid		Swelled, enlarged, or distended; as, a tumid leg; tumid flesh.	Latin tumidus.
tumidity		The quality or state of being tumid.	
tummals		A great quantity or heap.	
tumor		(Med.) A morbid swelling, prominence, or growth, on any part of the body; especially, a growth produced by deposition of new tissue; a neoplasm.	Old French tumour, from Latin tumor.
tumored		Distended; swelled.	
tumorous		Swelling; protuberant.	Latin tumorosus.
tump		A little hillock; a knoll.	
tumpline	Dialect	A strap placed across a man's forehead to assist him in carrying a pack on his back.	
tumular		Consisting in a heap; formed or being in a heap or hillock.	
tumulate	Obsolete	To cover, as a corpse, with a mound or tomb; to bury.	
tumulose		Tumulous.	
tumulosity		The quality or state of being tumulous; hilliness.	
tumulous		Full of small hills or mounds; hilly; tumulose.	Latin tumulosus.
tumult		The commotion or agitation of a multitude, usually accompanied with great noise, uproar, and confusion of voices; hurly-burly; noisy confusion.	Latin tumultus.
tumulter	Obsolete	A maker of tumults.	
tumultuarily		In a tumultuary manner.	
tumultuariness		The quality or state of being tumultuary.	
tumultuary		Attended by, or producing, a tumult; disorderly; promiscuous; confused; tumultuous.	
tumultuate	Obsolete	To make a tumult.	
tumultuation	Obsolete	Irregular or disorderly movement; commotion; as, the tumultuation of the parts of a fluid.	Latin tumultuatio.
tumultuous		Full of tumult; characterized by tumult; disorderly; turbulent.	
tumulus		An artificial hillock, especially one raised over a grave, particularly over the graves of persons buried in ancient times; a barrow.	Latin tumulus.
tun		A large cask; an oblong vessel bulging in the middle, like a pipe or puncheon, and girt with hoops; a wine cask.	Middle English tunne.
tun-bellied		Having a large, protuberant belly, or one shaped like a tun; pot-bellied.	
tun-dish	Obsolete	A tunnel.	
tun-great	Obsolete	Having the circumference of a tun.	
tuna		The Opuntia Tuna. See Prickly pear, under Prickly. (a) The tunny. (b) The bonito, 2.	
tunable		Capable of being tuned, or made harmonious; hence, harmonious; musical; tuneful. -- Tun a*bly, adv.	
tundra		A rolling, marshy, mossy plain of Northern Siberia.	
tune		(Mus.) (a) A rhythmical, melodious, symmetrical series of tones for one voice or instrument, or for any number of voices or instruments in unison, or two or more such series forming parts in harmony; a melody; an air; as…	Middle English tune, from Old French ton, from Latin tonus, from Greek τόνος.
tuneful		Harmonious; melodious; musical; as, tuneful notes. -- Tune ful*ness, n.	
tuneless		Without tune; inharmonious; unmusical.	
tuner		One who tunes; especially, one whose occupation is to tune musical instruments.	
tungstate		A salt of tungstic acid; a wolframate.	
tungsten	Obsolete	(Chem.) A rare element of the chromium group found in certain minerals, as wolfram and scheelite, and isolated as a heavy steel-gray metal which is very hard and infusible.	
tungstenic		Of or pertaining to tungsten; containing tungsten; as, tungstenic ores.	
tungstic		Of or pertaining to tungsten; derived from, or resembling, tungsten; wolframic; as, tungstic oxide.	
tungstite		The oxide of tungsten, a yellow mineral occurring in a pulverulent form.	
tunguses		A group of roving Turanian tribes occupying Eastern Siberia and the Amoor valley.	
tungusic		Of or pertaining to the Tunguses; as, the Tungusic dialects.	
tunhoof		Ground ivy; alehoof.	
tunic		Any similar garment worm by ancient or Oriental peoples; also, a common name for various styles of loose-fitting under-garments and over-garments worn in modern times by Europeans and others.	Middle French tunique, from Latin tunica.
tunicary		One of the Tunicata.	
tunicata		A grand division of the animal kingdom, intermediate, in some respects, between the invertebrates and vertebrates, and by some writers united with the latter.	
tunicate		(Bot.) Covered with a tunic; covered or coated with layers; as, a tunicated bulb.	
tunicated		(Bot.) Covered with a tunic; covered or coated with layers; as, a tunicated bulb.	
tunicin		Animal cellulose; a substance present in the mantle, or tunic, of the Tunicates, which resembles, or is identical with, the cellulose of the vegetable kingdom.	
tunicle		A slight natural covering; an integument.	
tuning		a. & n. from Tune, v.	
tunk	English dialect	A sharp blow; a thump.	
tunker		Same as Dunker.	
tunnage		See Tonnage — the weight of goods carried in a boat or a ship.	
tunnel		A vessel with a broad mouth at one end, a pipe or tube at the other, for conveying liquor, fluids, etc., into casks, bottles, or other vessels; a funnel.	Middle French tonnelle.
tunny		Any one of several species of large oceanic fishes belonging to the Mackerel family, especially the common or great tunny (Orcynus or Albacora thynnus) native of the Mediterranean Sea and the Atlantic Ocean.	
tup	English dialect	To butt, as a ram does.	Middle English tupe.
tupai		Any one of the tupaiids.	
tupaiid		Any one of several species of East Indian and Asiatic insectivores of the family Tupaiidæ, somewhat resembling squirrels in size and arboreal habits.	
tupelo		A North American tree (Nyssa multiflora) of the Dogwood family, having brilliant, glossy foliage and acid red berries.	
tupi		An Indian of the tribe from which the Tupian stock takes its name, dwelling, at the advent of the Portuguese, about the mouth of the Amazon.	
tupian		Designating, or pert. to, a linguistic stock of South American Indians comprising the most important Brazilian tribes.	
tupman	English dialect	A man who breeds, or deals in tups.	
tuque		A kind of warm cap winter wear, made from a knit bag with closed tapered ends by pushing one end within the other, thus making a conical cap of double thickness.	
tur		The urus.	Russian тур.
turacin		A red or crimson pigment obtained from certain feathers of several species of turacou; whence the name.	
turacou		Any one of several species of plantain eaters of the genus Turacus, native of Africa.	
turacoverdin		A green pigment found in the feathers of the turacou. See Turacin.	
turanian		Of, pertaining to, or designating, an extensive family of languages of simple structure and low grade (called also Altaic, Ural-Altaic, and Scythian), spoken in the northern parts of Europe and Asia and Central Asia…	
turanians		(a) An extensive division of mankind including the Mongols and allied races of Asia, together with the Malays and Polynesians.	
turatt		The hare kangaroo.	
turban		A headdress worn by men in the Levant and by most Mohammedans of the male sex, consisting of a cap, and a sash, scarf, or shawl, usually of cotton or linen, wound about the cap, and sometimes hanging down the neck.	Middle French turbant, from Italian turbante, from Turkish tülbent, from Persian دلبند.
turban-shell		A sea urchin when deprived of its spines; -- popularly so called from a fancied resemblance to a turban.	
turban-top		A kind of fungus with an irregularly wrinkled, somewhat globular pileus (Helvella, or Gyromitra, esculenta.).	
turband		A turban.	
turbaned		Wearing a turban.	
turbant	Obsolete	A turban.	
turbary		A right of digging turf on another man's land; also, the ground where turf is dug.	
turbellaria		An extensive group of worms which have the body covered externally with vibrating cilia.	
turbellarian		One of the Turbellaria.	
turbeth		See Turpeth — (Bot.) The root of Ipomoea Turpethum, a plant of Ceylon, Malabar, and Australia, formerly used in medicine as a purgative; -- sometimes called vegetable turpeth.	
turbid		Having the lees or sediment disturbed; roiled; muddy; thick; not clear; -- used of liquids of any kind; as, turbid water; turbid wine.	
turbidity		Turbidness.	
turbidly		In a turbid manner; with muddiness or confusion.	
turbidness		The quality or state of being turbid; muddiness; foulness.	
turbillion		A whirl; a vortex.	French tourbillon.
turbinaceous		Of or pertaining to peat, or turf; of the nature of peat, or turf; peaty; turfy.	
turbinal		Rolled in a spiral; scroll-like; turbinate; -- applied to the thin, plicated, bony or cartilaginous plates which support the olfactory and mucous membranes of the nasal chambers.	
turbinate		To revolve or spin like a top; to whirl.	
turbinated		Whirling in the manner of a top.	
turbination		The act of spinning or whirling, as a top.	
turbine		A water wheel, commonly horizontal, variously constructed, but usually having a series of curved floats or buckets, against which the water acts by its impulse or reaction in flowing either outward from a central chamber…	Latin turbinis.
turbinella		A genus of large marine gastropods having a thick heavy shell with conspicuous folds on the columella.	
turbinite		A petrified shell resembling the genus Turbo.	
turbinoid		Like or pertaining to Turbo or the family Turbinidæ.	
turbit		(Zoöl.) A variety of the domestic pigeon, remarkable for its short beak.	
turbite		A fossil turbo.	
turbith		See Turpeth — (Bot.) The root of Ipomoea Turpethum, a plant of Ceylon, Malabar, and Australia, formerly used in medicine as a purgative; -- sometimes called vegetable turpeth.	
turbo		Any one of numerous marine gastropods of the genus Turbo or family Turbinidæ, usually having a turbinate shell, pearly on the inside, and a calcareous operculum.	
turbogenerator		An electric generator or dynamo which is combined on one frame with a turbomotor, by which it is driven.	
turbot		(a) A large European flounder (Rhombus maximus) highly esteemed as a food fish.	
turbulence		The quality or state of being turbulent; a disturbed state; tumult; disorder; agitation.	
turbulency		Turbulence.	
turbulent		Disturbed; agitated; tumultuous; roused to violent commotion; as, the turbulent ocean.	Latin turbulentus.
turbulently		In a turbulent manner.	
turcism		A mode of speech peculiar to the Turks; a Turkish idiom or expression; also, in general, a Turkish mode or custom.	
turcoman		A member of a tribe of Turanians inhabiting a region east of the Caspian Sea.	
turdiformes		A division of singing birds including the thrushes and allied kinds.	
turdus		A genus of singing birds including the true thrushes.	
tureen		A large, deep vessel for holding soup, or other liquid food, at the table.	
tureenful		As much as a tureen can hold; enough to fill a tureen.	
turf		That upper stratum of earth and vegetable mold which is filled with the roots of grass and other small plants, so as to adhere and form a kind of mat; sward; sod.	Middle English turf.
turfen		Made of turf; covered with turf.	
turfiness		Quality or state of being turfy.	
turfing		The act or process of providing or covering with turf.	
turfite	Colloquial	A votary of the turf, or race course; hence, sometimes, a blackleg.	
turfless		Destitute of turf.	
turfman	Colloquial	A turfite; a votary of the turf, or race course.	
turfy		Abounding with turf; made of, or covered with, turf.	
turgent		Rising into a tumor, or a puffy state; swelling; tumid; as, turgent humors.	
turgesce		To become turgid; to swell or be inflated.	
turgescence		The act of swelling, or the state of being swollen, or turgescent.	
turgescency		The act of swelling, or the state of being swollen, or turgescent.	
turgescent		Becoming turgid or inflated; swelling; growing big.	
turgid		Distended beyond the natural state by some internal agent or expansive force; swelled; swollen; bloated; inflated; tumid; -- especially applied to an enlarged part of the body; as, a turgid limb; turgid fruit.	Latin turgidus.
turgidity		The quality or state of being turgid.	
turio		A shoot or sprout from the ground.	
turiole	English dialect	The golden oriole.	
turion		Same as Turio.	
turioniferous		Producing shoots, as asparagus.	
turk		A member of any of numerous Tartar tribes of Central Asia, etc.; esp., one of the dominant race in Turkey.	
turkeis	Obsolete	Turkish.	
turkey	English dialect	An empire in the southeast of Europe and southwest of Asia.	
turkey-trot		An eccentric ragtime dance, danced with the feet well apart and with a characteristic rise on the ball of the foot, followed by a drop upon the heel.	
turkeys	Obsolete	Turkish.	
turkic		Turkish.	
turkis	Obsolete	Turquois.	
turkish		Of or pertaining to Turkey or the Turks. -- n.	
turkism		Same as Turcism.	
turkle	Obsolete	A turtle.	
turko		One of a body of native Algerian tirailleurs in the French army, dressed as a Turk.	
turko-iranian		Designating, or pert. to, a mixed racial type including the Afghans, and characterized chiefly by stature above mean, fair complexion, dark, or sometimes gray, eyes, brachycephaly, and very long, prominent…	
turkois		Turquoise.	
turkoman		(Naut.) A knot of turbanlike form worked on a rope with a piece of small line.	
turlupin		One of the precursors of the Reformation; -- a nickname corresponding to Lollard, etc.	
turm	Obsolete	A troop; a company.	
turmaline		See Tourmaline — a mineral occurring usually in three-sided or six-sided prisms terminated by rhombohedral or scalenohedral planes.	
turmeric		(Bot.) An East Indian plant of the genus Curcuma, of the Ginger family.	
turmerol		Turmeric oil, a brownish yellow, oily substance extracted from turmeric by ligroin.	
turmoil	Obsolete	Harassing labor; trouble; molestation by tumult; disturbance; worrying confusion.	
turn		To cause to move upon a center, or as if upon a center; to give circular motion to; to cause to revolve; to cause to move round, either partially, wholly, or repeatedly…	Middle English turnen, from Old English turnian, from Latin tornare.
turn-buckle		(a) A loop or sleeve with a screw thread at one end and a swivel at the other, -- used for tightening a rod, stay, etc. (b) A gravitating catch, as for fastening a shutter, the end of a chain, or a hasp.	
turn-out		The act of coming forth; a leaving of houses, shops, etc.; esp., a quitting of employment for the purpose of forcing increase of wages; a strike; -- opposed to lockout.	
turnbroach	Obsolete	A turnspit. & Fl.	
turncoat		One who forsakes his party or his principles; a renegade; an apostate.	
turndown		Capable of being turned down; specif. (Elec.), designating, or pertaining to, an incandescent lamp with a small additional filament which can be made incandescent when only a small amount of light is required.	
turnep	Obsolete	See Turnip — the edible, fleshy, roundish, or somewhat conical, root of a cruciferous plant (Brassica campestris, var.	
turner		One who turns; especially, one whose occupation is to form articles with a lathe.	
turnerite		A variety of monazite.	
turnery		The art of fashioning solid bodies into cylindrical or other forms by means of a lathe.	
turney	Obsolete	Tourney.	
turnhalle		A building used as a school of gymnastics.	
turnicimorphae		A division of birds including Turnix and allied genera, resembling quails in appearance but differing from them anatomically.	
turning		The act of one who, or that which, turns; also, a winding; a bending course; a fiexure; a meander.	
turningness	Obsolete	The quality of turning; instability; tergiversation.	
turnip		The edible, fleshy, roundish, or somewhat conical, root of a cruciferous plant (Brassica campestris, var.	
turnip-shell		Any one of several large, thick, spiral marine shells belonging to Rapa and allied genera, somewhat turnip-shaped.	
turnix		Any one of numerous species of birds belonging to Turnix or Hemipodius and allied genera of the family Turnicidæ.	
turnkey		A person who has charge of the keys of a prison, for opening and fastening the doors; a warder.	
turnover		The act or result of turning over; an upset; as, a bad turnover in a carriage.	
turnpike		A frame consisting of two bars crossing each other at right angles and turning on a post or pin, to hinder the passage of beasts, but admitting a person to pass between the arms; a turnstile.	Middle English turnpyke.
turnplate		A turntable.	
turnsole		(Bot.) (a) A plant of the genus Heliotropium; heliotrope; -- so named because its flowers are supposed to turn toward the sun.	
turnspit		One who turns a spit; hence, a person engaged in some menial office.	
turnstile		A revolving frame in a footpath, preventing the passage of horses or cattle, but admitting that of persons; a turnpike.	
turnstone		Any species of limicoline birds of the genera Strepsilas and Arenaria, allied to the plovers, especially the common American and European species (Strepsilas interpres).	
turntable		A large revolving platform, for turning railroad cars, locomotives, etc., in a different direction; -- called also turnplate.	
turnus		A common, large, handsome, American swallowtail butterfly, now regarded as one of the forms of Papilio, or Jasoniades, glaucus.	
turnverein		A company or association of gymnasts and athletes.	
turnwrest		(a) Designating a cumbersome style of plow used in England, esp. in Kent.	
turonian		One of the subdivisions into which the Upper Cretaceous formation of Europe is divided.	
turpentine		A semifluid or fluid oleoresin, primarily the exudation of the terebinth, or turpentine, tree (Pistacia Terebinthus), a native of the Mediterranean region.	Middle English turbentine.
turpeth		(Bot.) The root of Ipomoea Turpethum, a plant of Ceylon, Malabar, and Australia, formerly used in medicine as a purgative; -- sometimes called vegetable turpeth.	
turpin	Obsolete	A land tortoise.	
turpitude		Inherent baseness or vileness of principle, words, or actions; shameful wickedness; depravity.	Latin turpitudo.
turquois		A hydrous phosphate of alumina containing a little copper; calaite.	
turquoise		A hydrous phosphate of alumina containing a little copper; calaite.	Middle French turkeis, from Old French turqueise.
turrel		A certain tool used by coopers.	
turret		(Arch.) A little tower, frequently a merely ornamental structure at one of the angles of a larger structure.	
turreted		Furnished with a turret or turrets; specifically (Zoöl.), having the whorls somewhat flattened on the upper side and often ornamented by spines or tubercles; -- said of certain spiral shells.	
turribant	Obsolete	A turban.	
turrical		Of or pertaining to a turret, or tower; resembling a tower.	
turriculate		Furnished with, or formed like, a small turret or turrets; somewhat turreted.	
turriculated		Furnished with, or formed like, a small turret or turrets; somewhat turreted.	
turrilite		Any fossil ammonite of the genus Turrilites.	
turritella		Any spiral marine gastropod belonging to Turritella and allied genera.	
turritelloid		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the turritellas.	
turtle		(Zoöl.) Any one of the numerous species of Testudinata, especially a sea turtle, or chelonian.	
turtle-footed		Slow-footed.	
turtle-shell		The turtle cowrie.	
turtleback		(Archæol.) A rude stone celt of a form suggesting the back of a turtle.	
turtledove		(Zoöl.) Any one of numerous species of pigeons belonging to Turtur and allied genera, native of various parts of the Old World; especially, the common European species (Turtur vulgaris), which is noted for its plaintive note…	
turtlehead		An American perennial herb (Chelone glabra) having white flowers shaped like the head of a turtle.	
turtler		One who catches turtles or tortoises.	
turtling		The act, practice, or art of catching turtles.	
turves		pl. of Turf — that upper stratum of earth and vegetable mold which is filled with the roots of grass and other small plants, so as to adhere and form a kind of mat; sward; sod.	
tuscan		Of or pertaining to Tuscany in Italy; -- specifically designating one of the five orders of architecture recognized and described by the Italian writers of the 16th century, or characteristic of the order.	
tuscaroras		A tribe of North American Indians formerly living on the Neuse and Tar rivers in North Carolina.	
tusche		A lithographic drawing or painting material of the same nature as lithographic ink.	German tuschen, from French toucher, from Middle French toucher.
tuscor		A tush of a horse.	
tush		An exclamation indicating check, rebuke, or contempt; as, tush, tush! do not speak of it.	Old English tusc.
tushe		A lithographic drawing or painting material of the same nature as lithographic ink.	
tusk		(Zoöl.) One of the elongated incisor or canine teeth of the wild boar, elephant, etc.; hence, any long, protruding tooth.	Middle English tusk, from Old English tux.
tusk-shell		See 2d Tusk, n., 2.	
tusked		Furnished with tusks.	
tusker		An elephant having large tusks.	Old Norse torfskeri.
tusky		Having tusks.	
tussah		An undomesticated East Indian silkworn (Antheræa mylitta), that feeds on the leaves of the oak and other plants.	
tussal		Pertaining to, or manifested by, cough.	
tusseh		An undomesticated East Indian silkworn (Antheræa mylitta), that feeds on the leaves of the oak and other plants.	
tussicular		Of or pertaining to a cough.	
tussis		A cough.	
tussive		Pertaining to a cough; caused by coughing.	
tussle	Colloquial	To struggle, as in sport; to scuffle; to struggle with.	
tussock		A tuft, as of grass, twigs, hair, or the like; especially, a dense tuft or bunch of grass or sedge.	
tussocky		Having the form of tussocks; full of, or covered with, tussocks, or tufts.	
tussuck		See Tussock — a tuft, as of grass, twigs, hair, or the like; especially, a dense tuft or bunch of grass or sedge.	
tut		Be still; hush; -- an exclamation used for checking or rebuking.	
tut-mouthed	Obsolete	Having a projecting under jaw; prognathous.	
tut-nose	English dialect	A snub nose.	
tut-work		Work done by the piece, as in nonmetaliferous rock, the amount done being usually reckoned by the fathom.	
tut-workman		One who does tut-work.	
tutelage		The act of guarding or protecting; guardianship; protection; as, the king's right of seigniory and tutelage.	Latin tutela.
tutelar		Having the guardianship or charge of protecting a person or a thing; guardian; protecting; as, tutelary goddesses.	Latin tutelaris.
tutelary		Having the guardianship or charge of protecting a person or a thing; guardian; protecting; as, tutelary goddesses.	
tutele	Obsolete	Tutelage.	
tutenag		(a) Crude zinc. (b) Packfong.	
tutor		One who guards, protects, watches over, or has the care of, some person or thing.	Middle English tutour, from Old French tuteur, from Latin tutor.
tutorage		The office or occupation of a tutor; tutorship; guardianship.	
tutoress		A woman who performs the duties of a tutor; an instructress.	
tutorial		Of or pertaining to a tutor; belonging to, or exercised by, a tutor.	Latin tutorius.
tutorism		Tutorship.	
tutorize		To teach; to instruct.	
tutorship		The office, duty, or care of a tutor; guardianship; tutelage.	
tutory	Obsolete	Tutorage.	
tutress	Obsolete	Tutoress.	
tutrix		A female guardian; a tutoress.	
tutsan		A plant of the genus Hypericum (H.	
tutti		All; -- a direction for all the singers or players to perform together.	Italian tutti.
tutti-frutti		A confection of different kinds of preserved fruits. -- a.	
tutty		A yellow or brown amorphous substance obtained as a sublimation product in the flues of smelting furnaces of zinc, and consisting of a crude zinc oxide.	
tuum		Lit., thine; that which is thine; -- used in meum and tuum. See 2d Meum.	
tuxedo		A kind of black coat for evening dress made without skirts; -- so named after a fashionable country club at Tuxedo Park, New York.	
tuyere		A nozzle, mouthpiece, or fixture through which the blast is delivered to the interior of a blast furnace, or to the fire of a forge.	French tuyère, from Middle French tuyere, from Old French toiere.
tuz	Obsolete	A lock or tuft of hair.	
tuza		The tucan.	
