twaddle		To talk a weak and silly manner, like one whose faculties are decayed; to prate; to prattle.
twaddler		One who prates in a weak and silly manner, like one whose faculties are decayed.
twaddling		a. & n. from Twaddle, v.
twaddy		Idle trifling; twaddle.
twain		Two;- nearly obsolete in common discourse, but used in poetry and burlesque.
twaite		A European shad; -- called also twaite shad. See Shad.
twang		A harsh, quick sound, like that made by a stretched string when pulled and suddenly let go; as, the twang of a bowstring.
twangle		To twang.
twank		To cause to make a sharp twanging sound; to twang, or twangle.
twankay		See Note under Tea, n.,
twattle	English dialect	To prate; to talk much and idly; to gabble; to chatter; to twaddle; as, a twattling gossip.
twattler		One who twattles; a twaddler.
tway	Obsolete	Two; twain.
twayblade		Any one of several orchidaceous plants which have only two leaves, as the species of Listera and of Liparis.
tweag	Obsolete	To tweak.
tweague	Obsolete	A pinching condition; perplexity; trouble; distress.
tweak		To pinch and pull with a sudden jerk and twist; to twitch; as, to tweak the nose.
tweed		A soft and flexible fabric for men's wear, made wholly of wool except in some inferior kinds, the wool being dyed, usually in two colors, before weaving.
tweedle		To handle lightly; -- said with reference to awkward fiddling; hence, to influence as if by fiddling; to coax; to allure.
tweel		See Twill — to weave, as cloth, so as to produce the appearance of diagonal lines or ribs on the surface.
tweer		Same as Tuyère.
tweese		A surgeon's case of instruments.
tweeze		A surgeon's case of instruments.
tweezers		Small pinchers used to pluck out hairs, and for other purposes.
twelfth		Next in order after the eleventh; coming after eleven others; -- the ordinal of twelve.
twelfth-cake		An ornamented cake distributed among friends or visitors on the festival of Twelfth-night.
twelfth-day		See Twelfthtide — the twelfth day after Christmas; Epiphany; -- called also Twelfth-day.
twelfth-night		The evening of Epiphany, or the twelfth day after Christmas, observed as a festival by various churches.
twelfth-second		A unit for the measurement of small intervals of time, such that 1012 (ten trillion) of these units make one second.
twelfthtide		The twelfth day after Christmas; Epiphany; -- called also Twelfth-day.
twelve		One more that eleven; two and ten; twice six; a dozen.
twelvemo		See Duodecimo — having twelve leaves to a sheet; as, a duodecimo from, book, leaf, size, etc. A book consisting of sheets each of which is folded into twelve leaves; hence, indicating…
twelvemonth		A year which consists of twelve calendar months.
twelvepence		A shilling sterling, being about twenty-four cents.
twelvepenny		, Sold for a shilling; worth or costing a shilling.
twelvescore		Twelve times twenty; two hundred and forty.
twentieth		Next in order after the nineteenth; tenth after the tenth; coming after nineteen others; -- the ordinal of twenty.
twenty		One more that nineteen; twice; as, twenty men.
twenty-fourmo		Having twenty-four leaves to a sheet; as, a twenty-fourmo form, book, leaf, size, etc. -- n.
twentyfold		Twenty times as many.
tweyfold	Obsolete	Twofold.
twibil	English dialect	A kind of mattock, or ax; esp., a tool like a pickax, but having, instead of the points, flat terminations, one of which is parallel to the handle, the other perpendicular to it.
twibilled		Armed or provided with a twibil or twibils.
twice		Two times; once and again.
twiddle		To touch lightly, or play with; to tweedle; to twirl; as, to twiddle one's thumbs; to twiddle a watch key.
twifallow		To plow, or fallow, a second time (land that has been once fallowed).
twifold	Obsolete	Twofold; double.
twig	Colloquial	To understand the meaning of; to comprehend; as, do you twig me Marryat.
twiggen	Obsolete	Made of twigs; wicker.
twigger		A fornicator.
twiggy		Of or pertaining to a twig or twigs; like a twig or twigs; full of twigs; abounding with shoots.
twight	Obsolete	To twit.
twighte		imp. of Twitch — to pull with a sudden jerk; to pluck with a short, quick motion; to snatch; as, to twitch one by the sleeve; to twitch a thing out of another's hand; to twitch off clusters of grapes.
twigless		Having no twigs.
twigsome		Full of, or abounding in, twigs; twiggy.
twilight		The light perceived before the rising, and after the setting, of the sun, or when the sun is less than 18º below the horizon…
twill		To weave, as cloth, so as to produce the appearance of diagonal lines or ribs on the surface.
twilly		A machine for cleansing or loosening wool by the action of a revolving cylinder covered with long iron spikes or teeth; a willy or willying machine; -- called also twilly devil, and devil.
twilt	English dialect	A quilt.
twin		Being one of two born at a birth; as, a twin brother or sister.
twinborn		Born at the same birth.
twine		A strong thread composed of two or three smaller threads or strands twisted together, and used for various purposes, as for binding small parcels, making nets, and the like; a small cord or string.
twiner		Any plant which twines about a support.
twinge		To pull with a twitch; to pinch; to tweak.
twining		Winding around something; twisting; embracing; climbing by winding about a support; as, the hop is a twinning plant.
twink	Obsolete	To twinkle.
twinkle		To open and shut the eye rapidly; to blink; to wink.
twinkler		One who, or that which, twinkles, or winks; a winker; an eye.
twinkling		The act of one who, or of that which, twinkles; a quick movement of the eye; a wink; a twinkle.
twinleaf		See Jeffersonia — an american herb with a pretty, white, solitary blossom, and deeply two-cleft leaves (Jeffersonia diphylla); twinleaf.
twinlike		Closely resembling; being a counterpart. -- Twin"like`ness, n.
twinling		A young or little twin, especially a twin lamb.
twinned		Composed of parts united according to a law of twinning. See Twin, n., 4.
twinner		One who gives birth to twins; a breeder of twins.
twinning		The assemblage of two or more crystals, or parts of crystals, in reversed position with reference to each other in accordance with some definite law; also, rarely, in artificial twinning (accomplished for example by pressure)…
twinter	English dialect	A domestic animal two winters old.
twire	Obsolete	A twisted filament; a thread.
twire-pipe	Obsolete	A vagabond musician.
twirl		To move or turn round rapidly; to whirl round; to move and turn rapidly with the fingers.
twist		To contort; to writhe; to complicate; to crook spirally; to convolve.
twiste		imp. of Twist — to contort; to writhe; to complicate; to crook spirally; to convolve.
twisted		Contorted; crooked spirally; subjected to torsion; hence, perverted.
twister		One who twists; specifically, the person whose occupation is to twist or join the threads of one warp to those of another, in weaving.
twistical	Slang	Crooked; tortuous; hence, perverse; unfair; dishonest.
twisting		a. & n. from Twist.
twit		To vex by bringing to notice, or reminding of, a fault, defect, misfortune, or the like; to revile; to reproach; to upbraid; to taunt; as, he twitted his friend of falsehood.
twitch		To pull with a sudden jerk; to pluck with a short, quick motion; to snatch; as, to twitch one by the sleeve; to twitch a thing out of another's hand; to twitch off clusters of grapes.
twitcher		One who, or that which, twitches.
twite	English dialect	(a) The European tree sparrow. (b) The mountain linnet (Linota flavirostris).
twitlark	English dialect	The meadow pipit.
twitter		One who twits, or reproaches; an upbraider.
twittering		The act of one who, or that which, twitters.
twittingly		In a twitting manner; with upbraiding.
twittle-twattle		Tattle; gabble.
two		One and one; twice one. i. 16.
two-capsuled		Having two distinct capsules; bicapsular.
two-cleft		Divided about half way from the border to the base into two segments; bifid.
two-cycle		A two-stroke cycle for an internal-combustion engine. --Two"- cy`cle, a.
two-decker		A vessel of war carrying guns on two decks.
two-edged		Having two edges, or edges on both sides; as, a two-edged sword.
two-foot		Measuring two feet; two feet long, thick, or wide; as, a two- foot rule.
two-forked		Divided into two parts, somewhat after the manner of a fork; dichotomous.
two-hand		Employing two hangs; as, the two-hand alphabet. See Dactylology.
two-handed		Having two hands; -- often used as an epithet equivalent to large, stout, strong, or powerful.
two-lipped		Having two lips.
two-name	Colloquial	Having or bearing two names; as, two-name paper, that is, negotiable paper on which at least two persons are severally liable as separate makers, or, usually, one as maker and one as indorser.
two-parted		Divided from the border to the base into two distinct parts; bipartite.
two-phase		Same as Diphase, Diphaser.
two-phaser		Same as Diphase, Diphaser.
two-ply		Consisting of two thicknesses, as cloth; double.
two-port		Having two ports; specif.: Designating a type of two-cycle internal-combustion engine in which the admission of the mixture to the crank case is through a suction valve.
two-ranked		Alternately disposed on exactly opposite sides of the stem so as to from two ranks; distichous.
two-sided		Having two sides only; hence, double-faced; hypocritical.
two-speed		Adapted for producing or for receiving either of two speeds; -- said of a power-transmitting device.
two-step		A kind of round dance in march or polka time; also, a piece of music for this dance.
two-throw		(a) Capable of being thrown or cranked in two directions, usually opposite to one another; as, a two-throw crank; a two-throw switch.
two-to-one		Designating, or pert. to, a gear for reducing or increasing a velocity ratio two to one.
two-tongued		Double-tongued; deceitful.
two-way		Serving to connect at will one pipe or channel with either of two others; as, a two-way cock.
twofold		Double; duplicate; multiplied by two; as, a twofold nature; a twofold sense; a twofold argument.
twopence		A small coin, and money of account, in England, equivalent to two pennies, -- minted to a fixed annual amount, for almsgiving by the sovereign on Maundy Thursday.
twopenny		Of the value of twopence.
twyblade		See Twayblade — any one of several orchidaceous plants which have only two leaves, as the species of Listera and of Liparis.
