ty-all	Obsolete	Something serving to tie or secure.
tychism		Any theory which conceives chance as an objective reality; esp., a theory of evolution which considers that variation may be purely fortuitous.
tychonic		Of or pertaining to Tycho Brahe, or his system of astronomy.
tycoon		The title by which the shogun, or former commander in chief of the Japanese army, was known to foreigners.
tydy		Same as Tidy.
tye		(Naut.) A chain or rope, one end of which passes through the mast, and is made fast to the center of a yard; the other end is attached to a tackle, by means of which the yard is hoisted or lowered.
tyer		One who ties, or unites.
tyfoon		See Typhoon — a violent whirlwind; specifically, a violent whirlwind occurring in the Chinese seas.
tyger	Obsolete	A tiger.
tying		p. pr. of Tie.
tyke		See 2d Tike.
tylarus		One of the pads on the under surface of the toes of birds.
tyler		See 2d Tiler.
tylopoda		A tribe of ungulates comprising the camels.
tylosis		An intrusion of one vegetable cell into the cavity of another, sometimes forming there an irregular mass of cells.
tymbal		A kind of kettledrum.
tymp		A hollow water-cooled iron casting in the upper part of the archway in which the dam stands.
tympan		(Print.) A frame covered with parchment or cloth, on which the blank sheets are put, in order to be laid on the form to be impressed.
tympanal		Tympanic.
tympanic		Like a tympanum or drum; acting like a drumhead; as, a tympanic membrane.
tympanist		One who beats a drum.
tympanites		A flatulent distention of the belly; tympany.
tympanitic		Of, pertaining to, or affected with, tympanites.
tympanitis		Inflammation of the lining membrane of the middle ear.
tympanize	Obsolete	To drum.
tympano		A kettledrum; -- chiefly used in the plural to denote the kettledrums of an orchestra.
tympano-		A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the tympanum; as in tympanohyal, tympano-Eustachian.
tympanohyal		Of or pertaining to the tympanum and the hyoidean arch. -- n.
tympanum		(Anat.) (a) The ear drum, or middle ear.
tympany		(Med.) A flatulent distention of the belly; tympanites.
tynd	Obsolete	To shut; to close.
tyne	Obsolete	To lose.
tyny	Obsolete	Small; tiny.
typal		Relating to a type or types; belonging to types; serving as a type; typical.
type		The mark or impression of something; stamp; impressed sign; emblem.
typesetter		One who, or that which, sets type; a compositor; a machine for setting type.
typesetting		The act or art of setting type.
typewrite		To write with a typewriter.
typewriter		An instrument for writing by means of type, a typewheel, or the like, in which the operator makes use of a sort of keyboard, in order to obtain printed impressions of the characters upon paper.
typewriting		The act or art of using a typewriter; also, a print made with a typewriter.
typhlitis		Inflammation of the cæcum.
typhlosole		A fold of the wall which projects into the cavity of the intestine in bivalve mollusks, certain annelids, starfishes, and some other animals.
typhoean		Of or pertaining to Typhoeus (ti*fo"us), the fabled giant of Greek mythology, having a hundred heads; resembling Typhoeus.
typhoid		Of or pertaining to typhus; resembling typhus; of a low grade like typhus; as, typhoid symptoms.
typhomalarial		Pertaining to typhoid fever and malaria; as, typhomalarial fever, a form of fever having symptoms both of malarial and typhoid fever.
typhomania		A low delirium common in typhus fever.
typhon		According to Hesiod, the son of Typhoeus, and father of the winds, but later identified with him.
typhoon		A violent whirlwind; specifically, a violent whirlwind occurring in the Chinese seas.
typhotoxin		A basic substance, C7H17NO2, formed from the growth of the typhoid bacillus on meat pulp.
typhous		Of or pertaining to typhus; of the nature of typhus.
typhus		A contagious continued fever lasting from two to three weeks, attended with great prostration and cerebral disorder, and marked by a copious eruption of red spots upon the body.
typic		Typical.
typical		Of the nature of a type; representing something by a form, model, or resemblance; emblematic; prefigurative.
typification		The act of typifying, or representing by a figure.
typifier		One who, or that which, typifies.
typify		To represent by an image, form, model, or resemblance.
typist		A person who operates a typewriting machine; a typewriter.
typo	Colloquial	A compositor.
typocosmy		A representation of the world.
typograph		A machine for setting type or for casting lines of type and setting them.
typographer		A printer.
typographic		Of or pertaining to typography or printing; as, the typographic art. -- Ty`po*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.
typographical		Of or pertaining to typography or printing; as, the typographic art. -- Ty`po*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.
typography		The art of printing with types; the use of types to produce impressions on paper, vellum, etc.
typolite		A stone or fossil which has on it impressions or figures of plants and animals.
typolithography		A branch of lithography in which impressions from printers' types are transferred to stone for reproduction. -- Ty`po*lith`o*graph"ic (#), a.
typology		(Theol.) A discourse or treatise on types.
typothetae		Printers; -- used in the name of an association of the master printers of the United States and Canada, called The United Typothetæ of America.
tyran	Obsolete	A tyrant.
tyranness	Obsolete	A female tyrant.
tyrannic		Of or pertaining to a tyrant; suiting a tyrant; unjustly severe in government; absolute; imperious; despotic; cruel; arbitrary; as, a tyrannical prince; a tyrannical master; tyrannical government.
tyrannical		Of or pertaining to a tyrant; suiting a tyrant; unjustly severe in government; absolute; imperious; despotic; cruel; arbitrary; as, a tyrannical prince; a tyrannical master; tyrannical government.
tyrannicidal		Of or pertaining to tyrannicide, or the murder of a tyrant.
tyrannicide		One who kills a tyrant.
tyrannish	Obsolete	Like a tyrant; tyrannical.
tyrannize		To act the tyrant; to exercise arbitrary power; to rule with unjust and oppressive severity; to exercise power others not permitted by law or required by justice…
tyrannous		Tyrannical; arbitrary; unjustly severe; despotic.
tyranny		The government or authority of a tyrant; a country governed by an absolute ruler; hence, arbitrary or despotic exercise of power; exercise of power over subjects and others with a rigor not authorized by law or justice…
tyrant		An absolute ruler; a sovereign unrestrained by law or constitution; a usurper of sovereignty.
tyre	Obsolete	Curdled milk.
tyrian		Of or pertaining to Tyre or its people.
tyro		A beginner in learning; one who is in the rudiments of any branch of study; a person imperfectly acquainted with a subject; a novice.
tyrociny	Obsolete	The state of being a tyro, or beginner; apprenticeship.
tyrolite		A translucent mineral of a green color and pearly or vitreous luster.
tyronism		The state of being a tyro, or beginner.
tyrosin		A white crystalline nitrogenous substance present in small amount in the pancreas and spleen, and formed in large quantity from the decomposition of proteid matter by various means, -- as by pancreatic digestion…
tyrotoxicon		A ptomaine discovered by Vaughan in putrid cheese and other dairy products, and producing symptoms similar to cholera infantum.
tyrotoxine		Same as Tyrotoxicon.
tysonite		A fluoride of the cerium metals occurring in hexagonal crystals of a pale yellow color.
tystie	English dialect	The black guillemot.
tythe		See Tithe — a tenth; the tenth part of anything; specifically, the tenthpart of the increase arising from the profits of land and stock, allotted to the clergy for their support, as in England…
tything		See Tithing — the act of levying or taking tithes; that which is taken as tithe; a tithe.
