ulan		See Uhlan — one of a certain description of militia among the Tartars.
ularburong		A large East Indian nocturnal tree snake (Dipsas dendrophila).
ulcer		(Med.) A solution of continuity in any of the soft parts of the body, discharging purulent matter, found on a surface, especially one of the natural surfaces of the body, and originating generally in a constitutional disorder…
ulcerable		Capable of ulcerating.
ulcerate		To be formed into an ulcer; to become ulcerous.
ulcerated		Affected with, or as with, an ulcer or ulcers; as, an ulcerated sore throat.
ulceration		The process of forming an ulcer, or of becoming ulcerous; the state of being ulcerated; also, an ulcer.
ulcerative		Of or pertaining to ulcers; as, an ulcerative process.
ulcered		Ulcerous; ulcerated.
ulcerous		Having the nature or character of an ulcer; discharging purulent or other matter.
ulcuscle		A little ulcer.
ulcuscule		A little ulcer.
ule		A Mexican and Central American tree (Castilloa elastica and C.
ulema		A college or corporation in Turkey composed of the hierarchy, namely, the imams, or ministers of religion, the muftis, or doctors of law, and the cadis, or administrators of justice.
ulexite		A mineral occurring in white rounded crystalline masses.
uliginose		Muddy; oozy; slimy; also, growing in muddy places.
uliginous		Muddy; oozy; slimy; also, growing in muddy places.
ullage		The amount which a vessel, as a cask, of liquor lacks of being full; wantage; deficiency.
ullet		A European owl (Syrnium aluco) of a tawny color; -- called also uluia.
ullmannite		A brittle mineral of a steel-gray color and metallic luster, containing antimony, arsenic, sulphur, and nickel.
ulluco		See Melluc.
ulmaceous		Of or pertaining to a suborder of urticaceous plants, of which the elm is the type.
ulmate		A salt of ulmic acid.
ulmic		Pertaining to ulmin; designating an acid obtained from ulmin.
ulmin		A brown amorphous substance found in decaying vegetation.
ulmus		A genus of trees including the elm.
ulna		(Anat.) The postaxial bone of the forearm, or branchium, corresponding to the fibula of the hind limb.
ulnage		Measurement by the ell; alnage.
ulnar		Of or pertaining to the ulna, or the elbow; as, the ulnar nerve.
ulnare		One of the bones or cartilages of the carpus, which articulates with the ulna and corresponds to the cuneiform in man.
ulodendron		A genus of fossil trees.
uloid		Resembling a scar; scarlike.
ulonata		A division of insects nearly equivalent to the true Orthoptera.
ulotrichan		Of or pertaining to the Ulotrichi. -- n.
ulotrichi		The division of mankind which embraces the races having woolly or crispy hair.
ulotrichous		Having woolly or crispy hair; -- opposed to leiotrichous.
ulster		A long, loose overcoat, worn by men and women, originally made of frieze from Ulster, Ireland.
ulterior		Situated beyond, or on the farther side; thither; -- correlative with hither.
ulteriorly		More distantly or remotely.
ultima		Most remote; furthest; final; last.
ultimate		Farthest; most remote in space or time; extreme; last; final.
ultimately		As a final consequence; at last; in the end; as, afflictions often tend to correct immoral habits, and ultimately prove blessings.
ultimation		State of being ultimate; that which is ultimate, or final; ultimatum.
ultimatum		A final proposition, concession, or condition; especially, the final propositions, conditions, or terms, offered by either of the parties in a diplomatic negotiation; the most favorable terms a negotiator can offer…
ultime	Obsolete	Ultimate; final.
ultimity	Obsolete	The last stage or consequence; finality.
ultimo		In the month immediately preceding the present; as, on the 1st ultimo; -- usually abbreviated to ult.
ultion	Obsolete	The act of taking vengeance; revenge.
ultra		Going beyond others, or beyond due limit; extreme; fanatical; uncompromising; as, an ultra reformer; ultra measures.
ultra-		A prefix from the Latin ultra beyond (see Ulterior), having in composition the signification beyond, on the other side, chiefly when joined with words expressing relations of place; as, ultramarine, ultramontane, ultramundane…
ultragaseous		Having the properties exhibited by gases under very low pressures (one millionth of an atmosphere or less).
ultrage	Obsolete	Outrage.
ultraism		The principles of those who advocate extreme measures, as radical reform, and the like.
ultraist		One who pushes a principle or measure to extremes; an extremist; a radical; an ultra.
ultramarine		Situated or being beyond the sea.
ultramontane		Being beyond the mountains; specifically, being beyond the Alps, in respect to the one who speaks.
ultramontanism		The principles of those within the Roman Catholic Church who maintain extreme views favoring the pope's supremacy; -- so used by those living north of the Alps in reference to the Italians; -- rarely used in an opposite sense…
ultramontanist		One who upholds ultramontanism.
ultramundane		Being beyond the world, or beyond the limits of our system.
ultrared		Situated beyond or below the red rays; as, the ultrated rays of the spectrum, which are less refrangible than the red.
ultratropical		Situated beyond, or outside of, the tropics; extratropical; also, having an excessively tropical temperature; warmer than the tropics.
ultraviolet		Lying outside the visible spectrum at its violet end; -- said of rays more refrangible than the extreme violet rays of the spectrum.
ultrazodiacal		Outside the zodiac; being in that part of the heavens that is more than eight degrees from the ecliptic; as, ultrazodiacal planets, that is, those planets which in part of their orbits go beyond the zodiac.
ultroneous	Obsolete	Spontaneous; voluntary.
ulula		A genus of owls including the great gray owl (Ulula cinerea) of Arctic America, and other similar species.
ululant		Howling; wailing.
ululate		To howl, as a dog or a wolf; to wail; as, ululating jackals.
ululation		A howling, as of a dog or wolf; a wailing.
ulva		A genus of thin papery bright green seaweeds including the kinds called sea lettuce.
