umbecast	Obsolete	To cast about; to consider; to ponder.	Middle English umbecasten.
umbel		A kind of flower cluster in which the flower stalks radiate from a common point, as in the carrot and milkweed.	Latin umbella.
umbellar		Of or pertaining to an umbel; having the form of an umbel.	
umbellate		Bearing umbels; pertaining to an umbel; umbel-like; as, umbellate plants or flowers.	
umbellated		Bearing umbels; pertaining to an umbel; umbel-like; as, umbellate plants or flowers.	
umbellet		A small or partial umbel; an umbellule.	
umbellic	Obsolete	Pertaining to, or obtained from, certain umbelliferous plants; as, umbellic acid.	
umbellifer		A plant producing an umbel or umbels.	
umbelliferone		A tasteless white crystalline substance, C9H6O3, found in the bark of a certain plant (Daphne Mezereum), and also obtained by the distillation of certain gums from the Umbelliferæ, as galbanum, asafetida…	
umbelliferous		(a) Producing umbels. (b) Of or pertaining to a natural order (Umbelliferæ) of plants, of which the parsley, carrot, parsnip, and fennel are well-known examples.	
umbellularia		A genus of deep-sea alcyonaria consisting of a cluster of large flowerlike polyps situated at the summit of a long, slender stem which stands upright in the mud, supported by a bulbous base.	
umbellule		An umbellet.	
umber		(Paint.) A brown or reddish pigment used in both oil and water colors, obtained from certain natural clays variously colored by the oxides of iron and manganese.	
umbery		Of or pertaining to umber; like umber; as, umbery gold.	
umbilic	Obsolete	The navel; the center.	
umbilical		(Anat.) Of or pertaining to an umbilicus, or umbilical cord; umbilic.	Latin umbilicus.
umbilicate		(a) Depressed in the middle, like a navel, as a flower, fruit, or leaf; navel-shaped; having an umbilicus; as, an umbilicated smallpox vesicle.	
umbilicated		(a) Depressed in the middle, like a navel, as a flower, fruit, or leaf; navel-shaped; having an umbilicus; as, an umbilicated smallpox vesicle.	
umbilication		A slight, navel-like depression, or dimpling, of the center of a rounded body; as, the umbilication of a smallpox vesicle; also, the condition of being umbilicated.	
umbilicus		(Anat.) The depression, or mark, in the median line of the abdomen, which indicates the point where the umbilical cord separated from the fetus; the navel.	Latin umbilicus.
umbles		The entrails and coarser parts of a deer; hence, sometimes, entrails, in general.	
umbo		The boss of a shield, at or near the middle, and usually projecting, sometimes in a sharp spike.	
umbonate		Having a conical or rounded projection or protuberance, like a boss.	
umbonated		Having a conical or rounded projection or protuberance, like a boss.	
umbra		(Astron.) (a) The conical shadow projected from a planet or satellite, on the side opposite to the sun, within which a spectator could see no portion of the sun's disk; -- used in contradistinction from penumbra.	Latin umbra.
umbraculiferous		Bearing something like an open umbrella.	
umbraculiform		Having the form of anything that serves to shade, as a tree top, an umbrella, and the like; specifically (Bot.), having the form of an umbrella; umbrella-shaped.	
umbrage		Shade; shadow; obscurity; hence, that which affords a shade, as a screen of trees or foliage.	Latin umbraticus.
umbrageous		Forming or affording a shade; shady; shaded; as, umbrageous trees or foliage.	Middle French ombrageux.
umbrate	Obsolete	To shade; to shadow; to foreshadow.	Latin umbratus.
umbratic		Of or pertaining to the shade or darkness; shadowy; unreal; secluded; retired.	
umbratical		Of or pertaining to the shade or darkness; shadowy; unreal; secluded; retired.	
umbratile		Umbratic.	Latin umbratilis.
umbratious	Obsolete	Suspicious; captious; disposed to take umbrage.	
umbre		See Umber — (Paint.) A brown or reddish pigment used in both oil and water colors, obtained from certain natural clays variously colored by the oxides of iron and manganese.	
umbrel	Obsolete	An umbrella.	Old French ombrel.
umbrella		A shade, screen, or guard, carried in the hand for sheltering the person from the rays of the sun, or from rain or snow.	Italian ombrella.
umbrere	Obsolete	In ancient armor, a visor, or projection like the peak of a cap, to which a face guard was sometimes attached.	French ombre, from Latin umbra.
umbrette		See Umber, 4.	French ombrette.
umbriere	Obsolete	In ancient armor, a visor, or projection like the peak of a cap, to which a face guard was sometimes attached.	
umbriferous		Casting or making a shade; umbrageous. -- Um*brif"er*ous*ly, adv.	
umbril	Obsolete	A umbrere.	
umbrine		See Umbra, 2.	
umbrose	Obsolete	Shady; umbrageous.	Latin umbrosus.
umbrosity	Obsolete	The quality or state of being umbrose; shadiness.	
umhofo		An African two-horned rhinoceros (Atelodus, or Rhinoceros, simus); -- called also chukuru, and white rhinoceros.	
umlaut		The euphonic modification of a root vowel sound by the influence of a, u, or especially i, in the syllable which formerly followed.	German Umlaut.
umlauted		Having the umlaut; as, umlauted vowels.	
umpirage		The office of an umpire; the power, right, or authority of an umpire to decide.	
umpire		A person to whose sole decision a controversy or question between parties is referred; especially, one chosen to see that the rules of a game, as cricket, baseball, or the like, are strictly observed.	
umpireship		Umpirage; arbitrament.	
umpress		Female umpire.	
umpteen		An indefinite number, usu. more than ten and less than one hundred; a lot.	
umquhile	Scots	Some time ago; formerly.	
