un-		An inseparable verbal prefix or particle.	Latin unus.
un-mosaic		Not according to Moses; unlike Moses or his works.	
un-romanized		Not subjected to Roman arms or customs.	
unability	Obsolete	Inability.	
unable		Not able; not having sufficient strength, means, knowledge, skill, or the like; impotent' weak; helpless; incapable; -- now usually followed by an infinitive or an adverbial phrase; as, unable for work; unable to bear fatigue.	
unabled	Obsolete	Disabled.	
unableness	Obsolete	Inability.	
unabridged		Not abridged, or shortened; full; complete; entire; whole.	
unabsorbable		Not absorbable; specifically (Physiol.), not capable of absorption; unable to pass by osmosis into the circulating blood; as, the unabsorbable portion of food.	
unacceptability		The quality of being unacceptable; unacceptableness.	
unacceptable		Not acceptable; not pleasing; not welcome; unpleasant; disagreeable; displeasing; offensive. -- Un`ac*cept a*bly, adv.	
unaccessible		Inaccessible.	
unaccomplished		Not accomplished or performed; unfinished; also, deficient in accomplishment; unrefined.	
unaccomplishment	Obsolete	The state of being unaccomplished.	
unaccountability		The quality or state of being unaccountable.	
unaccountable		Not accountable or responsible; free from control.	
unaccurate		Inaccurate.	
unaccurateness		Inaccuracy.	
unaccustomed		Not used; not habituated; unfamiliar; unused; -- which to.	
unacquaintance		The quality or state of being unacquainted; want of acquaintance; ignorance.	
unacquainted	Obsolete	Not usual; unfamiliar; strange.	
unacquaintedness		Unacquaintance.	
unactive	Obsolete	Inactive; listless.	
unactiveness	Obsolete	Inactivity.	
unadmissible		Inadmissible.	
unadmittable		Inadmissible.	
unadulterate		Not adulterated; pure. -- Un`a*dul"ter*ate*ly, adv.	
unadulterated		Not adulterated; pure. -- Un`a*dul"ter*ate*ly, adv.	
unadvisable		Not advisable; inadvisable; inexpedient.	
unadvised		Not prudent; not discreet; ill advised.	
unaffected		Not affected or moved; destitute of affection or emotion; uninfluenced.	
unafiled	Obsolete	Undefiled.	
unagreeable		Not agreeing or consistent; unsuitable.	
unaidable		Incapable of being aided.	
unalienable		Inalienable; as, unalienable rights.	
unalist		An ecclesiastical who holds but one benefice; -- distinguished from pluralist.	
unallied		Not allied; having no ally; having no connection or relation; as, unallied species or genera.	
unalloyed		Not alloyed; not reduced by foreign admixture; unmixed; unqualified; pure; as, unalloyed metals; unalloyed happiness.	
unalmsed	Obsolete	Not having received alms.	
unambiguity		Absence of ambiguity; clearness; perspicuity.	
unambition		The absence of ambition.	
unamiability		The quality or state of being unamiable; moroseness.	
unamiable		Not amiable; morose; ill-natured; repulsive. -- Un*a"mi*a*bly, adv.	
unanchor		To loose from the anchor, as a ship.	
unaneled		Not aneled; not having received extreme unction.	
unanimate	Obsolete	Unanimous.	
unanimity		The quality or state of being unanimous.	
unanimous		Being of one mind; agreeing in opinion, design, or determination; consentient; not discordant or dissentient; harmonious; as, the assembly was unanimous; the members of the council were unanimous.	Latin unanimus.
unanswerability		The quality of being unanswerable; unanswerableness.	
unanswerable		Not answerable; irrefutable; conclusive; decisive; as, he have an unanswerable argument. -- Un*an swer*a*bly, adv.	
unanswered		Not answered; not replied; as, an unanswered letter.	
unappalled		Not appalled; not frightened; dauntless; undaunted.	
unapparel	Obsolete	To divest of clothing; to strip.	
unappealable		Not appealable; that can not be carried to a higher tribunal by appeal; as, an unappealable suit or action.	
unappliable		Inapplicable.	
unapplicable		Inapplicable.	
unappropriate		Inappropriate; unsuitable.	
unappropriated		Not specially appropriate; having not special application.	
unapproved		Not approved.	
unapt		Inapt; slow; dull.	
unaquit		Unrequited.	
unargued	Obsolete	Not argued against; undisputed.	
unarm		To disarm.	
unarmed		Not armed or armored; having no arms or weapons.	
unarted	Obsolete	Ignorant of the arts.	
unartful		Lacking art or skill; artless.	
unartistic		Inartistic.	
unascried	Obsolete	Not descried.	
unaserved	Obsolete	Not served.	
unassented		Not assented; -- said specif. of stocks or bonds the holders of which refuse to deposit them by way of assent to an agreement altering their status, as in a readjustment.	
unassuming		Not assuming; not bold or forward; not arrogant or presuming; humble; modest; retiring; as, an unassuming youth; unassuming manners.	
unassured		Not assured; not bold or confident.	
unatonable		Incapable of being atoned for; inexpiable.	
unattached		Not attached; not adhering; having no engagement; free.	
unattentive		Inattentive; careless.	
unattire		To divest of attire; to undress.	
unau		The two-toed sloth (Cholopus didactylus), native of South America.	
unaudienced		Not given an audience; not received or heard.	
unauspicious		Inauspicious.	
unauthorize		To disown the authority of; to repudiate.	
unavoidable		Not avoidable; incapable of being shunned or prevented; inevitable; necessary; as, unavoidable troubles.	
unavoided	Obsolete	Unavoidable; inevitable.	
unaware	Poetic	Not aware; not noticing; giving no heed; thoughtless; inattentive.	
unawares		, Without design or preparation; suddenly; without premeditation, unexpectedly.	
unbacked		Never mounted by a rider; unbroken.	
unbag		To pour, or take, or let go, out of a bag or bags.	
unbalanced		Not balanced; not in equipoise; having no counterpoise, or having insufficient counterpoise.	
unballast	Obsolete	To free from ballast; to discharge ballast from.	
unballasted		Etym: Freed from ballast; having discharged ballast.	
unbaned	Obsolete	Wanting a band or string; unfastened.	
unbank		To remove a bank from; to open by, or as if by, the removal of a bank.	
unbar		To remove a bar or bars from; to unbolt; to open; as, to unbar a gate.	
unbarbed		Destitute of bards, or of reversed points, hairs, or plumes; as, an unbarded feather.	
unbark	Obsolete	To deprive of the bark; to decorticate; to strip; as, to unbark a tree.	
unbarrel		To remove or release from a barrel or barrels.	
unbarricade		To unbolt; to unbar; to open.	
unbarricadoed		Not obstructed by barricades; open; as, unbarricadoed streets.	
unbashful		Not bashful or modest; bold; impudent; shameless.	
unbay	Obsolete	To free from the restraint of anything that surrounds or incloses; to let loose; to open.	
unbe	Obsolete	To cause not to be; to cause to be another.	
unbear		To remove or loose the bearing rein of (a horse).	
unbeat		To deliver from the form or nature of a beast.	
unbecome	Obsolete	To misbecome.	
unbecoming		Not becoming; unsuitable; unfit; indecorous; improper.	
unbed		To raise or rouse from bed.	
unbedinned		Not filled with din.	
unbefool		To deliver from the state of a fool; to awaken the mind of; to undeceive.	
unbeget		To deprive of existence.	
unbegilt		Not gilded; hence, not rewarded with gold.	
unbegot		Not begot; not yet generated; also, having never been generated; self-existent; eternal.	
unbegotten		Not begot; not yet generated; also, having never been generated; self-existent; eternal.	
unbeguile		To set free from the influence of guile; to undeceive.	
unbegun		Not yet begun; also, existing without a beginning.	
unbehovely	Obsolete	Not behooving or becoming; unseemly.	
unbeing	Obsolete	Not existing.	
unbeknown	Colloquial	Not known; unknown.	
unbelief		The withholding of belief; doubt; incredulity; skepticism.	
unbelieved		Not believed; disbelieved.	
unbeliever		One who does not believe; an incredulous person; a doubter; a skeptic.	
unbelieving		Not believing; incredulous; doubting; distrusting; skeptical.	
unbelt		To remove or loose the belt of; to ungird.	
unbend		To free from flexure; to make, or allow to become, straight; to loosen; as, to unbend a bow.	
unbending		Not bending; not suffering flexure; not yielding to pressure; stiff; -- applied to material things.	
unbenevolence		Absence or want of benevolence; ill will.	
unbenign		Not benign; malignant.	
unbenumb		To relieve of numbness; to restore sensation to.	
unbereaven		Unbereft.	
unbereft		Not bereft; not taken away.	
unbeseem		To be unbecoming or unsuitable to; to misbecome.	
unbeseeming		Unbecoming; not befitting. -- Un`be*seem ing*ness, n.	
unbespeak	Obsolete	To unsay; hence, to annul or cancel.	
unbethink	Obsolete	To change the mind of (one's self).	
unbeware	Obsolete	Unawares.	
unbewitch		To free from a spell; to disenchant.	
unbias		To free from bias or prejudice.	
unbiased		Free from bias or prejudice; unprejudiced; impartial. -- Un*bi"ased*ness, n.	
unbid		Not bidden; not commanded.	
unbidden		Not bidden; not commanded.	
unbind		To remove a band from; to set free from shackles or fastenings; to unite; to unfasten; to loose; as, unbind your fillets; to unbind a prisoner's arms; to unbind a load.	
unbishop		To deprive, as a city, of a bishop; to deprive, as a clergyman, of episcopal dignity or rights.	
unbit		To remove the turns of (a rope or cable) from the bits; as, to unbit a cable.	
unblemished		Not blemished; pure; spotless; as, an unblemished reputation or life.	
unbless	Obsolete	To deprive of blessings; to make wretched.	
unblessed		Not blest; excluded from benediction; hence, accursed; wretched.	
unblest		Not blest; excluded from benediction; hence, accursed; wretched.	
unblestful		Unblessed.	
unblind		To free from blindness; to give or restore sight to; to open the eyes of.	
unblindfold		To free from that which blindfolds.	
unbloody		Not bloody.	
unblushing		Not blushing; shameless. -- Un*blush"ing*ly, adv.	
unbody		To free from the body; to disembody.	
unbolt	Obsolete	To remove a bolt from; to unfasten; to unbar; to open.	
unbone		To twist about, as if boneless.	
unbonnet		To take a bonnet from; to take off one's bonnet; to uncover; as, to unbonnet one's head.	
unbooked		Not written in a book; unrecorded.	
unboot		To take off the boots from.	
unborn		Not born; no yet brought into life; being still to appear; future.	
unborrowed		Not borrowed; being one's own; native; original.	
unbosom		To disclose freely; to reveal in confidence, as secrets; to confess; -- often used reflexively; as, to unbosom one's self.	
unbosomer		One who unbosoms, or discloses.	
unbottomed		Etym: Having no bottom; bottomless.	
unbound		imp. & p. p. of Unbind.	
unboundably	Obsolete	Infinitely.	
unbounded		Having no bound or limit; as, unbounded space; an, unbounded ambition.	
unbow		To unbend.	
unbowed		Not bent or arched; not bowed down.	
unbowel		To deprive of the entrails; to disembowel.	
unbox		To remove from a box or boxes.	
unboy		To divest of the traits of a boy.	
unbrace		To free from tension; to relax; to loose; as, to unbrace a drum; to unbrace the nerves.	
unbraid		To separate the strands of; to undo, as a braid; to unravel; to disentangle.	
unbreast	Obsolete	To disclose, or lay open; to unbosom.	
unbreathed	Obsolete	Not exercised; unpracticed.	
unbred	Obsolete	Not begotten; unborn.	
unbreech		To remove the breeches of; to divest or strip of breeches.	
unbrewed		Not made by brewing; unmixed; pure; genuine.	
unbridle		To free from the bridle; to set loose.	
unbridled		Loosed from the bridle, or as from the bridle; hence, unrestrained; licentious; violent; as, unbridled passions.	
unbroken		Not broken; continuous; unsubdued; as, an unbroken colt.	
unbuckle		To loose the buckles of; to unfasten; as, to unbuckle a shoe.	
unbuild		To demolish; to raze.	
unbundle		To release, as from a bundle; to disclose.	
unbung		To remove the bung from; as, to unbung a cask.	
unburden		To relieve from a burden.	
unburiable		Not ready or not proper to be buried.	
unburrow		To force from a burrow; to unearth.	
unburthen		To unburden; to unload.	
unbury		To disinter; to exhume; fig., to disclose.	
unbusied		Not required to work; unemployed; not busy.	
unbutton		To loose the buttons of; to unfasten.	
unbuxom	Obsolete	Disobedient.	
uncage		To loose, or release, from, or as from, a cage.	
uncalled-for		Not called for; not required or needed; improper; gratuitous; wanton.	
uncalm		To disturb; to disquiet.	
uncamp		To break up the camp of; to dislodge from camp.	
uncanny		Not canny; unsafe; strange; weird; ghostly.	
uncanonize		To deprive of canonical authority.	
uncap		To remove a cap or cover from.	
uncapable	Obsolete	Incapable.	
uncape	Obsolete	To remove a cap or cape from.	
uncapper		An instrument for removing an explode cap from a cartridge shell.	
uncardinal		To degrade from the cardinalship.	
uncared		Not cared for; not heeded; -- with for.	
uncarnate		Not fleshy; specifically, not made flesh; not incarnate.	
uncart		To take from, or set free from, a cart; to unload.	
uncase		To take out of a case or covering; to remove a case or covering from; to uncover.	
uncastle		To take a castle from; to turn out of a castle.	
uncaused		Having no antecedent cause; uncreated; self-existent; eternal.	
uncautelous	Obsolete	Incautious.	
uncautious		Incautious.	
uncautiously		Incautiously.	
unceasable		Not capable of being ended; unceasing.	
uncenter		To throw from its center.	
uncentre		To throw from its center.	
uncentury		To remove from its actual century.	
uncertain		Not certain; not having certain knowledge; not assured in mind; distrustful.	
uncertainly		In an uncertain manner.	
uncertainty		The quality or state of being uncertain.	
uncessant	Obsolete	Incessant.	
unchain		To free from chains or slavery; to let loose.	
unchancy		Happening at a bad time; unseasonable; inconvenient.	
unchaplain		To remove from a chaplaincy.	
uncharge		To free from a charge or load; to unload.	
unchariot		To throw out of a chariot.	
uncharitable		Not charitable; contrary to charity; severe in judging; harsh; censorious; as, uncharitable opinions or zeal.	
uncharity		Uncharitableness.	
uncharm		To release from a charm, fascination, or secret power; to disenchant.	
uncharnel		To remove from a charnel house; to raise from the grave; to exhume.	
unchaste		Not chaste; not continent; lewd. -- Un*chaste ness, n.	
unchastity		The quality or state of being unchaste; lewdness; incontinence.	
uncheckable		Not capable of being checked or stopped.	
unchild		To bereave of children; to make childless.	
unchristen	Obsolete	To render unchristian.	
unchristened		Not christened; as, an unchristened child.	
unchristian		Not Christian; not converted to the Christian faith; infidel.	
unchristianize		To turn from the Christian faith; to cause to abandon the belief and profession of Christianity.	
unchristianly		Unchristian.	
unchristianness		The quality or state of being unchristian.	
unchurch		To expel, or cause to separate, from a church; to excommunicate.	
uncia	Obsolete	(Alg.) A numerical coefficient in any particular case of the binomial theorem.	
uncial		Of, pertaining to, or designating, a certain style of letters used in ancient manuscripts, esp. in Greek and Latin manuscripts.	
unciatim		Ounce by ounce.	
unciform		Having the shape of a hook; being of a curved or hooked from; hooklike.	
uncinata		A division of marine chætopod annelids which are furnished with uncini, as the serpulas and sabellas.	
uncinate		Hooked; bent at the tip in the form of a hook; as, an uncinate process.	Latin uncinatus.
uncinatum		The unciform bone.	
uncinus		One of the peculiar minute chitinous hooks found in large numbers in the tori of tubicolous annelids belonging to the Uncinata.	Latin uncinus.
uncipher	Obsolete	To decipher; as, to uncipher a letter.	
uncircumcised		Not circumcised; hence, not of the Israelites. 1 Sam. xvii. 26.	
uncircumcision		(Script.) People not circumcised; the Gentiles.	
uncircumstandtial		Not circumstantial; not entering into minute particulars.	
uncity	Obsolete	To deprive of the rank or rights of a city.	
uncivil		Not civilized; savage; barbarous; uncivilized.	
uncivility	Obsolete	Incivility.	
uncivilization		The state of being uncivilized; savagery or barbarism.	
uncivilized		Not civilized; not reclaimed from savage life; rude; barbarous; savage; as, the uncivilized inhabitants of Central Africa.	
uncivilty		In an uncivil manner.	
unclasp		To loose the clasp of; to open, as something that is fastened, or as with, a clasp; as, to unclasp a book; to unclasp one's heart.	
uncle		The brother of one's father or mother; also applied to an aunt's husband; -- the correlative of aunt in sex, and of nephew and niece in relationship.	Middle English uncle, from Anglo-Norman uncle, from Old French oncle, from Latin avunculus.
unclean		Not clean; foul; dirty; filthy.	
uncleansable		Incapable of being cleansed or cleaned.	
unclench		Same as Unclinch.	
uncleship		The office or position of an uncle.	
unclew		To unwind, unfold, or untie; hence, to undo; to ruin.	
unclinch		To cause to be no longer clinched; to open; as, to unclinch the fist.	
uncling	Obsolete	To cease from clinging or adhering.	
uncloak		To remove a cloak or cover from; to deprive of a cloak or cover; to unmask; to reveal.	
unclog		To disencumber of a clog, or of difficulties and obstructions; to free from encumbrances; to set at liberty.	
uncloister		To release from a cloister, or from confinement or seclusion; to set free; to liberate.	
unclose		To open; to separate the parts of; as, to unclose a letter; to unclose one's eyes.	
unclosed		Not separated by inclosures; open.	
unclothe		To strip of clothes or covering; to make naked.	
unclothed	Obsolete	Etym: Not yet clothed; wanting clothes; naked. -- Un*cloth"ed*ly, adv.	
uncloud		To free from clouds; to unvail; to clear from obscurity, gloom, sorrow, or the like.	
unclue		To unwind; to untangle.	
unclutch		To open, as something closely shut.	
unco	Scots	Unknown; strange, or foreign; unusual, or surprising; distant in manner; reserved.	
uncoach	Obsolete	To detach or loose from a coach.	
uncock		To let down the cock of, as a firearm.	
uncoffle		To release from a coffle.	
uncoif		To deprive of the coif or cap.	
uncoil		To unwind or open, as a coil of rope.	
uncoined		Not coined, or minted; as, uncoined silver.	
uncolt	Obsolete	To unhorse.	
uncombine		To separate, as substances in combination; to release from combination or union.	
uncomeatable	Colloquial	Not to be come at, or reached; inaccessible.	
uncomely		Not comely. -- adv.	
uncomfortable		Feeling discomfort; uneasy; as, to be uncomfortable on account of one's position.	
uncommon		Not common; unusual; infrequent; rare; hence, remarkable; strange; as, an uncommon season; an uncommon degree of cold or heat; uncommon courage.	
uncomplete		Incomplete.	
uncomprehend		To fail to comprehend.	
uncomprehensive		Unable to comprehend.	
uncompromising		Not admitting of compromise; making no truce or concessions; obstinate; unyielding; inflexible. -- Un*com"pro*mi`sing*ly, adv.	
unconceivable	Obsolete	Inconceivable.	
unconcern		Want of concern; absence of anxiety; freedom from solicitude; indifference.	
unconcerned		Not concerned; not anxious or solicitous; easy in mind; carelessly secure; indifferent; as, to be unconcerned at what has happened; to be unconcerned about the future. -- Un`con*cern ed*ness, n.	
unconcerning	Obsolete	Not interesting of affecting; insignificant; not belonging to one.	
unconcernment	Obsolete	The state of being unconcerned, or of having no share or concern; unconcernedness.	
unconcludent	Obsolete	Inconclusive.	
unconcluding	Obsolete	Inconclusive.	
unconclusive	Obsolete	Inconclusive.	
unconditional		Not conditional limited, or conditioned; made without condition; absolute; unreserved; as, an unconditional surrender.	
unconditioned		Not conditioned or subject to conditions; unconditional.	
unconfidence		Absence of confidence; uncertainty; doubt.	
unconformability		The quality or state of being unconformable; unconformableness.	
unconformable		Not conformable; not agreeable; not conforming.	
unconformist	Obsolete	A nonconformist.	
unconformity		Want of conformity; incongruity; inconsistency.	
unconfound		To free from a state of confusion, or of being confounded.	
unconfounded		Not confounded.	
uncongeal		To thaw; to become liquid again.	
unconning	Obsolete	Not knowing; ignorant.	
unconquerable		Not conquerable; indomitable. -- Un*con"quer*a*bly, adv.	
unconscionable		Not conscionable; not conforming to reason; unreasonable; exceeding the limits of any reasonable claim or expectation; inordinate; as, an unconscionable person or demand; unconscionable size.	
unconscious		Not conscious; having no consciousness or power of mental perception; without cerebral appreciation; hence, not knowing or regarding; ignorant; as, an unconscious man.	
unconsecrate	Obsolete	To render not sacred; to deprive of sanctity; to desecrate.	
unconsequential		Inconsequential.	
unconsiderate	Obsolete	Inconsiderate; heedless; careless.	
unconsidered		Not considered or attended to; not regarded; inconsiderable; trifling.	
unconsonant		Incongruous; inconsistent.	
unconspicuous		Inconspicuous.	
unconstancy	Obsolete	Inconstancy.	
unconstant	Obsolete	Not constant; inconstant; fickle; changeable.	
unconstitutional		Not constitutional; not according to, or consistent with, the terms of a constitution of government; contrary to the constitution; as, an unconstitutional law, or act of an officer.	
unconstraint		Freedom from constraint; ease.	
unconsummate	Obsolete	Not consummated; not accomplished.	
uncontestable		Incontestable.	
uncontinent		Not continent; incontinent.	
uncontrollable		Incapable of being controlled; ungovernable; irresistible; as, an uncontrollable temper; uncontrollable events.	
uncontroversory	Obsolete	Not involving controversy.	
uncontrovertible		Incontrovertible.	
uncontrovertibly		Incontrovertibly.	
unconvenient		Inconvenient.	
unconversion		The state of being unconverted; impenitence.	
unconverted		Not changed in opinion, or from one faith to another. Specifically: -- (a) Not persuaded of the truth of the Christian religion; heathenish.	
uncord		To release from cords; to loosen the cord or cords of; to unfasten or unbind; as, to uncord a package.	
uncork		To draw the cork from; as, to uncork a bottle.	
uncorrect		Incorrect.	
uncorrigible	Obsolete	Incorrigible; not capable of correction.	
uncorrupt		Incorrupt.	
uncorruptible		Incorruptible. i. 23.	
uncorruption		Incorruption.	
uncouple	Obsolete	To loose, as dogs, from their couples; also, to set loose; to disconnect; to disjoin; as, to uncouple railroad cars.	
uncourtliness		Absence of courtliness; rudeness; rusticity.	
uncous	Obsolete	Hooklike; hooked.	Latin uncus.
uncouth		Unfamiliar; strange; hence, mysterious; dreadful; also, odd; awkward; boorish; as, uncouth manners.	
uncovenable	Obsolete	Not covenable; inconvenient.	
uncovenanted		Not covenanted; not granted or entered into under a covenant, agreement, or contract.	
uncover		To take the cover from; to divest of covering; as, to uncover a box, bed, house, or the like; to uncover one's body.	
uncowl		To divest or deprive of a cowl.	
uncreate		To deprive of existence; to annihilate.	
uncreated		Deprived of existence; annihilated.	
uncreatedness		The quality or state of being uncreated.	
uncredible		Incredible.	
uncredit	Obsolete	To cause to be disbelieved; to discredit.	
uncreditable	Obsolete	Discreditable.	
uncrown		To deprive of a crown; to take the crown from; hence, to discrown; to dethrone.	
uncrudded	Obsolete	Not cruddled, or curdled.	
unction		The act of anointing, smearing, or rubbing with an unguent, oil, or ointment, especially for medical purposes, or as a symbol of consecration; as, mercurial unction.	
unctious	Obsolete	Unctuous.	
unctuosity		Quality or state of being unctuous.	
unctuous		Of the nature or quality of an unguent or ointment; fatty; oily; greasy.	Latin unctuōsus.
unculpable		Inculpable; not blameworthy.	
uncult	Obsolete	Not cultivated; rude; illiterate.	
unculture		Want of culture.	
uncunning	Obsolete	Ignorant.	
uncunningly	Obsolete	Ignorantly.	
uncunningness	Obsolete	Ignorance.	
uncurable		Incurable.	
uncurably		In an uncurable manner.	
uncurbable		Not capable of being curbed.	
uncurl		To loose from curls, or ringlets; to straighten out, as anything curled or curly.	
uncurrent		Not current. Specifically: Not passing in common payment; not receivable at par or full value; as, uncurrent notes.	
uncurse		To free from a curse or an execration.	
uncurtain		To remove a curtain from; to reveal.	
uncus		A hook or claw.	Latin uncus.
uncustomable		Not customable, or subject to custom duties.	
uncustomed		Uncustomable; also, not having paid duty or customs.	
uncut		Not cut; not separated or divided by cutting or otherwise; -- said especially of books, periodicals, and the like, when the leaves have not been separated by trimming in binding.	
uncuth	Obsolete	Unknown; strange. -- n.	
uncypher		See Uncipher — to decipher; as, to uncipher a letter.	
undam		To free from a dam, mound, or other obstruction.	
undampned	Obsolete	Uncondemned.	
undated		Rising and falling in waves toward the margin, as a leaf; waved.	
undauntable		Incapable of being daunted; intrepid; fearless; indomitable.	
undaunted		Not daunted; not subdued or depressed by fear.	
unde		Waving or wavy; -- applied to ordinaries, or division lines.	
undeadly	Obsolete	Not subject to death; immortal. -- Un*dead"li*ness, n.	Middle English undeedlii.
undeaf	Obsolete	To free from deafness; to cause to hear.	
undecagon		A figure having eleven angles and eleven sides.	
undecane		A liquid hydrocarbon, C11H24, of the methane series, found in petroleum; -- so called from its containing eleven carbon atoms in the molecule.	
undeceive		To cause to be no longer deceived; to free from deception, fraud, fallacy, or mistake.	
undecency	Obsolete	Indecency.	
undecennary		Occurring once in every period of eleven years; undecennial.	
undecennial		Occurring or observed every eleventh year; belonging to, or continuing, a period of eleven years; undecennary; as, an undecennial festival.	
undecent	Obsolete	Indecent.	
undecide		To reverse or recant, as a previous decision.	
undecisive		Indecisive.	
undeck		To divest of ornaments.	
undecked		Not decked; unadorned. undecked, save with herself, more lovely fair.	
undecolic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C11H18O2, of the propiolic acid series, obtained indirectly from undecylenic acid as a white crystalline substance.	
undecreed		Etym: Reversed or nullified by decree, as something previously decreed.	
undecyl		The radical regarded as characteristic of undecylic acid.	
undecylenic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid C11H20O2, homologous with acrylic acid, and obtained as a white crystalline substance by the distillation of castor oil.	
undecylic		Related to, derived from, or containing, undecyl; specifically, designating that member of the fatty acids which corresponds to undecane, and is obtained as a white crystalline substance, C11H22O2.	
undeeded		Not deeded or transferred by deed; as, undeeded land.	
undefatigable	Obsolete	Indefatigable.	
undefeasible	Obsolete	Indefeasible.	
undefine		To make indefinite; to obliterate or confuse the definition or limitations of.	
undeify		To degrade from the state of deity; to deprive of the character or qualities of a god; to deprive of the reverence due to a god.	
undeniable		Not deniable; incapable of denial; palpably true; indisputable; obvious; as, undeniable evidence.	
undeniably		In an undeniable manner.	
undepartable	Obsolete	Incapable of being parted; inseparable.	
under		Below or lower, in place or position, with the idea of being covered; lower than; beneath; -- opposed to over; as, he stood under a tree; the carriage is under cover; a cellar extends under the whole house.	Old English under.
under-age	Obsolete	Not having arrived at adult age, or at years of discretion; hence, raw; green; immature; boyish; childish.	
under-arm		Done (as bowling) with the arm not raised above the elbow, that is, not swung far out from the body; underhand.	
under-garment		A garment worn below another.	
underact		To perform inefficiently, as a play; to act feebly.	
underaction		Subordinate action; a minor action incidental or subsidiary to the main story; an episode.	
underactor		A subordinate actor.	
underagent		A subordinate agent.	
underaid	Obsolete	To aid clandestinely.	
underback		A vessel which receives the wort as it flows from the mashing tub.	
underbear	Obsolete	To line; to guard; to face; as, cloth of gold underborne with blue tinsel.	Middle English underberen, from Old English underberan.
underbearer		One who supports or sustains; especially, at a funeral, one of those who bear the copse, as distinguished from a bearer, or pallbearer, who helps to hold up the pall.	
underbid		To bid less than, as when a contract or service is offered to the lowest bidder; to offer to contract, sell, or do for a less price than.	
underbind		To bind beneath.	
underboard		Under the board, or table; hence, secretly; unfairly; underhand. See the Note under Aboveboard.	
underbrace		To brace, fasten, or bind underneath or below.	
underbranch		A lower branch.	
underbred		Not thoroughly bred; ill-bred; as, an underbred fellow.	
underbrush		Shrubs, small trees, and the like, in a wood or forest, growing beneath large trees; undergrowth.	
underbuilder		A subordinate or assistant builder.	
underbuilding		Same as Substruction.	
underbuy		To buy at less than the real value or worth; to buy cheaper than.	
undercast		To cast under or beneath.	
underchamberlain		A deputy chamberlain of the exchequer.	
underchanter		Same as Subchanter.	
underchaps		The lower chaps or jaw.	
undercharge		To charge below or under; to charge less than is usual or suitable fro; as, to undercharge goods or services.	
underclay		A stratum of clay lying beneath a coal bed, often containing the roots of coal plants, especially the Stigmaria.	
undercliff		A subordinate cliff on a shore, consisting of material that has fallen from the higher cliff above.	
underclothes		Clothes worn under others, especially those worn next the skin for warmth.	
underclothing		Same as Underclothes.	
undercoat		A coat worn under another; a light coat, as distinguished from an overcoat, or a greatcoat.	
underconduct	Obsolete	A lower conduit; a subterranean conduit.	
underconsumption		Consumption of less than is produced; consumption of less than the usual amount.	
undercraft		A sly trick or device; as, an undercraft of authors.	
undercreep	Obsolete	To creep secretly or privily.	Middle English undercrepen.
undercrest	Obsolete	To support as a crest; to bear.	
undercroft		A subterranean room of any kind; esp., one under a church (see Crypt), or one used as a chapel or for any sacred purpose.	
undercry	Obsolete	To cry aloud.	Middle English undercryen.
undercurrent		A current below the surface of water, sometimes flowing in a contrary direction to that on the surface.	
undercut		The lower or under side of a sirloin of beef; the fillet.	
underdealing		Crafty, unfair, or underhand dealing; unfair practice; trickery.	
underdelve	Obsolete	To delve under.	Middle English underdelven, from Old English underdelfan.
underdig	Obsolete	To dig under or beneath; to undermine.	
underditch		To dig an underground ditches in, so as to drain the surface; to underdrain; as, to underditch a field or a farm.	
underdo		To do less than is requisite or proper; -- opposed to overdo.	Middle English underdon, from Old English underdon.
underdoer		One who underdoes; a shirk.	
underdolven		p. p. of Underdelve — to delve under.	
underdose		A dose which is less than required; a small or insufficient dose.	
underdrain		An underground drain or trench with openings through which the water may percolate from the soil or ground above.	
underdressed		Not dresses enough.	
underestimate		To set to The act of underestimating; too low an estimate.	
underfaction		A subordinate party or faction.	
underfaculty		An inferior or subordinate faculty.	
underfarmer		An assistant farmer.	
underfeed		To feed with too little food; to supply with an insufficient quantity of food.	
underfellow		An underling Sir P.	
underfilling		The filling below or beneath; the under part of a building.	
underfollow	Obsolete	To follow closely or immediately after.	
underfong	Obsolete	To undertake; to take in hand; to receive.	
underfoot		Under the feet; underneath; below. See Under foot, under Foot, n.	
underfringe		A lower fringe; a fringe underneath something.	
underfurnish		To supply with less than enough; to furnish insufficiently.	
underfurrow		To cover as under a furrow; to plow in; as, to underfurrow seed or manure.	
underget	Obsolete	To get under or beneath; also, to understand.	Middle English undergeten.
undergird		To blind below; to gird round the bottom.	
underglaze		Applied under the glaze, that is, before the glaze, that is, before the glaze is put on; fitted to be so applied; -- said of colors in porcelain painting.	
undergo		To be subjected to; to bear up against; to pass through; to endure; to suffer; to sustain; as, to undergo toil and fatigue; to undergo pain, grief, or anxiety; to undergothe operation of amputation…	Middle English undergon, from Old English undergan.
undergod		A lower or inferio	
undergore		To gore underneath.	
undergown		A gown worn under another, or under some other article of dress.	
undergraduate		A member of a university or a college who has not taken his first degree; a student in any school who has not completed his course.	
undergraduateship		The position or condition of an undergraduate.	
undergroan	Obsolete	To groan beneath.	
underground		The place or space beneath the surface of the ground; subterranean space.	
undergrove		A grove of shrubs or low trees under taller ones.	
undergrow	Obsolete	To grow to an inferior, or less than the usual, size or height.	
undergrown		Of small stature; not grown to a full height or size.	
undergrowth		That which grows under trees; specifically, shrubs or small trees growing among large trees.	
undergrub	English dialect	To undermine.	
underhand		Secret; clandestine; hence, mean; unfair; fraudulent.	Old English ''[[under]] [[hand]]''.
underhanded		Underhand; clandestine.	
underhandedly		In an underhand manner.	
underhang		To hang under or down; to suspend.	
underhangman		An assistant or deputy hangman.	
underhead	Obsolete	A blockhead, or stupid person; a dunderhead.	
underheave	Obsolete	To heave or lift from below.	
underhew		To hew less than is usual or proper; specifically, to hew, as a piece of timber which should be square, in such a manner that it appears to contain a greater number of cubic feet than it really does contain.	
underhonest		Not entirely honest.	
underhung		(Carp.) Resting on a track at the bottom, instead of being suspended; - - said of a sliding door.	
underjaw		The lower jaw.	
underjoin		To join below or beneath; to subjoin.	
underkeep	Obsolete	To keep under, or in subjection; to suppress.	
underkeeper		A subordinate keeper or guardian.	
underkind		An inferior kind.	
underkingdom		A subordinate or dependent kingdom.	
underlaborer		An assistant or subordinate laborer.	
underlaid		Laid or placed underneath; also, having something laid or lying underneath.	
underlay		To lay beneath; to put under.	Middle English underleyen, from Old English underlecgan.
underlayer		One who, or that which, underlays or is underlaid; a lower layer.	
underleaf	Obsolete	A prolific sort of apple, good for cider.	
underlease		A lease granted by a tenant or lessee; especially, a lease granted by one who is himself a lessee for years, for any fewer or less number of years than he himself holds; a sublease.	
underlet		To let below the value.	
underletter		A tenant or lessee who grants a lease to another.	
underlie		To lie under; to rest beneath; to be situated under; as, a stratum of clay underlies the surface gravel.	Middle English underliggen, from Old English underlicgan.
underline		To mark a line below, as words; to underscore.	
underling		An inferior person or agent; a subordinate; hence, a mean, sorry fellow.	
underlip		The lower lip.	
underlock		A lock of wool hanging under the belly of a sheep.	
underlocker		A person who inspects a mine daily; -- called also underviewer.	
underlying		Lying under or beneath; hence, fundamental; as, the underlying strata of a locality; underlying principles.	
undermanned		Insufficiently furnished with men; short-handed.	
undermasted		Having masts smaller than the usual dimension; -- said of vessels.	
undermaster		A master subordinate to the principal master; an assistant master.	
undermatch		One who is not a match for another.	
undermeal	Obsolete	The inferior, or after, part of the day; the afternoon.	
undermine		To excavate the earth beneath, or the part of, especially for the purpose of causing to fall or be overthrown; to form a mine under; to sap; as, to undermine a wall.	
underminer		One who undermines.	
underminister	Obsolete	To serve, or minister to, in a subordinate relation.	
underministry		A subordinate or inferior ministry.	
undermirth	Obsolete	Suppressed or concealed mirth.	
undermost		Lowest, as in place, rank, or condition.	
undern	Obsolete	The time between; the time between sunrise and noon; specifically, the third hour of the day, or nine o'clock in the morning, according to ancient reckoning; hence, mealtime…	Old English undern.
underneath		Beneath; below; in a lower place; under; as, a channel underneath the soil.	Old English underneoþan.
underniceness		A want of niceness; indelicacy; impropriety.	
undernime	Obsolete	To receive; to perceive.	
underofficer		A subordinate officer.	
underpart		A subordinate part.	
underpay		To pay inadequately.	
underpeep		To peep under.	
underpeer		To peer under.	
underpeopled		Not fully peopled.	
underpight		imp. of Underpitch — to fill underneath; to stuff.	
underpin		To lay stones, masonry, etc., under, as the sills of a building, on which it is to rest.	
underpinning		The act of one who underpins; the act of supporting by stones, masonry, or the like.	
underpitch	Obsolete	To fill underneath; to stuff.	
underplant		To plant under; specif. (Forestry), to plant (young trees) under an existing stand.	
underplay		To play in a subordinate, or in an inferior manner; to underact a part.	
underplot		A series of events in a play, proceeding collaterally with the main story, and subservient to it.	
underpoise		To weigh, estimate, or rate below desert; to undervalue.	
underpossessor		One who possesses or holds anything subject to the superior of another.	
underpraise		To praise below desert.	
underprize		To undervalue; to underestimate.	
underproduction		The production of less than is demanded or of less than the usual supply.	
underproof		Containing less alcohol than proof spirit. See Proof spirit, under Spirit.	
underprop		To prop from beneath; to put a prop under; to support; to uphold.	
underproportioned		Of inadequate or inferior proportions; small; poor.	
underpropper		One who, or that which, underprops or supports.	
underpull	Obsolete	To exert one's influence secretly.	
underpuller	Obsolete	One who underpulls.	
underput	Obsolete	To put or send under.	
underrate		To rate too low; to rate below the value; to undervalue.	
underreckon		To reckon below what is right or proper; to underrate.	
underrun		To run or pass under; especially (Naut.), to pass along and under, as a cable, for the purpose of taking it in, or of examining it.	
undersail	Obsolete	To sail alongshore.	
undersailed	Obsolete	Inadequately equipped with sails.	
undersaturated		Not fully saturated; imperfectly saturated.	
undersay	Obsolete	To say by way of derogation or contradiction.	
underscore		To draw a mark or line under; to underline.	
undersecretary		A secretary who is subordinate to the chief secretary; an assistant secretary; as, an undersecretary of the Treasury.	
undersell		To sell the same articles at a lower price than; to sell cheaper than.	
underservant		An inferior servant.	
underset		To prop or support.	Middle English undersetten, from Old English undersettan.
undersetter		One who, or that which, undersets or supports; a prop; a support; a pedestal.	
undersetting		Something set or built under as a support; a pedestal.	
undershapen	Poetic	Under the usual shape or size; small; dwarfish.	
undersheriff		A sheriff's deputy.	
undersheriffry	Obsolete	Undershrievalty.	
undershirt		A shirt worn next the skin, under another shirt; -- called also undervest.	
undershoot		To shoot short of (a mark).	
undershot		(Zoöl.) Having the lower incisor teeth projecting beyond the upper ones, as in the bulldog.	
undershrievalty		The office or position of an undersheriff.	
undershrieve		A low shrub; a woody plant of low stature.	
undershrub		Partly shrublike.	
undershut		Closed from beneath.	
underside		The lower or lowest side of anything.	
undersign		To write one's name at the foot or end of, as a letter or any legal instrument.	
undersized		Of a size less than is common.	
underskinker	Obsolete	Undertapster.	
underskirt		A petticoat; the foundation skirt of a draped dress.	
undersky		The lower region of the sky.	
undersleeve		A sleeve of an under-garment; a sleeve worn under another,	
underslung		Of an automobile body, suspended from the springs in such a manner that the frame of the chassis is below the axles, the object being to lower the center of gravity of the car.	
undersoil		The soil beneath the surface; understratum; subsoil.	
undersold		p. p. of Undersell — to sell the same articles at a lower price than; to sell cheaper than.	
undersong		The burden of a song; the chorus; the refrain.	
undersparred		Having spars smaller than the usual dimension; -- said of vessels.	
underspend		To spend less than.	
undersphere		A sphere which is smaller than, and in its movements subject to, another; a satellite.	
underspore	Obsolete	To raise with a spar, or piece of wood, used as a lever.	
understair	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to the kitchen, or the servants' quarters; hence, subordinate; menial.	
understairs		The basement or cellar.	
understand		To have just and adequate ideas of; to apprehended the meaning or intention of; to have knowledge of; to comprehend; to know; as, to understand a problem in Euclid; to understand a proposition or a declaration…	Middle English understanden, from Old English understandan.
understandable		Capable of being understood; intelligible.	
understander		One who understands, or knows by experience.	
understanding		Knowing; intelligent; skillful; as, he is an understanding man.	
understandingly		In an understanding manner; intelligibly; with full knowledge or comprehension; intelligently; as, to vote upon a question understandingly; to act or judge understandingly.	
understate		To state or represent less strongly than may be done truthfully.	
understatement		The act of understating, or the condition of being understated; that which is understated; a statement below the truth.	
understock		To supply insufficiently with stock.	
understood		imp. & p. p. of Understand.	
understrapper		A petty fellow; an inferior agent; an underling.	
understrapping		Becoming an understrapper; subservient.	
understratum		The layer, or stratum, of earth on which the mold, or soil, rests; subsoil.	
understroke		To underline or underscore.	
understudy		To study, as another actor's part, in order to be his substitute in an emergency; to study another actor's part.	
undersuit		A suit worn under another suit; a suit of underclothes.	
undertakable		Capable of being undertaken; practicable.	
undertake		To take upon one's self; to engage in; to enter upon; to take in hand; to begin to perform; to set about; to attempt.	Middle English undertaken.
undertaker		One who undertakes; one who engages in any project or business.	
undertaking		The act of one who undertakes, or engages in, any project or business.	
undertapster		Assistant to a tapster.	
undertaxed		Taxed too little, or at a lower rate than others.	
undertenancy		Tenancy or tenure under a tenant or lessee; the tenure of an undertenant.	
undertenant		The tenant of a tenant; one who holds lands or tenements of a tenant or lessee.	
underthing	Obsolete	Something that is inferior and of little worth.	
undertide	Obsolete	The under or after part of the day; undermeal; evening.	
undertime	Obsolete	The under or after part of the day; undermeal; evening.	
undertone		A low or subdued tone or utterance; a tone less loud than usual.	
undertook		imp. of Undertake — to take upon one's self; to engage in; to enter upon; to take in hand; to begin to perform; to set about; to attempt.	
undertow		The current that sets seaward near the bottom when waves are breaking upon the shore.	
undertreasurer		An assistant treasurer.	
underturn	Obsolete	To turn upside down; to subvert; to upset.	Middle English underturnen.
undervaluation		The act of undervaluing; a rate or value not equal to the real worth.	
undervalue		To value, rate, or estimate below the real worth; to depreciate.	
undervaluer		One who undervalues.	
underverse	Obsolete	The lower or second verse.	
undervest		An undershirt.	
underviewer		See Underlooker.	
underwear		That which is worn under the outside clothing; underclothes.	
underween	Obsolete	To undervalue.	
underwent		imp. of Undergo — to be subjected to; to bear up against; to pass through; to endure; to suffer; to sustain; as, to undergo toil and fatigue; to undergo pain, grief, or anxiety…	
underwing		(Zoöl.) One of the posterior wings of an insect.	
underwitted		Weak in intellect; half-witted; silly.	
underwood		Small trees and bushes that grow among large trees; coppice; underbrush; -- formerly used in the plural.	
underwork		To injure by working secretly; to destroy or overthrow by clandestine measure; to undermine.	
underworker		One who underworks.	
underworld		The lower of inferior world; the world which is under the heavens; the earth.	
underwrite		To write under something else; to subscribe.	Middle English underwriten, from Old English underwritan.
underwriter		One who underwrites his name to the conditions of an insurance policy, especially of a marine policy; an insurer.	
underwriting		The business of an underwriter,	
underyoke		To subject to the yoke; to make subject.	Middle English underyoken.
undeserve	Obsolete	To fail to deserve.	
undeserver	Obsolete	One of no merit; one who is nor deserving or worthy.	
undesigning		Having no artful, ulterior, or fraudulent purpose; sincere; artless; simple.	
undestroyable		Indestructible.	
undeterminable		Not determinable; indeterminable.	
undeterminate		Nor determinate; not settled or certain; indeterminate.	
undetermination		Indetermination.	
undevil	Obsolete	To free from possession by a devil or evil spirit; to exorcise.	
undevotion		Absence or want of devotion.	
undid		imp. of Undo — to reverse, as what has been done; to annul; to bring to naught.	
undifferentiated		Not differentiated; specifically (Biol.), homogenous, or nearly so; -- said especially of young or embryonic tissues which have not yet undergone differentiation (see Differentiation, 3), that is…	
undigenous		Generated by water.	
undigestible		Indigestible.	
undight	Obsolete	To put off; to lay aside, as a garment.	
undigne	Obsolete	Unworthy.	
undine		One of a class of fabled female water spirits who might receive a human soul by intermarrying with a mortal.	
undiocesed		Unprovided with a diocese; having no diocese.	
undirect	Obsolete	To misdirect; to mislead. who make false fires to undirect seamen in a tempest.	
undirected		Not directed; not guided; left without direction.	
undirectly		Indirectly.	
undiscerning		Want of discernment.	
undisclose	Obsolete	To keep close or secret.	
undiscreet		Indiscreet.	
undispensable	Obsolete	Unavoidable; inevitable.	
undispensed		Not dispensed.	
undisposedness		Indisposition; disinclination.	
undisputable		Indisputable.	
undistinctive		Making no distinctions; not discriminating; impartial.	
undistinctly		Indistinctly.	
undivided		Not divided; not separated or disunited; unbroken; whole; continuous; as, plains undivided by rivers or mountains.	
undividual	Obsolete	Indivisible.	
undivisible		Indivisible.	
undo		To reverse, as what has been done; to annul; to bring to naught.	
undock		To take out of dock; as, to undock a ship.	
undoer		One who undoes anything; especially, one who ruins another.	
undoing		The reversal of what has been done. 2.	
undomesticate		To make wild or roving.	
undone		p. p. of Undo — to reverse, as what has been done; to annul; to bring to naught.	
undouble		To unfold, or render single.	
undoubtable		Indubitable.	
undoubted		Not doubted; not called in question; indubitable; indisputable; as, undoubted proof; undoubted hero. -- Un*doubt"ed*ly, adv.	
undrape		To strip of drapery; to uncover or unveil.	
undraw		To draw aside or open; to draw back.	
undreamed		Not dreamed, or dreamed of; not thof.	
undreamt		Not dreamed, or dreamed of; not thof.	
undress		(Med.) To take the dressing, or covering, from; as, to undress a wound.	
undubitable	Obsolete	Indubitable; as, an undubitable principle.	
undue		Not due; not yet owing; as, an undue debt, note, or bond.	
undueness		The quality of being undue.	
unduke		To deprive of dukedom.	
undulant		Undulating.	
undulary	Obsolete	Moving like waves; undulatory.	
undulate		Same as Undulated.	Latin undulatus.
undulated		Resembling, or in the nature of, waves; having a wavy surface; undulatory.	
undulating		Rising and falling like waves; resembling wave form or motion; undulatory; rolling; wavy; as, an undulating medium; undulating ground. -- Un"du*la`ting*ly. adv.	
undulation		The act of undulating; a waving motion or vibration; as, the undulations of a fluid, of water, or of air; the undulations of sound.	Latin undulatio.
undulationist		One who advocates the undulatory theory of light.	
undulative		Consisting in, or accompanied by, undulations; undulatory.	
undulatory		Moving in the manner of undulations, or waves; resembling the motion of waves, which successively rise or swell rise or swell and fall; pertaining to a propagated alternating motion, similar to that of waves.	
undull	Obsolete	To remove the dullness of; to clear.	
undulous		Undulating; undulatory.	
unduly		In an undue manner.	
undumpish	Obsolete	To relieve from the dumps.	
undust	Obsolete	To free from dust.	
undwellable	Obsolete	Uninhabitable.	
undwelt		Not lived (in); -- with in.	
undying		Not dying; imperishable; unending; immortal; as, the undying souls of men.	
uneared		Not eared, or plowed.	
unearned		Not earned; not gained by labor or service.	
unearth		To drive or draw from the earth; hence, to uncover; to bring out from concealment; to bring to light; to disclose; as, to unearth a secret.	
unearthly		Not terrestrial; supernatural; preternatural; hence, weird; appalling; terrific; as, an unearthly sight or sound. -- Un*earth"li*ness, n.	
unease	Obsolete	Want of ease; uneasiness.	
uneasily		In an uneasy manner.	
uneasiness		The quality or state of being uneasy; restlessness; disquietude; anxiety.	
uneasy		Not easy; difficult.	Middle English unesy.
uneath	Obsolete	Not easy; difficult; hard.	Middle English unethe.
unedge		To deprive of the edge; to blunt.	
unefectual		Ineffectual.	
unelastic		Not elastic; inelastic.	
unelasticity		Inelasticity.	
unelegant		Inelegant.	
uneligible		Ineligible.	
unembarrassed		Not embarrassed. Specifically: -- (a) Not perplexed in mind; not confused; as, the speaker appeared unembarrassed.	
unembarrassment		Freedom from embarrassment.	
unembodied		Free from a corporeal body; disembodied; as, unembodied spirits.	
unempirically		Not empirically; without experiment or experience.	
unemployed		Nor employed in manual or other labor; having no regular work.	
unemployment		Quality or state of being not employed; -- used esp. in economics, of the condition of various social classes when temporarily thrown out of employment, as those engaged for short periods, those whose trade is decaying…	
unencumber		To free from incumbrance; to disencumber.	
unendly	Obsolete	Unending; endless.	
unentangle		To disentangle.	
unequal		Not equal; not matched; not of the same size, length, breadth, quantity, strength, talents, acquirements, age, station, or the like; as, the fingers are of unequal length; peers and commoners are unequal in rank.	
unequalable	Obsolete	Not capable of being equaled or paralleled.	
unequaled		Not equaled; unmatched; unparalleled; unrivaled; exceeding; surpassing; -- in a good or bad sense; as, unequaled excellence; unequaled ingratitude or baseness.	
unequally		In an unequal manner.	
unequalness		The quality or state of being unequal; inequality; unevenness.	
unequitable		Inequitable.	
unequity	Obsolete	Want of equity or uprightness; injustice; wickedness; iniquity.	
unequivocal		Not equivocal; not doubtful; not ambiguous; evident; sincere; plain; as, unequivocal evidence; unequivocal words. -- Un`e*quiv o*cal*ness, n.	
unerring		Committing no mistake; incapable or error or failure certain; sure; unfailing; as, the unerring wisdom of God.	
unerringly		In an unerring manner.	
unessential		Not essential; not of prime importance; not indispensable; unimportant.	
unessentially		In an unessential manner.	
unestablish		To disestablish.	
uneth	Obsolete	With difficulty; scarcely. See Uneath.	
unethes	Obsolete	With difficulty; scarcely. See Uneath.	
uneven		Not even; not level; not uniform; rough; as, an uneven road or way; uneven ground.	Old English unefen.
unevitable	Obsolete	Inevitable.	
unexact		Not exact; inexact.	
unexampled		Having no example or similar case; being without precedent; unprecedented; unparalleled.	
unexceptionable		Not liable to any exception or objection; unobjectionable; faultless; good; excellent; as, a man of most unexceptionable character. -- Un`ex*cep tion*a*bly, adv.	
unexceptive		Not exceptive; not including, admitting, or being, an exception.	
unexcusable		Inexcusable.	
unexhaustible		Inexhaustible.	
unexpectation	Obsolete	Absence of expectation; want of foresight.	
unexpected		Not expected; coming without warning; sudden. -- Un`ex*pect ed*ness, n.	
unexpedient	Obsolete	Inexpedient.	
unexpensive		Inexpensive.	
unexperience	Obsolete	Inexperience.	
unexperienced		Not experienced; being without experience; inexperienced.	
unexperient	Obsolete	Inexperienced.	
unexpert		Not expert; inexpert.	
unexpertly		In an unexpert manner.	
unexpressible		Inexpressible.	
unexpressive		Not expressive; not having the power of utterance; inexpressive.	
unextinguishable		Inextinguishable. -- Un`ex*tin"guish*a*bly, adv.	
unextricable	Obsolete	Not extricable; inextricable.	
unface		To remove the face or cover from; to unmask; to expose.	
unfailable	Obsolete	Infallible.	
unfailing		Not failing; not liable to fail; inexhaustible; certain; sure.	
unfair		To deprive of fairness or beauty.	
unfaith		Absence or want of faith; faithlessness; distrust; unbelief.	
unfaithful		Not faithful; not observant of promises, vows, allegiance, or duty; violating trust or confidence; treacherous; perfidious; as, an unfaithful subject; an unfaithful agent or servant.	
unfalcated		Having no deductions; not curtailed, or shortened; undiminished.	
unfallible		Infallible.	
unfasten		To loose; to unfix; to unbind; to untie.	
unfathered		Having no father; fatherless; hence, born contrary to nature.	
unfavorable		Not favorable; not propitious; adverse; contrary; discouraging. -- Un*fa vor*a*bly, adv.	
unfeather		To deprive of feathers; to strip.	
unfeatured		Wanting regular features; deformed.	
unfeaty	Obsolete	Not feat; not dexterous; unskillful; clumsy.	
unfeeling		Destitute of feeling; void of sensibility; insensible; insensate.	
unfeigned		Not feigned; not counterfeit; not hypocritical; real; sincere; genuine; as, unfeigned piety; unfeigned love to man. -- Un*feign ed*ness, n.	
unfellow		To prevent from being a fellow or companion; to separate from one's fellows; to dissever.	
unfellowed		Being without a fellow; unmatched; unmated.	
unfence		To strip of a fence; to remove a fence from.	
unfertile		Not fertile; infertile; barren. -- Un*fer"tile*ness, n.	
unfestlich	Obsolete	Unfit for a feast; hence, jaded; worn.	
unfetter		To loose from fetters or from restraint; to unchain; to unshackle; to liberate; as, to unfetter the mind.	
unfeudalize		To free from feudal customs or character; to make not feudal.	
unfile		To remove from a file or record.	
unfiled	Obsolete	Not defiled; pure.	
unfilial		Unsuitable to a son or a daughter; undutiful; not becoming a child. -- Un*fil"ial*ly, adv.	
unfinished		Not finished, not brought to an end; imperfect; incomplete; left in the rough; wanting the last hand or touch; as, an unfinished house; an unfinished picture; an unfinished iron casting.	
unfirmness		Infirmness.	
unfit		To make unsuitable or incompetent; to deprive of the strength, skill, or proper qualities for anything; to disable; to incapacitate; to disqualify; as, sickness unfits a man for labor; sin unfits us for the society of holy beings.	
unfix		To loosen from a fastening; to detach from anything that holds; to unsettle; as, to unfix a bayonet; to unfix the mind or affections.	
unfledged		Not fledged; not feathered; hence, not fully developed; immature.	
unflesh		To deprive of flesh; to reduce a skeleton.	
unfleshly		Not pertaining to the flesh; spiritual.	
unflexible		Inflexible.	
unflinching		Not flinching or shrinking; unyielding. -- Un*flinch"ing*ly, adv.	
unflower		To strip of flowers.	
unfold		To open the folds of; to expand; to spread out; as, to unfold a tablecloth.	
unfolder		One who, or that which, unfolds.	
unfoldment		The acct of unfolding, or the state of being unfolded.	
unfool	Obsolete	To restore from folly, or from being a fool.	
unforesee		To fail to foresee.	
unforeseeable		Incapable of being foreseen.	
unforeskinned		Deprived of the foreskin; circumcised.	
unforgettable		Not forgettable; enduring in memory.	
unform		To decompose, or resolve into parts; to destroy the form of; to unmake.	
unformed		Decomposed, or resolved into parts; having the form destroyed.	
unfortunate		Not fortunate; unsuccessful; not prosperous; unlucky; attended with misfortune; unhappy; as, an unfortunate adventure; an unfortunate man; an unfortunate commander; unfortunate business. -- n.	
unfounded		Not founded; not built or established.	
unframe		To take apart, or destroy the frame of.	
unfrangible	Obsolete	Infrangible.	
unfrankable		Not frankable; incapable of being sent free by public conveyance.	
unfraught		Etym: Not fraught; not burdened.	
unfree		Not free; held in bondage.	
unfreeze	Obsolete	To thaw.	
unfrequency		Infrequency.	
unfrequent	Obsolete	Infrequent.	
unfrequented		Rarely visited; seldom or never resorted to by human beings; as, an unfrequented place or forest.	
unfret	Obsolete	To smooth after being fretted.	
unfriend		One not a friend; an enemy.	Middle English unfreond.
unfriended		Wanting friends; not befriended; not countenanced or supported.	
unfriendly		Not friendly; not kind or benevolent; hostile; as, an unfriendly neighbor.	
unfriendship		The state or quality of being unfriendly; unfriendliness; enmity.	
unfrock		To deprive or divest or a frock; specifically, to deprive of priestly character or privilege; as, to unfrock a priest.	
unfruitful		Not producing fruit or offspring; unproductive; infertile; barren; sterile; as, an unfruitful tree or animal; unfruitful soil; an unfruitful life or effort. -- Un*fruit ful*ness, n.	
unfumed		Not exposed to fumes; not fumigated.	
unfurl		To loose from a furled state; to unfold; to expand; to open or spread; as, to unfurl sails; to unfurl a flag.	
unfurnish		To strip of furniture; to divest; to strip.	
unfusible		Infusible.	
ungain	Obsolete	Ungainly; clumsy; awkward; also, troublesome; inconvenient.	
ungainliness		The state or quality of being ungainly; awkwardness.	
ungainly		Not gainly; not expert or dexterous; clumsy; awkward; uncouth; as, an ungainly strut in walking.	
ungear		To strip of gear; to unharness; to throw out of gear.	
ungeld		A person so far out of the protection of the law, that if he were murdered, no geld, or fine, should be paid, or composition made by him that killed him.	
ungenerous		Not generous; illiberal; ignoble; unkind; dishonorable.	
ungenerously		In an ungenerous manner.	
ungenitured		Destitute of genitals; impotent.	
ungentle		Not gentle; lacking good breeding or delicacy; harsh.	
unget		To cause to be unbegotten or unborn, or as if unbegotten or unborn.	
ungifted		Being without gifts, especially native gifts or endowments.	
ungird		To loose the girdle or band of; to unbind; to unload.	
ungive	Obsolete	To yield; to relax; to give way.	
ungka		The siamang; -- called also ungka ape.	
ungka-puti		The agile gibbon; -- called also ungka-pati, and ungka-etam. See Gibbon.	
unglaze		To strip of glass; to remove the glazing, or glass, from, as a window.	
unglorify		To deprive of glory.	
unglorious	Obsolete	Inglorious.	
unglove		To take off the glove or gloves of; as, to unglove the hand.	
unglue		To separate, part, or open, as anything fastened with glue.	
ungod		To cause to recognize no god; to deprive of a god; to make atheistical.	
ungodly		Not godly; not having regard for God; disobedient to God; wicked; impious; sinful.	
ungored		Not stained with gore; not bloodied.	
ungot		Not gotten; not acquired.	
ungotten		Not gotten; not acquired.	
ungovernable		Not governable; not capable of being governed, ruled, or restrained; licentious; wild; unbridled; as, ungovernable passions. -- Un*gov"ern*a*bly, adv.	
ungown		To strip of a gown; to unfrock.	
ungowned		Etym: Stripped of a gown; unfrocked.	
ungraceful		Not graceful; not marked with ease and dignity; deficient in beauty and elegance; inelegant; awkward; as, ungraceful manners; ungraceful speech.	
ungracious		Not gracious; showing no grace or kindness; being without good will; unfeeling.	
ungrate	Obsolete	Displeasing; ungrateful; ingrate.	
ungrateful		Not grateful; not thankful for favors; making no returns, or making ill return for kindness, attention, etc.; ingrateful.	
ungrave	Obsolete	To raise or remove from the grave; to disinter; to untomb; to exhume.	
ungual		Of or pertaining to a nail, claw, talon, or hoof, or resembling one.	
unguard		To deprive of a guard; to leave unprotected.	
unguent		A lubricant or salve for sores, burns, or the like; an ointment.	Latin unguentum.
unguentary		Like an unguent, or partaking of its qualities.	Latin unguentarius.
unguentous		Unguentary.	
unguestlike		In a manner not becoming to a guest.	
unguicular		Of or pertaining to a claw or a nail; ungual.	Latin unguiculus.
unguiculata		An extensive division of Mammalia including those having claws or nails, as distinguished from the hoofed animals (Ungulata).	
unguiculate		Furnished with nails, claws, or hooks; clawed. See the Note under Nail, n., 1.	
unguiculated		Furnished with nails, claws, or hooks; clawed. See the Note under Nail, n., 1.	
unguiferous		Producing, having, or supporting nails or claws.	
unguiform		Having the form of a claw or claws.	
unguinous		Consisting of, or resembling, fat or oil; oily; unctuous; oleaginous.	Latin unguinosus.
unguis		The nail, claw, talon, or hoof of a finger, toe, or other appendage.	
ungula		A hoof, claw, or talon.	
ungular		Of or pertaining to a hoof, claw, or talon; ungual.	
ungulata		An extensive group of mammals including all those that have hoofs.	
ungulate		Shaped like a hoof.	Latin ungulatus.
unguled		Hoofed, or bearing hoofs; -- used only when these are of a tincture different from the body.	
unguligrade		Having, or walking on, hoofs.	
ungulous		Same as Ungulate.	
unhair		To deprive of hair, or of hairs; as, to unhair hides for leather.	
unhallow		To profane; to desecrate.	
unhallowed		Not consecrated; hence, profane; unholy; impious; wicked.	
unhand		To loose from the hand; to let go.	
unhandsome		Not handsome; not beautiful; ungraceful; not comely or pleasing; plain; homely.	
unhandy		Clumsy; awkward; as, an Unhandy man.	
unhang		To divest or strip of hangings; to remove the hangings, as a room.	
unhap	Obsolete	Ill luck; misfortune.	
unhappied	Obsolete	Made unhappy.	
unhappy		Not happy or fortunate; unfortunate; unlucky; as, affairs have taken an unhappy turn.	
unharbor		To drive from harbor or shelter.	
unharbored		Having no harbor or shelter; unprotected.	
unharmonious		Inharmonious; unsymmetrical; also, unmusical; discordant.	
unharness		To strip of harness; to loose from harness or gear; as, to unharness horses or oxen.	
unhasp		To unloose the hasp of; to unclose.	
unhat		To take off the hat of; to remove one's hat, especially as a mark of respect.	
unhead		To take out the head of; as, to unhead a cask.	
unheal	Obsolete	Misfortune; calamity; sickness.	
unhealth		Unsoundness; disease.	
unheard		Not heard; not perceived by the ear; as, words unheard by those present.	
unheard-of		New; unprecedented; unparalleled.	
unheart	Obsolete	To cause to lose heart; to dishearten.	
unheedy	Obsolete	Incautious; precipitate; heedless.	
unheired		Destitute of an heir.	
unhele	Obsolete	Same as Unheal, n.	Old English unhelan.
unhelm		To deprive of the helm or helmet.	
unhelmed		Etym: Divested or deprived of the helm or helmet.	
unhelmet		To deprive of the helmet.	
unhide	Obsolete	To bring out from concealment; to discover.	
unhinge		To take from the hinges; as, to unhinge a door.	
unhingement		The act unhinging, or the state of being unhinged.	
unhitch		To free from being hitched, or as if from being hitched; to unfasten; to loose; as, to unhitch a horse, or a trace.	
unhive		To drive or remove from a hive.	
unhoard		To take or steal from a hoard; to pilfer.	
unhold	Obsolete	To cease to hold; to unhand; to release.	
unholy		Not holy; unhallowed; not consecrated; hence, profane; wicked; impious. -- Un*ho li*ness, n.	
unhonest		Dishonest; dishonorable.	
unhood		To remove a hood or disguise from.	
unhook		To loose from a hook; to undo or open by loosening or unfastening the hooks of; as, to unhook a fish; to unhook a dress.	
unhoop		To strip or deprive of hoops; to take away the hoops of.	
unhoped		Not hoped or expected.	
unhoped-for		Unhoped; unexpected.	
unhorse		To throw from a horse; to cause to dismount; also, to take a horse or horses from; as, to unhorse a rider; to unhorse a carriage.	
unhosed		Without hose.	
unhospitable		Inhospitable.	
unhouse		To drive from a house or habitation; to dislodge; hence, to deprive of shelter.	
unhoused		Etym: Driven from a house; deprived of shelter.	
unhouseled	Obsolete	Not having received the sacrament.	
unhuman		Not human; inhuman.	
unhumanize		To render inhuman or barbarous.	
unhusked		Etym: Not husked; having the husk on.	
uni-		A prefix signifying one, once; as in uniaxial, unicellular.	
uniat		A member of the Greek Church, who nevertheless acknowledges the supremacy of the Pope of Rome; one of the United Greeks.	
uniate		A member of the Greek Church, who nevertheless acknowledges the supremacy of the Pope of Rome; one of the United Greeks.	
uniaxal		Uniaxial. -- U`ni*ax"al*ly, adv.	
uniaxial		(Crystallog.) Having but one optic axis, or line of no double refraction.	
uniaxially		In a uniaxial manner.	
unibranchiate		Having but one gill, as certain molluscs.	
unicameral		Having, or consisting of, a single chamber; -- said of a legislative assembly.	
unicapsular		Having but one capsule to each flower.	
unicarinated		Having one ridge or keel.	
unicelled		Unicellular.	
unicellular		Having, or consisting of, but a single cell; as, a unicellular organism.	
unicentral		Having a single center of growth.	
unicity		The condition of being united; quality of the unique; unification.	
uniclinal		See Nonoclinal.	
unicolorous		Having the surface of a uniform color.	
unicorn		A fabulous animal with one horn; the monoceros; -- often represented in heraldry as a supporter.	
unicornous		Having but a single horn; -- said of certain insects.	
unicostate		Having a single rib or strong nerve running upward from the base; -- said of a leaf.	
unicursal		That can be passed over in a single course; -- said of a curve when the coördinates of the point on the curve can be expressed as rational algebraic functions of a single parameter th.	
unideaed		Having no ideas; senseless; frivolous.	
unideal		Not ideal; real; unimaginative. 2.	
unidimensional		Having but one dimension. See Dimension.	
unidiomatic		Not idiomatic.	
unidiomatical		Not idiomatic.	
unifacial		Having but one front surface; as, some foliaceous corals are unifacial, the polyp mouths being confined to one surface.	
unific		Making one or unity; unifying.	
unification		The act of unifying, or the state of being unified.	
unifier		One who, or that which, unifies; as, a natural law is a unifier of phenomena.	
unifilar		Having only one thread; involving the use of only one thread, wire, fiber, or the like; as, unifilar suspension.	
uniflagellate		Having but one flagellum; as, uniflagellate organisms.	
uniflorous		Bearing one flower only; as, a uniflorous peduncle.	
unifolliate		Having only one leaf.	
unifollilate		Having only one leaflet, as the leaves of the orange tree.	
uniform		Having always the same form, manner, or degree; not varying or variable; unchanging; consistent; equable; homogenous; as, the dress of the Asiatics has been uniform from early ages; the temperature is uniform…	
uniformal	Obsolete	Uniform.	
uniformism		The doctrine of uniformity in the geological history of the earth; -- in part equivalent to uniformitarianism, but also used, more broadly, as opposed to catastrophism.	
uniformitarian		Of, pertaining to, or designating, the view or doctrine that existing causes, acting in the same manner and with essentially the same intensity as at the present time, are sufficient to account for all geological changes.	
uniformitarianism		The uniformitarian doctrine.	
uniformity		The quality or state of being uniform; freedom from variation or difference; resemblance to itself at all times; sameness of action, effect, etc., under like conditions; even tenor; as, the uniformity of design in a poem…	
uniformly		In a uniform manner; without variation or diversity; by a regular, constant, or common ratio of change; with even tenor; as, a temper uniformly mild.	
unifromness		The quality or state of being uniform; uniformity.	
unify		To cause to be one; to make into a unit; to unite; to view as one.	
unigeniture		The state of being the only begotten.	
unigenous		Being of one kind; being of the same genus.	
unijugate		Having but one pair of leaflets; -- said of a pinnate leaf.	
unilabiate		Having one lip only; as, a unilabiate corolla.	
unilateral		Being on one side only; affecting but one side; one-sided.	
uniliteral		Consisting of one letter only; as, a uniliteral word or sign.	
unilobar		Consisting of a single lobe.	
unilocular		Having one cell or cavity only; as, a unilocular capsule or shell.	
unimitable	Obsolete	Inimitable.	
unimpairable		That can not be impaired.	
unimpeachable		Not impeachable; not to be called in question; exempt from liability to accusation; free from stain, guilt, or fault; irreproachable; blameless; as, an unimpeachable reputation; unimpeachable testimony.	
unimplicate		Not implicated.	
unimportance		Want of importance; triviality.	
unimproved		Not improved; not made better or wiser; not advanced in knowledge, manners, or excellence.	
unimuscular		Having only one adductor muscle, and one muscular impression on each valve, as the oyster; monomyarian.	
unincumbered		Not incumbered; not burdened.	
uninfringible		That may not be infringed; as, an uninfringible monopoly.	
unintelligence		Absence or lack of intelligence; unwisdom; ignorance.	
uninteressed	Obsolete	Uninterested; unaffected.	
uninterested		Not interested; not having any interest or property in; having nothing at stake; as, to be uninterested in any business.	
unintermission		Want or failure of intermission.	
uninucleated		Possessed of but a single nucleus; as, a uninucleated cell.	
unio		Any one of numerous species of fresh-water mussels belonging to Unio and many allied genera.	
uniocular		Of, pertaining to, or seated in, one eye; monocular.	
union		The act of uniting or joining two or more things into one, or the state of being united or joined; junction; coalition; combination.	Old French union, from Latin unionem.
unionism		The sentiment of attachment to a federal union, especially to the federal union of the United States.	
unionist		One who advocates or promotes union; especially a loyal supporter of a federal union, as that of the United States.	
unionistic		Of or pertaining to union or unionists; tending to promote or preserve union.	
uniovulate		Containing but one ovule.	
unipara		A woman who has borne one child.	
uniparous		(Zoöl.) Producing but one egg or young at a time.	
uniped		Having only one foot.	
unipersonal		Existing as one, and only one, person; as, a unipersonal God.	
unipersonalist		One who believes that the Deity is unipersonal.	
uniphonous		Having but one sound, as the drum.	
uniplicate		Having, or consisting of, but one fold.	
unipolar		(Physics) Having, or acting by means of, one pole only.	
unique		Being without a like or equal; unmatched; unequaled; unparalleled; single in kind or excellence; sole. -- U*nique ness, n.	French unique, from Latin unicus.
uniquity		The quality or state of being unique; uniqueness.	
uniradiated		Having but one ray.	
uniramous		Having but one branch.	
uniseptate		Having but one septum, or partition; -- said of two-celled fruits, such as the silicles of cruciferous plants.	
uniserial		Having only one row or series.	
uniseriate		Having one line or series; uniserial. -- U`ni*se"ri*ate*ly, adv.	
unisexual		Having one sex only, as plants which have the male and female flowers on separate individuals, or animals in which the sexes are in separate individuals; dioecious; -- distinguished from bisexual, or hermaphrodite.	
unisilicate		A salt of orthosilicic acid, H4SiO4; -- so called because the ratio of the oxygen atoms united to the basic metals and silicon respectively is 1:1; for example, Mg2SiO4 or 2MgO.SiO2.	
unison		Harmony; agreement; concord; union.	
unisonal		Being in unison; unisonant. -- U*nis"o*nal*ly, adv.	
unisonance		Accordance of sounds; unison.	
unisonant		Being in unison; having the same degree of gravity or acuteness; sounded alike in pitch.	
unisonous		Being in unison; unisonant.	
unit		A single thing or person.	
unitable		Capable of union by growth or otherwise.	
unitarian		(Theol.) One who denies the doctrine of the Trinity, believing that God exists only in one person; a unipersonalist; also, one of a denomination of Christians holding this belief.	
unitarianism		The doctrines of Unitarians.	
unitarianize		To change or turn to Unitarian views.	
unitary		Of or pertaining to a unit or units; relating to unity; as, the unitary method in arithmetic.	
unite		To put together so as to make one; to join, as two or more constituents, to form a whole; to combine; to connect; to join; to cause to adhere; as, to unite bricks by mortar; to unite iron bars by welding; to unite two armies.	Latin unitus.
united		Combined; joined; made one.	Latin unitus.
unitedly		In an united manner.	
uniter		One who, or that which, unites.	
uniterable	Obsolete	Not iterable; incapable of being repeated.	
unition	Obsolete	The act of uniting, or the state of being united; junction.	Latin unitio.
unitive		Having the power of uniting; causing, or tending to produce, union.	
unitively		In a unitive manner.	
unitize		To reduce to a unit, or one whole; to form into a unit; to unify.	
unity		The state of being one; oneness.	Anglo-Norman unité.
univalence		The quality or state of being univalent.	
univalent		Having a valence of one; capable of combining with, or of being substituted for, one atom of hydrogen; monovalent; -- said of certain atoms and radicals.	
univalve		A shell consisting of one valve only; a mollusk whose shell is composed of a single piece, as the snails and conchs.	
univalved		Having one valve; as, a univalve shell or pericarp.	
univalvia		Same as Gastropoda.	
univalvular		Same as Univalve, a.	
univariant		Having one degree of freedom or variability.	
universal		Of or pertaining to the universe; extending to, including, or affecting, the whole number, quantity, or space; unlimited; general; all-reaching; all-pervading; as, universal ruin; universal good; universal benevolence or benefice.	Latin universalis.
universalian		Of or pertaining to Universalism; Universalist.	
universalism		The doctrine or belief that all men will be saved, or made happy, in the future state.	
universalist		(Theol.) One who believes in Universalism; one of a denomination of Christians holding this faith.	
universalistic		Of or pertaining to the whole; universal.	
universality		The quality or state of being universal; unlimited extension or application; generality; -- distinguished from particularity; as, the unversality of a proposition; the unversality of sin; the unversality of the Deluge.	
universalize		To make universal; to generalize.	
universally		In a universal manner; without exception; as, God's laws are universally binding on his creatures.	
universalness		The quality or state of being universal; universality.	
universe		All created things viewed as constituting one system or whole; the whole body of things, or of phenomena; the mundus of the Latins; the world; creation.	Old French univers, from Latin universum.
university		An institution organized and incorporated for the purpose of imparting instruction, examining students, and otherwise promoting education in the higher branches of literature, science, art, etc.…	
universological		Of or pertaining to universology.	
universologist		One who is versed in universology.	
universology		The science of the universe, and the relations which it involves.	
univocacy		The quality or state of being univocal.	
univocal		Having one meaning only; -- contrasted with equivocal.	
univocally		In a univocal manner; in one term; in one sense; not equivocally.	
univocation	Obsolete	Agreement of name and meaning.	
unjoin		To disjoin.	
unjoint		To disjoint.	
unjointed		Disjointed; unconnected; hence, incoherent.	
unjust		Acting contrary to the standard of right; not animated or controlled by justice; false; dishonest; as, an unjust man or judge.	
unjustice	Obsolete	Want of justice; injustice.	
unkard	English dialect	See Unked — odd; strange; ugly; old; uncouth.	
unke		A European aquatic toad (Bombinator igneus).	German Unke.
unked	English dialect	Odd; strange; ugly; old; uncouth.	
unkemmed	Obsolete	Unkempt.	
unkempt		Not combed; disheveled; as, an urchin with unkempt hair.	
unkennel		To drive from a kennel or hole; as, to unkennel a fox.	
unkent	Obsolete	Unknown; strange.	
unketh	Obsolete	Uncouth.	
unkind		Wanting in kindness, sympathy, benevolence, gratitude, or the like; cruel; harsh; unjust; ungrateful.	
unkindliness		Unkindness.	
unkindly		Not kindly; unkind; ungracious.	
unkindred	Obsolete	Not kindred; not of the same kin.	
unking		To cause to cease to be a king.	
unkingship	Obsolete	The quality or condition of being unkinged; abolition of monarchy.	
unkiss	Obsolete	To cancel or annul what was done or sealed by a kiss; to cancel by a kiss.	
unkle	Obsolete	See Uncle — the brother of one's father or mother; also applied to an aunt's husband; -- the correlative of aunt in sex, and of nephew and niece in relationship.	
unknight		To deprive of knighthood.	
unknit		To undo or unravel what is knitted together.	
unknot		To free from knots; to untie.	
unknow	Obsolete	To cease to know; to lose the knowledge of.	
unknowledged	Obsolete	Not acknowledged or recognized.	
unknown		Not known; not apprehended. -- Un*known"ness, n.	
unlabored		Not cultivated; untitled; as, an unlabored field.	
unlace		To loose the dress of; to undress; hence, to expose; to disgrace.	
unlade		To take the load from; to take out the cargo of; as, to unlade a ship or a wagon.	
unlaid		Not laid or placed; not fixed.	
unland		To deprive of lands.	
unlap	Obsolete	To unfold.	
unlash		To loose, as that which is lashed or tied down.	
unlatch		To open or loose by lifting the latch; as, to unlatch a door.	
unlaugh	Obsolete	To recall, as former laughter.	
unlaw		(Scots Law) To impose a fine upon; to fine. (a) Any transgression or offense against the law.	
unlawed		Not having the claws and balls of the forefeet cut off; -- said of dogs.	
unlawful		Not lawful; contrary to law. -- Un*law ful*ness, n.	
unlawlike		Not according to law; being or done in violation of law; unlawful.	
unlay		To untwist; as, to unlay a rope.	
unlearn		To forget, as what has been learned; to lose from memory; also, to learn the contrary of.	
unlearned		Not learned; untaught; uneducated; ignorant; illiterate.	
unleash		To free from a leash, or as from a leash; to let go; to release; as, to unleash dogs.	
unleavened		Not leavened; containing no leaven; as, unleavened bread.	
unless		Upon any less condition than (the fact or thing stated in the sentence or clause which follows); if not; supposing that not; if it be not; were it not that; except; as, we shall fail unless we are industrious.	
unlicked		Not licked; hence, not properly formed; ungainly.	
unlike		Not like; dissimilar; diverse; having no resemblance; as, the cases are unlike.	Middle English unlic.
unlikelihood		Absence of likelihood.	
unlikeliness		The quality or state of being unlikely.	
unlikely		Not likely; improbable; not to be reasonably expected; as, an unlikely event; the thing you mention is very unlikely.	
unliken	Obsolete	To make unlike; to dissimilate.	
unlikeness		The quality or state of being unlike; want of resemblance; dissimilarity.	
unlimber		To detach the limber from; as, to unlimber a gun.	
unlimitable		Illimitable.	
unlimited		Not limited; having no bounds; boundless; as, an unlimited expanse of ocean.	
unline		To take the lining out of; hence, to empty; as, to unline one's purse.	
unlink		To separate or undo, as links; to uncoil; to unfasten.	
unliquidated		Not liquidated; not exactly ascertained; not adjusted or settled.	
unliquored		Not moistened or wet with liquor; dry.	
unlisted		Not listed; specif. (New York Stock Exchange), admitted to quotation in the unlisted department, that is, admitted to be dealt in on the floor, but not to the	
unlive		To Glanvill.	
unlived	Obsolete	Bereft or deprived of life.	
unload		To take the load from; to discharge of a load or cargo; to disburden; as, to unload a ship; to unload a beast.	
unloader		One who, or that which, unloads; a device for unloading, as hay from a wagon.	
unlocated		Not located or placed; not fixed in a place.	
unlock		To open, in general; to lay open; to undo.	
unlodge		To dislodge; to deprive of lodgment.	
unlook		To recall or retract, as a look.	
unlooked		Not observed or foreseen; unexpected; -- generally with for.	
unlooked-for		Not looked for; unexpected; as, an unlooked-for event.	
unloose		To make loose; to loosen; to set free.	
unloosen		To loosen; to unloose.	
unlord		To deprive of the rank or position of a lord.	
unlorded		Etym: Deprived of the rank of a lord.	
unlove	Obsolete	To cease to love; to hate.	
unlovely		Not lovely; not amiable; possessing qualities that excite dislike; disagreeable; displeasing; unpleasant. -- Un*love"li*ness, n.	
unluckily		In an unlucky manner.	
unluckiness		Quality or state of being unlucky.	
unlucky		Not lucky; not successful; unfortunate; ill-fated; unhappy; as, an unlucky man; an unlucky adventure; an unlucky throw of dice; an unlucky game.	
unlust	Obsolete	Listlessness; disinclination.	
unlute		To separate, as things cemented or luted; to take the lute or the clay from.	
unmade		Etym: Not yet made or formed; as, an unmade grave.	
unmagistrate	Obsolete	To divest of the office or authority of a magistrate.	
unmaiden	Obsolete	To ravish; to deflower.	
unmake		To destroy the form and qualities of; to deprive of being; to uncreate.	
unman		To deprive of the distinctive qualities of a human being, as reason, or the like.	
unmanacle		To free from manacles.	
unmanhood	Obsolete	Absence or lack of manhood.	
unmanned		Etym: Deprived of manly qualities; deficient in vigor, strength, courage, etc.; weak; effeminate.	
unmannerly		Not mannerly; ill-bred; rude. -- adv.	
unmantle		To divest of a mantle; to uncover.	
unmarry		To annul the marriage of; to divorce.	
unmartyr	Obsolete	To degrade from the rank of a martyr.	
unmasculate	Obsolete	To emasculate.	
unmask		To strip of a mask or disguise; to lay open; to expose.	
unmasterable	Obsolete	Incapable of being mastered or subdued.	
unmaterial	Obsolete	Not material; immaterial.	
unmeaning		Having no meaning or signification; as, unmeaning words.	
unmeant		Not meant or intended; unintentional.	
unmeasurable		Immeasurable.	
unmechanize	Obsolete	To undo the mechanism of; to unmake; as, to unmechanize a structure.	
unmechanized		Not mechanized.	
unmeet		Not meet or fit; not proper; unbecoming; unsuitable; -- usually followed by for.	
unmember		To deprive of membership, as in a church.	
unmentionables		The breeches; trousers.	
unmerchantable		Not merchantable; not fit for market; being of a kind, quality, or quantity that is unsalable.	
unmercied	Obsolete	Unmerciful; merciless.	
unmerciful		Not merciful; indisposed to mercy or grace; cruel; inhuman; merciless; unkind. -- Un*mer ci*ful*ness, n.	
unmerciless	Obsolete	Utterly merciless.	
unmew		To release from confinement or restraint.	
unmingle		To separate, as things mixed.	
unmistakable		Incapable of being mistaken or misunderstood; clear; plain; obvious; evident. -- Un`mis*tak"a*bly, adv.	
unmiter		To deprive of a miter; to depose or degrade from the rank of a bishop.	
unmitre		To deprive of a miter; to depose or degrade from the rank of a bishop.	
unmold		To change the form of; to reduce from any form.	
unmoneyed		Destitute of money; not rich.	
unmonopolize		To recover or release from the state of being monopolized.	
unmoor		(a) To cause to ride with one anchor less than before, after having been moored by two or more anchors.	
unmoral		Having no moral perception, quality, or relation; involving no idea of morality; -- distinguished from both moral and immoral. -- Un`mo*ral"i*ty, n.	
unmoralized		Not restrained or tutored by morality.	
unmorrised	Obsolete	Not arrayed in the dress of a morris dancer.	
unmortise		To loosen, unfix, or separate, as things mortised together.	
unmothered		Deprived of a mother; motherless.	
unmould		To change the form of; to reduce from any form.	
unmovable		Immovable. 1 Cor. xv. 58.	
unmovably		Immovably.	
unmoved		Not moved; fixed; firm; unshaken; calm; apathetic. -- Un*mov"ed*ly, adv.	
unmuffle		To take a covering from, as the face; to uncover.	
unmutable	Obsolete	Immutable.	
unmuzzle		To loose from a muzzle; to remove a muzzle from.	
unnail		To remove the nails from; to unfasten by removing nails.	
unnapped		Finished without a nap.	
unnatural		Not natural; contrary, or not conforming, to the order of nature; being without natural traits; as, unnatural crimes.	
unnaturalize		To make unnatural.	
unnature	Obsolete	To change the nature of; to invest with a different or contrary nature.	
unnear	Obsolete	Not near; not close to; at a distance from.	
unnecessary		Not necessary; not required under the circumstances; unless; needless; as, unnecessary labor, care, or rigor. -- Un*nec es*sa*ri*ness, n.	
unnecessity	Obsolete	The state of being unnecessary; something unnecessary.	
unneighbored		Being without neigbors.	
unneighborly		Not neighborly; distant; reserved; solitary; exclusive. -- adv.	
unnervate	Obsolete	Enervate.	
unnerve		To deprive of nerve, force, or strength; to weaken; to enfeeble; as, to unnerve the arm.	
unnest		To eject from a nest; to unnestle.	
unnestle		Same as Unnest.	
unnethe	Obsolete	With difficulty. See Uneath.	
unnethes	Obsolete	With difficulty. See Uneath.	
unnoble		Ignoble.	
unnobly		Ignobly.	
unnooked	Obsolete	Without nooks and corners; guileless.	
unnotify		To retract or withdraw a notice of.	
unnumbered		Not numbered; not counted or estimated; innumerable.	
unnumerable	Obsolete	Innumerable.	
unnun		To remove from condition of being a nun.	
unobedience	Obsolete	Disobedience.	
unobedient	Obsolete	Disobedient.	
unobservance		Want or neglect of observance; inobservance.	
unobtrusive		Not obtrusive; not presuming; modest. -- Un`ob*tru sive*ness, n.	
unoffensive		Inoffensive.	
unoften	Obsolete	Not often.	
unoil		To remove the oil from.	
unoperative	Obsolete	Producing no effect; inoperative.	
unoperculated		Destitute of an operculum, or cover.	
unorder		To countermand an order for.	
unorderly	Obsolete	Disorderly.	
unordinate		Disorderly; irregular; inordinate. -- Un*or"di*nate*ly, adv.	
unorganized		Not organized; being without organic structure; specifically (Biol.), not having the different tissues and organs characteristic of living organisms, nor the power of growth and development; as, the unorganized ferments.	
unoriginated		Not originated; existing from all eternity.	
unoriginately		Without origin.	
unossified		Destitute of a bony structure.	
unowed		Not owed; as, to pay money unowed.	
unowned		Not owned; having no owner.	
unpack		To separate and remove, as things packed; to open and remove the contents of; as, to unpack a trunk.	
unpacker		One who unpacks.	
unpaganize		To cause to cease to be pagan; to divest of pagan character.	
unpaint		To remove the paint from; to efface, as a painting.	
unpaired		Not paired; not suited or matched.	
unpalped		Destitute of a palp.	
unpannel	Obsolete	To take the saddle off; to unsaddle.	
unparadise		To deprive of happiness like that of paradise; to render unhappy.	
unparagoned		Having no paragon or equal; matchless; peerless.	
unparalleled		Having no parallel, or equal; unequaled; unmatched.	
unparched	Obsolete	Dried up; withered by heat.	
unpardonable		Not admitting of pardon or forgiveness; inexcusable.	
unparented		Having no parent, or no acknowledged parent.	
unparliamentary		Not parliamentary; contrary to the practice of parliamentary bodies. -- Un*par`lia*men"ta*ri*ness, n.	
unpartial	Obsolete	Impartial.	
unpassable		Impassable.	
unpassionate		Not passionate; dispassionate. -- Un*pas"sion*ate*ly, adv.	
unpastor		To cause to be no longer pastor; to deprive of pastorship.	
unpathed		Not having a path.	
unpathwayed		Pathless.	
unpatience	Obsolete	Impatience.	
unpatient	Obsolete	Impatient.	
unpaved		Not paved; not furnished with a pavement.	
unpay		To undo, take back, or annul, as a payment.	
unpeace	Obsolete	Absence or lack of peace.	
unpedigreed		Not distinguished by a pedigree.	
unpeeled	Obsolete	Etym: Thoroughly stripped; pillaged.	
unpeerable		Incapable of having a peer, or equal.	
unpeered		Having no peer; unequaled; unparalleled.	
unpeg		To remove a peg or pegs from; to unfasten; to open.	
unpen		To release from a pen or from confinement.	
unpenetrable		Impenetrable.	
unpenitent		Impenitent.	
unpeople		To deprive of inhabitants; to depopulate.	
unperegal	Obsolete	Unequal.	
unperfect	Obsolete	To mar or destroy the perfection of.	
unperfection	Obsolete	Want of perfection; imperfection.	
unperishable		Imperishable.	
unperishably		Imperishably.	
unperplex		To free from perplexity.	
unpersuasion		The state of not being persuaded; disbelief; doubt.	
unpervert	Obsolete	To free from perversion; to deliver from being perverted; to reconvert.	
unphilosophize		To degrade from the character of a philosopher.	
unpick		To pick out; to undo by picking.	
unpicked		Picked out; picked open.	
unpin		To loose from pins; to remove the pins from; to unfasten; as, to unpin a frock; to unpin a frame.	
unpinion		To loose from pinions or manacles; to free from restraint.	
unpitied	Obsolete	Pitiless; merciless.	
unpitious	Obsolete	Impious; wicked.	
unpitousty	Obsolete	Impiety.	
unpity	Obsolete	Want of piety.	
unplacable	Obsolete	Implacable.	
unplaced		Not placed.	
unplaid		To deprive of a plaid.	
unplained	Obsolete	Not deplored or bewailed; unlamented.	
unplat		To take out the folds or twists of, as something previously platted; to unfold; to unwreathe.	
unplausive	Obsolete	Not approving; disapproving.	
unpleaded		Not used as a plea; not urged; as, an unpleaded excuse.	
unpleasant		Not pleasant; not amiable or agreeable; displeasing; offensive. -- Un*pleas ant*ness, n.	
unpleasantry		A state of disagreement; a falling out.	
unpleasive	Obsolete	Unpleasant.	
unpleat		To remove the plaits of; to smooth.	
unplight	Obsolete	To unfold; to lay open; to explain.	Middle English unpliȝt.
unplumb		To deprive of lead, as of a leaden coffin.	
unplume		To strip of plumes or feathers; hence, to humiliate.	
unpoised	Obsolete	Not poised or weighed; hence, regardless of consequences; unhesitating.	
unpoison	Obsolete	To remove or expel poison from.	
unpolicied		Not having civil polity, or a regular form of government.	
unpolish		To deprive of polish; to make impolite.	
unpolite		Not polite; impolite; rude. -- Un`po*lite ness, n.	
unpolitic		Impolitic; imprudent.	
unpolled	Obsolete	Not polled. Specifically: (a) Not enumerated or registered; as, an unpolled vote or voter.	
unpope		To divest of the character, office, or authority of a pope.	
unportunate	Obsolete	Importunate; troublesome with requests.	
unportuous	Obsolete	Having no ports.	
unpossess	Obsolete	To be without, or to resign, possession of.	
unpossibility		Impossibility.	
unpossible		Impossible.	Middle English unpossible.
unpower	Obsolete	Want of power; weakness.	
unpowerful		Not powerful; weak.	
unpracticable		Impracticable; not feasible.	
unpractical		Not practical; impractical.	
unpraise		To withhold praise from; to deprive of praise.	
unpray		To revoke or annul by prayer, as something previously prayed for.	
unprayable		Not to be influenced or moved by prayers; obdurate.	
unprayed	Obsolete	Not prayed for.	
unpreach		To undo or overthrow by preaching.	
unprecedented		Having no precedent or example; not preceded by a like case; not having the authority of prior example; novel; new; unexampled. -- Un*prec"e*dent*ed*ly, adv.	
unpredict		To retract or falsify a previous prediction.	
unprejudiced		Not prejudiced; free from undue bias or prepossession; not preoccupied by opinion; impartial; as, an unprejudiced mind; an unprejudiced judge.	
unprelated		Deposed from the office of prelate.	
unprevented		Not prevented or hindered; as, unprevented sorrows.	
unpriced		Not priced; being without a fixed or certain value; also, priceless.	
unpriest		To deprive of priesthood; to unfrock.	
unprince		To deprive of the character or authority of a prince; to divest of principality of sovereignty.	
unprinciple		To destroy the moral principles of.	
unprincipled		Being without principles; especially, being without right moral principles; also, characterized by absence of principle. -- Un*prin"ci*pled*ness, n.	
unprison		To take or deliver from prison.	
unprizable	Obsolete	Not prized or valued; being without value.	
unprobably	Obsolete	Improbably.	
unproficiency		Want of proficiency or improvement.	
unprofit	Obsolete	Want of profit; unprofitableness.	
unprofited		Profitless.	
unpromise		To revoke or annul, as a promise.	
unprop		To remove a prop or props from; to deprive of support.	
unproper	Obsolete	Not proper or peculiar; improper. -- Un*prop"er*ly, adv.	
unproselyte		To convert or recover from the state of a proselyte.	
unprotestantize		To render other than Protestant; to cause to change from Protestantism to some other form of religion; to deprive of some Protestant feature or characteristic.	
unprovide		To deprive of necessary provision; to unfurnish.	
unprovident	Obsolete	Improvident.	
unprudence	Obsolete	Imprudence.	Middle English unprudence.
unprudent	Obsolete	Imprudent.	
unprudential	Obsolete	Imprudent.	
unpucker		To smooth away the puckers or wrinkles of.	
unpure		Not pure; impure. -- Un*pure ness, n.	
unpursed	Obsolete	Taken from the purse; expended.	
unqualify		To disqualify; to unfit.	
unqualitied	Obsolete	Deprived of the usual faculties.	
unqueen		To divest of the rank or authority of queen.	
unquestionable		Not questionable; as, an unquestionable title.	
unquestioned		Not called in question; not doubted.	
unquick		Not quick.	
unquiet	Obsolete	To disquiet.	
unquietude		Uneasiness; inquietude.	
unravel		To disentangle; to disengage or separate the threads of; as, to unravel a stocking.	
unravelment		The act of unraveling, or the state of being unraveled.	
unrazored		Not shaven.	
unread		Not read or perused; as, an unread book.	Middle English unred.
unreadiness		The quality or state of being unready.	
unready		Not ready or prepared; not prompt; slow; awkward; clumsy.	
unreal		Not real; unsubstantial; fanciful; ideal.	
unreality		The quality or state of being unreal; want of reality.	
unrealize		To make unreal; to idealize.	
unreally		In an unreal manner; ideally.	
unreason	Obsolete	Want of reason; unreasonableness; absurdity.	
unreasonable		Not reasonable; irrational; immoderate; exorbitant. -- Un*rea son*a*bly, adv.	
unreasoned		Not supported by reason; unreasonable.	
unreave	Obsolete	To unwind; to disentangle; to loose.	
unreaved	Obsolete	Not torn, split, or parted; not torn to pieces.	
unrebukable		Not deserving rebuke or censure; blameless. 1 Tim. vi. 14.	
unrecuring	Obsolete	Incurable.	
unredeemed		Not redeemed.	
unreeve		To withdraw, or take out, as a rope from a block, thimble, or the like.	
unreformation	Obsolete	Want of reformation; state of being unreformed.	
unregeneracy		The quality or state of being unregenerate.	
unregenerate		Not regenerated; not renewed in heart; remaining or being at enmity with God.	
unregenerated		Not regenerated; not renewed in heart; remaining or being at enmity with God.	
unregeneration		Unregeneracy.	
unrein		To loosen the reins of; to remove restraint from.	
unrelenting		Not relenting; unyielding; rigid; hard; stern; cruel. -- Un`re*lent ing*ness, n.	
unreliable		Not reliable; untrustworthy. See Reliable. -- Un`re*li unreliable; unrelyuponable." De Quincey.	
unreligious		Irreligious.	
unremembrance		Want of remembrance; forgetfulness.	
unremitting		Not remitting; incessant; continued; persevering; as, unremitting exertions.	
unremorseless	Obsolete	Utterly remorseless.	
unrepentance		Impenitence.	
unreprievable		Not capable of being reprieved.	
unreproachable		Not liable to be reproached; irreproachable.	
unreproved	Obsolete	Not having incurred reproof, blameless.	
unreputable		Disreputable.	
unreserve		Absence of reverse; frankness; freedom of communication.	
unreserved		Not reserved; not kept back; not withheld in part; unrestrained. -- Un`re*serv ed*ness, n.	
unresistance		Nonresistance; passive submission; irresistance.	
unresisted		Not resisted; unopposed.	
unresistible		Irresistible.	
unrespect	Obsolete	Disrespect.	
unresponsible		Irresponsible.	
unrest		Want of rest or repose; unquietness; sleeplessness; uneasiness; disquietude.	
unrestraint		Freedom from restraint; freedom; liberty; license.	
unresty	Obsolete	Causing unrest; disquieting; as, unresty sorrows.	
unrevenued		Not furnished with a revenue.	
unreverence	Obsolete	Absence or lack of reverence; irreverence.	
unreverend	Obsolete	Disrespectful; irreverent.	
unreverent		Irreverent.	
unreverently		Irreverently.	
unriddle		To read the riddle of; to solve or explain; as, to unriddle an enigma or a mystery.	
unriddler		One who unriddles.	
unrig		To strip of rigging; as, to unrig a ship.	
unright	Obsolete	Not right; wrong.	Middle English unrighten.
unrighteous		Not righteous; evil; wicked; sinful; as, an unrighteous man.	
unrightwise	Obsolete	Unrighteous.	
unringed		Not having a ring, as in the nose.	
unrioted	Obsolete	Free from rioting.	
unrip		To rip; to cut open.	
unripe		Not ripe; as, unripe fruit.	
unripeness		Quality or state of being unripe.	
unrivaled		Having no rival; without a competitor; peerless.	
unrivet		To take out, or loose, the rivets of; as, to unrivet boiler plates.	
unrobe		To disrobe; to undress; to take off the robes.	
unroll		To open, as what is rolled or convolved; as, to unroll cloth; to unroll a banner.	
unroof		To strip off the roof or covering of, as a house.	
unroofed		Etym: Stripped of a roof, or similar covering.	
unroost		To drive from the roost.	
unroot		To tear up by the roots; to eradicate; to uproot.	
unrude		Not rude; polished.	
unruffle		To cease from being ruffled or agitated.	
unruffled		Not ruffled or agitated; smooth; calm; tranquil; quiet.	
unruinate	Obsolete	Not ruined or destroyed.	
unruinated	Obsolete	Not ruined or destroyed.	
unruled		Not ruled or marked with lines; as, unruled paper.	
unruliment	Obsolete	Unruliness.	
unruliness		Quality or state unruly.	
unruly		Not submissive to rule; disregarding restraint; disposed to violate; turbulent; ungovernable; refractory; as, an unruly boy; unruly boy; unruly conduct.	Middle English unruly.
unrumple		To free from rumples; to spread or lay even,	
unsacrament	Obsolete	To deprive of sacramental character or efficacy; as, to unsacrament the rite of baptism.	
unsad	Obsolete	Unsteady; fickle.	
unsadden		To relieve from sadness; to cheer.	
unsaddle		To strip of a saddle; to take the saddle from, as a horse.	
unsadness	Obsolete	Infirmity; weakness.	
unsafety		The quality or state of being in peril; absence of safety; insecurity.	
unsaint		To deprive of saintship; to deny sanctity to.	
unsaintly		Unbecoming to a saint.	
unsalable		Not salable; unmerchantable. -- n.	
unsanctification		Absence or lack of sanctification.	
unsatiability	Obsolete	Quality of being unsatiable; insatiability.	
unsatiable	Obsolete	Insatiable.	
unsatiate		Insatiate.	
unsatisfaction	Obsolete	Dissatisfaction.	
unsaturated		Capable of absorbing or dissolving to a greater degree; as, an unsaturated solution.	
unsaturation		The quality or state of being unsaturated.	
unsay		To recant or recall, as what has been said; to refract; to take back again; to make as if not said.	
unscale		To divest of scales; to remove scales from. purging and unscaling her long-abused sight at the fountain itself of heavenly radiance.	
unscapable	Obsolete	Not be escaped; inevitable.	
unsceptered		Etym: Having no scepter.	
unsceptred		Etym: Having no scepter.	
unscience	Obsolete	Want of science or knowledge; ignorance.	
unscrew		To draw the screws from; to loose from screws; to loosen or withdraw (anything, as a screw) by turning it.	
unscrupulous		Not scrupulous; unprincipled. -- Un*scru pu*lous*ness, n.	
unscrutable		Inscrutable.	
unscutcheoned		Destitute of an escutcheon.	
unseal		To break or remove the seal of; to open, as what is sealed; as, to unseal a letter.	
unseam		To open the seam or seams of; to rip; to cut; to cut open.	
unsearchable		Not searchable; inscrutable; hidden; mysterious.	
unseason		To make unseasoned; to deprive of seasoning.	
unseasonable		Not seasonable; being, done, or occurring out of the proper season; ill-timed; untimely; too early or too late; as, he called at an unseasonable hour; unseasonable advice; unseasonable frosts…	
unseasoned	Obsolete	Untimely; ill-timed.	
unseat		To throw from one's seat; to deprive of a seat.	
unseconded		Not seconded; not supported, aided, or assisted; as, the motion was unseconded; the attempt was unseconded.	
unsecret	Obsolete	To disclose; to divulge.	
unsecularize		To cause to become not secular; to detach from secular things; to alienate from the world.	
unsecure		Insecure.	
unseel	Obsolete	To open, as the eyes of a hawk that have been seeled; hence, to give light to; to enlighten.	
unseem	Obsolete	Not to seem.	
unseeming		Unbeseeming; not fit or becoming.	
unseemliness		The quality or state of being unseemly; unbecomingness.	
unseemly		Not seemly; unbecoming; indecent.	Middle English unsemli.
unseen	Obsolete	Unskilled; inexperienced.	
unseldom		Not seldom; frequently.	
unsely	Obsolete	Not blessed or happy; wretched; unfortunate.	
unseminared	Obsolete	Deprived of virility, or seminal energy; made a eunuch.	
unsensed		Wanting a distinct meaning; having no certain signification.	
unsensible	Obsolete	Insensible.	
unsensualize		To elevate from the domain of the senses; to purify.	
unseparable	Obsolete	Inseparable.	
unservice	Obsolete	Neglect of duty; idleness; indolence.	
unset		Not set; not fixed or appointed.	
unsettle		To move or loosen from a settled position or state; to unfix; to displace; to disorder; to confuse.	
unsettledness		The quality or state of being unsettled.	
unsettlement		The act of unsettling, or state of being unsettled; disturbance.	
unseven	Obsolete	To render other than seven; to make to be no longer seven.	
unsew		To undo, as something sewn, or something inclosed by sewing; to rip apart; to take out the stitches of.	
unsex		To deprive of sex, or of qualities becoming to one's sex; esp., to make unfeminine in character, manners, duties, or the like; as, to unsex a woman.	
unsexual		Not sexual; not proper or peculiar to one of the sexes.	
unshackle		To loose from shackles or bonds; to set free from restraint; to unfetter.	
unshakable		Not capable of being shaken; firm; fixed.	
unshaked	Obsolete	Unshaken.	
unshale	Obsolete	To strip the shale, or husk, from; to uncover.	
unshape		To deprive of shape, or of proper shape; to disorder; to confound; to derange.	
unshaped		Not shaped; shapeless; misshapen; deformed; ugly.	
unshapen		Not shaped; shapeless; misshapen; deformed; ugly.	
unsheathe		To deprive of a sheath; to draw from the sheath or scabbard, as a sword.	
unshed	Obsolete	Not parted or divided, as the hair.	
unshell		To strip the shell from; to take out of the shell; to hatch.	
unshelve		To remove from, or as from, a shelf.	
unshent	Obsolete	Not shent; not disgraced; blameless.	
unsheriff		To depose from the office of sheriff.	
unshet	Obsolete	To unshut.	
unshiftable	Obsolete	Shiftless; helpless.	
unship		To take out of a ship or vessel; as, to unship goods.	
unshipment		The act of unshipping, or the state of being unshipped; displacement.	
unshot		To remove the shot from, as from a shotted gun; to unload.	
unshout	Obsolete	To recall what is done by shouting.	
unshroud		To remove the shroud from; to uncover.	
unshrubbed		Being without shrubs.	
unshut	Obsolete	To open, or throw open.	
unshutter		To open or remove the shutters of.	
unsight	Colloquial	Doing or done without sight; not seeing or examining.	
unsightable	Obsolete	Invisible.	
unsighted		(Gun.) Not aimed by means of a sight; also, not furnished with a sight, or with a properly adjusted sight; as, to shoot and unsighted rife or cannon.	
unsignificant	Obsolete	Insignificant.	
unsilly	Obsolete	See Unsely — not blessed or happy; wretched; unfortunate.	
unsimplicity		Absence of simplicity; artfulness.	
unsin	Obsolete	To deprive of sinfulness, as a sin; to make sinless.	
unsincere	Obsolete	Not sincere or pure; insincere.	
unsincerity	Obsolete	The quality or state of being unsincere or impure; insincerity.	
unsinew		To deprive of sinews or of strength.	
unsister	Poetic & r	To separate, as sisters; to disjoin.	
unsisterly		Not sisterly.	
unsisting	Obsolete	Unresisting.	
unsitting	Obsolete	Not sitting well; unbecoming.	
unskill	Obsolete	Want of skill; ignorance; unskillfulness.	
unskillful		Not skillful; inexperienced; awkward; bungling; as, an unskillful surgeon or mechanic; an unskillful logician.	
unslacked		Not slacked; unslaked; as, unslacked lime.	
unslaked		Not slaked; unslacked; as, an unslaked thirst; unslaked lime.	
unsling		To take off the slings of, as a yard, a cask, or the like; to release from the slings.	
unsluice		To sluice; to open the sluice or sluices of; to let flow; to discharge.	
unsociability		The quality or state of being unsociable; unsociableness.	
unsociable		Not sociable; not inclined to society; averse to companionship or conversation; solitary; reserved; as, an unsociable person or temper. -- Un*so cia*bly, adv.	
unsocket		To loose or take from a socket.	
unsoft	Obsolete	Not soft; hard; coarse; rough.	
unsolder		To separate or disunite, as what has been soldered; hence, to divide; to sunder.	
unsoldiered	Obsolete	Not equipped like a soldier; unsoldierlike.	
unsolemnize		To divest of solemnity.	
unsonable	Obsolete	Incapable of being sounded.	
unsonsy	Scots	Not soncy (sonsy); not fortunate.	
unsoot	Obsolete	Not sweet.	
unsophisticate		Not sophisticated; pure; innocent; genuine. -- Un`so*phis"ti*ca`ted*ness, n.	
unsophisticated		Not sophisticated; pure; innocent; genuine. -- Un`so*phis"ti*ca`ted*ness, n.	
unsorrowed		Not sorrowed for; unlamented.	
unsorted		Not sorted; not classified; as, a lot of unsorted goods.	
unsoul		To deprive of soul, spirit, or principle.	
unsound		Not sound; not whole; not solid; defective; infirm; diseased. -- Un*sound ness, n.	
unspar		To take the spars, stakes, or bars from.	
unsparing		Not sparing; not parsimonious; liberal; profuse.	
unspeak		To retract, as what has been spoken; to recant; to unsay.	
unspeakable		Not speakable; incapable of being uttered or adequately described; inexpressible; unutterable; ineffable; as, unspeakable grief or rage. -- Un*speak"a*bly, adv.	
unspecialized		Not specialized; specifically (Biol.), not adapted, or set apart, for any particular purpose or function; as, an unspecialized unicellular organism.	
unsped	Obsolete	Not performed; not dispatched.	
unspell		To break the power of (a spell); to release (a person) from the influence of a spell; to disenchant.	
unsphere		To remove, as a planet, from its sphere or orb.	
unspike		To remove a spike from, as from the vent of a cannon.	
unspilt		Not spilt or wasted; not shed.	
unspin		To untwist, as something spun.	
unspirit	Obsolete	To dispirit.	
unspiritalize		To deprive of spiritually.	
unspleened		Deprived of a spleen.	
unspotted		Not spotted; free from spot or stain; especially, free from moral stain; unblemished; immaculate; as, an unspotted reputation. -- Un*spot"ted*ness, n.	
unsquire		To divest of the title or privilege of an esquire.	
unstable		Not stable; not firm, fixed, or constant; subject to change or overthrow. -- Un*sta"ble*ness, n.	
unstack		To remove, or take away, from a stack; to remove, as something constituting a stack.	
unstarch		To free from starch; to make limp or pliable.	
unstate		To deprive of state or dignity.	
unsteel		To disarm; to soften.	
unstep		To remove, as a mast, from its step.	
unstick		To release, as one thing stuck to another.	
unstill		Not still; restless.	
unsting		To disarm of a sting; to remove the sting of.	
unstitch		To open by picking out stitches; to take out, or undo, the stitches of; as, to unstitch a seam.	
unstock		To deprive of a stock; to remove the stock from; to loose from that which fixes, or holds fast.	
unstockinged		Etym: Destitute of stockings.	
unstop		To take the stopple or stopper from; as, to unstop a bottle or a cask.	
unstrain		To relieve from a strain; to relax.	
unstrained		Not strained; not cleared or purified by straining; as, unstrained oil or milk.	
unstratified		Not stratified; -- applied to massive rocks, as granite, porphyry, etc., and also to deposits of loose material, as the glacial till, which occur in masses without layers or strata.	
unstrength	Obsolete	Want of strength; weakness; feebleness.	Middle English unstrengthe.
unstriated		Nonstriated; unstriped.	
unstring		To deprive of a string or strings; also, to take from a string; as, to unstring beads.	
unstriped		Not striped.	
unstudied		Not studied; not acquired by study; unlabored; natural.	
unsubstantial		Lacking in matter or substance; visionary; chimerical.	
unsubstantialize		To make unsubstantial.	
unsubstantiation		A divesting of substantiality.	
unsucceedable	Obsolete	Not able or likely to succeed.	
unsuccess		Want of success; failure; misfortune.	
unsuccessful		Not successful; not producing the desired event; not fortunate; meeting with, or resulting in, failure; unlucky; unhappy. -- Un`suc*cess ful*ness, n.	
unsufferable	Obsolete	Insufferable.	
unsuffering	Obsolete	Inability or incapability of enduring, or of being endured.	
unsufficience	Obsolete	Insufficiency.	
unsufficiency	Obsolete	Insufficiency.	
unsufficient	Obsolete	Insufficient.	
unsuit	Obsolete	Not to suit; to be unfit for.	
unsupportable		Insupportable; unendurable. -- Un`sup*port a*bly, adv.	
unsured	Obsolete	Not made sure.	
unsurety	Obsolete	Want of surety; uncertainty; insecurity; doubt.	
unsurmountable		Insurmountable.	
unsuspicion		The quality or state of being unsuspecting.	
unswaddle		To take a swaddle from; to unswathe.	
unswathe		To take a swathe from; to relieve from a bandage; to unswaddle.	
unswayable		Not capable of being swayed.	
unswear		To recant or recall, as an oath; to recall after having sworn; to abjure.	
unsweat		To relieve from perspiration; to ease or cool after exercise or toil.	
unswell	Obsolete	To sink from a swollen state; to subside.	
unsymmetrical		Wanting in symmetry, or due proportion pf parts.	
unsymmetrically		Not symmetrically.	
unsympathy		Absence or lack of sympathy.	
untack		To separate, as what is tacked; to disjoin; to release. being untacked from honest cares.	
untackle	Colloquial	To unbitch; to unharness.	
untalked		Not talked; not mentioned; -- often with of.	
untangibility		Intangibility.	
untangible		Intangible.	
untangibly		Intangibly.	
untangle		To loose from tangles or intricacy; to disentangle; to resolve; as, to untangle thread.	
untappice	Obsolete	to come out of concealment.	
untaste		To deprive of a taste for a thing.	
unteach		To cause to forget, or to lose from memory, or to disbelieve what has been taught.	
unteam		To unyoke a team from.	
untemper		To deprive of temper, or of the proper degree of temper; to make soft.	
untemperate	Obsolete	Intemperate.	
untemperately	Obsolete	Intemperately.	
untempter	Obsolete	One who does not tempt, or is not a tempter.	
untenant		To remove a tenant from.	
untent		To bring out of a tent.	
untented		Having no tent or tents, as a soldier or a field.	
unthank	Obsolete	No thanks; ill will; misfortune.	
unthink		To recall or take back, as something thought.	
unthinker		A person who does not think, or does not think wisely.	
unthinking		Not thinking; not heedful; thoughtless; inconsiderate; as, unthinking youth.	
unthread		To draw or take out a thread from; as, to unthread a needle.	
unthrift		Want of thrift; untriftiness; prodigality.	
unthriftfully	Obsolete	Not thriftily.	
unthriftihead	Obsolete	Untriftiness.	
unthriftihood	Obsolete	Untriftiness.	
unthriftily	Obsolete	Improperly; unbecomingly.	
unthriftiness		The quality or state or being unthrifty; profuseness; lavishness.	
unthrifty		Not thrifty; profuse.	
unthrone		To remove from, or as from, a throne; to dethrone.	
untidy		Not tidy or neat; slovenly. -- Un*ti di*ness, n.	
untie		To loosen, as something interlaced or knotted; to disengage the parts of; as, to untie a knot.	
untighten		To make less tight or tense; to loosen.	
until		To; unto; towards; -- used of material objects.	
untile		To take the tiles from; to uncover by removing the tiles.	
untime	Obsolete	An unseasonable time.	
untimeliness		Unseasonableness.	
untimely		Not timely; done or happening at an unnatural, unusual, or improper time; unseasonable; premature; inopportune; as, untimely frosts; untimely remarks; an untimely death.	
untimeous		Untimely.	
untimeously		Untimely; unseasonably.	
untithed		Not subjected tithes.	
untitled		Not titled; having no title, or appellation of dignity or distinction.	
unto		To; -- now used only in antiquated, formal, or scriptural style. See To.	
untold		Not told; not related; not revealed; as, untold secrets.	Old English unteald.
untolerable	Obsolete	Intolerable.	
untomb		To take from the tomb; to exhume; to disinter.	
untongue	Obsolete	To deprive of a tongue, or of voice.	
untooth		To take out the teeth of.	
untoward		Froward; perverse.	
untowardly		Perverse; froward; untoward.	
untraded		Not traded in or bartered; hence, not hackneyed; unusual; not common.	
untrained	Obsolete	Not trainable; indocile.	
untrammeled		Not hampered or impeded; free.	
untraveled		Not traveled; not trodden by passengers; as, an untraveled forest.	
untread		To tread back; to retrace.	
untreasure		To bring forth or give up, as things previously treasured.	
untreasured		Etym: Not treasured; not kept as treasure.	
untreatable		Incapable of being treated; not practicable.	
untrenched	Obsolete	Being without trenches; whole; intact.	
untressed		Not tied up in tresses; unarranged; -- said of the hair.	
untrowable	Obsolete	Incredible.	
untrue		Not true; false; contrary to the fact; as, the story is untrue.	
untruism		Something not true; a false statement.	
untrunked	Obsolete	Separated from its trunk or stock.	
untruss	Obsolete	To loose from a truss, or as from a truss; to untie or unfasten; to let out; to undress.	
untrusser	Obsolete	One who untrussed persons for the purpose of flogging them; a public whipper.	
untrust	Obsolete	Distrust.	
untrustful		Not to be trusted; not trusty.	
untruth		The quality of being untrue; contrariety to truth; want of veracity; also, treachery; faithlessness; disloyalty.	
untruthful		Not truthful; unveracious; contrary to the truth or the fact. -- Un*truth ful*ness, n.	
untuck		To unfold or undo, as a tuck; to release from a tuck or fold.	
untune		To make incapable of harmony, or of harmonious action; to put out of tune.	
unturn		To turn in a reserve way, especially so as to open something; as, to unturn a key.	
unturned		Not turned; not revolved or reversed.	
untwain	Obsolete	To rend in twain; to tear in two.	
untwine		To untwist; to separate, as that which is twined or twisted; to disentangle; to untie.	
untwirl		To untwist; to undo.	
untwist		To separate and open, as twisted threads; to turn back, as that which is twisted; to untwine.	
unty	Archaic	To untie.	
unusage	Obsolete	Want or lack of usage.	
unused		Not used; as, an unused book; an unused apartment.	
unusual		Not usual; uncommon; rare; as, an unusual season; a person of unusual grace or erudition. -- Un*u su*al*ness, n.	
unusuality		Unusualness.	
unutterable		Not utterable; incapable of being spoken or voiced; inexpressible; ineffable; unspeakable; as, unutterable anguish.	
unvail		See Unveil — to remove a veil from; to divest of a veil; to uncover; to disclose to view; to reveal; as, she unveiled her face.	
unvaluable		Not valuable; having little value.	
unvalued		Not valued; not appraised; hence, not considered; disregarded; valueless; as, an unvalued estate.	
unvariable		Invariable.	
unveil		To remove a veil from; to divest of a veil; to uncover; to disclose to view; to reveal; as, she unveiled her face.	
unveiler		One who removes a veil.	
unveracity		Want of veracity; untruthfulness; as, unveracity of heart.	
unvessel	Obsolete	To cause to be no longer a vessel; to empty.	
unvicar		To deprive of the position or office a vicar.	
unviolable		Inviolable.	
unvisard	Obsolete	To take the vizard or mask from; to unmask.	
unvisible	Obsolete	Invisible.	
unvisibly	Obsolete	Invisibly.	
unvitiated		Not vitiated; pure.	
unvoluntary	Obsolete	Involuntary.	
unvote		To reverse or annul by vote, as a former vote.	
unvoweled		Having no vowel sounds or signs.	
unvulgarize		To divest of vulgarity; to make to be not vulgar.	
unvulnerable	Obsolete	Invulnerable.	
unware	Obsolete	Unaware; not foreseeing; being off one's guard.	
unwares	Obsolete	Unawares; unexpectedly; -- sometimes preceded by at.	Old English unwæres.
unwarily		In an unwary manner.	
unwariness		The quality or state of being unwary; carelessness; heedlessness.	
unwarm		To lose warmth; to grow cold.	
unwarp		To restore from a warped state; to cause to be linger warped.	
unwarped		Not warped; hence, not biased; impartial.	
unwarrantable		Not warrantable; indefensible; not vindicable; not justifiable; illegal; unjust; improper. -- Un*war rant*a*bly, adv.	
unwarranted		Not warranted; being without warrant, authority, or guaranty; unwarrantable.	
unwary		Not vigilant against danger; not wary or cautious; unguarded; precipitate; heedless; careless.	
unwashed		Not washed or cleansed; filthy; unclean.	
unwashen	Archaic	Not washed. xv. 20.	
unwayed	Obsolete	Not used to travel; as, colts that are unwayed.	
unwearied		Not wearied; not fatigued or tired; hence, persistent; not tiring or wearying; indefatigable. -- Un*wea ried*ness, n.	
unweary	Obsolete	To cause to cease being weary; to refresh.	
unweave		To unfold; to undo; to ravel, as what has been woven.	
unwedgeable	Obsolete	Not to be split with wedges.	
unweeting	Obsolete	Unwitting.	
unweighed		Not weighed; not pondered or considered; as, an unweighed statement.	
unweighing		Not weighing or pondering; inconsiderate.	
unweld	Obsolete	Unwieldy; unmanageable; clumsy.	
unweldy	Obsolete	Unwieldy; unmanageable; clumsy.	
unwell		Not well; indisposed; not in good health; somewhat ill; ailing.	
unwemmed	Obsolete	Not blemished; undefiled; pure.	
unwhole	Obsolete	Not whole; unsound.	
unwieldy		Not easily wielded or carried; unmanageable; bulky; ponderous. -- Un*wield i*ness, n.	Middle English unweldi.
unwild	Obsolete	To tame; to subdue.	
unwill		To annul or reverse by an act of the will.	
unwilled		Deprived of the faculty of will or volition.	
unwilling		Not willing; loath; disinclined; reluctant; as, an unwilling servant.	
unwind		To wind off; to loose or separate, as what or convolved; to untwist; to untwine; as, to unwind thread; to unwind a ball of yarn.	Old English unwindan.
unwisdom		Want of wisdom; unwise conduct or action; folly; simplicity; ignorance.	Old English unwisdom.
unwise		Not wise; defective in wisdom; injudicious; indiscreet; foolish; as, an unwise man; unwise kings; unwise measures.	Middle English unwis, from Old English unwis.
unwisely		In an unwise manner; foolishly.	Old English unwīslice.
unwish	Obsolete	To wish not to be; to destroy by wishing.	
unwist	Obsolete	Not known; unknown.	
unwit	Obsolete	To deprive of wit.	
unwitch		To free from a witch or witches; to fee from witchcraft.	
unwitting		Not knowing; unconscious; ignorant. -- Un*wit"ting*ly, adv.	Old English unwitende.
unwoman		To deprive of the qualities of a woman; to unsex.	
unwonder		To divest of the quality of wonder or mystery; to interpret; to explain.	
unwont	Archaic	Unwonted; unused; unaccustomed.	
unwonted		Not wonted; unaccustomed; unused; not made familiar by practice; as, a child unwonted to strangers.	
unwork		To undo or destroy, as work previously done.	
unworldly		Not worldly; spiritual; holy.	
unwormed		Not wormed; not having had the worm, or lytta, under the tongue cut out; -- said of a dog.	
unworship	Obsolete	To deprive of worship or due honor; to dishonor.	
unworth	Obsolete	Unworthy.	Middle English unworth.
unworthy		Not worthy; wanting merit, value, or fitness; undeserving; worthless; unbecoming; -- often with of. -- Un*wor thi*ness, n.	Middle English unworthy.
unwrap		To open or undo, as what is wrapped or folded.	Middle English unwrappen.
unwray	Obsolete	See Unwrie — to uncover.	
unwreathe		To untwist, uncoil, or untwine, as anything wreathed.	
unwrie	Obsolete	To uncover.	
unwrinkle		To reduce from a wrinkled state; to smooth.	
unwrite		To cancel, as what is written; to erase.	
unwritten		Not written; not reduced to writing; oral; as, unwritten agreements.	
unwroken	Obsolete	Not revenged; unavenged.	
unyoke		To loose or free from a yoke.	
unyoked		Not yet yoked; not having worn the yoke.	
unyolden	Obsolete	Not yielded.	
unzoned		Not zoned; not bound with a girdle; as, an unzoned bosom.	
