up		Aloft; on high; in a direction contrary to that of gravity; toward or in a higher place or position; above; -- the opposite of Ant: down.
up-line		A line or track leading from the provinces toward the metropolis or a principal terminus; the track upon which up-trains run.
up-over		Designating a method of shaft excavation by drifting to a point below, and then raising instead of sinking.
up-to-date		Extending to the present time; having style, manners, knowledge, or other qualities that are abreast of the times.
up-train		A train going in the direction of the metropolis or the main terminus.
up-wind		Against the wind.
upas		(Bot.) A tree (Antiaris toxicaria) of the Breadfruit family, common in the forests of Java and the neighboring islands.
upbar		To fasten with a bar.
upbear		To bear up; to raise aloft; to support in an elevated situation; to sustain.
upbind		To bind up.
upblow	Obsolete	To inflate.
upbraid		To charge with something wrong or disgraceful; to reproach; to cast something in the teeth of; -- followed by with or for, and formerly of, before the thing imputed.
upbreak		To break upwards; to force away or passage to the surface.
upbreathe	Obsolete	To breathe up or out; to exhale.
upbreed		To rear, or bring up; to nurse.
upbrought	Obsolete	Brought up; educated.
upbuoyance		The act of buoying up; uplifting.
upburst		The act of bursting upwards; a breaking through to the surface; an upbreak or uprush; as, an upburst of molten matter.
upcast		Cast up; thrown upward; as, with upcast eyes.
upcaught		Seized or caught up.
upcheer		To cheer up.
upclimb		To climb up; to ascend.
upcoil		To coil up; to make into a coil, or to be made into a coil.
upcountry	Colloquial	In an upcountry direction; as, to live upcountry.
upcurl		To curl up.
updive		To spring upward; to rise.
updraw		To draw up.
upend		To end up; to set on end, as a cask.
upeygan		The borele.
upfill	Obsolete	To fill up.
upflow		To flow or stream up.
upflung		Flung or thrown up.
upgather	Obsolete	To gather up; to contract; to draw together.
upgaze		To gaze upward.
upgive	Obsolete	To give up or out.
upgrow		To grow up.
upgrowth		The process or result of growing up; progress; development.
upgush		A gushing upward.
uphaf		imp. of Upheave — to heave or lift up from beneath; to raise.
uphand		Lifted by the hand, or by both hands; as, the uphand sledge.
uphang		To hang up.
uphasp		To hasp or faster up; to close; as, sleep uphasps the eyes.
upheaped		Piled up; accumulated.
upheaval		The act of upheaving, or the state of being upheaved; esp., an elevation of a portion of the earth's crust.
upheave		To heave or lift up from beneath; to raise.
upheld		imp. & p. p. of Uphold.
upher		A fir pole of from four to seven inches diameter, and twenty to forty feet long, sometimes roughly hewn, used for scaffoldings, and sometimes for slight and common roofs, for which use it is split.
uphill		Upwards on, or as on, a hillside; as, to walk uphill.
uphilt		To thrust in up to the hilt; as, to uphilt one's sword into an enemy.
uphoard	Obsolete	To hoard up.
uphold		To keep erect; to support; to sustain; to keep from falling; to maintain.
upholder		One who, or that which, upholds; a supporter; a defender; a sustainer.
upholster		To furnish (rooms, carriages, bedsteads, chairs, etc.) with hangings, coverings, cushions, etc.; to adorn with furnishings in cloth, velvet, silk, etc.; as, to upholster a couch; to upholster a room with curtains.
upholsterer		One who provides hangings, coverings, cushions, curtains, and the like; one who upholsters.
upholstery		The articles or goods supplied by upholsterers; the business or work of an upholsterer.
uphroe		Same as Euphroe.
upkeep		The act of keeping up, or maintaining; maintenance.
upland		High land; ground elevated above the meadows and intervals which lie on the banks of rivers, near the sea, or between hills; land which is generally dry; -- opposed to lowland, meadow, marsh, swamp, interval, and the like.
uplander	Dialect	(Zoöl.) The upland sandpiper.
uplandish	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to uplands; dwelling on high lands.
uplay	Obsolete	To hoard.
uplead	Obsolete	To lead upward.
uplean	Obsolete	To lean or incline upon anything.
uplift		To lift or raise aloft; to raise; to elevate; as, to uplift the arm; to uplift a rock.
uplock	Obsolete	To lock up.
uplook	Obsolete	To look or gaze up.
upmost		Highest; topmost; uppermost.
upokororo		An edible fresh-water New Zealand fish (Prototroctes oxyrhynchus) of the family Haplochitonidæ.
upon		On; -- used in all the senses of that word, with which it is interchangeable.
uppent	Obsolete	A Pent up; confined.
upper	Colloquial	Being further up, literally or figuratively; higher in place, position, rank, dignity, or the like; superior; as, the upper lip; the upper side of a thing; the upper house of a legislature.
uppermost		Highest in place, position, rank, power, or the like; upmost; supreme.
uppertendom	Colloquial	The highest class in society; the upper ten. See Upper ten, under Upper.
uppile		To pile, or heap, up.
uppish	Colloquial	Proud; arrogant; assuming; putting on airs of superiority.
upplight		imp. & p. p. of Uppluck.
uppluck	Obsolete	To pull or pluck up.
uppricked		Upraised; erect; -- said of the ears of an animal.
upprop		To prop up.
upraise		To raise; to lift up.
uprear		To raise; to erect.
upridged		Raised up in a ridge or ridges; as, a billow upridged.
upright		In an erect position or posture; perpendicular; vertical, or nearly vertical; pointing upward; as, an upright tree.
uprighteously	Obsolete	In an upright or just manner.
uprightly		In an upright manner.
uprightness		the quality or state of being upright.
uprise		To rise; to get up; to appear from below the horizon.
uprising		Act of rising; also, a steep place; an ascent.
uprist	Obsolete	Uprising.
uproar	Obsolete	Great tumult; violent disturbance and noise; noisy confusion; bustle and clamor.
uproarious		Making, or accompanied by, uproar, or noise and tumult; as, uproarious merriment. -- Up*roar i*ous*ness, n.
uproll		To roll up.
uproot		To root up; to tear up by the roots, or as if by the roots; to remove utterly; to eradicate; to extirpate.
uprouse		To rouse up; to rouse from sleep; to awake; to arouse.
uprun		To run up; to ascend.
uprush		To rush upward.
upsarokas		See Crows — a tribe of Indians of the Dakota stock, living in Montana; -- also called Upsarokas.
upseek		To seek or strain upward.
upsend		To send, cast, or throw up.
upset		(a) To thicken and shorten, as a heated piece of iron, by hammering on the end.
upsetting	Scots	Conceited; assuming; as, an upsetting fellow.
upshoot		To shoot upward.
upshot		Final issue; conclusion; the sum and substance; the end; the result; the consummation.
upside	English dialect	The upper side; the part that is uppermost.
upsidown	Obsolete	See Upsodown — upside down.
upsilon		The 20th letter (U, u) of the Greek alphabet, a vowel having originally the sound of oo as in room, becoming before the 4th century b. c. that French u or Ger. ü.
upsitting	Obsolete	A sitting up of a woman after her confinement, to receive and entertain her friends.
upskip	Obsolete	An upstart.
upsnatch		To snatch up.
upsoar		To soar or mount up.
upsodown	Obsolete	Upside down.
upspear		To grow or shoot up like a spear; as, upspearing grass.
upspring		A spring or leap into the air.
upspurner	Obsolete	A spurner or contemner; a despiser; a scoffer.
upstairs		Up the stairs; in or toward an upper story.
upstand		To stand up; to be erected; to rise.
upstare		To stare or stand upward; hence, to be uplifted or conspicuous.
upstart		One who has risen suddenly, as from low life to wealth, power, or honor; a parvenu.
upstay	Obsolete	To sustain; to support.
upsterte		imp. & p. p. of Upstart.
upstir	Obsolete	Insurrection; commotion; disturbance.
upstream		Toward the higher part of a stream; against the current.
upstreet		Toward the higher part of a street; as, to walk upstreet.
upstroke		An upward stroke, especially the stroke, or line, made by a writing instrument when moving upward, or from the body of the writer, or a line corresponding to the part of a letter thus made.
upsun		The time during which the sun is up, or above the horizon; the time between sunrise and sunset.
upswarm		To rise, or cause to rise, in a swarm or swarms.
upsway		To sway or swing aloft; as, to upsway a club.
upswell		To swell or rise up.
upsyturvy	Obsolete	Upside down; topsy-turvy.
uptake		The pipe leading upward from the smoke box of a steam boiler to the chimney, or smokestack; a flue leading upward.
uptear		To tear up.
upthrow		To throw up.
upthunder		To send up a noise like thunder.
uptie		To tie up.
uptill	Obsolete	To; against.
uptown	Colloquial	To or in the upper part of a town; as, to go uptown.
uptrace		To trace up or out.
uptrain	Obsolete	To train up; to educate.
upturn		To turn up; to direct upward; to throw up; as, to upturn the ground in plowing.
upupa		A genus of birds which includes the common hoopoe.
upwaft		To waft upward.
upward		In a direction from lower to higher; toward a higher place; in a course toward the source or origin; -- opposed to downward; as, to tend or roll upward.
upwards		In a direction from lower to higher; toward a higher place; in a course toward the source or origin; -- opposed to downward; as, to tend or roll upward.
upwhirl		To rise upward in a whirl; to raise upward with a whirling motion.
upwind		To wind up.
upwreath		To rise with a curling motion; to curl upward, as smoke.
upyat		imp. of Upgive — to give up or out.
