ur		The urus.	
urachus		A cord or band of fibrous tissue extending from the bladder to the umbilicus.	
uraemia		Accumulation in the blood of the principles of the urine, producing dangerous disease.	
uraemic		Of or pertaining to uræmia; as, uræmic convulsions.	
uraeum		The posterior half of an animal.	
uraeus		A serpent, or serpent's head and neck, represented on the front of the headdresses of divinities and sovereigns as an emblem of supreme power.	Latin uraeus, from Greek οὐραῖος.
ural		Pertaining to, or designating, the Urals, a mountain range between Europe and Asia.	
ural-altaic		Of or pertaining to the Urals and the Altai; as the Ural- Altaic, or Turanian, languages.	
urali		See Curare — a black resinoid extract prepared by the South American Indians from the bark of several species of Strychnos (S. toxifera, etc.).	
uralian		Of or relating to the Ural Mountains.	
uralic		Of or relating to the Ural Mountains.	
uralite		Amphibole resulting from the alternation of pyroxene by paramorphism.	
uralitization		The change of pyroxene to amphibole by paramorphism.	
uramil		Murexan.	
uran-ocher		(a) A yellow, earthy incrustation, consisting essentially of the oxide of uranium, but more or less impure.	
uran-ochre		(a) A yellow, earthy incrustation, consisting essentially of the oxide of uranium, but more or less impure.	
uran-utan		The orang-utang	
uranate		A salt of uranic acid.	
urania		(Zoöl.) A genus of large, brilliantly colored moths native of the West Indies and South America.	
uranian		Of or pertaining to the planet Uranus; as, the Uranian year.	
uranic		Of or pertaining to the heavens; celestial; astronomical.	
uranin		An alkaline salt of fluorescein, obtained as a brownish red substance, which is used as a dye; -- so called from the peculiar yellowish green fluorescence (resembling that of uranium glass) of its solutions.	
uraninite		A mineral consisting chiefly of uranium oxide with some lead, thorium, etc., occurring in black octahedrons, also in masses with a pitchlike luster; pitchblende.	
uraniscoplasty		The process of forming an artificial palate.	
uraniscoraphy		Suture of the palate. See Staphyloraphy.	
uraniscorrhaphy		Suture of the palate. See Staphyloraphy.	
uranite		A general term for the uranium phosphates, autunite, or lime uranite, and torbernite, or copper uranite.	
uranitic		Of or pertaining to uranium; containing uranium.	
uranium		An element of the chromium group, found in certain rare minerals, as pitchblende, uranite, etc., and reduced as a heavy, hard, nickel-white metal which is quite permanent.	Malay (macrolanguage Uranus.
uranographic		Of or pertaining to uranography; as, an uranographic treatise.	
uranographical		Of or pertaining to uranography; as, an uranographic treatise.	
uranographist		One practiced in uranography.	
uranography		A description or plan of the heavens and the heavenly bodies; the construction of celestial maps, globes, etc.; uranology.	Greek οὐρανογραφία.
uranolite	Obsolete	A meteorite or aërolite.	
uranology		A discourse or treatise on the heavens and the heavenly bodies; the study of the heavens; uranography.	
uranometria		A uranometry.	
uranometry		A chart or catalogue of fixed stars, especially of stars visible to the naked eye.	
uranoplasty		The plastic operation for closing a fissure in the hard palate.	
uranoscopy		Observation of the heavens or heavenly bodies.	
uranoso-		A combining form (also used adjectively) from uranium; -- used in naming certain complex compounds; as in uranoso-uranic oxide, uranoso-uranic sulphate.	
uranous		Pertaining to, or containing, uranium; designating those compounds in which uranium has a lower valence as contrasted with the uranic compounds.	
uranus		(Gr. Myth.) The son or husband of Gaia (Earth), and father of Chronos (Time) and the Titans.	
uranyl		The radical UO2, conveniently regarded as a residue of many uranium compounds.	
urao		See Trona — a native double salt, consisting of a combination of neutral and acid sodium carbonate, Na2CO3.2HNaCO3.2H2O…	
urare		See Curare — a black resinoid extract prepared by the South American Indians from the bark of several species of Strychnos (S. toxifera, etc.).	
urari		See Curare — a black resinoid extract prepared by the South American Indians from the bark of several species of Strychnos (S. toxifera, etc.).	
urate		A salt of uric acid; as, sodium urate; ammonium urate.	
uratic		Of or containing urates; as, uratic calculi.	
urban		Of or belonging to a city or town; as, an urban population.	Latin urbanus.
urbane		Courteous in manners; polite; refined; elegant.	
urbaniste		A large and delicious pear or Flemish origin.	
urbanity		The quality or state of being urbane; civility or courtesy of manners; politeness; refinement.	
urbanize		To render urban, or urbane; to refine; to polish.	
urbicolae		An extensive family of butterflies, including those known as skippers (Hesperiadæ).	
urbicolous		Of or pertaining to a city; urban.	
urcelate		Shaped like a pitcher or urn; swelling below, and contrasted at the orifice, as a calyx or corolla.	
urceolar		Urceolate.	
urceolate		Shaped like a pitcher or urn; swelling below, and contrasted at the orifice, as a calyx or corolla.	
urceole		A vessel for water for washing the hands; also, one to hold wine or water.	
urceolus		Any urn-shaped organ of a plant.	
urchin		(Zoöl.) A sea urchin. See Sea urchin.	
urchon		The urchin, or hedgehog.	
urdu		The language more generally called Hindoostanee.	
ure	Obsolete	The urus.	
urea		A very soluble crystalline body which is the chief constituent of the urine in mammals and some other animals.	
ureal		Of or pertaining to urea; containing, or consisting of, urea; as, ureal deposits.	
ureameter		An apparatus for the determination of the amount of urea in urine, in which the nitrogen evolved by the action of certain reagents, on a given volume of urine, is collected and measured, and the urea calculated accordingly.	
urechitin		A glucoside extracted from the leaves of a certain plant (Urechitis suberecta) as a bitter white crystalline substance.	
urechitoxin		A poisonous glucoside found accompanying urechitin, and extracted as a bitter white crystalline substance.	
uredo		(Bot.) One of the stages in the life history of certain rusts (Uredinales), regarded at one time as a distinct genus.	
uredospore		The thin-walled summer spore which is produced during the so- called Uredo stage of certain rusts.	
ureide		Any one of the many complex derivatives of urea; thus, hydantoin, and, in an extended dense, guanidine, caffeine, et., are ureides.	
ureter		The duct which conveys the urine from the kidney to the bladder or cloaca.	
ureteritis		Inflammation of the ureter.	
urethane		A white crystalline substance, NH2.CO.OC2H5, produced by the action of ammonia on ethyl carbonate.	
urethra		The canal by which the urine is conducted from the bladder and discharged.	
urethral		Of or pertaining to the urethra.	
urethritis		Inflammation of the urethra.	
urethroplasty		An operation for the repair of an injury or a defect in the walls of the urethra. -- U*re`thro*plas"tic, a.	
urethroscope		An instrument for viewing the interior of the urethra.	
urethroscopy		Examination of the urethra by means of the urethroscope.	
urethrotome		An instrument for cutting a urethral stricture.	
urethrotomy		An incision of the urethra, esp. incision for relief of urethral stricture.	
uretic		Of or pertaining to the urine; diuretic; urinary; as, uretic medicine.	
urge		To press; to push; to drive; to impel; to force onward.	Latin urgeo.
urgence	Obsolete	Urgency.	
urgency		The quality or condition of being urgent; insistence; pressure; as, the urgency of a demand or an occasion.	
urgent		Urging; pressing; besetting; plying, with importunity; calling for immediate attention; instantly important.	Latin urgentem.
urgently		In an urgent manner.	
urger		One who urges.	
uric		Of or pertaining to urine; obtained from urine; as, uric acid.	
urim		A part or decoration of the breastplate of the high priest among the ancient Jews, by which Jehovah revealed his will on certain occasions.	
urinal		A vessel for holding urine; especially, a bottle or tube for holding urine for inspection.	
urinarium		A reservoir for urine, etc., for manure.	Latin urinarium.
urinary		Of or pertaining to the urine; as, the urinary bladder; urinary excretions.	
urinate		To discharge urine; to make water.	
urination		The act or process of voiding urine; micturition.	
urinative		Provoking the flow of urine; uretic; diuretic.	
urinator		One who dives under water in search of something, as for pearls; a diver.	Latin urinator.
urine	Obsolete	In mammals, a fluid excretion from the kidneys; in birds and reptiles, a solid or semisolid excretion.	
uriniferous		Bearing or conveying urine; as, uriniferous tubules.	
uriniparous		Producing or preparing urine; as, the uriniparous tubes in the cortical portion of the kidney.	
urinogenital		Pertaining to the urinary and genital organs; genitourinary; urogenital; as, the urinogenital canal.	
urinometer		A small hydrometer for determining the specific gravity of urine.	
urinometry		The estimation of the specific gravity of urine by the urinometer.	
urinose		Of or pertaining to urine, or partaking of its qualities; having the character or odor of urine; similar to urine.	
urinous		Of or pertaining to urine, or partaking of its qualities; having the character or odor of urine; similar to urine.	
urite		One of the segments of the abdomen or post-abdomen of arthropods.	
urith	Obsolete	The bindings of a hedge.	
urn		A vessel of various forms, usually a vase furnished with a foot or pedestal, employed for different purposes, as for holding liquids, for ornamental uses, for preserving the ashes of the dead after cremation…	Latin urna.
urn-shaped		Having the shape of an urn; as, the urn-shaped capsules of some mosses.	
urnal		Of or pertaining to an urn; effected by an urn or urns.	
urnful		As much as an urn will hold; enough to fill an urn.	
uro-		A combining form fr.	Greek οὖρον.
urobilin		A yellow pigment identical with hydrobilirubin, abundant in the highly colored urine of fever, and also present in normal urine.	
urocele		A morbid swelling of the scrotum due to extravasation of urine into it.	
urocerata		A division of boring Hymenoptera, including Tremex and allied genera. See Illust. of Horntail.	
urochord		The central axis or cord in the tail of larval ascidians and of certain adult tunicates.	
urochorda		Same as Tunicata.	
urochordal		Of or pertaining to the Urochorda.	
urochrome		A yellow urinary pigment, considered by Thudichum as the only pigment present in normal urine.	
urochs		See Aurochs — the european bison (Bison bonasus, or Europæus), once widely distributed, but now nearly extinct, except where protected in the Lithuanian forests, and perhaps in the Caucasus.	
urocord		See Urochord — the central axis or cord in the tail of larval ascidians and of certain adult tunicates.	
urocyst		The urinary bladder.	
urodela		An order of amphibians having the tail well developed and often long.	
urodele		One of the Urodela.	
urodelian		Of or pertaining to the Urodela. -- n.	
uroerythrin		A reddish urinary pigment, considered as the substance which gives to the urine of rheumatism its characteristic color.	
urogastric		Behind the stomach; -- said of two lobes of the carapace of certain crustaceans.	
urogenital		Same as Urinogenital.	
uroglaucin		A body identical with indigo blue, occasionally found in the urine in degeneration of the kidneys.	
urohaematin		Urinary hæmatin; -- applied to the normal coloring matter of the urine, on the supposition that it is formed either directly or indirectly (through bilirubin) from the hæmatin of the blood.	
urohyal		Of or pertaining to one or more median and posterior elements in the hyoidean arch of fishes. -- n.	
urology		See Uronology — that part of medicine which treats of urine.	
uromere		Any one of the abdominal segments of an arthropod.	
uronology		That part of medicine which treats of urine.	
uropod		Any one of the abdominal appendages of a crustacean, especially one of the posterior ones, which are often larger than the rest, and different in structure, and are used chiefly in locomotion.	
uropodal		Of or pertaining to a uropod.	
uropoetic		(Med.) Producing, or favoring the production of, urine.	
uropygial		Of or pertaining to the uropygium, or prominence at the base of the tail feathers, in birds.	
uropygium		The prominence at the posterior extremity of a bird's body, which supports the feathers of the tail; the rump; -- sometimes called pope's nose.	
urosacral		Of or pertaining to both the caudal and sacral parts of the vertebral column; as, the urosacral vertebræ of birds.	
uroscopy		The diagnosis of diseases by inspection of urine.	
urosome		The abdomen, or post-abdomen, of arthropods.	
urostege		One of the plates on the under side of the tail of a serpent.	
urosteon		A median ossification back of the lophosteon in the sternum of some birds.	
urosternite		The sternal, or under piece, of any one of the uromeres of insects and other arthropods.	
urostyle		A styliform process forming the posterior extremity of the vertebral column in some fishes and amphibians.	
urox		The aurochs.	
uroxanate		A salt of uroxanic acid.	
uroxanic		Pertaining to, or designating, an acid, C5H8N4O6, which is obtained, as a white crystalline substance, by the slow oxidation of uric acid in alkaline solution.	
uroxanthin		Same as Indican.	
urrhodin		Indigo red, a product of the decomposition, or oxidation, of indican.	
urry		A sort of blue or black clay lying near a vein of coal.	
ursa		Either one of the Bears. See the Phrases below.	
ursal		The ursine seal. See the Note under 1st Seal.	
ursiform		Having the shape of a bear.	
ursine		Of or pertaining to a bear; resembling a bear.	
urson		The Canada porcupine. See Porcupine.	
ursuk		The bearded seal.	
ursula		A beautiful North American butterfly (Basilarchia, or Limenitis, astyanax).	
ursuline		One of an order of nuns founded by St. Angela Merici, at Brescia, in Italy, about the year 1537, and so called from St. Ursula, under whose protection it was placed.	
ursus		A genus of Carnivora including the common bears.	
urtica		A genus of plants including the common nettles. See Nettle, n.	
urticaceous		Of or pertaining to a natural order (Urticaceæ) of plants, of which the nettle is the type.	
urtical		Resembling nettles; -- said of several natural orders allied to urticaceous plants.	
urticaria		The nettle rash, a disease characterized by a transient eruption of red pimples and of wheals, accompanied with a burning or stinging sensation and with itching; uredo.	
urticate		To sting with, or as with, nettles; to irritate; to annoy.	
urtication		The act or process of whipping or stinging with nettles; -- sometimes used in the treatment of paralysis.	
urubu		The black vulture (Catharista atrata).	
urus		A very large, powerful, and savage extinct bovine animal (Bos urus or primigenius) anciently abundant in Europe.	Latin ūrus.
urva		The crab-eating ichneumon (Herpestes urva), native of India.	
