us		The persons speaking, regarded as an object; ourselves; -- the objective case of we.	Middle English us, from Old English us.
usable		Capable of being used.	Old French usable.
usage		The act of using; mode of using or treating; treatment; conduct with respect to a person or a thing; as, good usage; ill usage; hard usage.	
usager	Obsolete	One who has the use of anything in trust for another.	French usager.
usance		(Com.) The time, fixed variously by the usage between different countries, when a bill of exchange is payable; as, a bill drawn on London at one usance, or at double usance.	
usant	Obsolete	Using; accustomed.	
usbegs		A Turkish tribe which about the close of the 15th century conquered, and settled in, that part of Asia now called Turkestan.	
usbeks		A Turkish tribe which about the close of the 15th century conquered, and settled in, that part of Asia now called Turkestan.	
use		The act of employing anything, or of applying it to one's service; the state of being so employed or applied; application; employment; conversion to some purpose; as, the use of a pen in writing; his machines are in general use.	Middle English usen, from Old French user.
useful		Full of use, advantage, or profit; producing, or having power to produce, good; serviceable for any end or object; helpful toward advancing any purpose; beneficial; profitable; advantageous; as…	
usefully		In a useful manner.	
usefulness		The quality or state of being useful; utility; serviceableness; advantage.	
useless		Having, or being of, no use; unserviceable; producing no good end; answering no valuable purpose; not advancing the end proposed; unprofitable; ineffectual; as, a useless garment; useless pity.	
user		(Law) Enjoyment of property; use.	Middle English user.
usher		An officer or servant who has the care of the door of a court, hall, chamber, or the like; hence, an officer whose business it is to introduce strangers, or to walk before a person of rank.	Old French huissier.
usherance	Obsolete	The act of ushering, or the state of being ushered in.	
usherdom		The office or position of an usher; ushership; also, ushers, collectively.	
usherless		Destitute of an usher.	
ushership		The office of an usher; usherdom.	
usitative		Denoting usual or customary action.	
usnea		A genus of lichens, most of the species of which have long, gray, pendulous, and finely branched fronds.	Arabic أشنة.
usnic		Pertaining to, or designating, a complex acid obtained, as a yellow crystalline substance, from certain genera of lichens (Usnea, Parmelia, etc.).	
usquebaugh		A compound distilled spirit made in Ireland and Scotland; whisky.	
usself	Obsolete	Ourselves.	
ustion		The act of burning, or the state of being burned.	Latin ustio.
ustorious		Having the quality of burning.	Latin urere.
ustulate		Blackened as if burned.	
ustulation		(Old Chem.) The operation of expelling one substance from another by heat, as sulphur or arsenic from ores, in a muffle.	
usual		Such as is in common use; such as occurs in ordinary practice, or in the ordinary course of events; customary; ordinary; habitual; common.	French usuel, from Latin usualis.
usucaption		The acquisition of the title or right to property by the uninterrupted possession of it for a certain term prescribed by law; -- the same as prescription in common law.	
usufruct		The right of using and enjoying the profits of an estate or other thing belonging to another, without impairing the substance.	Latin usufructus.
usufructuary		A person who has the use of property and reaps the profits of it.	
usurarious	Obsolete	Usurious.	
usurary	Obsolete	Usurious.	
usure	Obsolete	To practice usury; to charge unlawful interest.	
usurer		One who lends money at a rate of interest beyond that established by law; one who exacts an exorbitant rate of interest for the use of money.	Old French usurier.
usurious		Practicing usury; taking illegal or exorbitant interest for the use of money; as, a usurious person.	
usurp		To seize, and hold in possession, by force, or without right; as, to usurp a throne; to usurp the prerogatives of the crown; to usurp power; to usurp the right of a patron is to oust or dispossess him.	French usurper, from Latin ūsūrpāre.
usurpant	Obsolete	Usurping; encroaching.	Latin usurpans.
usurpation		The act of usurping, or of seizing and enjoying; an authorized, arbitrary assumption and exercise of power, especially an infringing on the rights of others; specifically, the illegal seizure of sovereign power…	
usurpatory		Marked by usurpation; usurping.	
usurpature		Usurpation.	
usurper		One who usurps; especially, one who seizes illegally on sovereign power; as, the usurper of a throne, of power, or of the rights of a patron.	Latin usurpare.
usurpingly		In a usurping manner.	
usury		(Law) Interest in excess of a legal rate charged to a borrower for the use of money.	Latin usuria.
