ut		The first note in Guido's musical scale, now usually superseded by do.
utas	Obsolete	Hence, festivity; merriment.
utensil		That which is used; an instrument; an implement; especially, an instrument or vessel used in a kitchen, or in domestic and farming business.
uterine		Of or instrument to the uterus, or womb.
utero		- (connection with, or relation to, the uterus; as in utro- ovarian.
uterogestation		Gestation in the womb from conception to birth; pregnancy.
uterovaginal		Pertaining to both the uterus and the vagina.
uterus		(Anat.) The organ of a female mammal in which the young are developed previous to birth; the womb.
utes		An extensive tribe of North American Indians of the Shoshone stock, inhabiting Colorado, Utah, New Mexico, Arizona, and adjacent regions.
utia		Any species of large West Indian rodents of the genus Capromys, or Utia.
utica		Of, pertaining to, or designating, a subdivision of the Trenton Period of the Lower Silurian, characterized in the State of New York by beds of shale.
utile	Obsolete	Profitable; useful.
utilitarian		Of or pertaining to utility; consisting in utility; as, utilitarian narrowness; a utilitarian indifference to art.
utilitarianism		The doctrine that the greatest happiness of the greatest number should be the end and aim of all social and political institutions.
utility		The quality or state of being useful; usefulness; production of good; profitableness to some valuable end; as, the utility of manure upon land; the utility of the sciences; the utility of medicines.
utilizable		Capable of being utilized; as, the utilizable products of the gas works.
utilization		The act of utilizing, or the state of being utilized.
utilize		To make useful; to turn to profitable account or use; to make use of; as, to utilize the whole power of a machine; to utilize one's opportunities.
utis	Obsolete	See Utas — hence, festivity; merriment.
utlary	Obsolete	Outlawry.
utmost		Situated at the farthest point or extremity; farthest out; most distant; extreme; as, the utmost limits of the land; the utmost extent of human knowledge.
utopia		An imaginary island, represented by Sir Thomas More, in a work called Utopia, as enjoying the greatest perfection in politics, laws, and the like.
utopian		Of or pertaining to Utopia; resembling Utopia; hence, ideal; chimerical; fanciful; founded upon, or involving, imaginary perfections; as, Utopian projects; Utopian happiness.
utopianism		The ideas, views, aims, etc., of a Utopian; impracticable schemes of human perfection; optimism.
utopianist		An Utopian; an optimist.
utopical	Obsolete	Utopian; ideal.
utopist		A Utopian.
utraquist		One who receives the eucharist in both kinds; esp., one of a body of Hussites who in the 15th century fought for the right to do this.
utricle		A little sac or vesicle, as the air cell of fucus, or seaweed.
utricular		Of or pertaining to a utricle, or utriculus; containing, or furnished with, a utricle or utricles; utriculate; as, a utricular plant.
utricularia		A genus of aquatic flowering plants, in which the submersed leaves bear many little utricles, or ascidia.
utriculate		Resembling a bladder; swollen like a bladder; inflated; utricular.
utriculoid		Resembling a bladder; utricular; utriculate.
utriculus		A little sac, or bag; a utricle; especially, a part of the membranous labyrinth of the ear.
utro		- (connection with, or relation to, the uterus; as in utro- ovarian.
utro-		- (connection with, or relation to, the uterus; as in utro- ovarian.
utter		Complete; perfect; total; entire; absolute; as, utter ruin; utter darkness.
utterable		Capable of being uttered.
utterance	Obsolete	The act of uttering. Specifically: -- (a) Sale by offering to the public.
utterer		One who utters.
utterest		Uttermost.
utterless	Obsolete	Incapable of being uttered.
utterly		In an utter manner; to the full extent; fully; totally; as, utterly ruined; it is utterly vain.
uttermore	Obsolete	Further; outer; utter.
uttermost		Extreme; utmost; being; in the farthest, greatest, or highest degree; as, the uttermost extent or end.
utterness		The quality or state of being utter, or extreme; extremity; utmost; uttermost.
