vaagmer		The dealfish.
vacancy		The quality or state of being vacant; emptiness; hence, freedom from employment; intermission; leisure; idleness; listlessness.
vacant		Deprived of contents; not filled; empty; as, a vacant room.
vacantly		In a vacant manner; inanely.
vacate		To make vacant; to leave empty; to cease from filling or occupying; as, it was resolved by Parliament that James had vacated the throne of England; the tenant vacated the house.
vacation		The act of vacating; a making void or of no force; as, the vacation of an office or a charter.
vacatur		An order of court by which a proceeding is set aside or annulled.
vaccary	Obsolete	A cow house, dairy house, or cow pasture.
vaccina		Vaccinia.
vaccinal		Of or pertaining to vaccinia or vaccination.
vaccinate		To inoculate with the cowpox by means of a virus, called vaccine, taken either directly or indirectly from cows.
vaccination		The act, art, or practice of vaccinating, or inoculating with the cowpox, in order to prevent or mitigate an attack of smallpox.
vaccinator		One who, or that which, vaccinates.
vaccine		Of or pertaining to cows; pertaining to, derived from, or caused by, vaccinia; as, vaccine virus; the vaccine disease. -- n.
vaccinia		Cowpox; vaccina. See Cowpox.
vaccinist		A vaccinator.
vaccinium		A genus of ericaceous shrubs including the various kinds of blueberries and the true cranberries.
vacher		A keeper of stock or cattle; a herdsman.
vachery		An inclosure for cows.
vacillancy		The quality or state of being vacillant, or wavering.
vacillant		Vacillating; wavering; fluctuating; irresolute.
vacillate		To move one way and the other; to reel or stagger; to waver. is always liable to shift and vacillatefrom one axis to another.
vacillating		Inclined to fluctuate; wavering.
vacillation		The act of vacillating; a moving one way and the other; a wavering.
vacillatory		Inclined to vacillate; wavering; irresolute.
vacuate		To make void, or empty.
vacuation		The act of emptying; evacuation.
vacuist		One who holds the doctrine that the space between the bodies of the universe, or the molecules and atoms of matter., is a vacuum; -- opposed to plenist.
vacuity		The quality or state of being vacuous, or not filled; emptiness; vacancy; as, vacuity of mind; vacuity of countenance.
vacuna		The goddess of rural leisure, to whom the husbandmen sacrificed at the close of the harvest.
vacuolated		Full of vacuoles, or small air cavities; as, vacuolated cells.
vacuolation		Formation into, or multiplication of, vacuoles.
vacuole		A small air cell, or globular space, in the interior of organic cells, either containing air, or a pellucid watery liquid, or some special chemical secretions of the cell protoplasm.
vacuometer		(a) An instrument for the comparison of barometers. (b) An apparatus for the measurement of low pressures.
vacuous		Empty; unfilled; void; vacant.
vacuousness		The quality or state of being vacuous; emptiness; vacuity.
vacuum		(Physics) A space entirely devoid of matter (called also, by way of distinction, absolute vacuum); hence, in a more general sense, a space, as the interior of a closed vessel…
vadantes		An extensive artificial group of birds including the wading, swimming, and cursorial birds.
vade	Obsolete	To fade; hence, to vanish.
vadimony	Obsolete	A bond or pledge for appearance before a judge on a certain day.
vadium		Pledge; security; bail. See Mortgage.
vae	Scots	See Voe — an inlet, bay, or creek; -- so called in the Orkney and Shetland Islands.
vafrous	Obsolete	Crafty; cunning; sly; as, vafrous tricks.
vagabond		Moving from place to place without a settled habitation; wandering.
vagabondage		The condition of a vagabond; a state or habit of wandering about in idleness; vagrancy.
vagabondism		Vagabondage.
vagabondize		To play the vagabond; to wander about in idleness.
vagabondry		Vagabondage.
vagal		Of or pertaining to the vagus, or pneumogastric nerves; pneumogastric.
vagancy	Obsolete	A wandering; vagrancy.
vagantes		A tribe of spiders, comprising some of those which take their prey in a web, but which also frequently run with agility, and chase and seize their prey.
vagarious		Given to, or characterized by, vagaries; capricious; whimsical; crochety.
vagary		Hence, a wandering of the thoughts; a wild or fanciful freak; a whim; a whimsical purpose.
vagient	Obsolete	Crying like a child.
vagina		(Anat.) (a) A sheath; a theca; as, the vagina of the portal vein. (b) Specifically, the canal which leads from the uterus to the external orifice if the genital canal, or to the cloaca.
vaginal		Of or pertaining to a vagina; resembling a vagina, or sheath; thecal; as, a vaginal synovial membrane; the vaginal process of the temporal bone.
vaginant		Serving to in invest, or sheathe; sheathing.
vaginate		Invested with, or as if with, a sheath; as, a vaginate stem, or one invested by the tubular base of a leaf.
vaginated		Invested with, or as if with, a sheath; as, a vaginate stem, or one invested by the tubular base of a leaf.
vaginati		A tribe of birds comprising the sheathbills.
vaginervose		Having the nerves, or veins, placed in apparent disorder.
vaginicola		A genus of Infusoria which form minute vaselike or tubular cases in which they dwell.
vaginismus		A painful spasmodic contraction of the vagina, often rendering copulation impossible.
vaginitis		Inflammation of the vagina, or the genital canal, usually of its mucous living membrane.
vaginopennous		Having elytra; sheath-winged.
vaginula		(a) A little sheath, as that about the base of the pedicel of most mosses.
vaginule		A vaginula.
vagissate	Obsolete	To caper or frolic.
vagous	Obsolete	Wandering; unsettled.
vagrancy		The quality or state of being a vagrant; a wandering without a settled home; an unsettled condition; vagabondism.
vagrant		Moving without certain direction; wandering; erratic; unsettled.
vagrantly		In a vagrant manner.
vagrantness		State of being vagrant; vagrancy.
vague		Unsettled; unfixed; undetermined; indefinite; ambiguous; as, a vague idea; a vague proposition.
vaguely		In a vague manner.
vagueness		The quality or state of being vague.
vagus		Wandering; -- applied especially to the pneumogastric nerve. -- n.
vail		Money given to servants by visitors; a gratuity; -- usually in the plural.
vailer	Obsolete	One who vails.
vaimure	Obsolete	An outer, or exterior. wall. See Vauntmure.
vain		Having no real substance, value, or importance; empty; void; worthless; unsatisfying.
vainglorious		Feeling or indicating vainglory; elated by vanity; boastful. -- Vain`glo ri*ous*ness, n.
vainglory		Excessive vanity excited by one's own performances; empty pride; undue elation of mind; vain show; boastfulness.
vainly		In a vain manner; in vain.
vainness		The quality or state of being vain.
vair		The skin of the squirrel, much used in the fourteenth century as fur for garments, and frequently mentioned by writers of that period in describing the costly dresses of kings, nobles, and prelates.
vairy		Charged with vair; variegated with shield-shaped figures. See Vair.
vaishnava		A worshiper of the god Vishnu in any of his incarnations.
vaishnavism		The worship of Vishnu.
vaisya		The third of the four great original castes among the Hindoos, now either extinct or partially represented by the mercantile class of Banyas.
vaivode		See Waywode — originally, the title of a military commander in various Slavonic countries; afterwards applied to governors of towns or provinces.
vakeel		A native attorney or agent; also, an ambassador.
valance		Hanging drapery for a bed, couch, window, or the like, especially that which hangs around a bedstead, from the bed to the floor.
vale		A tract of low ground, or of land between hills; a valley.
valediction		A farewell; a bidding farewell.
valedictorian		One who pronounces a valedictory address; especially, in American colleges, the student who pronounces the valedictory of the graduating class at the annual commencement, usually the student who ranks first in scholarship.
valedictory		Bidding farewell; suitable or designed for an occasion of leave-taking; as, a valedictory oration.
valence		The degree of combining power of an atom (or radical) as shown by the number of atoms of hydrogen (or of other monads, as chlorine, sodium, etc.) with which it will combine, or for which it can be substituted…
valencia		A kind of woven fabric for waistcoats, having the weft of wool and the warp of silk or cotton.
valency		(a) See Valence. (b) A unit of combining power; a so-called bond of affinity.
valentia		See Valencia — a kind of woven fabric for waistcoats, having the weft of wool and the warp of silk or cotton.
valentine		A sweetheart chosen on St. Valentine's Day.
valentinian		One of a school of Judaizing Gnostics in the second century; -- so called from Valentinus, the founder.
valeramide		The acid amide derivative of valeric acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance.
valerate		A salt of valeric acid.
valerian		Any plant of the genus Valeriana.
valerianaceous		Of, pertaining to, or resembling, plants of a natural order (Valerianaccæ) of which the valerian is the type.
valerianate		A valerate.
valerianic		Performance to, or obtained from, valerian root; specifically, designating an acid which is usually called valeric acid.
valeric		Valerianic; specifically, designating any one of three metameric acids, of which the typical one (called also inactive valeric acid), C4H9CO2H, is obtained from valerian root and other sources, as a corrosive, mobile…
valeridine		A base, C10H19N, produced by heating valeric aldehyde with ammonia.
valerin		A salt of valeric acid with glycerin, occurring in butter, dolphin oil., and forming an forming an oily liquid with a slightly unpleasant odor.
valeritrine		A base, C15H27N, produced together with valeridine, which it resembles.
valero-		A combining form (also used adjectively) indicating derivation from, or relation to, valerian or some of its products, as valeric acid; as in valerolactone…
valerone		A ketone of valeric acid obtained as an oily liquid.
valeryl		The hypothetical radical C5H9O, regarded as the essential nucleus of certain valeric acid derivatives.
valerylene		A liquid hydrocarbon, C5H8; -- called also pentine.
valet		A male waiting servant; a servant who attends on gentleman's person; a body servant.
valetudinarian		Of infirm health; seeking to recover health; sickly; weakly; infirm.
valetudinarianism		The condition of a valetudinarian; a state of feeble health; infirmity.
valetudinary		Infirm; sickly; valetudinarian. -- Val`e*tu"di*na*ri*ness, n.
valetudinous	Obsolete	Valetudinarian.
valhalla		Fig.: A hall or temple adorned with statues and memorials of a nation's heroes; specifically, the Pantheon near Ratisbon, in Bavaria, consecrated to the illustrious dead of all Germany.
valiance	Obsolete	The quality or state of being valiant; bravery; valor.
valiancy	Obsolete	The quality or state of being valiant; bravery; valor.
valiant		Intrepid in danger; courageous; brave.
valid		Having sufficient strength or force; founded in truth; capable of being justified, defended, or supported; not weak or defective; sound; good; efficacious; as, a valid argument; a valid objection.
validate		To confirm; to render valid; to give legal force to.
validation		The act of giving validity.
validity		The quality or state of being valid; strength; force; especially, power to convince; justness; soundness; as, the validity of an argument or proof; the validity of an objection.
validly		In a valid manner; so as to be valid.
validness		The quality or state of being valid.
valinch		A tube for drawing liquors from a cask by the bunghole.
valise		A small sack or case, usually of leather, but sometimes of other material, for containing the clothes, toilet articles, etc., of a traveler; a traveling bag; a portmanteau.
valkyria		One of the maidens of Odin, represented as awful and beautiful, who presided over battle and marked out those who were to be slain, and who also ministered at the feasts of heroes in Valhalla.
valkyrian		Of or pertaining to the Valkyrias; hence, relating to battle.
vallancy	Obsolete	A large wig that shades the face.
vallar		Of or pertaining to a rampart.
vallary		Same as Vallar.
vallation		A rampart or intrenchment.
vallatory	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to a vallation; used for a vallation; as, vallatory reads.
vallecula		(Anat.) A groove; a fossa; as, the vallecula, or fossa, which separates the hemispheres of the cerebellum.
valley		The space inclosed between ranges of hills or mountains; the strip of land at the bottom of the depressions intersecting a country, including usually the bed of a stream…
vallum		A rampart; a wall, as in a fortification.
valonia		The acorn cup of two kinds of oak (Quercus macrolepis, and Q. vallonea) found in Eastern Europe.
valor		Strength of mind in regard to danger; that quality which enables a man to encounter danger with firmness; personal bravery; courage; prowess; intrepidity.
valorization		Act or process of attempting to give an arbitrary market value or price to a commodity by governmental interference, as by maintaining a purchasing fund, making loans to producers to enable them to hold their products, etc.…
valorous		Possessing or exhibiting valor; brave; courageous; valiant; intrepid. -- Val"or*ous*ly, adv.
valsalvian		Of or pertaining to Valsalva, an Italian anatomist of the 17th century.
valuable		Having value or worth; possessing qualities which are useful and esteemed; precious; costly; as, a valuable horse; valuable land; a valuable cargo.
valuableness		The quality of being valuable.
valuably		So as to be of value.
valuation		The act of valuing, or of estimating value or worth; the act of setting a price; estimation; appraisement; as, a valuation of lands for the purpose of taxation.
valuator		One who assesses, or sets a value on, anything; an appraiser.
value		The property or aggregate properties of a thing by which it is rendered useful or desirable, or the degree of such property or sum of properties; worth; excellence; utility; importance.
valued		Highly regarded; esteemed; prized; as, a valued contributor; a valued friend.
valueless		Being of no value; having no worth.
valuer		One who values; an appraiser.
valval		Valvular.
valvar		Valvular.
valvasor		See Vavasor — the vassal or tenant of a baron; one who held under a baron, and who also had tenants under him; one in dignity next to a baron; a title of dignity next to a baron.
valvata		A genus of small spiral fresh-water gastropods having an operculum.
valvate		Resembling, or serving as, a valve; consisting of, or opening by, a valve or valves; valvular.
valve		A door; especially, one of a pair of folding doors, or one of the leaves of such a door.
valve-shell		Any fresh-water gastropod of the genus Valvata.
valved		Having a valve or valve; valvate.
valvelet		A little valve; a valvule; especially, one of the pieces which compose the outer covering of a pericarp.
valvula		A little valve or fold; a valvelet; a valvule.
valvular		Of or pertaining to a valve or valves; specifically (Med.), of or pertaining to the valves of the heart; as, valvular disease.
valvule		A little valve; a valvelet.
valylene		A volatile liquid hydrocarbon, C5H6, related to ethylene and acetylene, but possessing the property of unsaturation in the third degree.
vambrace		The piece designed to protect the arm from the elbow to the wrist.
vamose	Slang	To depart quickly; to depart from.
vamp		The part of a boot or shoe above the sole and welt, and in front of the ankle seam; an upper.
vamper	English dialect	One who vamps; one who pieces an old thing with something new; a cobbler.
vampire		A blood-sucking ghost; a soul of a dead person superstitiously believed to come from the grave and wander about by night sucking the blood of persons asleep, thus causing their death.
vampirism		Belief in the existence of vampires.
vamplate		A round of iron on the shaft of a tilting spear, to protect the hand.
vamure	Obsolete	See Vauntmure — a false wall; a work raised in front of the main wall.
van		The front of an army; the first line or leading column; also, the front line or foremost division of a fleet, either in sailing or in battle.
van-courier		One sent in advance; an avant-courier; a precursor.
vanadate		A salt of vanadic acid.
vanadic		Pertaining to, or obtained from, vanadium; containing vanadium; specifically distinguished those compounds in which vanadium has a relatively higher valence as contrasted with the vanadious compounds; as, vanadic oxide.
vanadinite		A mineral occurring in yellowish, and ruby-red hexagonal crystals.
vanadious		Pertaining to, or containing, vanadium; specifically, designating those compounds in which vanadium has a lower valence as contrasted with the vanadic compounds; as, vanadious acid.
vanadite		A salt of vanadious acid, analogous to a nitrite or a phosphite.
vanadium		A rare element of the nitrogen-phosphorus group, found combined, in vanadates, in certain minerals, and reduced as an infusible, grayish-white metallic powder.
vanadous		Of or pertaining to vanadium; obtained from vanadium; -- said of an acid containing one equivalent of vanadium and two of oxygen.
vanadyl		The hypothetical radical VO, regarded as a characterized residue of certain vanadium compounds.
vandal		Hence, one who willfully destroys or defaces any work of art or literature.
vandalic		Of or pertaining to the Vandals; resembling the Vandals in barbarism and destructiveness.
vandalism		The spirit or conduct of the Vandals; ferocious cruelty; hostility to the arts and literature, or willful destruction or defacement of their monuments.
vandyke		Of or pertaining to the style of Vandyke the painter; used or represented by Vandyke.
vane		A contrivance attached to some elevated object for the purpose of showing which way the wind blows; a weathercock.
vanessa		Any one of numerous species of handsomely colored butterflies belonging to Vanessa and allied genera.
vanessian		A vanessa.
vanfess		A ditch on the outside of the counterscarp, usually full of water.
vang		A rope to steady the peak of a gaff.
vanglo		Benne (Sesamum orientale); also, its seeds; -- so called in the West Indies.
vanguard		The troops who march in front of an army; the advance guard; the van.
vanilla		(Bot.) A genus of climbing orchidaceous plants natives of tropical America.
vanillate		A salt of vanillic acid.
vanillic		Pertaining to, or derived from, vanilla or vanillin; resembling vanillin; specifically, designating an alcohol and an acid respectively, vanillin being the intermediate aldehyde.
vanillin		A white crystalline aldehyde having a burning taste and characteristic odor of vanilla.
vanilloes		An inferior kind of vanilla, the pods of Vanilla Pompona.
vanillyl		The hypothetical radical characteristic of vanillic alcohol.
vaniloquence	Obsolete	Vain or foolish talk.
vanish		To pass from a visible to an invisible state; to go out of sight; to disappear; to fade; as, vapor vanishes from the sight by being dissipated; a ship vanishes from the sight of spectators on land.
vanishing		a. & n. from Vanish, v.
vanishment	Obsolete	A vanishing.
vanity		The quality or state of being vain; want of substance to satisfy desire; emptiness; unsubstantialness; unrealness; falsity.
vanjas		The Australian pied crow shrike (Strepera graculina).
vanner		A machine for concentrating ore. See Frue vanner.
vanning		A process by which ores are washed on a shovel, or in a vanner.
vanquish		To conquer, overcome, or subdue in battle, as an enemy.
vanquishable		That may be vanquished.
vanquisher		One who, or that which, vanquishes.
vanquishment		The act of vanquishing, or the state of being vanquished.
vansire		An ichneumon (Herpestes galera) native of Southern Africa and Madagascar.
vant	Obsolete	See Vaunt — to boast; to make a vain display of one's own worth, attainments, decorations, or the like; to talk ostentatiously; to brag.
vant-courier	Obsolete	An avant-courier. See Van-courier.
vantage		superior or more favorable situation or opportunity; gain; profit; advantage.
vantbrace		Armor for the arm; vambrace.
vantbrass		Armor for the arm; vambrace.
vanward		Being on, or towards, the van, or front.
vap	Obsolete	That which is vapid, insipid, or lifeless; especially, the lifeless part of liquor or wine.
vapid		Having lost its life and spirit; dead; spiritless; insipid; flat; dull; unanimated; as, vapid beer; a vapid speech; a vapid state of the blood.
vapidity		The quality or state of being vapid; vapidness.
vapor		(Physics) Any substance in the gaseous, or aëriform, state, the condition of which is ordinarily that of a liquid or solid.
vaporability		The quality or state of being vaporable.
vaporable		Capable of being converted into vapor by the agency of heat; vaporizable.
vaporate		To emit vapor; to evaporate.
vaporation		The act or process of converting into vapor, or of passing off in vapor; evaporation.
vapored		Wet with vapors; moist.
vaporer		One who vapors; a braggart.
vaporiferous		Conveying or producing vapor.
vaporific		Producing vapor; tending to pass, or to cause to pass, into vapor; thus, volatile fluids are vaporific; heat is a vaporific agent.
vaporiform		Existing in a vaporous form or state; as, steam is a vaporiform substance.
vaporimeter		An instrument for measuring the volume or the tension of any vapor; specifically, an instrument of this sort used as an alcoholometer in testing spirituous liquors.
vaporing		Talking idly; boasting; vaunting. -- Va"por*ing*ly, adv.
vaporish		Full of vapors; vaporous.
vaporizable		Capable of being vaporized into vapor.
vaporization		The act or process of vaporizing, or the state of being converted into vapor; the artificial formation of vapor; specifically, the conversion of water into steam, as in a steam boiler.
vaporize		To convert into vapor, as by the application of heat, whether naturally or artificially.
vaporizer		One who, or that which, vaporizes, or converts into vapor.
vaporose		Full of vapor; vaporous.
vaporous		Having the form or nature of vapor.
vaporousness		The quality of being vaporous.
vapory		Full of vapors; vaporous.
vapulation	Obsolete	The act of beating or whipping.
vaquero		One who has charge of cattle, horses, etc.; a herdsman.
vara		A Spanish measure of length equal to about one yard.
varan		The monitor. See Monitor, 3.
varangian		One of the Northmen who founded a dynasty in Russia in the 9th century; also, one of the Northmen composing, at a later date, the imperial bodyguard at Constantinople.
varanus		A genus of very large lizards native of Asia and Africa.
vare	Obsolete	A wand or staff of authority or justice.
varec		The calcined ashes of any coarse seaweed used for the manufacture of soda and iodine; also, the seaweed itself; fucus; wrack.
vargueno		A decorative cabinet, of a form originating in Spain, the body being rectangular and supported on legs or an ornamental framework and the front opening downwards on hinges to serve as a writing desk.
vari		The ringtailed lemur (Lemur catta) of Madagascar.
variability		The quality or state of being variable; variableness.
variable		Having the capacity of varying or changing; capable of alternation in any manner; changeable; as, variable winds or seasons; a variable quantity.
variableness		The quality or state of being variable; variability.
variably		In a variable manner.
variance		The quality or state of being variant; change of condition; variation.
variant		Varying in from, character, or the like; variable; different; diverse.
variate		To alter; to make different; to vary.
variation		The act of varying; a partial change in the form, position, state, or qualities of a thing; modification; alternation; mutation; diversity; deviation; as, a variation of color in different lights; a variation in size…
varicella		Chicken pox.
varices		See Varix — (Med.) A uneven, permanent dilatation of a vein.
variciform		Resembling a varix.
varicocele		A varicose enlargement of the veins of the spermatic cord; also, a like enlargement of the veins of the scrotum.
varicose		Irregularly swollen or enlarged; affected with, or containing, varices, or varicosities; of or pertaining to varices, or varicosities; as, a varicose nerve fiber; a varicose vein; varicose ulcers.
varicosis		The formation of varices; varicosity.
varicosity		The quality or state of being varicose.
varicotomy		Excision of a varicosity.
varicous	Obsolete	Varicose.
varied		Changed; altered; various; diversified; as, a varied experience; varied interests; varied scenery. -- Va"ried*ly, adv.
variegate		To diversify in external appearance; to mark with different colors; to dapple; to streak; as, to variegate a floor with marble of different colors.
variegated		Having marks or patches of different colors; as, variegated leaves, or flowers.
variegation		The act of variegating or diversifying, or the state of being diversified, by different colors; diversity of colors.
varier	Poetic	A wanderer; one who strays in search of variety.
varietal		Of or pertaining to a variety; characterizing a variety; constituting a variety, in distinction from an individual or species.
varietas		A variety; -- used in giving scientific names, and often abbreviated to var.
variety		The quality or state of being various; intermixture or succession of different things; diversity; multifariousness.
variform		Having different shapes or forms.
variformed		Formed with different shapes; having various forms; variform.
varify		To make different; to vary; to variegate.
variola		The smallpox.
variolar		Variolous.
variolation		Inoculation with smallpox.
variole		A foveola.
variolic		Variolous.
variolite		A kind of diorite or diabase containing imbedded whitish spherules, which give the rock a spotted appearance.
variolitic		Thickly marked with small, round specks; spotted.
varioloid		Resembling smallpox; pertaining to the disease called varioloid.
variolous		Of or pertaining to the smallpox; having pits, or sunken impressions, like those of the smallpox; variolar; variolic.
variometer		An instrument for comparing magnetic forces, esp. in the earth's magnetic field.
variorum		Containing notes by different persons; -- applied to a publication; as, a variorum edition of a book.
various		Different; diverse; several; manifold; as, men of various names; various occupations; various colors.
variously		In various or different ways.
variscite		An apple-green mineral occurring in reniform masses.
varisse		An imperfection on the inside of the hind leg in horses, different from a curb, but at the same height, and frequently injuring the sale of the animal by growing to an unsightly size.
varix		(Med.) A uneven, permanent dilatation of a vein.
vark		The bush hog, or boshvark.
varlet		Hence, a low fellow; a scoundrel; a rascal; as, an impudent varlet.
varletry		The rabble; the crowd; the mob.
varnish		A viscid liquid, consisting of a solution of resinous matter in an oil or a volatile liquid, laid on work with a brush, or otherwise.
varnisher		One who varnishes; one whose occupation is to varnish.
varnishing		The act of laying on varnish; also, materials for varnish.
varsity		Colloq. contr. of University.
varsovienne		(a) A kind of Polish dance. (b) Music for such a dance or having its slow triple time characteristic strong accent beginning every second measure.
vartabed		A doctor or teacher in the Armenian church.
varuna		The god of the waters; the Indian Neptune.
varus		A deformity in which the foot is turned inward. See Talipes.
varvel		In falconry, one of the rings secured to the ends of the jesses.
varveled		Having varvels, or rings.
vary		To change the aspect of; to alter in form, appearance, substance, position, or the like; to make different by a partial change; to modify; as, to vary the properties, proportions, or nature of a thing…
varying		a. & n. from Vary.
vas		A vessel; a duct.
vascular		(Biol.) (a) Consisting of, or containing, vessels as an essential part of a structure; full of vessels; specifically (Bot.), pertaining to, or containing, special ducts, or tubes, for the circulation of sap.
vascularity		The quality or state of being vascular.
vasculose		One of the substances of which vegetable tissue is composed, differing from cellulose in its solubility in certain media.
vasculum		A tin box, commonly cylindrical or flattened, used in collecting plants.
vase		A vessel adapted for various domestic purposes, and anciently for sacrificial used; especially, a vessel of antique or elegant pattern used for ornament; as, a porcelain vase; a gold vase; a Grecian vase.
vase-shaped		Formed like a vase, or like a common flowerpot.
vasectomy		Resection or excision of the vas deferens.
vaseline		A yellowish translucent substance, almost odorless and tasteless, obtained as a residue in the purification of crude petroleum, and consisting essentially of a mixture of several of the higher members of the paraffin series.
vasiform		Having the form of a vessel, or duct.
vaso-inhibitory		See Vasodilator — causing dilation or relaxation of the blood vessels; as, the vasodilator nerves, stimulation of which causes dilation of the blood vessels to which they go.
vasoconstrictor		Causing constriction of the blood vessels; as, the vasoconstrictor nerves, stimulation of which causes constriction of the blood vessels to which they go.
vasodentine		A modified form of dentine, which is permeated by blood capillaries; vascular dentine.
vasodilator		Causing dilation or relaxation of the blood vessels; as, the vasodilator nerves, stimulation of which causes dilation of the blood vessels to which they go.
vasoformative		Concerned in the development and formation of blood vessels and blood corpuscles; as, the vasoformative cells.
vasomotor		Causing movement in the walls of vessels; as, the vasomotor mechanisms; the vasomotor nerves, a system of nerves distributed over the muscular coats of the blood vessels.
vassalage		Political servitude; dependence; subjection; slavery; as, the Greeks were held in vassalage by the Turks.
vassaless		A female vassal.
vassalry		The body of vassals.
vast		Of great extent; very spacious or large; also, huge in bulk; immense; enormous; as, the vast ocean; vast mountains; the vast empire of Russia.
vastation	Obsolete	A laying waste; waste; depopulation; devastation.
vastel	Obsolete	See Wastel — a kind of white and fine bread or cake; -- called also wastel bread, and wastel cake.
vastidity	Obsolete	Vastness; immensity.
vastitude		Vastness; immense extent.
vastity	Obsolete	Vastness.
vastly		To a vast extent or degree; very greatly; immensely.
vastness		The quality or state of being vast.
vasty		Vast; immense.
vasum		A genus including several species of large marine gastropods having massive pyriform shells, with conspicuous folds on the columella.
vat		A large vessel, cistern, or tub, especially one used for holding in an immature state, chemical preparations for dyeing, or for tanning, or for tanning leather, or the like.
vatful		As much as a vat will hold; enough to fill a vat.
vatical		Of or pertaining to a prophet; prophetical.
vatican		A magnificent assemblage of buildings at Rome, near the church of St. Peter, including the pope's palace, a museum, a library, a famous chapel, etc.
vaticanism		The doctrine of papal supremacy; extreme views in support of the authority of the pope; ultramontanism; -- a term used only by persons who are not Roman Catholics.
vaticanist		One who strongly adheres to the papal authority; an ultramontanist.
vaticide		The murder, or the murderer, of a prophet.
vaticinal		Of or pertaining to prophecy; prophetic.
vaticinate		To prophesy; to foretell; to practice prediction; to utter prophecies.
vaticination		Prediction; prophecy.
vaticinator		One who vaticinates; a prophet.
vaticine	Obsolete	A prediction; a vaticination.
vaudeville		A kind of song of a lively character, frequently embodying a satire on some person or event, sung to a familiar air in couplets with a refrain; a street song; a topical song.
vaudois		An inhabitant, or the inhabitants, of the Swiss canton of Vaud.
vaudoux		See Voodoo — one who practices voodooism; a negro sorcerer.
vault		(Arch.) An arched structure of masonry, forming a ceiling or canopy.
vaultage	Obsolete	Vaulted work; also, a vaulted place; an arched cellar.
vaulted		Arched; concave; as, a vaulted roof.
vaulter		One who vaults; a leaper; a tumbler.
vaulting		The act of constructing vaults; a vaulted construction.
vaulty	Obsolete	Arched; concave.
vaunce	Obsolete	To advance.
vaunt	Obsolete	To boast; to make a vain display of one's own worth, attainments, decorations, or the like; to talk ostentatiously; to brag.
vaunt-courier	Obsolete	See Van-courier — one sent in advance; an avant-courier; a precursor.
vaunter		One who vaunts; a boaster.
vauntful		Given to vaunting or boasting; vainly ostentatious; boastful; vainglorious.
vauntingly		In a vaunting manner.
vauntmure		A false wall; a work raised in front of the main wall.
vauquelinite		Chromate of copper and lead, of various shades of green.
vaut	Obsolete	To vault; to leap.
vauty	Obsolete	Vaulted.
vavasor		The vassal or tenant of a baron; one who held under a baron, and who also had tenants under him; one in dignity next to a baron; a title of dignity next to a baron.
vavasory		The quality or tenure of the fee held by a vavasor; also, the lands held by a vavasor.
vaward	Obsolete	The fore part; van.
