veadar		The thirteenth, or intercalary, month of the Jewish ecclesiastical calendar, which is added about every third year.	
veal		The flesh of a calf when killed and used for food.	
vection	Obsolete	Vectitation.	Latin vectio.
vectitation	Obsolete	The act of carrying, or state of being carried.	
vector		Same as Radius vector.	Latin vector.
vecture	Obsolete	The act of carrying; conveyance; carriage.	
veda		The ancient sacred literature of the Hindoos; also, one of the four collections, called Rig-Veda, Yajur-Veda, Sama-Veda, and Atharva-Veda, constituting the most ancient portions of that literature.	
vedanta		A system of philosophy among the Hindoos, founded on scattered texts of the Vedas, and thence termed the "Anta," or end or substance.	
vedantic		Of or pertaining to the Vedas.	
vedantist		One versed in the doctrines of the Vedantas.	
vedette		A sentinel, usually on horseback, stationed on the outpost of an army, to watch an enemy and give notice of danger; a vidette.	French vedette, from Italian vedetta.
vedro		A Russian liquid measure, equal to 3.249 gallons of U.S. standard measure, or 2.706 imperial gallons.	Russian ведро, from Old Russian вѣдро.
veer		To change direction; to turn; to shift; as, wind veers to the west or north.	
veering		Shifting. -- Veer"ing*ly, adv.	
veery		An American thrush (Turdus fuscescens) common in the Northern United States and Canada.	
vega		A brilliant star of the first magnitude, the brightest of those constituting the constellation Lyra.	
vegetability	Obsolete	The quality or state of being vegetable.	
vegetable		Of or pertaining to plants; having the nature of, or produced by, plants; as, a vegetable nature; vegetable growths, juices, etc. Blooming ambrosial fruit Of vegetable gold.	
vegetal		A vegetable.	
vegetality		The quality or state of being vegetal, or vegetable.	
vegetarian		One who holds that vegetables and fruits are the only proper food for man.	
vegetarianism		The theory or practice of living upon vegetables and fruits.	
vegetate		To grow, as plants, by nutriment imbibed by means of roots and leaves; to start into growth; to sprout; to germinate.	Latin vegetatum.
vegetation		The act or process of vegetating, or growing as a plant does; vegetable growth.	Middle French végétation.
vegetative		Growing, or having the power of growing, as plants; capable of vegetating.	
vegete	Obsolete	Lively; active; sprightly; vigorous.	
vegetism		Vegetal state or characteristic.	
vegetive	Obsolete	Having the nature of a plant; vegetable; as, vegetive life.	
vegeto-animal		Partaking of the nature both of vegetable and animal matter; -- a term sometimes applied to vegetable albumen and gluten, from their resemblance to similar animal products.	
vegetous	Obsolete	Vigorous; lively; active; vegete.	Latin vegetus.
vehemence		The quality pr state of being vehement; impetuous force; impetuosity; violence; fury; as, the vehemence.	
vehemency		Vehemence.	Latin vehementia.
vehement		Acting with great force; furious; violent; impetuous; forcible; mighty; as, vehement wind; a vehement torrent; a vehement fire or heat.	Latin vehemens.
vehemently		In a vehement manner.	
vehicle		That in or on which any person or thing is, or may be, carried, as a coach, carriage, wagon, cart, car, sleigh, bicycle, etc.; a means of conveyance; specifically, a means of conveyance upon land.	French véhicule, from Latin vehiculum.
vehicled		Conveyed in a vehicle; furnished with a vehicle.	
vehicular		Of or pertaining to a vehicle; serving as a vehicle; as, a vehicular contrivance.	
vehiculary		Vehicular.	
vehiculate		To convey by means of a vehicle; to ride in a vehicle.	
vehiculation		Movement of vehicles.	
vehiculatory		Vehicular.	
vehm		A vehmic court.	
vehme		A vehmic court.	
vehmgericht		A vehmic court.	
vehmic		Of, pertaining to, or designating, certain secret tribunals flourished in Germany from the end of the 12th century to the middle of the 16th…	
veil		Something hung up, or spread out, to intercept the view, and hide an object; a cover; a curtain; esp., a screen, usually of gauze, crape, or similar diaphnous material, to hide or protect the face.	
veiled		Covered by, or as by, a veil; hidden.	
veiling		A veil; a thin covering; also, material for making veils.	
veilless		Having no veil.	
vein		(Anat.) One of the vessels which carry blood, either venous or arterial, to the heart.	
veinal		Pertaining to veins; venous.	
veined		Full of veins; streaked; variegated; as, veined marble.	
veinless		Having no veins; as, a veinless leaf.	
veinlet		A small vein.	
veinous		Marked with veins; veined; veiny.	
veinstone		The nonmetalliferous mineral or rock material which accompanies the ores in a vein, as quartz, calcite, barite, fluor spar, etc.; -- called also veinstuff.	
veiny		Full of veins; veinous; veined; as, veiny marble.	
velar		Of or pertaining to a velum; esp. (Anat.) of or pertaining to the soft palate.	Latin velaris.
velarium		The marginal membrane of certain medusæ belonging to the Discophora.	
velate		Having a veil; veiled.	
veldt		A region or tract of land; esp., the open field; grass country.	
velella		Any species of oceanic Siphonophora belonging to the genus Velella.	
veliferous	Obsolete	Carrying or bearing sails.	
veliger		Any larval gastropod or bivalve mollusk in the state when it is furnished with one or two ciliated membranes for swimming.	
velitation		A dispute or contest; a slight contest; a skirmish.	
velivolant		Flying with sails; passing under full sail.	
vell	English dialect	The salted stomach of a calf, used in making cheese; a rennet bag.	
velleity		The lowest degree of desire; imperfect or incomplete volition.	Latin velleitas.
vellicate		To twitch; to cause to twitch convulsively.	
vellication		(Med.) A local twitching, or convulsive motion, of a muscular fiber, especially of the face.	
vellicative		Having the power of vellicating, plucking, or twitching; causing vellication.	
vellon		A word occurring in the phrase real vellon. See the Note under Its Real.	
vellum		A fine kind of parchment, usually made from calfskin, and rendered clear and white, -- used as for writing upon, and for binding books.	Old French velin.
vellumy		Resembling vellum.	
velocimeter		An apparatus for measuring speed, as of machinery or vessels, but especially of projectiles.	
velocipede		A light road carriage propelled by the feet of the rider.	
velocipedist		One who rides on a velocipede.	
velocity		Quickness of motion; swiftness; speed; celerity; rapidity; as, the velocity of wind; the velocity of a planet or comet in its orbit or course; the velocity of a cannon ball; the velocity of light.	Latin velocitas.
velours		One of many textile fabrics having a pile like that of velvet.	
veloute		A white sauce or stock made by boiling down ham, veal, beef, fowl, bouillon, etc., then adding soup stock, seasoning, vegetables, and thickening, and again boiling and straining.	
veltfare	English dialect	The fieldfare.	
velum		(Anat.) Curtain or covering; -- applied to various membranous partitions, especially to the soft palate.	Latin velum.
velutina		Any one of several species of marine gastropods belonging to Velutina and allied genera.	
velutinous		Having the surface covered with a fine and dense silky pubescence; velvety; as, a velutinous leaf.	
velverd	English dialect	The veltfare.	
velveret		A kind of velvet having cotton back.	
velvet		A silk fabric, having a short, close nap of erect threads.	Old French veluotte, from Latin villus.
velvetbreast	Dialect	The goosander.	
velveteen		A kind of cloth, usually cotton, made in imitation of velvet; cotton velvet.	
velveting		The fine shag or nap of velvet; a piece of velvet; velvet goods.	
velvetleaf		A name given to several plants which have soft, velvety leaves, as the Abutilon Avicennæ, the Cissampelos Pareira, and the Lavatera arborea, and even the common mullein.	
velvety		Made of velvet, or like velvet; soft; smooth; delicate.	
venada		The pudu.	
venal		Of or pertaining to veins; venous; as, venal blood.	French vénal, from Latin venalis.
venality		The quality or state of being venal, or purchasable; mercenariness; prostitution of talents, offices, or services, for money or reward; as, the venality of a corrupt court; the venality of an official.	
venally		In a venal manner.	
venantes		The hunting spiders, which run after, or leap upon, their prey.	
venary		Of or, pertaining to hunting.	Latin venarius.
venatic		Of or pertaining to hunting; used in hunting.	Latin venaticus.
venatica		See Vinatico — madeira mahogany; the coarse, dark-colored wood of the Persea Indica.	
venatical		Of or pertaining to hunting; used in hunting.	
venation	Obsolete	The arrangement or system of veins, as in the wing of an insect, or in the leaves of a plant.	
venatorial		Or or pertaining to hunting; venatic.	Latin venatorius.
vend		To transfer to another person for a pecuniary equivalent; to make an object of trade; to dispose of by sale; to sell; as, to vend goods; to vend vegetables.	Old French vendre, from Latin vendere.
vendace		A European lake whitefish (Coregonus Willughbii, or C.	
vendee		The person to whom a thing is vended, or sold; -- the correlative of vendor.	
vendemiaire		The first month of the French republican calendar, dating from September 22, 1792.	
vender		One who vends; one who transfers the exclusive right of possessing a thing, either his own, or that of another as his agent, for a price or pecuniary equivalent; a seller; a vendor.	
vendetta		A blood feud; private revenge for the murder of a kinsman.	Italian vendetta, from Latin vindicta.
vendibility		The quality or state of being vendible, or salable.	
vendible		Capable of being vended, or sold; that may be sold; salable.	Latin vendibilis.
venditate	Obsolete	To cry up. as if for sale; to blazon.	
venditation	Obsolete	The act of setting forth ostentatiously; a boastful display.	Latin venditatio.
vendition		The act of vending, or selling; sale.	
vendor		A vender; a seller; the correlative of vendee.	
vends		See Wends — a slavic tribe which once occupied the northern and eastern parts of Germany, of which a small remnant exists.	
vendue	Passing out of use	A public sale of anything, by outcry, to the highest bidder; an auction.	
veneer		To overlay or plate with a thin layer of wood or other material for outer finish or decoration; as, to veneer a piece of furniture with mahogany.	German Furnier.
veneering		The act or art of one who veneers.	
venefical	Obsolete	Veneficial.	Latin veneficus.
venefice	Obsolete	The act or practice of poisoning.	
veneficial	Obsolete	Acting by poison; used in poisoning or in sorcery. -- Ven`e*fi"cious*ly, adv.	
veneficious	Obsolete	Acting by poison; used in poisoning or in sorcery. -- Ven`e*fi"cious*ly, adv.	
venemous	Obsolete	Venomous.	
venenate		To poison; to infect with poison.	
venenation		The act of poisoning.	
venene	Obsolete	Poisonous; venomous.	
venenose	Obsolete	Poisonous.	
venerability		The quality or state of being venerable; venerableness.	
venerable		Capable of being venerated; worthy of veneration or reverence; deserving of honor and respect; -- generally implying an advanced age; as, a venerable magistrate; a venerable parent.	
veneracea		An extensive tribe of bivalve mollusks of which the genus Venus is the type.	
venerate		To regard with reverential respect; to honor with mingled respect and awe; to reverence; to revere; as, we venerate parents and elders.	Latin venerātus.
veneration		The act of venerating, or the state of being venerated; the highest degree of respect and reverence; respect mingled with awe; a feeling or sentimental excited by the dignity, wisdom, or superiority of a person…	
venerator		One who venerates.	
venereal		Of or pertaining to venery, or sexual love; relating to sexual intercourse.	
venerean	Obsolete	Devoted to the offices of Venus, or love; venereal.	
venereous		Lustful; lascivious; libidinous.	Latin venereus.
venerous	Obsolete	Venereous.	
venery		Sexual love; sexual intercourse; coition.	Middle English venerie, from Old French venerie.
venesection		The act or operation of opening a vein for letting blood; bloodletting; phlebotomy.	
venetian		Of or pertaining to Venice in Italy.	
venew	Obsolete	A bout, or turn, as at fencing; a thrust; a hit; a veney.	
veney	Obsolete	A bout; a thrust; a venew.	
venge	Obsolete	To avenge; to punish; to revenge. See Avenge, and Revenge.	Middle English vengen, from Old French venger, from Latin vindicare.
vengeable	Obsolete	Revengeful; deserving revenge.	Anglo-Norman vengable.
vengeance		Punishment inflicted in return for an injury or an offense; retribution; -- often, in a bad sense, passionate or unrestrained revenge.	Old French venger, from Latin vindicare.
vengeancely	Obsolete	Extremely; excessively. & Fl.	
vengeful		Vindictive; retributive; revengeful. -- Venge"ful*ly, adv.	
vengement	Obsolete	Avengement; penal retribution; vengeance.	Old French vengement.
venger	Obsolete	An avenger.	
veniable	Obsolete	Venial; pardonable.	Latin veniabilis.
venial		Capable of being forgiven; not heinous; excusable; pardonable; as, a venial fault or transgression.	Old French venial, from Latin venialis.
veniality		The quality or state of being venial; venialness.	
venin		A toxic substance contained in the venom of poisonous snakes; also, a (supposedly identical) toxic substance obtained by the cleavage of an albumose.	
venison		Formerly, the flesh of any of the edible beasts of the chase, also of game birds; now, the flesh of animals of the deer kind exclusively.	Old French venison, from Latin venatio.
venite		The 95th Psalm, which is said or sung regularly in the public worship of many churches.	
venom		Matter fatal or injurious to life; poison; particularly, the poisonous, the poisonous matter which certain animals, such as serpents, scorpions, bees, etc., secrete in a state of health, and communicate by thing or stinging.	
venomous		Full of venom; noxious to animal life; poisonous; as, the bite of a serpent may be venomous.	
venose		Having numerous or conspicuous veins; veiny; as, a venose frond.	
venosity		The quality or state of being venous.	
venous		(Anat.) Of or pertaining to a vein or veins; as, the venous circulation of the blood.	
vent		A small aperture; a hole or passage for air or any fluid to escape; as, the vent of a cask; the vent of a mold; a volcanic vent.	
ventage		A small hole, as the stop in a flute; a vent.	
ventail		That part of a helmet which is intended for the admission of air, -- sometimes in the visor.	
venter		One who vents; one who utters, reports, or publishes.	Latin venter.
venthole		A touchhole; a vent.	
ventiduct		A passage for wind or air; a passage or pipe for ventilating apartments.	
ventilate		To open and expose to the free passage of air; to supply with fresh air, and remove impure air from; to air; as, to ventilate a room; to ventilate a cellar; to ventilate a mine.	
ventilation		The act of ventilating, or the state of being ventilated; the art or process of replacing foul air by that which is pure, in any inclosed place, as a house, a church, a mine, etc.; free exposure to air.	
ventilative		Of or pertaining to ventilation; adapted to secure ventilation; ventilating; as, ventilative apparatus.	
ventilator		A contrivance for effecting ventilation; especially, a contrivance or machine for drawing off or expelling foul or stagnant air from any place or apartment, or for introducing that which is fresh and pure.	
ventose	Obsolete	A ventouse.	
ventosity		Quality or state of being ventose; windiness; hence, vainglory; pride.	
ventouse	Obsolete	A cupping glass.	
ventrad		Toward the ventral side; on the ventral side; ventrally; -- opposed to dorsad.	
ventral		(Anat.) Of, pertaining to, or situated near, the belly, or ventral side, of an animal or of one of its parts; hemal; abdominal; as, the ventral fin of a fish; the ventral root of a spinal nerve; -- opposed to Ant: dorsal.	Latin ventralis.
ventricle		(Anat.) A cavity, or one of the cavities, of an organ, as of the larynx or the brain; specifically, the posterior chamber, or one of the two posterior chambers, of the heart…	French ventricule, from Latin ventriculus.
ventricose		Swelling out on one side or unequally; bellied; ventricular; as, a ventricose corolla.	
ventricous		Swelling out on one side or unequally; bellied; ventricular; as, a ventricose corolla.	
ventricular		Of or pertaining to a ventricle; bellied.	
ventriculite		Any one of numerous species of siliceous fossil sponges belonging to Ventriculites and allied genera, characteristic of the Cretaceous period.	
ventriculous		Somewhat distended in the middle; ventricular.	
ventriculus		(a) One of the stomachs of certain insects. (b) The body cavity of a sponge.	
ventrilocution		Ventriloquism.	
ventriloquial		Ventriloquous.	
ventriloquism		The act, art, or practice of speaking in such a manner that the voice appears to come, not from the person speaking, but from some other source, as from the opposite side of the room, from the cellar, etc.	
ventriloquist		One who practices, or is skilled in, ventriloquism.	
ventriloquize		To practice ventriloquism; to speak like a ventriloquist.	
ventriloquous		Of or pertaining to a ventriloquist or ventriloquism.	
ventriloquy		Same as Ventriloquism.	
ventrimeson		See Meson — the mesial plane dividing the body of an animal into similar right and left halves.	
ventro-		A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the abdomen; also, connection with, relation to, or direction toward, the ventral side; as, ventrolateral; ventro- inguinal.	
ventro-inguinal		Pertaining both to the abdomen and groin, or to the abdomen and inguinal canal; as, ventro-inguinal hernia.	
venture		An undertaking of chance or danger; the risking of something upon an event which can not be foreseen with certainty; a hazard; a risk; a speculation.	
venturer		One who ventures, or puts to hazard; an adventurer.	
venturesome		Inclined to venture; not loth to run risk or danger; venturous; bold; daring; adventurous; as, a venturesome boy or act. -- Ven ture*some*ness, n.	
venturine		Gold powder for covering varnished surfaces.	
venturous		Daring; bold; hardy; fearless; venturesome; adveturous; as, a venturous soldier.	
ventuse	Obsolete	See Ventouse — a cupping glass.	
venue		(Law) A neighborhood or near place; the place or county in which anything is alleged to have happened; also, the place where an action is laid.	
venule		A small vein; a veinlet; specifically (Zoöl.), one of the small branches of the veins of the wings in insects.	
venulose		Full of venules, or small veins.	
venus		(Anat.) One of the planets, the second in order from the sun, its orbit lying between that of Mercury and that of the Earth, at a mean distance from the sun of about 67,000,000 miles.	Latin Venus.
venust		Beautiful.	Latin venustus.
veracious		Observant of truth; habitually speaking truth; truthful; as, veracious historian.	
veraciously		In a veracious manner.	
veracity		The quality or state of being veracious; habitual observance of truth; truthfulness; truth; as, a man of veracity.	Old French veracitie, from Latin veracitas.
veranda		An open, roofed gallery or portico, adjoining a dwelling house, forming an out-of-door sitting room.	
veratralbine		A yellowish amorphous alkaloid extracted from the rootstock of Veratrum album.	
veratrate		A salt of veratric acid.	
veratria		Veratrine.	
veratric		Pertaining to, or derived from, plants of the genus Veratrum.	
veratrina		Same as Veratrine.	
veratrine		A poisonous alkaloid obtained from the root hellebore (Veratrum) and from sabadilla seeds as a white crystalline powder, having an acrid, burning taste.	
veratrol		A liquid hydrocarbon obtained by the decomposition of veratric acid, and constituting the dimethyl ether of pyrocatechin.	
veratrum		A genus of coarse liliaceous herbs having very poisonous qualities.	
verb		(Gram.) A word which affirms or predicates something of some person or thing; a part of speech expressing being, action, or the suffering of action.	Old French verbe, from Latin verbum.
verbal		Expressed in words, whether spoken or written, but commonly in spoken words; hence, spoken; oral; not written; as, a verbal contract; verbal testimony.	
verbalism		Something expressed verbally; a verbal remark or expression.	
verbalist		A literal adherent to, or a minute critic of, words; a literalist.	
verbality		The quality or state of being verbal; mere words; bare literal expression.	
verbalization		The act of verbalizing, or the state of being verbalized.	
verbalize		To convert into a verb; to verbify.	
verbally		In a verbal manner; orally.	
verbarian		Of or pertaining to words; verbal.	
verbarium		A game in word making. See Logomachy, 2.	
verbatim		Word for word; in the same words; verbally; as, to tell a story verbatim as another has related it.	
verbena		A genus of herbaceous plants of which several species are extensively cultivated for the great beauty of their flowers; vervain.	
verbenaceous		Of or pertaining to a natural order (Verbenaceæ) of gamopetalous plants of which Verbena is the type.	
verbenate		To strew with verbena, or vervain, as in ancient sacrifices and rites.	
verberate	Obsolete	To beat; to strike. for Mag.	
verberation		The impulse of a body; which causes sound.	
verbiage		The use of many words without necessity, or with little sense; a superabundance of words; verbosity; wordiness.	French verbiage, from Middle French verbier.
verbify		To make into a verb; to use as a verb; to verbalize.	
verbigerate		(Med.) To repeat a word or sentence, in speaking or writing, without wishing to do so or in spite of efforts to cease. -- Ver*big`er*a"tion (#), n.	
verbose		Abounding in words; using or containing more words than are necessary; tedious by a multiplicity of words; prolix; wordy; as, a verbose speaker; a verbose argument.	Latin verbosus.
verbosity		The quality or state of being verbose; the use of more words than are necessary; prolixity; wordiness; verbiage.	
verd		(Eng. Forest Law) (a) The privilege of cutting green wood within a forest for fuel.	
verdancy		The quality or state of being verdant.	
verdant		Covered with growing plants or grass; green; fresh; flourishing; as, verdant fields; a verdant lawn.	Middle French verdoyant.
verdantly		In a verdant manner.	
verderer		An officer who has the charge of the king's forest, to preserve the vert and venison, keep the assizes, view, receive, and enroll attachments and presentments of all manner of trespasses.	
verderor		An officer who has the charge of the king's forest, to preserve the vert and venison, keep the assizes, view, receive, and enroll attachments and presentments of all manner of trespasses.	
verdict		(Law) The answer of a jury given to the court concerning any matter of fact in any cause, civil or criminal, committed to their examination and determination…	
verdigris		(Chem.) A green poisonous substance used as a pigment and drug, obtained by the action of acetic acid on copper, and consisting essentially of a complex mixture of several basic copper acetates.	
verdin		A small yellow-headed bird (Auriparus flaviceps) of Lower California, allied to the titmice; -- called also goldtit.	
verdine		A commercial name for green aniline dye.	French verd.
verdingale	Obsolete	See Farthingale — a hoop skirt or hoop petticoat, or other light, elastic material, used to extend the petticoat.	
verdit		Verdict.	
verditer	Obsolete	(a) Verdigris. (b) Either one of two pigments (called blue verditer, and green verditer) which are made by treating copper nitrate with calcium carbonate (in the form of lime, whiting, chalk…	French vert-de-terre.
verditure		The faintest and palest green.	
verdoy		Charged with leaves, fruits, flowers, etc.; -- said of a border.	
verdure		Green; greenness; freshness of vegetation; as, the verdure of the meadows in June.	Old French verdure.
verdured		Covered with verdure.	
verdureless		Destitute of verdure.	
verdurous		Covered with verdure; clothed with the fresh green of vegetation; verdured; verdant; as, verdurous pastures.	
verecund	Obsolete	Rashful; modest.	
verecundious	Obsolete	Verecund.	
verecundity	Obsolete	The quality or state of being verecund; modesty.	
verein		A union, association, or society; -- used in names of German organizations.	
veretillum		Any one of numerous species of club-shaped, compound Alcyonaria belonging to Veretillum and allied genera, of the tribe Pennatulacea.	
vergalien		See Virgalieu — a valuable kind of pear, of an obovate shape and with melting flesh of delicious flavor; -- more properly called White Doyenné.	
vergaloo		See Virgalieu — a valuable kind of pear, of an obovate shape and with melting flesh of delicious flavor; -- more properly called White Doyenné.	
verge		A rod or staff, carried as an emblem of authority; as, the verge, carried before a dean.	Middle French verge.
vergeboard		The ornament of woodwork upon the gable of a house, used extensively in the 15th century.	
vergency		The act of verging or approaching; tendency; approach.	
verger	Obsolete	One who carries a verge, or emblem of office. Specifically: -- (a) An attendant upon a dignitary, as on a bishop, a dean, a justice, etc. Strype.	
vergette		Divided by pallets, or pales; paly.	
veridical		Truth-telling; truthful; veracious.	Latin veridicus.
verifiable		Capable of being verified; confirmable.	
verification		The act of verifying, or the state of being verified; confirmation; authentication.	
verificative		Serving to verify; verifying; authenciating; confirming.	
verifier		One who, or that which, verifies.	
verify		To prove to be true or correct; to establish the truth of; to confirm; to substantiate.	Old French verifier, from Latin verificare.
veriloquent	Obsolete	Speaking truth; truthful.	
verily		In very truth; beyond doubt or question; in fact; certainly.	Middle English verraily.
verine		An alkaloid obtained as a yellow amorphous substance by the decomposition of veratrine.	
verisimilar		Having the appearance of truth; probable; likely.	Latin verisimilis.
verisimilitude		The quality or state of being verisimilar; the appearance of truth; probability; likelihood.	Latin verisimilitudo.
verisimility	Obsolete	Verisimilitude.	
verisimilous	Obsolete	Verisimilar.	
veritable		Agreeable to truth or to fact; actual; real; true; genuine. -- Ver"i*ta*bly, adv.	French véritable, from Latin veritabilis.
veritas		The Bureau Veritas. See under Bureau.	Latin veritas.
verity		The quality or state of being true, or real; consonance of a statement, proposition, or other thing, with fact; truth; reality.	Anglo-Norman verité, from Latin veritas.
verjuice		The sour juice of crab apples, of green or unripe grapes, apples, etc.; also, an acid liquor made from such juice.	French verjus, from Middle French vertjus.
vermeil	Poetic & r	Vermilion; also, the color of vermilion, a bright, beautiful red.	French vermeil, from Latin vermiculus.
vermeologist		One who treats of vermes, or worms; a helminthologist.	
vermeology		A discourse or treatise on worms; that part of zoölogy which treats of worms; helminthology.	
vermes		(a) An extensive artificial division of the animal kingdom, including the parasitic worms, or helminths, together with the nemerteans, annelids, and allied groups.	
vermetid		Any species of vermetus.	
vermetus		Any one of many species of marine gastropods belonging to Vermetus and allied genera, of the family Vermetidæ.	
vermicelli		The flour of a hard and small-grained wheat made into dough, and forced through small cylinders or pipes till it takes a slender, wormlike form, whence the Italian name.	
vermicide		A medicine which destroys intestinal worms; a worm killer.	
vermicious		Of or pertaining to worms; wormy.	Latin vermis.
vermicular		Of or pertaining to a worm or worms; resembling a worm; shaped like a worm; especially, resembling the motion or track of a worm; as, the vermicular, or peristaltic, motion of the intestines.	
vermiculate		To form or work, as by inlaying, with irregular lines or impressions resembling the tracks of worms, or appearing as if formed by the motion of worms.	Latin vermiculatus.
vermiculated		Made or marked with irregular wavy lines or impressions; vermiculate.	
vermiculation		The act or operation of moving in the manner of a worm; continuation of motion from one part to another; as, the vermiculation, or peristaltic motion, of the intestines.	
vermicule		A small worm or insect larva; also, a wormlike body.	
vermiculite		A group of minerals having, a micaceous structure.	Latin vermiculus.
vermiculose		Containing, or full of, worms; resembling worms.	
vermiculous		Containing, or full of, worms; resembling worms.	
vermiform		Resembling a worm in form or motions; vermicular; as, the vermiform process of the cerebellum.	
vermiformia		A tribe of worms including Phoronis. See Phoronis.	
vermifugal		Tending to prevent, destroy, or expel, worms or vermin; anthelmintic.	
vermifuge		A medicine or substance that expels worms from animal bodies; an anthelmintic.	
vermil	Obsolete	See Vermeil — vermilion; also, the color of vermilion, a bright, beautiful red.	
vermilinguia		(a) A tribe of edentates comprising the South American ant-eaters.	
vermilion		(Chem.) A bright red pigment consisting of mercuric sulphide, obtained either from the mineral cinnabar or artificially.	French vermeil, from Latin vermiculus.
vermily	Obsolete	Vermeil.	
vermin		A noxious or mischievous animal; especially, noxious little animals or insects, collectively, as squirrels, rats, mice, flies, lice, bugs, etc. Great injuries these vermin, mice and rats, do in the field.	
verminate		To breed vermin.	
vermination		A griping of the bowels.	
verminly	Obsolete	Resembling vermin; in the manner of vermin.	
verminous		Tending to breed vermin; infested by vermin.	
verminously		In a verminous manner.	
vermiparous		Producing or breeding worms.	
vermivorous		Devouring worms; feeding on worms; as, vermivorous birds.	
vermuth		A liqueur made of white wine, absinthe, and various aromatic drugs, used to excite the appetite.	
vernacle		See Veronica,	
vernacular		Belonging to the country of one's birth; one's own by birth or nature; native; indigenous; -- now used chiefly of language; as, English is our vernacular language.	Latin vernaculus.
vernacularism		A vernacular idiom.	
vernacularization		The act or process of making vernacular, or the state of being made vernacular.	
vernacularly		In a vernacular manner; in the vernacular.	
vernaculous		Etym: Scoffing; scurrilous.	Latin vernaculus.
vernage	Obsolete	A kind of sweet wine from Italy.	Italian Vernaccia.
vernal		Of or pertaining to the spring; appearing in the spring; as, vernal bloom.	Latin vernalis.
vernant	Obsolete	Flourishing, as in spring; vernal.	Latin vernans.
vernate	Obsolete	To become young again.	
vernation		The arrangement of the leaves within the leaf bud, as regards their folding, coiling, rolling, etc.; prefoliation.	
vernicle		A Veronica. See Veronica,	
vernicose		Having a brilliantly polished surface, as some leaves.	
vernier		A short scale made to slide along the divisions of a graduated instrument, as the limb of a sextant, or the scale of a barometer, for indicating parts of divisions.	
vernile		Suiting a salve; servile; obsequious.	
vernility		Fawning or obsequious behavior; servility.	Latin vernilitas.
vernine		An alkaloid extracted from the shoots of the vetch, red clover, etc., as a white crystalline substance.	
vernish	Obsolete	Varnish.	
vernonin		A glucoside extracted from the root of a South African plant of the genus Vernonia, as a deliquescent powder, and used as a mild heart tonic.	
veronese		Of or pertaining to Verona, in Italy. -- n. sing. & pl. A native of Verona; collectively, the people of Verona.	
veronica		A portrait or representation of the face of our Savior on the alleged handkerchief of Saint Veronica, preserved at Rome; hence, a representation of this portrait, or any similar representation of the face of the Savior.	
verray	Obsolete	Very; true.	
verrayment	Obsolete	Verily; truly.	Old French veraiement.
verrel	Obsolete	See Ferrule — a ring or cap of metal put round a cane, tool, handle, or other similar object, to strengthen it, or prevent splitting and wearing.	
verriculate		Having thickset tufts of parallel hairs, bristles, or branches.	
verruca		(Zoöl.) A wartlike elevation or roughness.	Latin verruca.
verruciform		Shaped like a wart or warts.	
verrucose		Covered with wartlike elevations; tuberculate; warty; verrucous; as, a verrucose capsule.	Latin verruca.
verrucous		Verrucose.	
verruculose		Minutely verrucose; as, a verruculose leaf or stalk.	
verrugas		An endemic disease occurring in the Andes in Peru, characterized by warty tumors which ulcerate and bleed.	
vers	Obsolete	A verse or verses. See Verse.	
versability		The quality or state of being versable.	
versable		Capable of being turned.	
versableness		Versability.	
versal	Obsolete	Universal.	
versant		Familiar; conversant.	French versant.
versatile		Capable of being turned round.	Latin versatilis.
versatility		The quality or state of being versatile; versatileness.	
verse		A line consisting of a certain number of metrical feet (see Foot, n., 9) disposed according to metrical rules.	
versed		Acquainted or familiar, as the result of experience, study, practice, etc.; skilled; practiced.	
verseman		Same as Versemonger.	
versemonger		A writer of verses; especially, a writer of commonplace poetry; a poetaster; a rhymer; -- used humorously or in contempt.	
verser		A versifier.	
verset	Obsolete	A verse.	
versicle		A little verse; especially, a short verse or text said or sung in public worship by the priest or minister, and followed by a response from the people.	
versicolor		Having various colors; changeable in color.	
versicolored		Having various colors; changeable in color.	
versicular		Of or pertaining to verses; designating distinct divisions of a writing.	
versification		The act, art, or practice, of versifying, or making verses; the construction of poetry; metrical composition.	
versificator		A versifier.	
versifier		One who versifies, or makes verses; as, not every versifier is a poet.	
versify		To make verses.	Old French versifier.
version		A change of form, direction, or the like; transformation; conversion; turning.	Middle French version, from Latin versio.
versionist		One who makes or favors a version; a translator.	
verso		The reverse, or left-hand, page of a book or a folded sheet of paper; -- opposed to recto.	
versor		The turning factor of a quaternion.	
verst		A Russian measure of length containing 3,500 English feet.	Russian верста.
versual		Of or pertaining to a verse.	
versus		Against; as, John Doe versus Richard Roe; -- chiefly used in legal language, and abbreviated to v. or vs.	Latin versus.
versute		Crafty; wily; cunning; artful.	
vert		(Eng. Forest Law) (a) Everything that grows, and bears a green leaf, within the forest; as, to preserve vert and venison is the duty of the verderer.	Old French vert, from Latin viridis.
verteber	Obsolete	A vertebra.	
vertebra		(Anat.) One of the serial segments of the spinal column.	Latin vertebra.
vertebral		(Anat.) Of or pertaining to a vertebræ, or the vertebral column; spinal; rachidian.	
vertebrally		At or within a vertebra or vertebræ; -- distinguished from interverterbrally.	
vertebrarterial		Of or pertaining to a vertebræ and an artery; -- said of the foramina in the transverse processes of cervical vertebræ and of the canal which they form for the vertebral artery and vein.	
vertebrata		One of the grand divisions of the animal kingdom, comprising all animals that have a backbone composed of bony or cartilaginous vertebræ…	
vertebrate		(Anat.) Having a backbone, or vertebral column, containing the spinal marrow, as man, quadrupeds, birds, amphibia, and fishes.	
vertebrated		(Anat.) Having a backbone, or vertebral column, containing the spinal marrow, as man, quadrupeds, birds, amphibia, and fishes.	
vertebre	Obsolete	A vertebra.	French vertebre, from Latin vertebra.
vertebro-		A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, a vertebra, vertebræ, or vertebral column; as in vertebrocostal.	
vertebro-iliac		Iliolumbar.	
vertex		A turning point; the principal or highest point; top; summit; crown; apex.	Latin vertex.
vertical		Of or pertaining to the vertex; situated at the vertex, or highest point; directly overhead, or in the zenith; perpendicularly above one.	
verticality		The quality or state of being vertical; verticalness.	
vertically		In a vertical manner, position, or direction; perpendicularly; as, to look down vertically; to raise a thing vertically.	
verticalness		Quality or state of being vertical.	
verticil		A circle either of leaves or flowers about a stem at the same node; a whorl.	Latin verticillum.
verticillaster		A whorl of flowers apparently of one cluster, but composed of two opposite axillary cymes, as in mint.	
verticillate		Arranged in a transverse whorl or whorls like the rays of a wheel; as, verticillate leaves of a plant; a verticillate shell.	
verticillated		Arranged in a transverse whorl or whorls like the rays of a wheel; as, verticillate leaves of a plant; a verticillate shell.	
verticillus		A whorl; a verticil.	
verticity		The quality or power of turning; revolution; rotation.	
verticle		An axis; hinge; a turning point.	
vertiginate		Turned round; giddy.	
vertiginous		Turning round; whirling; rotary; revolving; as, vertiginous motion.	
vertigo		(Med.) Dizziness or swimming of the head; an affection of the head in which objects, though stationary, appear to move in various directions, and the person affected finds it difficult to maintain an erect posture; giddiness.	Latin vertigo.
vertilinear		Straight; rectilinear.	
vertu		See Virtu — a love of the fine arts; a taste for curiosities.	
vertuous	Obsolete	Virtuous; powerful.	
verumontanum		An elevation, or crest, in the wall of the urethra where the seminal ducts enter it.	
vervain		Any plant of the genus Verbena.	Latin verveine.
verve		Excitement of imagination such as animates a poet, artist, or musician, in composing or performing; rapture; enthusiasm; spirit; energy.	French verve.
vervel		See Varvel — in falconry, one of the rings secured to the ends of the jesses.	
vervet		A South African monkey (Cercopithecus pygerythrus, or Lelandii).	
very		True; real; actual; veritable.	Middle English verray, from Old French verai, from Latin verus.
vesbium		A rare metallic element of which little is known.	
vese	Obsolete	Onset; rush; violent draught or wind.	
vesica		A bladder.	Latin vesica.
vesical		Of or pertaining to the bladder.	
vesicant		A vesicatory.	
vesicate		To raise little bladders or blisters upon; to inflame and separate the cuticle of; to blister.	
vesication		The process of vesicating, or of raising blisters.	
vesicatory		Tending, or having power, to raise a blister. -- n.	
vesicle		A bladderlike vessel; a membranous cavity; a cyst; a cell. Specifically: --(a) (Bot.) A small bladderlike body in the substance of vegetable, or upon the surface of a leaf.	
vesico-		A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with, or relation to, the bla; as in vesicoprostatic, vesicovaginal.	
vesicoprostatic		Of a pertaining to the bladder and the prostrate gland.	
vesicouterine		Of or pertaining to the bladder and the uterus.	
vesicovaginal		Of or pertaining to the bladder and the vagina.	
vesicula		A vesicle.	
vesicular		Of or pertaining to vesicles; esp., of or pertaining to the air vesicles, or air cells, of the lungs; as, vesicular breathing, or normal breathing, in which the air enters freely the air vesicles of the lungs.	
vesicularia		Any one of numerous species of marine Bryozoa belonging to Vesicularia and allied genera.	
vesiculata		The campanularian medusæ.	
vesiculate		Bladdery; full of, or covered with, bladders; vesicular.	
vesiculation		The state of containing vesicles, or the process by which vesicles are formed.	
vesiculitis		Inflammation of a vesicle.	
vesiculose		Bladdery; vesicular; vesiculate; composed of vesicles; covered with vesicles; as, a vesiculose shell.	
vesiculous		Bladdery; vesicular; vesiculate; composed of vesicles; covered with vesicles; as, a vesiculose shell.	
vespa		A genus of Hymenoptera including the common wasps and hornets.	
vesper		The evening star; Hesper; Venus, when seen after sunset; hence, the evening.	
vesperal		Vesper; evening.	
vespers		(a) One of the little hours of the Breviary. (b) The evening song or service.	
vespertilio		A genus of bats including some of the common small insectivorous species of North America and Europe.	
vespertiliones		A tribe of bats including the common insectivorous bats of America and Europe, belonging to Vespertilio and allied genera.	
vespertilionine		Of or pertaining to the Vespertiliones.	
vespertinal		Vespertine.	
vespertine		Of or pertaining to the evening; happening or being in the evening.	Latin vespertīnus.
vespiary		A nest, or habitation, of insects of the wasp kind.	
vespillo		One who carried out the dead bodies of the poor at night for burial.	
vessel		A hollow or concave utensil for holding anything; a hollow receptacle of any kind, as a hogshead, a barrel, a firkin, a bottle, a kettle, a cup, a bowl, etc. out of these noble vessels.	Old French vaissel, from Latin vascellum.
vesselful		As much as a vessel will hold; enough to fill a vessel.	
vesses	English dialect	A kind of worsted; also, a worsted cloth.	
vessets	English dialect	A kind of worsted; also, a worsted cloth.	
vessicnon		A soft swelling on a horse's leg; a windgall.	
vessignon		A soft swelling on a horse's leg; a windgall.	
vest		An article of clothing covering the person; an outer garment; a vestment; a dress; a vesture; a robe.	French veste, from Latin vestis.
vesta		(Astron.) An asteroid, or minor planet, discovered by Olbers in 1807.	
vestal		Of or pertaining to Vesta, the virgin goddess of the hearth; hence, pure; chaste.	
vestales		A group of butterflies including those known as virgins, or gossamer-winged butterflies.	
vested		Clothed; robed; wearing vestments.	
vestiarian		Of or pertaining to a vestiary or vestments.	
vestiary		A wardrobe; a robing room; a vestry.	Latin vestiarius.
vestibular		Of or pertaining to a vestibule; like a vestibule.	
vestibule		The porch or entrance into a house; a hall or antechamber next the entrance; a lobby; a porch; a hall.	
vestibulum		A cavity into which, in certain bryozoans, the esophagus and anus open.	
vestigate	Obsolete	To investigate.	
vestige		The mark of the foot left on the earth; a track or footstep; a trace; a sign; hence, a faint mark or visible sign left by something which is lost, or has perished, or is no longer present; remains; as…	
vestigial		Of or pertaining to a vestige or remnant; like a vestige.	
vesting		Cloth for vests; a vest pattern.	
vestiture		In vestiture.	Latin vestitura.
vestlet		Any one of several species of actinians belonging to the genus Cerianthus.	
vestment		A covering or garment; some part of clothing or dress; specifically (Eccl.), any priestly garment.	Latin vestimentum.
vestry		A room appendant to a church, in which sacerdotal vestments and sacred utensils are sometimes kept, and where meetings for worship or parish business are held; a sacristy; -- formerly called revestiary.	
vestryman		A member of a vestry; especially (Prot.	
vesture		A garment or garments; a robe; clothing; dress; apparel; vestment; covering; envelope.	
vestured		Covered with vesture or garments; clothed; enveloped.	
vesuvian		Of or pertaining to Vesuvius, a volcano near Naples.	
vesuvianite		A mineral occurring in tetragonal crystals, and also massive, of a brown to green color, rarely sulphur yellow and blue.	
vesuvine		A trade name for a brown dyestuff obtained from certain basic azo compounds of benzene; -- called also Bismarck brown, Manchester brown, etc.	
vetch		Any leguminous plant of the genus Vicia, some species of which are valuable for fodder.	Old French veche, from Latin vicia.
vetchling		Any small leguminous plant of the genus Lathyrus, especially L.	
vetchy		Consisting of vetches or of pea straw.	
veteran		Long exercised in anything, especially in military life and the duties of a soldier; long practiced or experienced; as, a veteran officer or soldier; veteran skill.	Latin veteranus.
veteranize		To reënlist for service as a soldier.	
veterinarian		One skilled in the diseases of cattle or domestic animals; a veterinary surgeon.	Latin veterinarius.
veterinary		Of or pertaining to the art of healing or treating the diseases of domestic animals, as oxen, horses, sheep, etc.; as, a veterinary writer or school.	
vetiver		An East Indian grass (Andropogon muricatus); also, its fragrant roots which are much used for making mats and screens.	French vétyver.
veto		An authoritative prohibition or negative; a forbidding; an interdiction.	
vetoist		One who uses, or sustains the use of, the veto.	
vettura		An Italian four-wheeled carriage, esp. one let for hire; a hackney coach.	Italian vettura, from Latin vectura.
vetturino		One who lets or drives a vettura.	
vetust	Obsolete	Venerable from antiquity; ancient; old.	
vex		To to White curl the waves, and the vexed ocean roars.	Middle English vexen, from Old French vexer, from Latin vexare.
vexation		The act of vexing, or the state of being vexed; agitation; disquiet; trouble; irritation.	
vexatious		Causing vexation; agitating; afflictive; annoying; as, a vexatious controversy; a vexatious neighbor.	
vexed		Annoyed; harassed; troubled.	
vexer		One who vexes or troubles.	
vexil		A vexillum.	
vexillar		(Bot.) Of or pertaining to the vexillum, or upper petal of papilionaceous flowers.	
vexillary		(Bot.) Of or pertaining to the vexillum, or upper petal of papilionaceous flowers.	
vexillation		A company of troops under one vexillum.	Latin vexillatio.
vexillum		(Eccl.) (a) A banner. (b) The sign of the cross.	
vexingly		In a vexing manner; so as to vex, tease, or irritate.	
