vi-apple		See Otaheite apple.
via		-- Via media Etym: (Theol.), the middle way; -- a name applied to their own position by the Anglican high-churchmen, as being between the Roman Catholic Church and what they term extreme Protestantism.
viability		The quality or state of being viable. Specifically: --(a) (Law) The capacity of living after birth.
viable		Capable of living; born alive and with such form and development of organs as to be capable of living; -- said of a newborn, or a prematurely born, infant.
viaduct		A structure of considerable magnitude, usually with arches or supported on trestles, for carrying a road, as a railroad, high above the ground or water; a bridge; especially, one for crossing a valley or a gorge.
viage	Obsolete	A voyage; a journey.
vial		A small bottle, usually of glass; a little glass vessel with a narrow aperture intended to be closed with a stopper; as, a vial of medicine.
viameter		An odometer; -- called also viatometer.
viand		An article of food; provisions; food; victuals; -- used chiefly in the plural.
viander	Obsolete	A feeder; an eater; also, one who provides viands, or food; a host.
viary	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to roads; happening on roads.
viatecture		The art of making roads or ways for traveling, including the construction of bridges, canals, viaducts, etc. R.
viatic		Of or pertaining to a journey or traveling.
viaticum		Provisions for a journey.
viatometer		A viameter.
vibices		More or less extensive patches of subcutaneous extravasation of blood.
vibraculum		One of the movable, slender, spinelike organs or parts with which certain bryozoans are furnished.
vibrancy		The state of being vibrant; resonance.
vibrant		Vibrating; tremulous; resonant; as, vibrant drums.
vibrate		To brandish; to move to and fro; to swing; as, to vibrate a sword or a staff.
vibratile		Adapted to, or used in, vibratory motion; having the power of vibrating; vibratory; as, the vibratile organs of insects.
vibratility		The quality or state of being vibratile; disposition to vibration or oscillation.
vibration		The act of vibrating, or the state of being vibrated, or in vibratory motion; quick motion to and fro; oscillation, as of a pendulum or musical string.
vibratiuncle		A small vibration.
vibrative		; vibratory.
vibrator		(a) (Elec.) (1) A trembler, as of an electric bell. (2) A vibrating reed for transmitting or receiving pulsating currents in a harmonic telegraph system.
vibratory		Consisting in, or causing, vibration, or oscillation; vibrating; as, a vibratory motion; a vibratory power.
vibrio		A genus of motile bacteria characterized by short, slightly sinuous filaments and an undulatory motion; also, an individual of this genus.
vibrissa		(Anat.) One of the specialized or tactile hairs which grow about the nostrils, or on other parts of the face, in many animals, as the so- called whiskers of the cat, and the hairs of the nostrils of man.
vibrograph		An instrument to observe and record vibrations.
vibroscope		An instrument for observing or tracing vibrations.
viburnum		A genus of shrubs having opposite, petiolate leaves and cymose flowers, several species of which are cultivated as ornamental, as the laurestine and the guelder-rose.
vicar		One deputed or authorized to perform the functions of another; a substitute in office; a deputy.
vicarage		The benefice of a vicar.
vicarial		Of or pertaining to a vicar; as, vicarial tithes.
vicarian	Obsolete	A vicar.
vicariate		Having delegated power, as a vicar; vicarious.
vicarious		Of or pertaining to a vicar, substitute, or deputy; deputed; delegated; as, vicarious power or authority.
vicariously		In a vicarious manner.
vicarship		The office or dignity of a vicar.
vicary	Obsolete	A vicar.
vice		A defect; a fault; an error; a blemish; an imperfection; as, the vices of a political constitution; the vices of a horse.
vice-regal		Of or pertaining to a viceroy or viceroyalty.
viced	Obsolete	Vicious; corrupt.
vicegerency		The office of a vicegerent.
vicegerent		Having or exercising delegated power; acting by substitution, or in the place of another.
viceman		A smith who works at the vice instead of at the anvil.
vicenary		Of or pertaining to twenty; consisting of twenty.
vicennial		Lasting or comprising twenty years.
viceroy		The governor of a country or province who rules in the name of the sovereign with regal authority, as the king's substitute; as, the viceroy of India.
viceroyalty		The dignity, office, or jurisdiction of a viceroy.
viceroyship		Viceroyalty.
vicety	Obsolete	Fault; defect; coarseness.
viciate		See Vitiate — to make vicious, faulty, or imperfect; to render defective; to injure the substance or qualities of; to impair; to contaminate; to spoil; as, exaggeration vitiates a style of writing…
vicinage		The place or places adjoining or near; neighborhood; vicinity; as, a jury must be of the vicinage.
vicinal		Near; vicine.
vicine		Near; neighboring; vicinal.
vicinity		The quality or state of being near, or not remote; nearness; propinquity; proximity; as, the value of the estate was increased by the vicinity of two country seats.
viciosity		Vitiosity.
vicious		Characterized by vice or defects; defective; faulty; imperfect.
vicissitude		Regular change or succession from one thing to another; alternation; mutual succession; interchange.
vicissitudinary		Subject to vicissitudes.
vicissitudinous		Full of, or subject to, changes.
vicontiel		Of or pertaining to the viscount or sheriff of a country.
vicontiels		Things belonging to the sheriff; especially, farms (called also vicontiel rents) for which the sheriff used to pay rent to the king.
vicount		See Viscount — a nobleman of the fourth rank, next in order below an earl and next above a baron; also, his degree or title of nobility.
victim		A living being sacrificed to some deity, or in the performance of a religious rite; a creature immolated, or made an offering of.
victimate	Obsolete	To make a victim of; to sacrifice; to immolate.
victimize		To make a victim of, esp. by deception; to dupe; to cheat.
victor		The winner in a contest; one who gets the better of another in any struggle; esp., one who defeats an enemy in battle; a vanquisher; a conqueror; -- often followed by art, rarely by of.
victoress	Obsolete	A victress.
victoria		(Bot.) A genus of aquatic plants named in honor of Queen Victoria.
victorian		Of or pertaining to the reign of Queen Victoria of England; as, the Victorian poets.
victorine		A woman's fur tippet.
victorious		Of or pertaining to victory, or a victor' being a victor; bringing or causing a victory; conquering; winning; triumphant; as, a victorious general; victorious troops; a victorious day.
victorium		A probable chemical element discovered by Sir William Crookes in 1898.
victory		The defeat of an enemy in battle, or of an antagonist in any contest; a gaining of the superiority in any struggle or competition; conquest; triumph; -- the opposite of Ant: defeat.
victress		A woman who wins a victory; a female victor.
victrice		A victress.
victrix		Victress.
victual		Food; -- now used chiefly in the plural. See Victuals. 2 Chron. xi. 23.
victualage		Victuals; food.
victualer		One who furnishes victuals.
victualing		Of or pertaining to victuals, or provisions; supplying provisions; as, a victualing ship.
victuals		Food for human beings, esp. when it is cooked or prepared for the table; that which supports human life; provisions; sustenance; meat; viands.
victus		Food; diet.
vicugna		A South American mammal (Auchenia vicunna) native of the elevated plains of the Andes, allied to the llama but smaller.
vicuna		A South American mammal (Auchenia vicunna) native of the elevated plains of the Andes, allied to the llama but smaller.
vicunya		A South American mammal (Auchenia vicunna) native of the elevated plains of the Andes, allied to the llama but smaller.
vidame		One of a class of temporal officers who originally represented the bishops, but later erected their offices into fiefs, and became feudal nobles.
vide		imperative sing. of L. videre, to see; -- used to direct attention to something; as, vide supra, see above.
videlicet		To wit; namely; -- often abbreviated to viz.
vidette		Same Vedette.
vidonia		A dry white wine, of a tart flavor, produced in Teneriffe; -- called also Teneriffe.
viduage		The state of widows or of widowhood; also, widows, collectively.
vidual		Of or pertaining to the state of a widow; widowed.
viduation		The state of being widowed or bereaved; loss; bereavement.
viduity		Widowhood.
vie		To strive for superiority; to contend; to use emulous effort, as in a race, contest, or competition.
vielle		An old stringed instrument played upon with a wheel; a hurdy- gurdy.
viennese		Of or pertaining to Vienna, or people of Vienna. -- n. sing. & pl. An inhabitant, or the inhabitants, of Vienna.
vierkleur		The four-colored flag of the South African Republic, or Transvaal, -- red, white, blue, and green.
view		The act of seeing or beholding; sight; look; survey; examination by the eye; inspection.
viewer		One who views or examines.
viewiness		The quality or state of being viewy, or of having unpractical views.
viewless		Not perceivable by the eye; invisible; unseen.
viewly	English dialect	Pleasing to the sight; sightly.
viewsome	English dialect	Pleasing to the sight; sightly.
viewy		Having peculiar views; fanciful; visionary; unpractical; as, a viewy person.
vifda	Scots	In the Orkney and Shetland Islands, beef and mutton hung and dried, but not salted.
vigesimal		Twentieth; divided into, or consisting of, twenties or twenty parts.
vigesimation		The act of putting to death every twentieth man.
vigesimo-quarto		Having twenty-four leaves to a sheet; as, a vigesimo-quarto form, book, leaf, size, etc. A book composed of sheets each of which is folded into twenty- four leaves; hence…
vigil		Abstinence from sleep, whether at a time when sleep is customary or not; the act of keeping awake, or the state of being awake, or the state of being awake; sleeplessness; wakefulness; watch.
vigilance		The quality or state of being vigilant; forbearance of sleep; wakefulness.
vigilancy	Obsolete	Vigilance.
vigilant		Attentive to discover and avoid danger, or to provide for safety; wakeful; watchful; circumspect; wary. 1 Pet. v. 8.
vigilantly		In a vigilant manner.
vigily	Obsolete	A vigil.
vigintivirate		The office of the vigintiviri, a body of officers of government consisting of twenty men; also, the vigintiviri.
vignette		(Arch.) A running ornament consisting of leaves and tendrils, used in Gothic architecture.
vignetter		A device used by photographers in printing vignettes, consisting of a screen of paper or glass with a central aperture the edges of which become opaque by intensible gradations.
vigonia		Of or pertaining to the vicuña; characterizing the vicuña; -- said of the wool of that animal, used in felting hats, and for other purposes.
vigor		Active strength or force of body or mind; capacity for exertion, physically, intellectually, or morally; force; energy.
vigorite		An explosive containing nitroglycerin.
vigoroso		Vigorous; energetic; with energy; -- a direction to perform a passage with energy and force.
vigorous		Possessing vigor; full of physical or mental strength or active force; strong; lusty; robust; as, a vigorous youth; a vigorous plant.
viking		One belonging to the pirate crews from among the Northmen, who plundered the coasts of Europe in the eighth, ninth, and tenth centuries.
vilany	Obsolete	Villainy.
vilayet		One of the chief administrative divisions or provinces of the Ottoman Empire; -- formerly called eyalet.
vild	Obsolete	Vile. -- Vild"ly, adv.
vile		Low; base; worthless; mean; despicable.
viled	Obsolete	Abusive; scurrilous; defamatory; vile.
vileyns	Obsolete	Villainous.
vilification		The act of vilifying or defaming; abuse.
vilifier		One who vilifies or defames.
vilify		To make vile; to debase; to degrade; to disgrace.
vilipend		To value lightly; to depreciate; to slight; to despise.
vilipendency		Disesteem; slight; disparagement.
vility	Obsolete	Vileness; baseness.
vill		A small collection of houses; a village.
villa		A country seat; a country or suburban residence of some pretensions to elegance.
village		A small assemblage of houses in the country, less than a town or city.
villager		An inhabitant of a village.
villagery	Obsolete	Villages; a district of villages.
villain		(Feudal Law) One who holds lands by a base, or servile, tenure, or in villenage; a feudal tenant of the lowest class, a bondman or servant.
villainous		Base; vile; mean; depraved; as, a villainous person or wretch.
villainy		The quality or state of being a villain, or villainous; extreme depravity; atrocious wickedness; as, the villainy of the seducer.
villakin		A little villa.
villan		A villain.
villanage		(Feudal Law) The state of a villain, or serf; base servitude; tenure on condition of doing the meanest services for the lord.
villanel	Obsolete	A ballad.
villanella		An old rustic dance, accompanied with singing.
villanelle		A poem written in tercets with but two rhymes, the first and third verse of the first stanza alternating as the third verse in each successive stanza and forming a couplet at the close.
villanette		A small villa.
villanize		To make vile; to debase; to degrade; to revile.
villanizer		One who villanizes.
villanous		See Villainous, etc.
villanously		See Villainous, etc.
villanousness		See Villainous, etc.
villany		See Villainy — the quality or state of being a villain, or villainous; extreme depravity; atrocious wickedness; as, the villainy of the seducer.
villatic		Of or pertaining to a farm or a village; rural.
villein		See Villain, 1.
villenage		Villanage.
villenous		Of or pertaining to a villein.
villi		, pl. of Villus.
villiform		Having the form or appearance of villi; like close-set fibers, either hard or soft; as, the teeth of perch are villiform.
villose		See Villous — abounding in, or covered with, fine hairs, or a woolly substance; shaggy with soft hairs; nappy.
villosity		State of being villous.
villous		Abounding in, or covered with, fine hairs, or a woolly substance; shaggy with soft hairs; nappy.
villus		(Anat.) One of the minute papillary processes on certain vascular membranes; a villosity; as, villi cover the lining of the small intestines of many animals and serve to increase the absorbing surface.
vim	Colloquial	Power; force; energy; spirit; activity; vigor.
vimen		A long, slender, flexible shoot or branch.
viminal		Of or pertaining to twigs; consisting of twigs; producing twigs.
vimineous		Of or pertaining to twigs; made of pliant twigs.
vinaceous		Belonging to, or like, wine or grapes.
vinaigrette		(Cookery) A sauce, made of vinegar, oil, and other ingredients, -- used esp. for cold meats.
vinaigrous		Resembling vinegar; sour.
vinasse		The waste liquor remaining in the process of making beet sugar, -- used in the manufacture of potassium carbonate.
vinatico		Madeira mahogany; the coarse, dark-colored wood of the Persea Indica.
vincentian		Of or pertaining to Saint Vincent de Paul, or founded by him. (a) Same as Lazarist.
vincetoxin		A glucoside extracted from the root of the white swallowwort (Vincetoxicum officinale, a plant of the Asclepias family) as a bitter yellow amorphous substance; -- called also asclepiadin, and cynanchin.
vincibility		The quality or state of being vincible, vincibleness.
vincible		Capable of being overcome or subdued; conquerable.
vincibleness		The quality or state of being vincible.
vincture	Obsolete	A binding.
vinculum		(Math.) A straight, horizontal mark placed over two or more members of a compound quantity, which are to be subjected to the same operation, as in the expression x2 + y2 - x + y.
vindemial		Of or pertaining to a vintage, or grape harvest.
vindemiate	Obsolete	To gather the vintage.
vindemiation	Obsolete	The operation of gathering grapes.
vindicable		Capable of being vindicated. -- Vin`di*ca*bil"i*ty, n.
vindicate		To lay claim to; to assert a right to; to claim.
vindication		The act of vindicating, or the state of being vindicated; defense; justification against denial or censure; as, the vindication of opinions; his vindication is complete.
vindicative		Tending to vindicate; vindicating; as, a vindicative policy.
vindicator		One who vindicates; one who justifies or maintains.
vindicatory		Tending or serving to vindicate or justify; justificatory; vindicative.
vindictive	Obsolete	Disposed to revenge; prompted or characterized by revenge; revengeful.
vine	Obsolete	(a) Any woody climbing plant which bears grapes. (b) Hence, a climbing or trailing plant; the long, slender stem of any plant that trails on the ground, or climbs by winding round a fixed object…
vine-clad		Covered with vines.
vineal		Of or pertaining to vines; containing vines.
vined		Having leaves like those of the vine; ornamented with vine leaves.
vinedresser		One who cultivates, prunes, or cares for, grapevines; a laborer in a vineyard.
vinegar		A sour liquid used as a condiment, or as a preservative, and obtained by the spontaneous (acetous) fermentation, or by the artificial oxidation, of wine, cider, beer, or the like.
vinegarette		See Vinaigrette, n., 2.
vinegarroon		A whip scorpion, esp. a large Mexican species (Thelyphonus giganteus) popularly supposed to be very venomous; -- from the odor that it emits when alarmed.
vinegary		Having the nature of vinegar; sour; unamiable.
viner	Obsolete	A vinedresser.
vinery		A structure, usually inclosed with glass, for rearing and protecting vines; a grapery.
vinette	Archaic	A sprig or branch.
vinewed		Same as Vinnewed.
vineyard		An inclosure or yard for grapevines; a plantation of vines producing grapes.
vineyardist		One who cultivates a vineyard.
vingtun		Contraction for Vingt et un.
vinic		Of or pertaining to wine; as, vinic alcohol.
viniculture		The cultivation of the vine, esp. for making wine; viticulture.
vinification		The conversion of a fruit juice or other saccharine solution into alcohol by fermentation.
vinnewed	Obsolete	Moldy; musty. -- Vin"newed*ness, n.
vinny	Obsolete	Vinnewed.
vinolency	Obsolete	Drunkennes.
vinolent	Obsolete	Given to wine; drunken; intemperate.
vinometer		An instrument for determining the strength or purity of wine by measuring its density.
vinosity		The quality or state of being vinous.
vinous		Of or pertaining to wine; having the qualities of wine; as, a vinous taste.
vinquish		See Vanquish, n.
vintage		The produce of the vine for one season, in grapes or in wine; as, the vintage is abundant; the vintage of 1840.
vintager		One who gathers the vintage.
vintaging		The act of gathering the vintage, or crop of grapes.
vintner		One who deals in wine; a wine seller, or wine merchant.
vintry	Obsolete	A place where wine is sold.
vinum		Wine, --chiefly used in Pharmacy in the name of solutions of some medicinal substance in wine; as: vina medicata, medicated wines; vinum opii, wine of opium.
viny		Of or pertaining to vines; producing, or abounding in, vines.
vinyl		The hypothetical radical C2H3, regarded as the characteristic residue of ethylene and that related series of unsaturated hydrocarbons with which the allyl compounds are homologous.
viol		(Mus.) A stringed musical instrument formerly in use, of the same form as the violin, but larger, and having six strings, to be struck with a bow, and the neck furnished with frets for stopping the strings.
viola		A genus of polypetalous herbaceous plants, including all kinds of violets.
violable		Capable of being violated, broken, or injured. -- Vi"o*la*bly, adv.
violaceous		Resembling violets in color; bluish purple.
violaniline		A dyestuff of the induline group, made from aniline, and used as a substitute for indigo in dyeing wool and silk a violet-blue or a gray-blue color.
violantin		A complex nitrogenous substance, produced as a yellow crystalline substance, and regarded as a complex derivative of barbituric acid.
violaquercitrin		A yellow crystalline glucoside obtained from the pansy (Viola tricolor), and decomposing into glucose and quercitrin.
violascent		Violescent.
violate		To treat in a violent manner; to abuse.
violation		The act of violating, treating with violence, or injuring; the state of being violated.
violative		Violating, or tending to violate.
violator		One who violates; an infringer; a profaner; a ravisher.
violence		The quality or state of being violent; highly excited action, whether physical or moral; vehemence; impetuosity; force.
violent		Moving or acting with physical strength; urged or impelled with force; excited by strong feeling or passion; forcible; vehement; impetuous; fierce; furious; severe; as, a violent blow; the violent attack of a disease.
violently		In a violent manner.
violescent		Tending to a violet color; violascent.
violet		(Bot.) Any plant or flower of the genus Viola, of many species.
violet-ear		Any tropical humming bird of the genus Petasophora, having violet or purplish ear tufts.
violet-tip		A very handsome American butterfly (Polygonia interrogationis).
violin		A small instrument with four strings, played with a bow; a fiddle.
violine		(a) A pale yellow amorphous substance of alkaloidal nature and emetic properties, said to have been extracted from the root and foliage of the violet (Viola).
violinist		A player on the violin.
violist		A player on the viol.
violoncellist		A player on the violoncello.
violoncello		A stringed instrument of music; a bass viol of four strings, or a bass violin with long, large strings, giving sounds an octave lower than the viola, or tenor or alto violin.
violone		The largest instrument of the bass-viol kind, having strings tuned an octave below those of the violoncello; the contrabasso; -- called also double bass.
violous	Obsolete	Violent.
violuric		Of, pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitroso derivative of barbituric acid.
viper		(Zoöl.) Any one of numerous species of Old World venomous makes belonging to Vipera, Clotho, Daboia, and other genera of the family Viperidæ.
viperina		See Viperoidea — a division of serpents which includes the true vipers of the Old World and the rattlesnakes and moccasin snakes of America; -- called also Viperina.
viperine		Of or pertaining to a viper or vipers; resembling a viper.
viperish		Somewhat like a viper; viperous.
viperoid		Like or pertaining to the vipers.
viperoidea		A division of serpents which includes the true vipers of the Old World and the rattlesnakes and moccasin snakes of America; -- called also Viperina.
viperoides		A division of serpents which includes the true vipers of the Old World and the rattlesnakes and moccasin snakes of America; -- called also Viperina.
viperous		Having the qualities of a viper; malignant; venomous; as, a viperous tongue. -- Vi"per*ous*ly, adv.
viraginian		Of or pertaining to a virago; having the qualities of a virago.
viraginity		The qualities or characteristics of a virago.
virago		A woman of extraordinary stature, strength, and courage; a woman who has the robust body and masculine mind of a man; a female warrior.
vire		An arrow, having a rotary motion, formerly used with the crossbow.
virelay		An ancient French song, or short poem, wholly in two rhymes, and composed in short lines, with a refrain.
virent		Green; not withered.
vireo		Any one of numerous species of American singing birds belonging to Vireo and allied genera of the family Vireonidæ.
virescence		The act or state of becoming green through the formation of chlorophyll.
virescent		Beginning to be green; slightly green; greenish.
vireton		An arrow or bolt for a crossbow having feathers or brass placed at an angle with the shaft to make it spin in flying.
virgalieu		A valuable kind of pear, of an obovate shape and with melting flesh of delicious flavor; -- more properly called White Doyenné.
virgate	Obsolete	Having the form of a straight rod; wand-shaped; straight and slender.
virgated	Obsolete	Striped; streaked.
virge	Obsolete	A wand. See Verge.
virger	Obsolete	See Verger — one who carries a verge, or emblem of office. Specifically: -- (a) An attendant upon a dignitary, as on a bishop, a dean, a justice, etc. Strype.
virgilian		Of or pertaining to Virgil, the Roman poet; resembling the style of Virgil.
virgin		A woman who has had no carnal knowledge of man; a maid.
virginal	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to a virgin; becoming a virgin; maidenly.
virginhood		Virginity; maidenhood.
virginia		One of the States of the United States of America. -- a.
virginity		The quality or state of being a virgin; undefiled purity or chastity; maidenhood.
virgo		(a) A sign of the zodiac which the sun enters about the 21st of August, marked thus [ (b) A constellation of the zodiac, now occupying chiefly the sign Libra, and containing the bright star Spica.
virgouleuse		An old French variety of pear, of little value.
virgularian		Any one of numerous species of long, slender Alcyonaria belonging to Virgularia and allied genera of the family Virgularidæ.
virgulate		Shaped like a little twig or rod.
virgule		A comma.
virial		A certain function relating to a system of forces and their points of application, -- first used by Clausius in the investigation of problems in molecular physics.
viridescence		Quality or state of being viridescent.
viridescent		Slightly green; greenish.
viridine		A greenish, oily, nitrogenous hydrocarbon, C12H19N7, obtained from coal tar, and probably consisting of a mixture of several metameric compounds which are higher derivatives of the base pyridine.
viridite		A greenish chloritic mineral common in certain igneous rocks, as diabase, as a result of alternation.
viridity		Greenness; verdure; the color of grass and foliage.
viridness		Viridity; greenness.
virile		Having the nature, properties, or qualities, of an adult man; characteristic of developed manhood; hence, masterful; forceful; specifically, capable of begetting; -- opposed to womanly, feminine, and puerile; as, virile age…
virility		The quality or state of being virile; developed manhood; manliness; specif., the power of procreation; as, exhaustion.
viripotent	Obsolete	Developed in manhood; hence, able to beget; marriageable.
virmilion		See Vermilion — (Chem.) A bright red pigment consisting of mercuric sulphide, obtained either from the mineral cinnabar or artificially.
virole		A ring surrounding a bugle or hunting horn.
viroled		Furnished with a virole or viroles; -- said of a horn or a bugle when the rings are of different tincture from the rest of the horn.
virose		Having a nauseous odor; fetid; poisonous.
virtu		A love of the fine arts; a taste for curiosities.
virtual		Having the power of acting or of invisible efficacy without the agency of the material or sensible part; potential; energizing.
virtuality		The quality or state of being virtual.
virtually		In a virtual manner; in efficacy or effect only, and not actually; to all intents and purposes; practically.
virtuate	Obsolete	To make efficacious; to give virtue of efficacy.
virtue		Active quality or power; capacity or power adequate to the production of a given effect; energy; strength; potency; efficacy; as, the virtue of a medicine.
virtueless		Destitute of virtue; without efficacy or operating qualities; powerless.
virtuosity		The quality or state of being a virtuoso; in a bad sense, the character of one in whom mere artistic feeling or æsthetic cultivation takes the place of religious character; sentimentalism.
virtuoso		One devoted to virtu; one skilled in the fine arts, in antiquities, and the like; a collector or ardent admirer of curiosities, etc. Virtuoso the Italians call a man who loves the noble arts, and is a critic in them.
virtuosoship		The condition, pursuits, or occupation of a virtuoso.
virtuous		Chaste; pure; -- applied especially to women.
virulence		The quality or state of being virulent or venomous; poisonousness; malignancy.
virulency		The quality or state of being virulent or venomous; poisonousness; malignancy.
virulent		Extremely poisonous or venomous; very active in doing injury.
virulented	Obsolete	Made virulent; poisoned.
virulently		In a virulent manner.
virus		(Med.) (a) Contagious or poisonous matter, as of specific ulcers, the bite of snakes, etc.; -- applied to organic poisons.
vis		(Law) (a) Physical force. (b) Moral power.
vis-a-vis		One who, or that which, is face to face with another; esp., one who faces another in dancing.
visa		See Vis — (Law) (a) Physical force. (b) Moral power.
visage	Obsolete	The face, countenance, or look of a person or an animal; -- chiefly applied to the human face.
visaged		Having a visage.
visard		A mask. See Visor.
visayan		A member of the most numerous of the native races of the Philippines, occupying the Visayan Islands and the northern coast Mindanao; also, their language.
viscacha		A large burrowing South American rodent (Lagostomus trichodactylus) allied to the chinchillas, but much larger.
viscera		pl. of Viscus — one of the organs, as the brain, heart, or stomach, in the great cavities of the body of an animal; -- especially used in the plural, and applied to the organs contained in the abdomen.
visceral		(Anat.) Of or pertaining to the viscera; splanchnic.
viscerate		To deprive of the viscera, or entrails; to eviscerate; to disembowel.
visceroskeletal		Of or pertaining to the framework, or skeleton, or skeleton, of the viscera; as, the visceroskeletal system of muscles.
viscid		Sticking or adhering, and having a ropy or glutinous consistency; viscous; glutinous; sticky; tenacious; clammy; as, turpentine, tar, gums, etc., are more or less viscid.
viscidity		The quality or state of being viscid; also, that which is viscid; glutinous concretion; stickiness.
viscin		A clear, viscous, tasteless substance extracted from the mucilaginous sap of the mistletoe (Viscum album), holly, etc., and constituting an essential ingredient of birdlime.
viscoidal		Somewhat viscous.
viscosimeter		An instrument for measuring the degree of viscosity of liquids, as solutions of gum.
viscosity		The quality or state of being viscous.
viscount		A nobleman of the fourth rank, next in order below an earl and next above a baron; also, his degree or title of nobility.
viscountcy		The dignity or jurisdiction of a viscount.
viscountess		The wife of a viscount.
viscountship		The quality, rank, or office of a viscount.
viscounty		The quality, rank, or office of a viscount.
viscous		Adhesive or sticky, and having a ropy or glutinous consistency; viscid; glutinous; clammy; tenacious; as, a viscous juice. -- Vis"cous*ness, n.
viscum		(Bot.) A genus of parasitic shrubs, including the mistletoe of Europe.
viscus		One of the organs, as the brain, heart, or stomach, in the great cavities of the body of an animal; -- especially used in the plural, and applied to the organs contained in the abdomen.
vise		An instrument consisting of two jaws, closing by a screw, lever, cam, or the like, for holding work, as in filing.
vishnu		A divinity of the modern Hindoo trimurti, or trinity.
visibility		The quality or state of being visible.
visible		Perceivable by the eye; capable of being seen; perceptible; in view; as, a visible star; the least spot is visible on white paper.
visigoth		One of the West Goths. See the Note under Goth. -- Vis`i*goth"ic, a.
vision		The act of seeing external objects; actual sight.
visional		Of or pertaining to a vision.
visionariness		The quality or state of being visionary.
visionary		Of or pertaining to a visions or visions; characterized by, appropriate to, or favorable for, visions.
visioned		Having the power of seeing visions; inspired; also, seen in visions.
visionist		A visionary.
visionless		Destitute of vision; sightless.
visit		To go or come to see, as for the purpose of friendship, business, curiosity, etc.; to attend; to call upon; as, the physician visits his patient.
visitable		Liable or subject to be visited or inspected.
visitant		One who visits; a guest; a visitor.
visitation		The act of visiting, or the state of being visited; access for inspection or examination.
visitatorial		Of or pertaining to visitation, or a judicial visitor or superintendent; visitorial.
visite		A light cape or short cloak of silk or lace worn by women in summer.
visiter		A visitor.
visiting		a. & vb. n. from Visit.
visitor		One who visits; one who comes or goes to see another, as in civility or friendship.
visitorial		Same as Visitatorial.
visive	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to the sight; visual.
visne		Neighborhood; vicinity; venue. See Venue.
visnomy	Colloquial	Face; countenance.
vison		The mink.
visor		A part of a helmet, arranged so as to lift or open, and so show the face.
visored		Wearing a visor; masked.
vista		A view; especially, a view through or between intervening objects, as trees; a view or prospect through an avenue, or the like; hence, the trees or other objects that form the avenue.
visto		A vista; a prospect.
visual		Of or pertaining to sight; used in sight; serving as the instrument of seeing; as, the visual nerve.
visualize		To make visual, or visible; to see in fancy.
visualizer		One who visualizes or is proficient in visualization; esp. (Physiol.), one whose mental imagery is prevailingly visualization.
vitaille	Obsolete	Food; victuals.
vital		Belonging or relating to life, either animal or vegetable; as, vital energies; vital functions; vital actions.
vitalic		Pertaining to life; vital.
vitalism		The doctrine that all the functions of a living organism are due to an unknown vital principle distinct from all chemical and physical forces.
vitalist		A believer in the theory of vitalism; -- opposed to physicist.
vitalistic		Pertaining to, or involving, vitalism, or the theory of a special vital principle.
vitality		The quality or state of being vital; the principle of life; vital force; animation; as, the vitality of eggs or vegetable seeds; the vitality of an enterprise.
vitalization		The act or process of vitalizing, or infusing the vital principle.
vitalize		To endow with life, or vitality; to give life to; to make alive; as, vitalized blood.
vitally		In a vital manner.
vitals		Organs that are necessary for life; more especially, the heart, lungs, and brain.
vitascope		A form of machine for exhibiting animated pictures.
vitellary		Vitelline.
vitelligenous		Producing yolk, or vitelline substance; -- applied to certain cells (also called nutritive, or yolk, cells) formed in the ovaries of many insects, and supposed to supply nutriment to the developing ova.
vitellin		An albuminous body, belonging to the class of globulins, obtained from yolk of egg, of which it is the chief proteid constituent, and from the seeds of many plants.
vitelline		Of or pertaining to the yolk of eggs; as, the vitelline membrane, a smooth, transparent membrane surrounding the vitellus.
vitellogene		A gland secreting the yolk of the eggs in trematodes, turbellarians, and some other helminths.
vitellus		(Biol.) The contents or substance of the ovum; egg yolk. See Illust. of Ovum.
vitiate		To make vicious, faulty, or imperfect; to render defective; to injure the substance or qualities of; to impair; to contaminate; to spoil; as, exaggeration vitiates a style of writing; sewer gas vitiates the air.
vitiation		The act of vitiating, or the state of being vitiated; depravation; corruption; invalidation; as, the vitiation of the blood; the vitiation of a contract.
viticulose		Having long and slender trailing stems.
viticultural		Of or pertaining to viticulture.
viticulture		The cultivation of the vine; grape growing.
viticulturist		One engaged in viticulture.
vitiligo		A rare skin disease consisting in the development of smooth, milk-white spots upon various parts of the body.
vitilitigate	Obsolete	To contend in law litigiously or cavilously.
vitilitigation	Obsolete	Cavilous litigation; cavillation.
vitiosity		Viciousness; depravity.
vitious		See Vicious, Viciously, Viciousness.
vitiously		See Vicious, Viciously, Viciousness.
vitiousness		See Vicious, Viciously, Viciousness.
vitis		A genus of plants including all true grapevines.
vitoe		See Durukuli — a small, nocturnal, South American monkey (Nyctipthecus trivirgatus).
vitrage		A curtain of light and translucent material intended to be secured directly to the woodwork of a French casement window or a glazed door.
vitrella		One of the transparent lenslike cells in the ocelli of certain arthropods.
vitreo-electic		Containing or exhibiting positive, or vitreous, electricity.
vitreous		Consisting of, or resembling, glass; glassy; as, vitreous rocks.
vitreousness		The quality or state of being vitreous.
vitrescence		The quality or state of being vitreous; glassiness, or the quality of being vitrescent; capability of conversion into glass; susceptibility of being formed into glass.
vitrescent		Capable of being formed into glass; tending to become glass.
vitrescible		That may be vitrified; vitrifiable.
vitric		Having the nature and qualities of glass; glasslike; -- distinguished from ceramic.
vitrics		The art or study of the manufacture and decoration of glassware.
vitrifaction		The act, art, or process of vitrifying; also, the state of being vitrified.
vitrifacture		The manufacture of glass and glassware.
vitrifiable		Capable of being vitrified, or converted into glass by heat and fusion; as, flint and alkalies are vitrifiable.
vitrificable	Obsolete	Vitrifiable.
vitrificate	Obsolete	To convert into glass; to vitrify.
vitrification		Same as Vitrifaction.
vitrified		Converted into glass.
vitriform		Having the form or appearance of glass; resembling glass; glasslike.
vitrify		To convert into, or cause to resemble, glass or a glassy substance, by heat and fusion.
vitrina		A genus of terrestrial gastropods, having transparent, very thin, and delicate shells, -- whence the name.
vitrine		A glass show case for displaying fine wares, specimens, etc.
vitriol	Colloquial	(a) A sulphate of any one of certain metals, as copper, iron, zinc, cobalt.
vitriolate		(a) To convert into, or change to, a vitriol; to make into sulphuric acid or a sulphate.
vitriolated		Changed into a vitriol or a sulphate, or subjected to the action of sulphuric acid or of a sulphate; as, vitriolated potash, i. e., potassium sulphate.
vitriolation		The act, process, or result of vitriolating.
vitriolic	Colloquial	Of or pertaining to vitriol; derived from, or resembling, vitriol; vitriolous; as, a vitriolic taste.
vitriolizable		Capable of being converted into a vitriol.
vitriolization		The act of vitriolizing, or the state of being vitriolized; vitriolation.
vitriolize		To convert into a vitriol; to vitriolate.
vitriolous	Obsolete	See Vitriolic — of or pertaining to vitriol; derived from, or resembling, vitriol; vitriolous; as, a vitriolic taste.
vitrite		A kind of glass which is very hard and difficult to fuse, used as an insulator in electrical lamps and other apparatus.
vitro-di-trina		A kind of Venetian glass or glassware in which white threads are embedded in transparent glass with a lacelike or netlike effect.
vitruvian		Of or pertaining to Vitruvius, an ancient Roman architect.
vitta		(Bot.) One of the oil tubes in the fruit of umbelliferous plants.
vittate		(Bot.) Bearing or containing vittæ.
vituline		Of or pertaining to a calf or veal.
vituperable		Liable to, or deserving, vituperation, or severe censure.
vituperate		To find fault with; to scold; to overwhelm with wordy abuse; to censure severely or abusively; to rate.
vituperation		The act of vituperating; abuse; severe censure; blame.
vituperative		Uttering or writing censure; containing, or characterized by, abuse; scolding; abusive. -- Vi*tu"per*a*tive*ly, adv.
vituperator		One who vituperates, or censures abusively.
vituperrious	Obsolete	Worthy of vituperation; shameful; disgraceful.
vivace		Brisk; vivacious; with spirit; -- a direction to perform a passage in a brisk and lively manner.
vivacious		Sprightly in temper or conduct; lively; merry; as, a vivacious poet.
vivacity	Obsolete	The quality or state of being vivacious. Specifically: -- (a) Tenacity of life; vital force; natural vigor.
vivandier		In Continental armies, esp. the French, a sutler.
vivandiere		In Continental armies, especially in the French army, a woman accompanying a regiment, who sells provisions and liquor to the soldiers; a female sutler.
vivarium		A place artificially arranged for keeping or raising living animals, as a park, a pond, an aquarium, a warren, etc.
vivary		A vivarium.
vivda		See Vifda — in the Orkney and Shetland Islands, beef and mutton hung and dried, but not salted.
vive	Obsolete	Long live, that is, success to; as, vive le roi, long live the king; vive la bagatelle, success to trifles or sport.
vively	Obsolete	In a lively manner.
vivency	Obsolete	Manner of supporting or continuing life or vegetation.
viverra		A genus of carnivores which comprises the civets.
viverrine		Of or pertaining to the Viverridæ, or Civet family.
vivers	English dialect	Provisions; victuals.
vives		A disease of brute animals, especially of horses, seated in the glands under the ear, where a tumor is formed which sometimes ends in suppuration.
vivianite		A hydrous phosphate of iron of a blue to green color, growing darker on exposure.
vivid		True to the life; exhibiting the appearance of life or freshness; animated; spirited; bright; strong; intense; as, vivid colors.
vividity		The quality or state of being vivid; vividness.
vivific		Giving life; reviving; enlivening.
vivifical		Giving life; reviving; enlivening.
vivificate		To give life to; to animate; to revive; to vivify.
vivification		The act of vivifying, or the state of being vivified; restoration of life; revival.
vivificative		Able or tending to vivify, animate, or give life; vivifying.
vivify		To endue with life; to make to be living; to quicken; to animate.
vivipara		An artificial division of vertebrates including those that produce their young alive; -- opposed to Ovipara.
viviparity		The quality or condition of being viviparous.
viviparous		Producing young in a living state, as most mammals, or as those plants the offspring of which are produced alive, either by bulbs instead of seeds, or by the seeds themselves germinating on the plant, instead of falling…
viviparously		In a viviparous manner.
viviparousness		The quality of being viviparous; viviparity.
vivisect	Colloquial	To perform vivisection upon; to dissect alive.
vivisection		The dissection of an animal while alive, for the purpose of making physiological investigations.
vivisectional		Of or pertaining to vivisection.
vivisectionist		One who practices or advocates vivisection; a vivisector.
vivisector		A vivisectionist.
vixen		A cross, ill-tempered person; -- formerly used of either sex, now only of a woman.
vixenish		Of or pertaining to a vixen; resembling a vixen.
vixenly		Like a vixen; vixenish.
viz		To wit; that is; namely.
viz-cacha		A large burrowing South American rodent (Lagostomus trichodactylus) allied to the chinchillas, but much larger.
vizard	Archaic	A mask; a visor.
vizarded		Wearing a vizard.
vizcacha		Same as Viscacha.
vizier		A councilor of state; a high executive officer in Turkey and other Oriental countries.
vizier-azem		A grand vizier. See under Vizier.
vizierate		The office, dignity, or authority of a vizier.
vizierial		Of, pertaining to, or issued by, a vizier.
vizir		See Vizier — a councilor of state; a high executive officer in Turkey and other Oriental countries.
vizor		See Visor — a part of a helmet, arranged so as to lift or open, and so show the face.
