vocable		A word; a term; a name; specifically, a word considered as composed of certain sounds or letters, without regard to its meaning.
vocabulary		A list or collection of words arranged in alphabetical order and explained; a dictionary or lexicon, either of a whole language, a single work or author, a branch of science, or the like; a word-book.
vocabulist		The writer or maker of a vocabulary; a lexicographer.
vocal		Of or pertaining to the voice or speech; having voice; endowed with utterance; full of voice, or voices.
vocalic		Of or pertaining to vowel sounds; consisting of the vowel sounds.
vocalism		The exercise of the vocal organs; vocalization.
vocalist		A singer, or vocal musician, as opposed to an instrumentalist.
vocality		The quality or state of being vocal; utterableness; resonance; as, the vocality of the letters.
vocalization		The act of vocalizing, or the state of being vocalized.
vocalize		To form into voice; to make vocal or sonant; to give intonation or resonance to.
vocally		In a vocal manner; with voice; orally; with audible sound.
vocalness		The quality of being vocal; vocality.
vocation		A call; a summons; a citation; especially, a designation or appointment to a particular state, business, or profession.
vocative		Of or pertaining to calling; used in calling; specifically (Gram.), used in address; appellative; -- said of that case or form of the noun, pronoun, or adjective, in which a person or thing is addressed; as, Domine, O Lord.
vociferance		Vociferation; noise; clamor.
vociferant		Noisy; clamorous.
vociferate		To cry out with vehemence; to exclaim; to bawl; to clamor.
vociferation		The act of vociferating; violent outcry; vehement utterance of the voice.
vociferator		One who vociferates, or is clamorous.
vociferous		Making a loud outcry; clamorous; noisy; as, vociferous heralds. -- Vo*cif er*ous*ness, n.
vocule		A short or weak utterance; a faint or feeble sound, as that heard on separating the lips in pronouncing p or b.
vodanium		A supposed element, afterward found to be a mixture of several metals, as copper, iron, lead, nickel, etc.
vodka		A Russian drink distilled from rye.
voe		An inlet, bay, or creek; -- so called in the Orkney and Shetland Islands.
vogle		Same as Vugg.
vogue		The way or fashion of people at any particular time; temporary mode, custom, or practice; popular reception for the time; -- used now generally in the phrase in vogue.
voice		Sound uttered by the mouth, especially that uttered by human beings in speech or song; sound thus uttered considered as possessing some special quality or character; as, the human voice; a pleasant voice; a low voice.
voiced		Furnished with a voice; expressed by the voice.
voiceful		Having a voice or vocal quality; having a loud voice or many voices; vocal; sounding.
voiceless		Having no voice, utterance, or vote; silent; mute; dumb.
void		Containing nothing; empty; vacant; not occupied; not filled.
voidable		Capable of being voided, or evacuated.
voidance		The act of voiding, emptying, ejecting, or evacuating.
voided		Emptied; evacuated.
voider		One who, or that which, voids,
voiding		The act of one who, or that which, v Bp.
voidness		The quality or state of being void;
voiture		A carriage.
voivode		See Waywode — originally, the title of a military commander in various Slavonic countries; afterwards applied to governors of towns or provinces.
vol-au-vent		A light puff paste, with a raised border, filled, after baking, usually with a ragout of fowl, game, or fish.
volacious		Apt or fit to fly.
volador		(a) A flying fish of California (Exocoetus Californicus): -- called also volator.
volage	Obsolete	Light; giddy.
volant		Passing through the air upon wings, or as if upon wings; flying; hence, passing from place to place; current.
volante		A cumbrous two-wheeled pleasure carriage used in Cuba.
volapuek		Literally, world's speech; the name of an artificial language invented by Johan Martin Schleyer, of Constance, Switzerland, about 1879.
volapuekist		One who is conversant with, or who favors adoption of, Volapük.
volapuk		Literally, world's speech; the name of an artificial language invented by Johan Martin Schleyer, of Constance, Switzerland, about 1879.
volapukist		One who is conversant with, or who favors adoption of, Volapük.
volar		Of or pertaining to the palm of the hand or the sole of the foot.
volary	Obsolete	See Volery — a large bird cage; an aviary.
volatile		Capable of wasting away, or of easily passing into the aëriform state; subject to evaporation.
volatileness		Quality or state of being volatile; disposition to evaporate; changeableness; fickleness.
volatility		Quality or state of being volatile; disposition to evaporate; changeableness; fickleness.
volatilizable		Capable of being volatilized.
volatilization		The act or process of volatilizing, or rendering volatile; the state of being volatilized.
volatilize		To render volatile; to cause to exhale or evaporate; to cause to pass off in vapor.
volator		Same as Volador, 1.
volborthite		A mineral occurring in small six-sided tabular crystals of a green or yellow color.
volcanian		Volcanic.
volcanic		Of or pertaining to a volcano or volcanoes; as, volcanic heat.
volcanically		Like a volcano.
volcanicity		Quality or state of being volcanic; volcanic power.
volcanism		Volcanic power or action; volcanicity.
volcanist		One versed in the history and phenomena of volcanoes.
volcanity		The quality or state of being volcanic, or volcanic origin; volcanicity.
volcanization		The act of volcanizing, or the state of being volcanized; the process of undergoing volcanic heat, and being affected by it.
volcanize		To subject to, or cause to undergo, volcanic heat, and to be affected by its action.
volcano		A mountain or hill, usually more or less conical in form, from which lava, cinders, steam, sulphur gases, and the like, are ejected; -- often popularly called a burning mountain.
vole		A deal at cards that draws all the tricks.
volery		A large bird cage; an aviary.
volge	Obsolete	The common sort of people; the crowd; the mob.
volitable	Obsolete	Volatilizable.
volitation		The act of flying; flight.
volitient		Exercising the will; acting from choice; willing, or having power to will.
volition		The act of willing or choosing; the act of forming a purpose; the exercise of the will.
volitional		Belonging or relating to volition.
volitive		Of or pertaining to the will; originating in the will; having the power to will.
volkslied		A popular song, or national air.
volksraad		A legislative assembly or parliament of any one of several countries colonized by the Dutch, esp. that of the South African Republic, or the Transvaal, and that of the Orange Free State.
volley		A flight of missiles, as arrows, bullets, or the like; the simultaneous discharge of a number of small arms.
volleyed		Discharged with a sudden burst, or as if in a volley; as, volleyed thunder.
volost		In the greater part of Russia, a division for local government consisting of a group of mirs, or village communities; a canton.
volow	Obsolete	To baptize; -- used in contempt by the Reformers.
volplane		To glide in a flying machine.
volt		(Man.) A circular tread; a gait by which a horse going sideways round a center makes two concentric tracks.
volta		A turning; a time; -- chiefly used in phrases signifying that the part is to be repeated one, two, or more times; as, una volta, once.
volta-electric		Of or pertaining to voltaic electricity, or voltaism.
volta-electrometer		An instrument for the exact measurement of electric currents.
voltage		Electric potential or potential difference, expressed in volts.
voltagraphy		In electrotypy, the act or art of copying, in metals deposited by electrolytic action, a form or pattern which is made the negative electrode.
voltaic		Of or pertaining to Alessandro Volta, who first devised apparatus for developing electric currents by chemical action, and established this branch of electric science; discovered by Volta; as, voltaic electricity.
voltairean		Of or relating to Voltaire, the French author.
voltairism		The theories or practice of Voltaire.
voltaism		That form of electricity which is developed by the chemical action between metals and different liquids; voltaic electricity; also, the science which treats of this form of electricity; -- called also galvanism, from Galvani…
voltameter		An instrument for measuring the voltaic electricity passing through it, by its effect in decomposing water or some other chemical compound acting as an electrolyte.
voltammeter		A wattmeter.
voltaplast		A form of voltaic, or galvanic, battery suitable for use electrotyping.
voltatype		An electrotype.
volti		Turn, that is, turn over the leaf.
voltigeur		(Mil.) One of a picked company of irregular riflemen in each regiment of the French infantry.
voltmeter		An instrument for measuring in volts the differences of potential between different points of an electrical circuit.
voltzite		An oxysulphide of lead occurring in implanted spherical globules of a yellowish or brownish color; -- called also voltzine.
volubilate		Turning, or whirling; winding; twining; voluble.
volubile		Turning, or whirling; winding; twining; voluble.
volubility		The quality or state of being voluble (in any of the senses of the adjective).
voluble		Easily rolling or turning; easily set in motion; apt to roll; rotating; as, voluble particles of matter.
volume		Hence, a collection of printed sheets bound together, whether containing a single work, or a part of a work, or more than one work; a book; a tome; especially…
volumed		Having the form of a volume, or roil; as, volumed mist.
volumenometer		An instrument for measuring the volume of a body, especially a solid, by means of the difference in tension caused by its presence and absence in a confined portion of air.
volumenometry		The method or process of measuring volumes by means of the volumenometer.
volumescope		An instrument consisting essentially of a glass tube provided with a graduated scale, for exhibiting to the eye the changes of volume of a gas or gaseous mixture resulting from chemical action, and the like.
volumeter		An instrument for measuring the volumes of gases or liquids by introducing them into a vessel of known capacity.
volumetric		Of or pertaining to the measurement of volume.
volumetrical		Volumetric. -- Vol`u*met"ric*al*ly, adv.
voluminous		Of or pertaining to volume or volumes. Specifically: -- (a) Consisting of many folds, coils, or convolutions.
volumist	Obsolete	One who writes a volume; an author.
voluntarily		In a voluntary manner; of one's own will; spontaneously.
voluntariness		The quality or state of being voluntary; spontaneousness; specifically, the quality or state of being free in the exercise of one's will.
voluntarism		Any theory which conceives will to be the dominant factor in experience or in the constitution of the world; -- contrasted with intellectualism.
voluntary		Proceeding from the will; produced in or by an act of choice.
voluntaryism		The principle of supporting a religious system and its institutions by voluntary association and effort, rather than by the aid or patronage of the state.
volunteer		One who enters into, or offers for, any service of his own free will.
volupere	Obsolete	A woman's cap.
voluptuary		A voluptuous person; one who makes his physical enjoyment his chief care; one addicted to luxury, and the gratification of sensual appetites.
voluptuous		Full of delight or pleasure, especially that of the senses; ministering to sensuous or sensual gratification; exciting sensual desires; luxurious; sensual.
volupty	Obsolete	Voluptuousness.
voluta		Any one of numerous species of large, handsome marine gastropods belonging to Voluta and allied genera.
volutation		A rolling of a body; a wallowing.
volute		(Arch.) A spiral scroll which forms the chief feature of the Ionic capital, and which, on a much smaller scale, is a feature in the Corinthian and Composite capitals.
voluted		Having a volute, or spiral scroll.
volution		A spiral turn or wreath.
volva		A saclike envelope of certain fungi, which bursts open as the plant develops.
volvox		A genus of minute, pale-green, globular, organisms, about one fiftieth of an inch in diameter, found rolling through water, the motion being produced by minute colorless cilia.
volvulus		(a) The spasmodic contraction of the intestines which causes colic. (b) Any twisting or displacement of the intestines causing obstruction; ileus.
volyer	English dialect	A lurcher.
vomer		(a) A bone, or one of a pair of bones, beneath the ethmoid region of the skull, forming a part a part of the partition between the nostrils in man and other mammals.
vomerine		Of or pertaining to the vomer.
vomica		(a) An abscess cavity in the lungs. (b) An abscess in any other parenchymatous organ.
vomicine		See Brucine — a poweful vegetable alkaloid, found, associated with strychnine, in the seeds of different species of Strychnos, especially in the Nux vomica.
vomit		To eject the contents of the stomach by the mouth; to puke; to spew.
vomiting		The spasmodic ejection of matter from the stomach through the mouth.
vomition		The act or power of vomiting.
vomitive		Causing the ejection of matter from the stomach; emetic.
vomito		The yellow fever in its worst form, when it is usually attended with black vomit.
vomitory		Causing vomiting; emetic; vomitive.
vomiturition		(a) An ineffectual attempt to vomit. (b) The vomiting of but little matter; also, that vomiting which is effected with little effort.
vondsira		Same as Vansire.
voodoo		See Voodooism — a degraded form of superstition and sorcery, said to include human sacrifices and cannibalism in some of its rites.
voodooism		A degraded form of superstition and sorcery, said to include human sacrifices and cannibalism in some of its rites.
voortreker		One who treks before or first; a pioneer.
voracious		Greedy in eating; very hungry; eager to devour or swallow; ravenous; gluttonous; edacious; rapacious; as, a voracious man or appetite; a voracious gulf or whirlpool.
voracity		The quality of being voracious; voraciousness.
voraginous		Pertaining to a gulf; full of gulfs; hence, devouring.
vortex		A mass of fluid, especially of a liquid, having a whirling or circular motion tending to form a cavity or vacuum in the center of the circle, and to draw in towards the center bodies subject to its action…
vortical		Of or pertaining to a vortex or vortexes; resembling a vortex in form or motion; whirling; as, a vortical motion. -- Vor"ti*cal*ly, adv.
vorticel		A vorticella.
vorticella		Any one of numerous species of ciliated Infusoria belonging to Vorticella and many other genera of the family Vorticellidæ.
vorticose		Vortical; whirling; as, a vorticose motion.
vortiginous		Moving rapidly round a center; vortical.
votaress		A woman who is a votary.
votarist		A votary.
votary		Consecrated by a vow or promise; consequent on a vow; devoted; promised.
vote		A wish, choice, or opinion, of a person or a body of persons, expressed in some received and authorized way; the expression of a wish, desire, will, preference, or choice, in regard to any measure proposed…
voter		One who votes; one who has a legal right to vote, or give his suffrage; an elector; a suffragist; as, as, an independent voter.
voting		a. & n. from Vote, v.
votist	Obsolete	One who makes a vow.
votive		Given by vow, or in fulfillment of a vow; consecrated by a vow; devoted; as, votive offerings; a votive tablet.
votress		A votaress.
vouch		To call upon to witness; to obtest.
vouchee		The person who is vouched, or called into court to support or make good his warranty of title in the process of common recovery.
voucher		One who vouches, or gives witness or full attestation, to anything.
vouchment		A solemn assertion.
vouchor		Same as Voucher, 3 (b).
vouchsafe		To condescend to grant; to concede; to bestow.
vouchsafement		The act of vouchsafing, or that which is vouchsafed; a gift or grant in condescension.
voussoir		One of the wedgelike stones of which an arch is composed.
vow		A solemn promise made to God, or to some deity; an act by which one consecrates or devotes himself, absolutely or conditionally, wholly or in part, for a longer or shorter time, to some act, service, or condition…
vow-fellow		One bound by the same vow as another.
vowel		A vocal, or sometimes a whispered, sound modified by resonance in the oral passage, the peculiar resonance in each case giving to each several vowel its distinctive character or quality as a sound of speech…
voweled		Furnished with vowels.
vowelish		Of the nature of a vowel.
vowelism		The use of vowels.
vowelize		To give the quality, sound, or office of a vowel to.
vower		One who makes a vow.
vox		A voice.
voyage		Formerly, a passage either by sea or land; a journey, in general; but not chiefly limited to a passing by sea or water from one place, port, or country, to another; especially…
voyageable		That may be sailed over, as water or air; navigable.
voyager		One who voyages; one who sails or passes by sea or water.
voyageur		A traveler; -- applied in Canada to a man employed by the fur companies in transporting goods by the rivers and across the land, to and from the remote stations in the Northwest.
voyol		(b) The block through which a messenger passes.
