vugg		A cavity in a lode; -- called also vogle.	
vugh		A cavity in a lode; -- called also vogle.	
vulcan		The god of fire, who presided over the working of metals; -- answering to the Greek Hephæstus.	
vulcanian		Of or pertaining to Vulcan; made by Vulcan; hence, of or pertaining to works in iron or other metals.	
vulcanic		Of or pertaining to Vulcan; made by Vulcan; Vulcanian.	
vulcanicity		Volcanicity.	
vulcanism		Volcanism.	
vulcanist		A volcanist.	
vulcanite		Hard rubber produced by vulcanizing with a large proportion of sulphur.	
vulcanization		The act or process of imparting to caoutchouc, gutta-percha, or the like, greater elasticity, durability, or hardness by heating with sulphur under pressure.	
vulcanize		To change the properties of, as caoutchouc, or India rubber, by the process of vulcanization.	
vulcanizer		One who, or that which, vulcanizes; esp., an apparatus for vulcanizing caoutchouc.	
vulcano	Obsolete	A volcano.	
vulcanology		The science which treats of phenomena due to plutonic action, as in volcanoes, hot springs, etc.	Latin Vulcan.
vulgar		Of or pertaining to the mass, or multitude, of people; common; general; ordinary; public; hence, in general use; vernacular.	
vulgarian		A vulgar person; one who has vulgar ideas. Used also adjectively.	
vulgarism		Grossness; rudeness; vulgarity.	
vulgarity		The quality or state of being vulgar; mean condition of life; the state of the lower classes of society.	
vulgarization		The act or process of making vulgar, or common.	
vulgarize		To make vulgar, or common.	
vulgarly		In a vulgar manner.	
vulgarness		The quality of being vulgar.	
vulgate		An ancient Latin version of the Scripture, and the only version which the Roman Church admits to be authentic; -- so called from its common use in the Latin Church.	
vulnerability		The quality or state of being vulnerable; vulnerableness.	
vulnerable		Capable of being wounded; susceptible of wounds or external injuries; as, a vulnerable body.	Latin vulnerabilis.
vulnerableness		The quality or state of being vulnerable; vulnerability.	
vulnerary		Useful in healing wounds; adapted to the cure of external injuries; as, vulnerary plants or potions. -- n.	Latin vulnerarius.
vulnerate	Obsolete	To wound; to hurt.	
vulneration	Obsolete	The act of wounding, or the state of being wounded.	Latin vulneratio.
vulnerose		Full of wounds; wounded.	
vulnific		Causing wounds; inflicting wounds; wounding.	Latin vulnus.
vulnifical		Causing wounds; inflicting wounds; wounding.	
vulnose		Having wounds; vulnerose.	
vulpes		A genus of Carnivora including the foxes.	
vulpic		Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid obtained from a lichen (Cetraria vulpina) as a yellow or red crystalline substance which on decomposition yields pulvinic acid.	
vulpicide		One who kills a fox, except in hunting; also, the act of so killing a fox.	
vulpine		Of or pertaining to the fox; resembling the fox; foxy; cunning; crafty; artful.	Latin vulpinus.
vulpinic		Same as Vulpic.	
vulpinism		The quality of being cunning like the fox; craft; artfulness.	
vulpinite		A scaly granular variety of anhydrite of a grayish white color, used for ornamental purposes.	
vultern		The brush turkey (Talegallus Lathami) of Australia. See Brush turkey.	
vulture		Any one of numerous species of rapacious birds belonging to Vultur, Cathartes, Catharista, and various other genera of the family Vulturidæ.	Latin vultur.
vulturine		Of or pertaining to a vulture; resembling a vulture in qualities or looks; as, the vulturine sea eagle (Gypohierax Angolensis); vulturine rapacity.	
vulturish		Vulturous.	
vulturism		The quality or state of being like a vulture; rapaciousness.	
vulturous		Like a vulture; rapacious.	
vulva		(Anat.) The external parts of the female genital organs; sometimes, the opening between the projecting parts of the external organs.	Latin vulva.
vulviform		Like a cleft with projecting edges.	
vulvitis		Inflammation of the vulva.	
vulvo-uterine		Pertaining both to the vulva and the uterus.	
vulvovaginal		Pertaining both to the vulva and the vagina.	
