waag		The grivet.	
waahoo		The burning bush; -- said to be called after a quack medicine made from it.	
wabble		To move staggeringly or unsteadily from one side to the other; to vacillate; to move the manner of a rotating disk when the axis of rotation is inclined to that of the disk; -- said of a turning or whirling body; as…	
wabbly		Inclined to wabble; wabbling.	
wacke		A soft, earthy, dark-colored rock or clay derived from the alteration of basalt.	
wacky		A soft, earthy, dark-colored rock or clay derived from the alteration of basalt.	
wad		A little mass, tuft, or bundle, as of hay or tow.	
wadd		(a) An earthy oxide of manganese, or mixture of different oxides and water, with some oxide of iron, and often silica, alumina, lime, or baryta; black ocher.	
waddie		See Waddy — an aboriginal war club.	
wadding		A wad, or the materials for wads; any pliable substance of which wads may be made.	
waddle		To walk with short steps, swaying the body from one side to the other, like a duck or very fat person; to move clumsily and totteringly along; to toddle; to stumble; as, a child waddles when he begins to walk; a goose waddles.	
waddler		One who, or that which, waddles.	
waddlingly		In a waddling manner.	
waddy		An aboriginal war club.	
waddywood		An Australian tree (Pittosporum bicolor); also, its wood, used in making waddies.	
wade		To walk in a substance that yields to the feet; to move, sinking at each step, as in water, mud, sand, etc. So eagerly the fiend … With head, hands, wings, or feet, pursues his way, And swims, or sinks, or wades, or creeps…	
wader		One who, or that which, wades.	
wading		a. & n. from Wade, v.	
wadmol		A coarse, hairy, woolen cloth, formerly used for garments by the poor, and for various other purposes.	
wadset		A kind of pledge or mortgage.	
wadsetter		One who holds by a wadset.	
wady		A ravine through which a brook flows; the channel of a water course, which is dry except in the rainy season.	
waeg	Scots	The kittiwake.	
wafer		(Cookery) A thin cake made of flour and other ingredients.	Anglo-Norman wafre.
waferer	Obsolete	A dealer in the cakes called wafers; a confectioner.	
waffle		A thin cake baked and then rolled; a wafer.	
waft		To cause to move or go in a wavy manner, or by the impulse of waves, as of water or air; to bear along on a buoyant medium; as, a balloon was wafted over the channel.	
waftage		Conveyance on a buoyant medium, as air or water.	
wafter		One who, or that which, wafts.	
wafture		The act of waving; a wavelike motion; a waft.	
wag		To move one way and the other with quick turns; to shake to and fro; to move vibratingly; to cause to vibrate, as a part of the body; as, to wag the head.	Middle English waggen.
wag-halter	Colloquial	One who moves or wears a halter; one likely to be hanged.	
wagati		A small East Indian wild cat (Felis wagati), regarded by some as a variety of the leopard cat.	
wage		To pledge; to hazard on the event of a contest; to stake; to bet, to lay; to wager; as, to wage a dollar.	Middle English wagen.
wagel		See Waggel — the young of the great black-backed gull (Larus marinus), formerly considered a distinct species.	
wagenboom		A south African proteaceous tree (Protea grandiflora); also, its tough wood, used for making wagon wheels.	
wager		Something deposited, laid, or hazarded on the event of a contest or an unsettled question; a bet; a stake; a pledge.	Anglo-Norman wageure.
wagerer		One who wagers, or lays a bet.	
wagering		Hazarding; pertaining to the act of one who wagers.	
wages		A compensation given to a hired person for services; price paid for labor; recompense; hire.	
waggel	English dialect	The young of the great black-backed gull (Larus marinus), formerly considered a distinct species.	
waggery		The manner or action of a wag; mischievous merriment; sportive trick or gayety; good-humored sarcasm; pleasantry; jocularity; as, the waggery of a schoolboy.	
waggie	English dialect	The pied wagtail.	
waggish		Like a wag; mischievous in sport; roguish in merriment or good humor; frolicsome.	
waggle		To reel, sway, or move from side to side; to move with a wagging motion; to waddle.	
wagnerian		Of, pertaining to, or resembling the style of, Richard Wagner, the German musical composer.	
wagnerite		A fluophosphate of magnesia, occurring in yellowish crystals, and also in massive forms.	
wagon		A wheeled carriage; a vehicle on four wheels, and usually drawn by horses; especially, one used for carrying freight or merchandise.	Dutch wagen, from Middle Dutch waghen.
wagon-headed		Having a top, or head, shaped like the top of a covered wagon, or resembling in section or outline an inverted U, thus as, a wagonheaded ceiling.	
wagon-roofed		Having a roof, or top, shaped like an inverted U; wagon-headed.	
wagonage		Money paid for carriage or conveyance in wagon.	
wagoner		One who conducts a wagon; one whose business it is to drive a wagon.	
wagonette		A kind of pleasure wagon, uncovered and with seats extended along the sides, designed to carry six or eight persons besides the driver.	
wagonful		As much as a wagon will hold; enough to fill a wagon; a wagonload.	
wagonload		Same as Wagonful.	
wagonry	Obsolete	Conveyance by means of a wagon or wagons.	
wagonwright		One who makes wagons.	
wagtail		Any one of many species of Old World singing birds belonging to Motacilla and several allied genera of the family Motacillidæ.	
wah		The panda.	
wahabee		A follower of Abdel Wahab (b. 1691; d. 1787), a reformer of Mohammedanism.	
wahoo		(a) A certain shrub (Evonymus atropurpureus) having purple capsules which in dehiscence expose the scarlet-ariled seeds; -- called also burning bush.	
waid	Obsolete	Oppressed with weight; crushed; weighed down.	
waif		(Eng. Law.) Goods found of which the owner is not known; originally, such goods as a pursued thief threw away to prevent being apprehended, which belonged to the king unless the owner made pursuit of the felon, took him…	
wail	Obsolete	To choose; to select.	
wailer		One who wails or laments.	
waileress	Obsolete	A woman who wails.	
wailful		Sorrowful; mournful.	
wailingly		In a wailing manner.	
wailment	Obsolete	Lamentation; loud weeping; wailing.	
waiment	Obsolete	See Wayment — to lament; to grieve; to wail.	
wain		A four-wheeled vehicle for the transportation of goods, produce, etc.; a wagon.	Old English wægn.
wainable	Obsolete	Capable of being plowed or cultivated; arable; tillable.	
wainage		A finding of carriages, carts, etc., for the transportation of goods, produce, etc. Ainsworth.	
wainbote		See Cartbote. See also the Note under Bote.	
wainscot		(Arch.) A wooden lining or boarding of the walls of apartments, usually made in panels. 3. 3.	Middle Low German wagenschot.
wainscoting		The act or occupation of covering or lining with boards in panel.	
wainwright		Same as Wagonwright.	
wair		A piece of plank two yard Bailey.	
waist		That part of the human body which is immediately below the ribs or thorax; the small part of the body between the thorax and hips.	
waistband		The band which encompasses the waist; esp., one on the upper part of breeches, trousers, pantaloons, skirts, or the like.	
waistcloth		A cloth or wrapper worn about the waist; by extension, such a garment worn about the hips and passing between the thighs.	
waistcoat		(a) A short, sleeveless coat or garment for men, worn under the coat, extending no lower than the hips, and covering the waist; a vest.	
waistcoateer	Obsolete	One wearing a waistcoat; esp., a woman wearing one uncovered, or thought fit for such a habit; hence, a loose woman; strumpet.	
waistcoating		A fabric designed for waistcoats; esp., one in which there is a pattern, differently colored yarns being used.	
waister		A seaman, usually a green hand or a broken-down man, stationed in the waist of a vessel of war.	
wait		To stay or rest in expectation; to stop or remain stationary till the arrival of some person or event; to rest in patience; to stay; not to depart.	Middle English waiten.
wait--while		(a) One of the Australian wattle trees (Acacia colletioides), so called from the impenetrability of the thicket which it makes.	
wait-a-bit		Any of several plants bearing thorns or stiff hooked appendages, which catch and tear the clothing, as: (a) The greenbrier.	
waiter		One who, or that which, waits; an attendant; a servant in attendance, esp. at table.	
waiting		a. & n. from Wait, v.	
waitingly		By waiting.	
waitress		A female waiter or attendant; a waiting maid or waiting woman.	
waive		To throw away; to cast off; to reject; to desert.	Middle English weyven, from Anglo-Norman weyver.
waiver		The act of waiving, or not insisting on, some right, claim, or privilege.	Anglo-Norman weyver.
waivure		See Waiver — the act of waiving, or not insisting on, some right, claim, or privilege.	
waiwode		See Waywode — originally, the title of a military commander in various Slavonic countries; afterwards applied to governors of towns or provinces.	
wake		The track left by a vessel in the water; by extension, any track; as, the wake of an army.	Old English wacu.
wake-robin		Any plant of the genus Arum, especially, in England, the cuckoopint (Arum maculatum).	
wakeful		Not sleeping; indisposed to sleep; watchful; vigilant.	
waken		To excite or rouse from sleep; to wake; to awake; to awaken.	Old English wæcnan.
wakener		One who wakens.	
wakening		The act of one who wakens; esp., the act of ceasing to sleep; an awakening.	
waker		One who wakes.	Middle English wakyr, from Old English wacor.
waketime		Time during which one is awake.	
wakf		The granting or dedication of property in trust for a pious purpose, that is, to some object that tends to the good of mankind, as to support a mosque or caravansary, to provide for support of one's family, kin, or neighbors…	
wakif		The person creating a wakf.	
waking		The act of waking, or the state or period of being awake.	
walaway	Obsolete	See Welaway.	
wald		A forest; -- used as a termination of names. See Weald.	Middle English walden, from Old English wealdan.
waldenses		A sect of dissenters from the ecclesiastical system of the Roman Catholic Church, who in the 13th century were driven by persecution to the valleys of Piedmont, where the sect survives.	
waldensian		Of or pertaining to the Waldenses. -- n.	
waldgrave		In the old German empire, the head forest keeper.	
waldheimia		A genus of brachiopods of which many species are found in the fossil state.	
wale		A streak or mark made on the skin by a rod or whip; a stripe; a wheal.	Old English walu.
waler	Colloquial	A horse imported from New South Wales; also, any Australian horse.	
walhalla		See Valhalla — fig.: A hall or temple adorned with statues and memorials of a nation's heroes; specifically, the Pantheon near Ratisbon, in Bavaria, consecrated to the illustrious dead of all Germany.	
waling		Same as Wale, n., 4.	
walk		To move along on foot; to advance by steps; to go on at a moderate pace; specifically, of two-legged creatures, to proceed at a slower or faster rate, but without running…	Middle English walken, from Old English wealcan.
walk-mill	English dialect	A fulling mill.	
walk-over		In racing, the going over a course by a horse which has no competitor for the prize; hence, colloquially, a one-sided contest; an uncontested, or an easy, victory.	
walkable		Fit to be walked on; capable of being walked on or over.	
walker		One who walks; a pedestrian.	Middle English walkere, from Old English wealcere.
walking	Colloquial	a. & n. from Walk, v.	
walkyr		See Valkyria — one of the maidens of Odin, represented as awful and beautiful, who presided over battle and marked out those who were to be slain…	
wall		A kind of knot often used at the end of a rope; a wall knot; a wale.	Middle English wallen, from Old English weallian.
wall-eye		An eye in which the iris is of a very light gray or whitish color; -- said usually of horses.	
wall-eyed		Having an eye of a very light gray or whitish color.	
wall-plat	English dialect	The spotted flycatcher.	
wall-sided		Having sides nearly perpendicular; -- said of certain vessels to distinguish them from those having flaring sides, or sides tumbling home (see under Tumble, v. i.).	
wallaba		A leguminous tree (Eperua falcata) of Demerara, with pinnate leaves and clusters of red flowers.	
wallaby		Any one of numerous species of kangaroos belonging to the genus Halmaturus, native of Australia and Tasmania, especially the smaller species, as the brush kangaroo (H.	
wallachian		Of or pertaining to Wallachia, a former principality, now part of the kingdom, of Roumania. -- n.	
wallack		See Wallachian — of or pertaining to Wallachia, a former principality, now part of the kingdom, of Roumania. -- n.	
wallah		A black variety of the jaguar; -- called also tapir tiger.	
wallaroo		Any one of several species of kangaroos of the genus Macropus, especially M. robustus, sometimes called the great wallaroo.	
wallbird	English dialect	The spotted flycatcher.	
waller		One who builds walls.	
wallet		A bag or sack for carrying about the person, as a bag for carrying the necessaries for a journey; a knapsack; a beggar's receptacle for charity; a peddler's pack. was trussed up in his walet.	Middle English walet.
walleteer	Colloquial	One who carries a wallet; a foot traveler; a tramping beggar.	
wallflower		(Bot.) A perennial, cruciferous plant (Cheiranthus Cheiri), with sweet-scented flowers varying in color from yellow to orange and deep red.	
wallhick	English dialect	The lesser spotted woodpecker (Dryobates minor).	
walling		Walls, in general; material for walls.	
walloons		A Romanic people inhabiting that part of Belgium which comprises the provinces of Hainaut, Namur, Liége, and Luxembourg, and about one third of Brabant; also, the language spoken by this people.	
wallop	English dialect	To move quickly, but with great effort; to gallop.	Middle English wallopen.
wallow		To roll one's self about, as in mire; to tumble and roll about; to move lazily or heavily in any medium; to flounder; as, swine wallow in the mire.	Old English wealwian.
wallower		One who, or that which, wallows.	
wallowish	Obsolete	Flat; insipid.	
wallwort		The dwarf elder, or danewort (Sambucus Ebulus).	
walm	Obsolete	To roll; to spout; to boil up.	
walnut		The fruit or nut of any tree of the genus Juglans; also, the tree, and its timber.	Old English walhhnutu.
walrus		A very large marine mammal (Trichecus rosmarus) of the Seal family, native of the Arctic Ocean.	Danish hvalros.
walter	Obsolete	To roll or wallow; to welter.	
waltron	Obsolete	A walrus.	
walty		Liable to roll over; crank; as, a walty ship.	
waltz		A dance performed by two persons in circular figures with a whirling motion; also, a piece of music composed in triple measure for this kind of dance.	German Walzer, from Danish walzen.
waltzer		A person who waltzes.	
walwe	Obsolete	To wallow.	
waly	Obsolete	An exclamation of grief.	
wamble		To heave; to be disturbed by nausea; -- said of the stomach.	
wamble-cropped	Slang	Sick at the stomach; also, crestfallen; dejected.	
wammel	English dialect	To move irregularly or awkwardly; to wamble, or wabble.	
wamp		The common American eider.	
wampee		(a) A tree (Cookia punctata) of the Orange family, growing in China and the East Indies; also, its fruit, which is about the size of a large grape, and has a hard rind and a peculiar flavor.	Mandarin Chinese 黃皮.
wampum		Beads made of shells, used by the North American Indians as money, and also wrought into belts, etc., as an ornament.	
wand		A small stick; a rod; a verge.	Old Norse vöndr.
wander		To ramble here and there without any certain course or with no definite object in view; to range about; to stroll; to rove; as, to wander over the fields.	Middle English wandren.
wanderer		One who wanders; a rambler; one who roves; hence, one who deviates from duty.	
wandering		a. & n. from Wander, v.	
wanderingly		In a wandering manner.	
wanderment	Obsolete	The act of wandering, or roaming.	
wanderoo		A large monkey (Macacus silenus) native of Malabar.	
wandy	English dialect	Long and flexible, like a wand.	
wane		To be diminished; to decrease; -- contrasted with wax, and especially applied to the illuminated part of the moon.	Middle English wone, from Old English wuna.
waney		A sharp or uneven edge on a board that is cut from a log not perfectly squared, or that is made in the process of squaring.	
wang	Obsolete	The jaw, jawbone, or cheek bone.	Middle English wange, from Old English wange.
wangan		A boat for conveying provisions, tools, etc.; -- so called by Maine lumbermen.	Western Abnaki waniigan.
wanger	Obsolete	A pillow for the cheek; a pillow.	Middle English wangere, from Old English wangere.
wanghee		The Chinese name of one or two species of bamboo, or jointed cane, of the genus Phyllostachys.	
wango		A boomerang.	
wanhope	Obsolete	Want of hope; despair; also, faint or delusive hope; delusion.	
wanhorn		An East Indian plant (Kæmpferia Galanga) of the Ginger family. See Galanga.	
waniand	Obsolete	The wane of the moon.	Middle English waniand.
waning		The act or process of waning, or decreasing.	
wanion	Obsolete	A word of uncertain signification, used only in the phrase with a wanion, apparently equivalent to with a vengeance, with a plague, or with misfortune.	
wankle	English dialect	Not to be depended on; weak; unstable.	Middle English wankel, from Old English wancol.
wanly		In a wan, or pale, manner.	
wanned		Made wan, or pale.	
wanness		The quality or state of being wan; a sallow, dead, pale color; paleness; pallor; as, the wanness of the cheeks after a fever.	
wannish		Somewhat wan; of a pale hue.	
want		The state of not having; the condition of being without anything; absence or scarcity of what is needed or desired; deficiency; lack; as, a want of power or knowledge for any purpose; want of food and clothing.	Middle English wanten, from Old Norse vanta.
wantage		That which is wanting; deficiency.	
wanting		Absent; lacking; missing; also, deficient; destitute; needy; as, one of the twelve is wanting; I shall not be wanting in exertion.	
wantless		Having no want; abundant; fruitful.	
wanton		Untrained; undisciplined; unrestrained; hence, loose; free; luxuriant; roving; sportive.	
wantonize		To behave wantonly; to frolic; to wanton.	
wantonly		In a wanton manner; without regularity or restraint; loosely; sportively; gayly; playfully; recklessly; lasciviously.	
wantonness		The quality or state of being wanton; negligence of restraint; sportiveness; recklessness; lasciviousness.	
wantrust	Obsolete	Failing or diminishing trust; want of trust or confidence; distrust.	
wantwit	Obsolete	One destitute of wit or sense; a blockhead; a fool.	
wanty	English dialect	A surcingle, or strap of leather, used for binding a load upon the back of a beast; also, a leather tie; a short wagon rope.	Middle English waynte.
wany		Waning or diminished in some parts; not of uniform size throughout; -- said especially of sawed boards or timber when tapering or uneven, from being cut too near the outside of the log.	
wanze	Obsolete	To wane; to wither.	
wap	Obsolete	To beat; to whap.	
wapacut		The American hawk owl. See under Hawk.	
wapatoo		The edible tuber of a species of arrowhead (Sagittaria variabilis); -- so called by the Indians of Oregon.	
waped	Obsolete	Cast down; crushed by misery; dejected.	
wapentake		In some northern counties of England, a division, or district, answering to the hundred in other counties.	Old English wæpengetæc, from Old Norse vápnatak.
wapinschaw	Scots	An exhibition of arms. according to the rank of the individual, by all persons bearing arms; -- formerly made at certain seasons in each district.	
wapiti		The American elk (Cervus Canadensis).	
wapp		(a) A fair-leader. (b) A rope with wall knots in it with which the shrouds are set taut.	
wappato		See Wapatoo — the edible tuber of a species of arrowhead (Sagittaria variabilis); -- so called by the Indians of Oregon.	
wappened		A word of doubtful meaning used once by Shakespeare.	
wapper	Obsolete	To cause to shake; to tremble; to move tremulously, as from weakness; to totter.	
wappet	English dialect	A small yelping cur.	
wapping		Yelping.	
war		A contest between nations or states, carried on by force, whether for defence, for revenging insults and redressing wrongs, for the extension of commerce, for the acquisition of territory…	Middle English werre.
war-beaten		Warworn.	
warble		(Far.) (a) A small, hard tumor which is produced on the back of a horse by the heat or pressure of the saddle in traveling.	Middle English werble.
warbler		One who, or that which, warbles; a singer; a songster; -- applied chiefly to birds.	
warblingly		In a warbling manner.	
ward		The act of guarding; watch; guard; guardianship; specifically, a guarding during the day.	Old English weard.
ward-corn		The duty of keeping watch and ward (see the Note under Watch, n., 1) with a horn to be blown upon any occasion of surprise.	
wardcorps	Obsolete	Guardian; one set to watch over another.	
warden		An officer who keeps or guards; a keeper; as, the warden of a prison.	Middle English wardein.
wardenry		The office or jurisdiction of a warden.	
wardenship		The office or jurisdiction of a warden.	
warder		One who wards or keeps; a keeper; a guard.	
wardian		Designating, or pertaining to, a kind of glass inclosure for keeping ferns, mosses, etc., or for transporting growing plants from a distance; as, a Wardian case of plants; -- so named from the inventor, Nathaniel B.	
wardmote		Anciently, a meeting of the inhabitants of a ward; also, a court formerly held in each ward of London for trying defaults in matters relating to the watch, police, and the like.	
wardrobe		A room or apartment where clothes are kept, or wearing apparel is stored; a portable closet for hanging up clothes.	
wardroom		(Naut.) A room occupied as a messroom by the commissioned officers of a war vessel.	
wardship		The office of a ward or keeper; care and protection of a ward; guardianship; right of guardianship.	
wardsman		A man who keeps ward; a guard.	
wareful	Obsolete	Wary; watchful; cautious.	
warefulness	Obsolete	Wariness; cautiousness.	
warehouse		A storehouse for wares, or goods.	
warehouseman		One who keeps a warehouse; the owner or keeper of a dock warehouse or wharf store.	
warehousing		The act of placing goods in a warehouse, or in a customhouse store.	
wareless	Obsolete	Unwary; incautious; unheeding; careless; unaware.	
warely	Obsolete	Cautiously; warily.	Old English wærlice.
wareroom		A room in which goods are stored or exhibited for sale.	
wares		See 4th Ware.	
warfare		Military service; military life; contest carried on by enemies; hostilities; war.	
warfarer		One engaged in warfare; a military man; a soldier; a warrior.	
warhable	Obsolete	Fit for war.	
wariangle	Obsolete	The red-backed shrike (Lanius collurio); -- called also würger, worrier, and throttler.	
warily		In a wary manner.	
wariment	Obsolete	Wariness.	
warine		A South American monkey, one of the sapajous.	
wariness		The quality or state of being wary; care to foresee and guard against evil; cautiousness.	
warish	Obsolete	To protect from the effects of; hence, to cure; to heal.	
warison	Obsolete	Preparation; protection; provision; supply.	Old French warison.
wark	Obsolete	Work; a building.	Middle English werken.
warkloom	Scots	A tool; an implement.	
warlike		Fit for war; disposed for war; as, a warlike state; a warlike disposition.	
warlikeness		Quality of being warlike.	
warling	Obsolete	One often quarreled with; -- darling.	
warlock		A male witch; a wizard; a sprite; an imp.	Old English wærloga.
warlockry		Impishness; magic.	
warly		Warlike.	
warm		Having heat in a moderate degree; not cold as, warm milk.	Old English werman.
warm-blooded		Having warm blood; -- applied especially to those animals, as birds and mammals, which have warm blood, or, more properly, the power of maintaining a nearly uniform temperature whatever the temperature of the surrounding air.	
warm-hearted		Having strong affection; cordial; sincere; hearty; sympathetic. -- Warm"-heart`ed*ness, n.	
warmer		One who, or that which, warms.	
warmful		Abounding in capacity to warm; giving warmth; as, a warmful garment.	
warming		a. & n. from Warm, v.	
warmly		In a warm manner; ardently.	
warmonger		One who makes ar a trade or business; a mercenary.	
warmouth		An American freshwater bream, or sunfish (Chænobryttus gulosus); -- called also red-eyed bream.	
warmth		The quality or state of being warm; gentle heat; as, the warmth of the sun; the warmth of the blood; vital warmth.	
warmthless		Being without warmth; not communicating warmth; cold.	
warn		To make ware or aware; to give previous information to; to give notice to; to notify; to admonish; hence, to notify or summon by authority; as, to warn a town meeting; to warn a tenant to quit a house.	Old English warnian.
warner	Obsolete	One who warns; an admonisher.	
warning		Giving previous notice; cautioning; admonishing; as, a warning voice.	
warningly		In a warning manner.	
warnstore	Obsolete	To furnish.	
warp		To turn or twist out of shape; esp., to twist or bend out of a flat plane by contraction or otherwise.	Middle English werpen.
warpage		The act of warping; also, a charge per ton made on shipping in some harbors.	
warpath		The route taken by a party of Indians going on a warlike expedition.	
warper		One who, or that which, warps or twists out of shape.	
warping		The act or process of one who, or that which, warps.	
warproof		Valor tried by war.	
warragal		The dingo.	
warrandice		The obligation by which a person, conveying a subject or a right, is bound to uphold that subject or right against every claim, challenge, or burden arising from circumstances prior to the conveyance; warranty.	
warrant		That which warrants or authorizes; a commission giving authority, or justifying the doing of anything; an act, instrument, or obligation…	
warrantable		Authorized by commission, precept, or right; justifiable; defensible; as, the seizure of a thief is always warrantable by law and justice; falsehood is never warrantable.	
warrantee		The person to whom a warrant or warranty is made.	
warranter		One who warrants, gives authority, or legally empowers.	
warrantise	Obsolete	Authority; security; warranty.	
warrantor		One who warrants.	
warranty		(Modern Law) An engagement or undertaking, express or implied, that a certain fact regarding the subject of a contract is, or shall be, as it is expressly or impliedly declared or promised to be.	Anglo-Norman warantie.
warray	Obsolete	To make war upon.	Old French werreier.
warren		(Eng Law) (a) A place privileged, by prescription or grant the king, for keeping certain animals (as hares, conies, partridges, pheasants, etc.) called beasts and fowls of warren.	
warrener		The keeper of a warren.	
warriangle	Obsolete	See Wariangle — the red-backed shrike (Lanius collurio); -- called also würger, worrier, and throttler.	
warrie	Obsolete	See Warye — to curse; to curse; to execrate; to condemn; also, to vex.	
warrin		An Australian lorikeet (Trichoglossus multicolor) remarkable for the variety and brilliancy of its colors; -- called also blue- bellied lorikeet, and blue-bellied parrot.	
warrior		A man engaged or experienced in war, or in the military life; a soldier; a champion.	
warrioress	Obsolete	A female warrior.	
warry	Obsolete	See Warye — to curse; to curse; to execrate; to condemn; also, to vex.	
warsaw		(a) The black grouper (Epinephelus nigritus) of the southern coasts of the United States.	
wart		(Med.) A small, usually hard, tumor on the skin formed by enlargement of its vascular papillæ, and thickening of the epidermis which covers them.	Old English wearte.
warted		Having little knobs on the surface; verrucose; as, a warted capsule.	
wartless		Having no wart.	
wartweed		Same as Wartwort.	
wartwort		A name given to several plants because they were thought to be a cure for warts, as a kind of spurge (Euphorbia Helioscopia), and the nipplewort (Lampsana communis).	
warty		Having warts; full of warts; overgrow with warts; as, a warty leaf.	
warty-back		An American fresh-water mussel (Quadrula pustulosa).	
warwickite		A dark brown or black mineral, occurring in prismatic crystals imbedded in limestone near Warwick, New York.	
warworn		Worn with military service; as, a warworn soldier; a warworn coat.	
wary		Cautious of danger; carefully watching and guarding against deception, artifices, and dangers; timorously or suspiciously prudent; circumspect; scrupulous; careful.	
warye	Obsolete	To curse; to curse; to execrate; to condemn; also, to vex.	
was		The first and third persons singular of the verb be, in the indicative mood, preterit (imperfect) tense; as, I was; he was.	Old English wæs.
wase	English dialect	A bundle of straw, or other material, to relieve the pressure of burdens carried upon the head.	Middle English wase.
wash		To cleanse by ablution, or dipping or rubbing in water; to apply water or other liquid to for the purpose of cleansing; to scrub with water, etc., or as with water; as, to wash the hands or body; to wash garments…	Middle English washen.
wash-off		Capable of being washed off; not permanent or durable; -- said of colors not fixed by steaming or otherwise.	
washable		Capable of being washed without damage to fabric or color.	
washboard		A fluted, or ribbed, board on which clothes are rubbed in washing them.	
washbowl		A basin, or bowl, to hold water for washing one's hands, face, etc.	
washdish		A washbowl.	
washed		Appearing as if overlaid with a thin layer of different color; -- said of the colors of certain birds and insects.	
washen		p. p. of Wash — to cleanse by ablution, or dipping or rubbing in water; to apply water or other liquid to for the purpose of cleansing; to scrub with water, etc., or as with water; as…	Middle English washen.
washer		One who, or that which, washes.	
washerman		A man who washes clothes, esp. for hire, or for others.	
washerwoman		A woman who washes clothes, especially for hire, or for others.	
washhouse		An outbuilding for washing, esp. one for washing clothes; a laundry.	
washiness		The quality or state of being washy, watery, or weak.	
washing		The act of one who washes; the act of cleansing with water; ablution.	
washingtonian		Pertaining to, or characteristic of, George Washington; as, a Washingtonian policy.	
washout		The washing out or away of earth, etc., especially of a portion of the bed of a road or railroad by a fall of rain or a freshet; also, a place, especially in the bed of a road or railroad, where the earth has been washed away.	
washpot		A pot or vessel in which anything is washed.	
washstand		A piece of furniture holding the ewer or pitcher, basin, and other requisites for washing the person.	
washtub		A tub in which clothes are washed.	
washy		Watery; damp; soft.	
wasite		A variety of allanite from Sweden supposed to contain wasium.	
wasium		A rare element supposed by Bahr to have been extracted from wasite, but now identified with thorium.	
wasp		Any one of numerous species of stinging hymenopterous insects, esp. any of the numerous species of the genus Vespa, which includes the true, or social, wasps, some of which are called yellow jackets.	
waspish		Resembling a wasp in form; having a slender waist, like a wasp.	
wassail		An ancient expression of good wishes on a festive occasion, especially in drinking to some one.	Old Norse ves heill.
wassailer		One who drinks wassail; one who engages in festivity, especially in drinking; a reveler.	
wast		The second person singular of the verb be, in the indicative mood, imperfect tense; -- now used only in solemn or poetical style.	
wastage		Loss by use, decay, evaporation, leakage, or the like; waste.	
waste		Desolate; devastated; stripped; bare; hence, dreary; dismal; gloomy; cheerless.	Middle English wasten.
wastebasket		A basket used in offices, libraries, etc., as a receptacle for waste paper.	
wasteboard		See Washboard, 3.	
wastebook		A book in which rough entries of transactions are made, previous to their being carried into the journal.	
wasteful		Full of waste; destructive to property; ruinous; as; wasteful practices or negligence; wasteful expenses.	
wastel	Obsolete	A kind of white and fine bread or cake; -- called also wastel bread, and wastel cake.	Old French wastel.
wasteness		The quality or state of being waste; a desolate state or condition; desolation.	
waster		One who, or that which, wastes; one who squanders; one who consumes or expends extravagantly; a spendthrift; a prodigal.	
wastethrift	Obsolete	A spendthrift.	
wasteweir		An overfall, or weir, for the escape, or overflow, of superfluous water from a canal, reservoir, pond, or the like.	
wasting		Causing waste; also, undergoing waste; diminishing; as, a wasting disease; a wasting fortune.	
wastor	Obsolete	A waster; a thief.	
wastorel	Obsolete	See Wastrel — any waste thing or substance; as: (a) Waste land or common land.	
wastrel	Obsolete	Any waste thing or substance; as: (a) Waste land or common land.	
watch		The act of watching; forbearance of sleep; vigil; wakeful, vigilant, or constantly observant attention; close observation; guard; preservative or preventive vigilance; formerly, a watching or guarding by night.	
watchdog		A dog kept to watch and guard premises or property, and to give notice of the approach of intruders.	
watcher		One who watches; one who sits up or continues; a diligent observer; specifically, one who attends upon the sick during the night.	
watches		The leaves of Sarace. See Trumpets.	
watchet	Obsolete	Pale or light blue.	
watchful		Full of watch; vigilant; attentive; careful to observe closely; observant; cautious; -- with of before the thing to be regulated or guarded; as, to be watchful of one's behavior; and with against before the thing to be avoided…	
watchhouse		A place where persons under temporary arrest by the police of a city are kept; a police station; a lockup.	
watchmaker		One whose occupation is to make and repair watches.	
watchman		One set to watch; a person who keeps guard; a guard; a sentinel.	
watchtower		A tower in which a sentinel is placed to watch for enemies, the approach of danger, or the like.	
watchword		A word given to sentinels, and to such as have occasion to visit the guards, used as a signal by which a friend is known from an enemy, or a person who has a right to pass the watch from one who has not; a countersign; a password.	Middle English waccheword.
water		The fluid which descends from the clouds in rain, and which forms rivers, lakes, seas, etc.	Middle English water, from Old English wæter.
water-bearer		The constellation Aquarius.	
water-bound		Prevented by a flood from proceeding.	
water-closet		A privy; especially, a privy furnished with a contrivance for introducing a stream of water to cleanse it.	
water-colorist		One who paints in water colors.	
water-furrow		To make water furrows in.	
water-laid		Having a left-hand twist; -- said of cordage; as, a water-laid, or left-hand, rope.	
water-logged		Filled or saturated with water so as to be heavy, unmanageable, or loglike; -- said of a vessel, when, by receiving a great quantity of water into her hold, she has become so heavy as not to be manageable by the helm.	
water-ret		To ret, or rot, in water, as flax; to water-rot.	
water-rot		To rot by steeping in water; to water-ret; as, to water-rot hemp or flax.	
water-soak		To soak water; to fill the interstices of with water.	
water-standing		Tear-filled.	
water-tight		So tight as to retain, or not to admit, water; not leaky.	
water-white		A vinelike plant (Vitis Caribæa) growing in parched districts in the West Indies, and containing a great amount of sap which is sometimes used for quenching thirst.	
water-withe		A vinelike plant (Vitis Caribæa) growing in parched districts in the West Indies, and containing a great amount of sap which is sometimes used for quenching thirst.	
waterage		Money paid for transportation of goods, etc., by water.	
waterboard		A board set up to windward in a boat, to keep out water.	
waterbok		A water buck.	Afrikaans waterbok.
watercourse		One of the holes in floor or other plates to permit water to flow through.	
waterer		One who, or that which, waters.	
waterfall		A fall, or perpendicular descent, of the water of a river or stream, or a descent nearly perpendicular; a cascade; a cataract.	Middle English waterfal.
waterflood		A flood of water; an inundation.	
waterfowl		Any bird that frequents the water, or lives about rivers, lakes, etc., or on or near the sea; an aquatic fowl; -- used also collectively.	
waterhorse		A pile of salted fish heaped up to drain.	
waterie		The pied wagtail; -- so called because it frequents ponds.	
wateriness		The quality or state of being watery; moisture; humidity.	
watering		a. & n. from Water, v.	
waterish		Resembling water; thin; watery.	
waterishness		The quality of being waterish.	
waterlander		One of a body of Dutch Anabaptists who separated from the Mennonites in the sixteenth century; -- so called from a district in North Holland denominated Waterland.	
waterlandian		One of a body of Dutch Anabaptists who separated from the Mennonites in the sixteenth century; -- so called from a district in North Holland denominated Waterland.	
waterleaf		Any plant of the American genus Hydrophyllum, herbs having white or pale blue bell-shaped flowers.	
waterless		Destitute of water; dry.	
waterman		A man who plies for hire on rivers, lakes, or canals, or in harbors, in distinction from a seaman who is engaged on the high seas; a man who manages fresh-water craft; a boatman; a ferryman.	
watermanship		Art of, or skill in, rowing; oarsmanship; specif., skill in managing the blade in the water, as distinguished from managing arms, body, etc., in the stroke.	
watermark		A mark indicating the height to which water has risen, or at which it has stood; the usual limit of high or low water.	
watermelon		The very large ovoid or roundish fruit of a cucurbitaceous plant (Citrullus vulgaris) of many varieties; also, the plant itself.	
waterpot		A vessel for holding or conveying water, or for sprinkling water on cloth, plants, etc.	
waterproof		Proof against penetration or permeation by water; impervious to water; as, a waterproof garment; a waterproof roof.	
waterproofing		The act or process of making waterproof.	
waterscape		A sea view; -- distinguished from landscape.	
watershed		The whole region or extent of country which contributes to the supply of a river or lake.	
watershoot		(Arch.) That which serves to guard from falling water; a drip or dripstone.	
waterspout		A remarkable meteorological phenomenon, of the nature of a tornado or whirlwind, usually observed over the sea, but sometimes over the land.	
watertath	English dialect	A kind of coarse grass growing in wet grounds, and supposed to be injurious to sheep.	
waterway		Heavy plank or timber extending fore and aft the whole length of a vessel's deck at the line of junction with the sides, forming a channel to the scuppers, which are cut through it.	
waterweed		See Anacharis — a fresh-water weed of the frog's-bit family (Hydrocharidaceæ), native to America.	
waterwork		(Paint.) Painting executed in size or distemper, on canvas or walls, -- formerly, frequently taking the place of tapestry.	
waterworn		Worn, smoothed, or polished by the action of water; as, waterworn stones.	
waterwort		Any plant of the natural order Elatineæ, consisting of two genera (Elatine, and Bergia), mostly small annual herbs growing in the edges of ponds.	
watery		Of or pertaining to water; consisting of water.	
watt		A unit of power or activity equal to 107 C.G.S. units of power, or to work done at the rate of one joule a second.	
watteau		Having the appearance of that which is seen in pictures by Antoine Watteau, a French painter of the eighteenth century; --said esp. of women's garments; as, a Watteau bodice.	
wattle		A twig or flexible rod; hence, a hurdle made of such rods.	
wattlebird		(Zoöl.) Any one of several species of honey eaters belonging to Anthochæra and allied genera of the family Meliphagidæ.	
wattled		Furnished with wattles, or pendent fleshy processes at the chin or throat.	
wattless		Without any power (cf. Watt); -- said of an alternating current or component of current when it differs in phase by ninety degrees from the electromotive force which produces it…	
wattling		The act or process of binding or platting with twigs; also, the network so formed.	
wattmeter		An instrument for measuring power in watts, -- much used in measuring the energy of an electric current.	
waucht	Scots	A large draught of any liquid.	
waught	Scots	A large draught of any liquid.	
waul		To cry as a cat; to squall; to wail.	
wave		See Wave — to play loosely; to move like a wave, one way and the other; to float; to flutter; to undulate.	Middle English waven, from Old English wafian.
wave-worn		Worn by the waves.	
waved		Exhibiting a wavelike form or outline; undulating; intended; wavy; as, waved edge.	
waveless		Free from waves; undisturbed; not agitated; as, the waveless sea.	
wavelet		A little wave; a ripple.	
wavellite		A hydrous phosphate of alumina, occurring usually in hemispherical radiated forms varying in color from white to yellow, green, or black.	
waver		To play or move to and fro; to move one way and the other; hence, to totter; to reel; to swing; to flutter.	Old Norse vafra.
waverer		One who wavers; one who is unsettled in doctrine, faith, opinion, or the like.	
waveringly		In a wavering manner.	
waveringness		The quality or state of wavering.	
waveson		Goods which, after shipwreck, appear floating on the waves, or sea.	
wavey		The snow goose.	
waviness		The quality or state of being wavy.	
wavure		See Waivure.	
wavy		Rising or swelling in waves; full of waves.	
wawaskeesh		The wapiti, or wapiti, or American elk.	
wawl		See Waul — to cry as a cat; to squall; to wail.	
wax		To increase in size; to grow bigger; to become larger or fuller; - - opposed to wane.	Old English weaxan.
waxberry		The wax-covered fruit of the wax myrtle, or bayberry. See Bayberry, and Candleberry tree.	
waxbill		Any one of numerous species of finchlike birds belonging to Estrelda and allied genera, native of Asia, Africa, and Australia.	
waxbird		The waxwing.	
waxen		Covered with wax; waxed; as, a waxen tablet.	Middle English waxen, from Old English weaxen.
waxiness		Quality or state of being waxy.	
waxwing		Any one of several species of small birds of the genus Ampelis, in which some of the secondary quills are usually tipped with small horny ornaments resembling red sealing wax.	
waxwork		Work made of wax; especially, a figure or figures formed or partly of wax, in imitation of real beings.	
waxworker		One who works in wax; one who makes waxwork.	
waxworks		An exhibition of wax figures, or the place of exhibition.	
waxy		Resembling wax in appearance or consistency; viscid; adhesive; soft; hence, yielding; pliable; impressible.	
way		That by, upon, or along, which one passes or processes; opportunity or room to pass; place of passing; passage; road, street, track, or path of any kind; as, they built a way to the mine.	Old English weg.
way-going		Going away; departing; of or pertaining to one who goes away.	
way-goose		See Wayz-goose, n.,	
way-wise		Skillful in finding the way; well acquainted with the way or route; wise from having traveled.	
waybill		A list of passengers in a public vehicle, or of the baggage or gods transported by a common carrier on a land route.	
waybread		The common dooryard plantain (Plantago major).	
waybung		An Australian insessorial bird (Corcorax melanorhamphus) noted for the curious actions of the male during the breeding season.	
wayed		Used to the way; broken.	
wayfare	Obsolete	To journey; to travel; to go to and fro.	Middle English weyfaren.
wayfarer		One who travels; a traveler; a passenger.	
wayfaring		Traveling; passing; being on a journey. xix. 17.	
waygate		The tailrace of a mill.	
waylay		To lie in wait for; to meet or encounter in the way; especially, to watch for the passing of, with a view to seize, rob, or slay; to beset in ambush.	
waylayer		One who waylays another.	
wayless		Having no road or path; pathless.	
wayleway	Obsolete	See Welaway.	
waymaker		One who makes a way; a precursor.	
waymark		A mark to guide in traveling.	
wayment	Obsolete	To lament; to grieve; to wail.	Middle English waymenten.
wayside		The side of the way; the edge or border of a road or path.	
wayward		Taking one's own way; disobedient; froward; perverse; willful.	
waywiser		An instrument for measuring the distance which one has traveled on the road; an odometer, pedometer, or perambulator.	
waywode		Originally, the title of a military commander in various Slavonic countries; afterwards applied to governors of towns or provinces.	
waywodeship		The office, province, or jurisdiction of a waywode.	
wayworn		Wearied by traveling.	
wayz-goose		An annual feast of the persons employed in a printing office.	
