we		The plural nominative case of the pronoun of the first person; the word with which a person in speaking or writing denotes a number or company of which he is one, as the subject of an action expressed by a verb.
weak		Wanting physical strength. Specifically: -- (a) Deficient in strength of body; feeble; infirm; sickly; debilitated; enfeebled; exhausted.
weak-hearted		Having little courage; of feeble spirit; dispirited; faint- hearted.
weak-kneed		Having weak knees; hence, easily yielding; wanting resolution.
weak-minded		Having a weak mind, either naturally or by reason of disease; feebleminded; foolish; idiotic. -- Weak"-mind`ed*ness, n.
weaken		To make weak; to lessen the strength of; to deprive of strength; to debilitate; to enfeeble; to enervate; as, to weaken the body or the mind; to weaken the hands of a magistrate; to weaken the force of an objection or an argument.
weakener		One who, or that which, weakens.
weakfish		Any fish of the genus Cynoscion; a squeteague; -- so called from its tender mouth.
weakish		Somewhat weak; rather weak.
weakishness		Quality or state of being weakish.
weakling		A weak or feeble creature.
weakly		In a weak manner; with little strength or vigor; feebly.
weakness		The quality or state of being weak; want of strength or firmness; lack of vigor; want of resolution or of moral strength; feebleness.
weal		A sound, healthy, or prosperous state of a person or thing; prosperity; happiness; welfare.
weal-balanced	Obsolete	Balanced or considered with reference to public weal.
weald		A wood or forest; a wooded land or region; also, an open country; -- often used in place names.
wealden		Of or pertaining to the lowest division of the Cretaceous formation in England and on the Continent, which overlies the Oölitic series.
wealdish	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to a weald, esp. to the weald in the county of Kent, England.
wealful	Obsolete	Weleful.
wealsman		A statesman; a politician.
wealth		Large possessions; a comparative abundance of things which are objects of human desire; esp., abundance of worldly estate; affluence; opulence; riches.
wealthful		Full of wealth; wealthy; prosperous.
wealthily		In a wealthy manner; richly.
wealthiness		The quality or state of being wealthy, or rich; richness; opulence.
wealthy		Having wealth; having large possessions, or larger than most men, as lands, goods, money, or securities; opulent; affluent; rich.
wean		To accustom and reconcile, as a child or other young animal, to a want or deprivation of mother's milk; to take from the breast or udder; to cause to cease to depend on the mother nourishment.
weanedness		Quality or state of being weaned.
weanel	Obsolete	A weanling.
weanling		a. & n. from Wean, v.
weapon		An instrument of offensive of defensive combat; something to fight with; anything used, or designed to be used, in destroying, defeating, or injuring an enemy, as a gun, a sword…
weaponed		Furnished with weapons, or arms; armed; equipped.
weaponless		Having no weapon.
weaponry	Poetic	Weapons, collectively; as, an array of weaponry.
wear		To carry or bear upon the person; to bear upon one's self, as an article of clothing, decoration, warfare, bondage, etc.; to have appendant to one's body; to have on; as, to wear a coat; to wear a shackle.
wearable		Capable of being worn; suitable to be worn.
wearer		One who wears or carries as appendant to the body; as, the wearer of a cloak, a sword, a crown, a shackle, etc. Cowls, hoods, and habits, with their wearers, tossed, And fluttered into rags.
weariable		That may be wearied.
weariful		Abounding in qualities which cause weariness; wearisome. -- Wea"ri*ful*ly, adv.
weariless		Incapable of being wearied.
wearily		In a weary manner.
weariness		The quality or state of being weary or tried; lassitude; exhaustion of strength; fatigue.
wearing		The act of one who wears; the manner in which a thing wears; use; conduct; consumption.
wearish	Obsolete	Weak; withered; shrunk.
wearisome		Causing weariness; tiresome; tedious; weariful; as, a wearisome march; a wearisome day's work; a wearisome book.
weary		Having the strength exhausted by toil or exertion; worn out in respect to strength, endurance, etc.; tired; fatigued.
weasand		The windpipe; -- called also, formerly, wesil.
weasel		Any one of various species of small carnivores belonging to the genus Putorius, as the ermine and ferret.
weasel-faced		Having a thin, sharp face, like a weasel.
weaser	Dialect	The American merganser; -- called also weaser sheldrake.
weasiness	Obsolete	Quality or state of being weasy; full feeding; sensual indulgence.
weasy	Obsolete	Given to sensual indulgence; gluttonous.
weather		The state of the air or atmosphere with respect to heat or cold, wetness or dryness, calm or storm, clearness or cloudiness, or any other meteorological phenomena; meteorological condition of the atmosphere; as, warm weather…
weather-beaten		Beaten or harassed by the weather; worn by exposure to the weather, especially to severe weather.
weather-bit		A turn of the cable about the end of the windlass, without the bits.
weather-bitten		Eaten into, defaced, or worn, by exposure to the weather.
weather-board		To nail boards upon so as to lap one over another, in order to exclude rain, snow, etc. Gwilt.
weather-bound		Kept in port or at anchor by storms; delayed by bad weather; as, a weather-bound vessel.
weather-driven		Driven by winds or storms; forced by stress of weather.
weather-fend		To defend from the weather; to shelter.
weatherbit		To take another turn with, as a cable around a windlass.
weatherboard		(Naut.) (a) That side of a vessel which is toward the wind; the windward side.
weatherboarding		(a) The covering or siding of a building, formed of boards lapping over one another, to exclude rain, snow, etc. (b) Boards adapted or intended for such use.
weathercock		A vane, or weather vane; -- so called because originally often in the figure of a cock, turning on the top of a spire with the wind, and showing its direction.
weathered		(Arch.) Made sloping, so as to throw off water; as, a weathered cornice or window sill.
weatherglass		An instrument to indicate the state of the atmosphere, especially changes of atmospheric pressure, and hence changes of weather, as a barometer or baroscope.
weathering		The action of the elements on a rock in altering its color, texture, or composition, or in rounding off its edges.
weatherliness		The quality of being weatherly.
weatherly		Working, or able to sail, close to the wind; as, a weatherly ship.
weathermost		Being farthest to the windward.
weatherproof		Proof against rough weather.
weatherwise		Skillful in forecasting the changes of the weather.
weatherwiser	Obsolete	Something that foreshows the weather.
weatherworn		Worn by the action of, or by exposure to, the weather.
weave		To unite, as threads of any kind, in such a manner as to form a texture; to entwine or interlace into a fabric; as, to weave wool, silk, etc.; hence, to unite by close connection or intermixture; to unite intimately.
weaver		One who weaves, or whose occupation is to weave.
weaverfish		See Weever — any one of several species of edible marine fishes belonging to the genus Trachinus, of the family Trachinidæ.
weaving		The act of one who, or that which, weaves; the act or art of forming cloth in a loom by the union or intertexture of threads.
weazand	Obsolete	See Weasand — the windpipe; -- called also, formerly, wesil.
weazen		Thin; sharp; withered; wizened; as, a weazen face.
weazeny	Colloquial	Somewhat weazen; shriveled.
web		That which is woven; a texture; textile fabric; esp., something woven in a loom.
web-fingered		Having the fingers united by a web for a considerable part of their length.
web-footed		Having webbed feet; palmiped; as, a goose or a duck is a web- footed fowl.
web-toed		Having the toes united by a web for a considerable part of their length.
webbed		Provided with a web.
webber	Obsolete	One who forms webs; a weaver; a webster.
webbing		A woven band of cotton or flax, used for reins, girths, bed bottoms, etc.
webby		Of or pertaining to a web or webs; like a web; filled or covered with webs.
weber	Obsolete	The standard unit of electrical quantity, and also of current. See Coulomb, and Amp.
webeye		See Web, n., 8.
webfoot		A foot the toes of which are connected by a membrane.
webster	Obsolete	A weaver; originally, a female weaver.
websterite		A hydrous sulphate of alumina occurring in white reniform masses.
webworm		Any one of various species of moths whose gregarious larvæ eat the leaves of trees, and construct a large web to which they retreat when not feeding.
wed		To take for husband or for wife by a formal ceremony; to marry; to espouse.
weddahs		See Veddahs.
wedded		Joined in wedlock; married.
wedder		See Wether — a castrated ram.
wedding		Nuptial ceremony; nuptial festivities; marriage; nuptials.
weder	Obsolete	Weather.
wedge		A piece of metal, or other hard material, thick at one end, and tapering to a thin edge at the other, used in splitting wood, rocks, etc., in raising heavy bodies, and the like.
wedge-formed		Having the form of a wedge; cuneiform.
wedge-shaped		Having the shape of a wedge; cuneiform.
wedge-shell		Any one of numerous species of small marine bivalves belonging to Donax and allied genera in which the shell is wedge-shaped.
wedge-tailed		Having a tail which has the middle pair of feathers longest, the rest successively and decidedly shorter, and all more or less attenuate; -- said of certain birds.
wedgebill		An Australian crested insessorial bird (Sphenostoma cristatum) having a wedge-shaped bill.
wedgewise		In the manner of a wedge.
wedgy		Like a wedge; wedge-shaped.
wedlock		The ceremony, or the state, of marriage; matrimony.
wednesday		The fourth day of the week; the next day after Tuesday.
wee	Obsolete	A little; a bit, as of space, time, or distance.
weech-elm	Obsolete	The wych-elm.
weed		A garment; clothing; especially, an upper or outer garment.
weeder		One who, or that which, weeds, or frees from anything noxious.
weedery		Weeds, collectively; also, a place full of weeds or for growing weeds.
weeding		a. & n. from Weed, v.
weeding-rhim	English dialect	A kind of implement used for tearing up weeds esp. on summer fallows.
weedless		Free from weeds or noxious matter.
weedy		Of or pertaining to weeds; consisting of weeds.
week		A period of seven days, usually that reckoned from one Sabbath or Sunday to the next.
week-end		The end of the week; specif., though loosely, the period observed commonly as a holiday, from Saturday noon or Friday night to Monday; as, to visit one for a week-end; also, a house party during a week-end.
weekly		Of or pertaining to a week, or week days; as, weekly labor.
weekwam		See Wigwam — an indian cabin or hut, usually of a conical form, and made of a framework of poles covered with hides, bark, or mats; -- called also tepee.
weely	Obsolete	A kind of trap or snare for fish, made of twigs.
ween	Obsolete	To think; to imagine; to fancy.
weep		The lapwing; the wipe; -- so called from its cry. imp. of Weep, for wept.
weeper		One who weeps; esp., one who sheds tears.
weepful	Obsolete	Full of weeping or lamentation; grieving.
weeping		The act of one who weeps; lamentation with tears; shedding of tears.
weeping-ripe	Obsolete	Ripe for weeping; ready to weep.
weepingly		In a weeping manner.
weerish	Obsolete	See Wearish — weak; withered; shrunk.
weesel		See Weasel — any one of various species of small carnivores belonging to the genus Putorius, as the ermine and ferret.
weet-bird	English dialect	The wryneck; -- so called from its cry.
weet-weet	English dialect	(a) The common European sandpiper. (b) The chaffinch.
weetingly	Obsolete	Knowingly.
weetless	Obsolete	Unknowing; also, unknown; unmeaning.
weetweet		A throwing toy, or implement, of the Australian aborigines, consisting of a cigar-shaped stick fastened at one end to a flexible twig.
weever		Any one of several species of edible marine fishes belonging to the genus Trachinus, of the family Trachinidæ.
weevil		Any one of numerous species of snout beetles, or Rhynchophora, in which the head is elongated and usually curved downward.
weeviled		Infested by weevils; as, weeviled grain.
weevily		Having weevils; weeviled.
weezel		See Weasel — any one of various species of small carnivores belonging to the genus Putorius, as the ermine and ferret.
weft		The woof of cloth; the threads that cross the warp from selvage to selvage; the thread carried by the shuttle in weaving.
weftage	Obsolete	Texture.
wegotism	Colloquial	Excessive use of the pronoun we; -- called also weism.
wehrgeld		See Weregild — the price of a man's head; a compensation paid of a man killed, partly to the king for the loss of a subject, partly to the lord of a vassal, and partly to the next of kin.
wehrgelt		See Weregild — the price of a man's head; a compensation paid of a man killed, partly to the king for the loss of a subject, partly to the lord of a vassal, and partly to the next of kin.
wehrwolf		See Werewolf — a person transformed into a wolf in form and appetite, either temporarily or permanently, whether by supernatural influences, by witchcraft, or voluntarily; a lycanthrope.
weigela		A hardy garden shrub (Diervilla Japonica) belonging to the Honeysuckle family, with withe or red flowers.
weigelia		A hardy garden shrub (Diervilla Japonica) belonging to the Honeysuckle family, with withe or red flowers.
weigh		A corruption of Way, used only in the phrase under weigh.
weigh-house		A building at or within which goods, and the like, are weighed.
weighable		Capable of being weighed.
weighage		A duty or toil paid for weighing merchandise.
weighbeam		A kind of large steelyard for weighing merchandise; -- also called weighmaster's beam.
weighboard		Clay intersecting a vein.
weighbridge		A weighing machine on which loaded carts may be weighed; platform scales.
weigher		One who weighs; specifically, an officer whose duty it is to weigh commodities.
weighing		a. & n. from Weigh, v.
weighlock		A lock, as on a canal, in which boats are weighed and their tonnage is settled.
weighmaster		One whose business it is to weigh ore, hay, merchandise, etc.; one licensed as a public weigher.
weight		The quality of being heavy; that property of bodies by which they tend toward the center of the earth; the effect of gravitative force, especially when expressed in certain units or standards, as pounds, grams, etc.
weightily		In a weighty manner.
weightiness		The quality or state of being weighty; weight; force; importance; impressiveness.
weightless		Having no weight; imponderable; hence, light.
weighty		Having weight; heavy; ponderous; as, a weighty body.
weir		A dam in a river to stop and raise the water, for the purpose of conducting it to a mill, forming a fish pond, or the like.
weird		Of or pertaining to fate; concerned with destiny.
weirdness		The quality or state of being weird.
weism		Same as Wegotism.
weismannism		The theories and teachings in regard to heredity propounded by the German biologist August Weismann, esp. in regard to germ plasm as the basis of heredity and the impossibility of transmitting acquired characteristics…
weive	Obsolete	See Waive — to throw away; to cast off; to reject; to desert.
weka		A New Zealand rail (Ocydromus australis) which has wings so short as to be incapable of flight.
wekau		A small New Zealand owl (Sceloglaux albifacies).
wekeen	English dialect	The meadow pipit.
wel-begone	Obsolete	Surrounded with happiness or prosperity.
welch		See Welsh — the language of Wales, or of the Welsh people.
welcher		See Welsher — one who cheats at a horse race; one who bets, without a chance of being able to pay; one who receives money to back certain horses and absconds with it.
welchman		See Welshman — a native or inhabitant of Wales; one of the Welsh.
welcome		Received with gladness; admitted willingly to the house, entertainment, or company; as, a welcome visitor.
welcomely		In a welcome manner.
welcomeness		The quality or state of being welcome; gratefulness; agreeableness; kind reception.
welcomer		One who welcomes; one who salutes, or receives kindly, a newcomer.
weld		(Bot.) An herb (Reseda luteola) related to mignonette, growing in Europe, and to some extent in America; dyer's broom; dyer's rocket; dyer's weed; wild woad.
weldable		Capable of being welded.
welder		One who welds, or unites pieces of iron, etc., by welding.
wele	Obsolete	Prosperity; happiness; well-being; weal.
weleful	Obsolete	Producing prosperity or happiness; blessed.
welew	Obsolete	To welk, or wither.
welfare		Well-doing or well-being in any respect; the enjoyment of health and the common blessings of life; exemption from any evil or calamity; prosperity; happiness.
welfaring	Obsolete	Faring well; prosperous; thriving.
welk	English dialect	To soak; also, to beat severely.
welked		See Whelked — having whelks; whelky; as, whelked horns.
welkin		The visible regions of the air; the vault of heaven; the sky.
well		An issue of water from the earth; a spring; a fountain.
well-being		The state or condition of being well; welfare; happiness; prosperity; as, virtue is essential to the well-being of men or of society.
well-born		Born of a noble or respect able family; not of mean birth.
well-bred		Having good breeding; refined in manners; polite; cultivated.
well-favored		Handsome; wellformed; beautiful; pleasing to the eye.
well-informed		Correctly informed; provided with information; well furnished with authentic knowledge; intelligent.
well-intentioned		Having upright intentions or honorable purposes.
well-known		Fully known; generally known or acknowledged.
well-liking	Obsolete	Being in good condition.
well-mannered		Polite; well-bred; complaisant; courteous.
well-meaner		One whose intention is good.
well-meaning		Having a good intention.
well-natured		Good-natured; kind.
well-nigh		Almost; nearly.
well-plighted	Obsolete	Being well folded.
well-read		Of extensive reading; deeply versed; -- often followed by in.
well-seen	Obsolete	Having seen much; hence, accomplished; experienced.
well-set		Properly or firmly set.
well-sped		Having good success.
well-spoken		Speaking well; speaking with fitness or grace; speaking kindly.
well-willer		One who wishes well, or means kindly.
well-wish		A wish of happiness.
wellat		The king parrakeet See under King.
welldoer		One who does well; one who does good to another; a benefactor.
welldoing		A doing well; right performance of duties.
welldrain		To drain, as land; by means of wells, or pits, which receive the water, and from which it is discharged by machinery.
wellfare	Obsolete	See Welfare — well-doing or well-being in any respect; the enjoyment of health and the common blessings of life; exemption from any evil or calamity; prosperity; happiness.
wellhead		A source, spring, or fountain.
wellhole		(Arch.) (a) The open space in a floor, to accommodate a staircase. (b) The open space left beyond the ends of the steps of a staircase.
wellingtonia		A name given to the (Sequoia gigantea) of California, and still used in England.
wellingtons		A kind of long boots for men.
wellspring		A fountain; a spring; a source of continual supply.
wellwisher		One who wishes another well; one who is benevolently or friendlily inclined.
wels		The sheatfish; -- called also waller.
welsbach		Of or pertaining to Auer von Welsbach or the incandescent gas burner invented by him. -- Welsbach burner…
welsh		The language of Wales, or of the Welsh people.
welsher	Slang	One who cheats at a horse race; one who bets, without a chance of being able to pay; one who receives money to back certain horses and absconds with it.
welshman		A native or inhabitant of Wales; one of the Welsh.
welsome	Obsolete	Prosperous; well.
welt		(Her.) A narrow border, as of an ordinary, but not extending around the ends.
weltanschauung		Lit., world view; a conception of the course of events in, and of the purpose of, the world as a whole, forming a philosophical view or apprehension of the universe; the general idea embodied in a cosmology.
welte		imp. of Weld, to wield.
welter		To roll, as the body of an animal; to tumble about, especially in anything foul or defiling; to wallow.
welterweight		(Horse Racing) A weight of 28 pounds (one of 40 pounds is called a heavy welterweight) sometimes imposed in addition to weight for age, chiefly in steeplechases and hurdle races.
weltschmertz		Sorrow or sadness over the present or future evils or woes of the world in general; sentimental pessimism.
welwitschia		An African plant (Welwitschia mirabilis) belonging to the order Gnetaceæ.
wem	Obsolete	The abdomen; the uterus; the womb.
wemless	Obsolete	Having no wem, or blemish; spotless.
wen		An indolent, encysted tumor of the skin; especially, a sebaceous cyst.
wen-li		The higher literary idiom of Chinese, that of the canonical books and of all composition pretending to literary standing.
wench		A young woman; a girl; a maiden.
wencher		One who wenches; a lewd man.
wenchless		Being without a wench.
wend		To go; to pass; to betake one's self.
wende		imp. of Wene — to ween.
wendic		Of or pertaining the Wends, or their language.
wendish		Of or pertaining the Wends, or their language.
wends		A Slavic tribe which once occupied the northern and eastern parts of Germany, of which a small remnant exists.
wene	Obsolete	To ween.
wennel	Obsolete	See Weanel — a weanling.
wennish		Having the nature of a wen; resembling a wen; as, a wennish excrescence.
wenny		Having the nature of a wen; resembling a wen; as, a wennish excrescence.
wenona		A sand snake (Charina plumbea) of Western North America, of the family Erycidæ.
went	Obsolete	imp. & p. p. of Wend; -- now obsolete except as the imperfect of go, with which it has no etymological connection.
wentletrap		Any one of numerous species of elegant, usually white, marine shells of the genus Scalaria, especially Scalaria pretiosa, which was formerly highly valued; -- called also staircase shell.
wep		imp. of Weep — the lapwing; the wipe; -- so called from its cry. imp. of Weep, for wept.
wept		imp. & p. p. of Weep.
werche	Obsolete	To work.
were	Obsolete	A fine for slaying a man; the money value set upon a man's life; weregild.
weregild		The price of a man's head; a compensation paid of a man killed, partly to the king for the loss of a subject, partly to the lord of a vassal, and partly to the next of kin.
werewolf		A person transformed into a wolf in form and appetite, either temporarily or permanently, whether by supernatural influences, by witchcraft, or voluntarily; a lycanthrope.
werk	Obsolete	See Work — exertion of strength or faculties; physical or intellectual effort directed to an end; industrial activity; toil; employment; sometimes, specifically, physically labor.
werke	Obsolete	See Work — exertion of strength or faculties; physical or intellectual effort directed to an end; industrial activity; toil; employment; sometimes, specifically, physically labor.
wern	Obsolete	To refuse.
wernerian		Of or pertaining to A.
wernerite		The common grayish or white variety of soapolite.
weroole		An Australian lorikeet (Ptilosclera versicolor) noted for the variety of its colors; -- called also varied lorikeet.
werrey	Obsolete	To warray.
werst		See Verst — a russian measure of length containing 3,500 English feet.
wert	Obsolete	, The second person singular, indicative and subjunctive moods, imperfect tense, of the verb be.
weryangle	Obsolete	See Wariangle — the red-backed shrike (Lanius collurio); -- called also würger, worrier, and throttler.
wesand	Obsolete	See Weasand — the windpipe; -- called also, formerly, wesil.
wesil	Obsolete	See Weasand — the windpipe; -- called also, formerly, wesil.
wesleyan		Of or pertaining to Wesley or Wesleyanism.
wesleyanism		The system of doctrines and church polity inculcated by John Wesley (b. 1703; d. 1791), the founder of the religious sect called Methodist; Methodism.
west		The point in the heavens where the sun is seen to set at the equinox; or, the corresponding point on the earth…
westering		Passing to the west.
westerly		Of or pertaining to the west; toward the west; coming from the west; western.
western		Of or pertaining to the west; situated in the west, or in the region nearly in the direction of west; being in that quarter where the sun sets; as, the western shore of France; the western ocean.
westerner		A native or inhabitant of the west.
westernmost		Situated the farthest towards the west; most western.
westing		The distance, reckoned toward the west, between the two meridians passing through the extremities of a course, or portion of a ship's path; the departure of a course which lies to the west of north.
westling		A westerner.
westmost		Lying farthest to the west; westernmost.
westward		Toward the west; as, to ride or sail westward.
westwardly		In a westward direction.
westwards		Toward the west; as, to ride or sail westward.
westy	English dialect	Dizzy; giddy.
wet		Containing, or consisting of, water or other liquid; moist; soaked with a liquid; having water or other liquid upon the surface; as, wet land; a wet cloth; a wet table.
wet-shod		Having the feet, or the shoes on the feet, wet.
wetbird	English dialect	The chaffinch, whose cry is thought to foretell rain.
wether		A castrated ram.
wetness		The quality or state of being wet; moisture; humidity; as, the wetness of land; the wetness of a cloth.
wettish		Somewhat wet; moist; humid.
wevil		See Weevil — any one of numerous species of snout beetles, or Rhynchophora, in which the head is elongated and usually curved downward.
wex	Obsolete	To grow; to wax.
wey	Obsolete	Way; road; path.
weyle	Obsolete	To wail.
weyleway	Obsolete	See Welaway.
weyve	Obsolete	To waive.
wezand	Obsolete	See Weasand — the windpipe; -- called also, formerly, wesil.
