whaap	English dialect	(a) The European curlew; -- called also awp, whaup, great whaup, and stock whaup.	
whack	Colloquial	To strike; to beat; to give a heavy or resounding blow to; to thrash; to make with whacks.	
whacker	Colloquial	One who whacks.	
whacking	Colloquial	Very large; whapping.	
whahoo		An American tree, the winged elm. (Ulmus alata).	
whala	English dialect	To lash with stripes; to wale; to thrash; to drub.	
whale	Obsolete	Any aquatic mammal of the order Cetacea, especially any one of the large species, some of which become nearly one hundred feet long.	
whaleback		A form of vessel, often with steam power, having sharp ends and a very convex upper deck, much used on the Great Lakes, esp. for carrying grain.	
whaleboat		A long, narrow boat, sharp at both ends, used by whalemen.	
whalebone		A firm, elastic substance resembling horn, taken from the upper jaw of the right whale; baleen.	
whaleman		A man employed in the whale fishery.	
whaler	Colloquial	A vessel or person employed in the whale fishery.	
whaling		The hunting of whales.	
whall		A light color of the iris in horses; wall-eye.	
whally		Having the iris of light color; -- said of horses.	
whame		A breeze fly.	
whammel	English dialect	To turn over.	
whang	English dialect	A leather thong.	
whangdoodle	Slang	An imaginary creature, of undefined character.	
whanghee		See Wanghee — the chinese name of one or two species of bamboo, or jointed cane, of the genus Phyllostachys.	
whap		To throw one's self quickly, or by an abrupt motion; to turn suddenly; as, she whapped down on the floor; the fish whapped over.	
whapper	Colloquial	Something uncommonly large of the kind; something astonishing; -- applied especially to a bold lie.	
whapping	Colloquial	Very large; monstrous; astonishing; as, a whapping story.	
wharf		A structure or platform of timber, masonry, iron, earth, or other material, built on the shore of a harbor, river, canal, or the like, and usually extending from the shore to deep water…	
wharfage		The fee or duty paid for the privilege of using a wharf for loading or unloading goods; pierage, collectively; quayage.	
wharfing		Wharfs, collectively.	
wharfinger		A man who owns, or has the care of, a wharf.	
wharl		A guttural pronunciation of the letter r; a burr. See Burr, n., 6.	
wharling		A guttural pronunciation of the letter r; a burr. See Burr, n., 6.	
wharp		A kind of fine sand from the banks of the Trent, used as a polishing powder.	
what		As an interrogative pronoun, used in asking questions regarding either persons or things; as, what is this what did you say what poem is this what child is lost What see'st thou in the ground Shak.	
whatever		Anything soever which; the thing or things of any kind; being this or that; of one nature or another; one thing or another; anything that may be; all that; the whole that; all particulars that…	
whatnot		A kind of stand, or piece of furniture, having shelves for books, ornaments, etc.; an étagère.	
whatso	Obsolete	Whatsoever; whosoever; whatever; anything that.	
whatsoever		Whatever.	
whaul		Same as Whall.	
whaup	English dialect	See Whaap — (a) The European curlew; -- called also awp, whaup, great whaup, and stock whaup.	
wheal		A more or less elongated mark raised by a stroke; also, a similar mark made by any cause; a weal; a wale.	
whealworm		The harvest mite; -- so called from the wheals, caused by its bite.	
wheat		A cereal grass (Triticum vulgare) and its grain, which furnishes a white flour for bread, and, next to rice, is the grain most largely used by the human race.	Middle English whete, from Old English hwæte.
wheatbird		A bird that feeds on wheat, especially the chaffinch.	
wheatear		A small European singing bird (Saxicola oenanthe).	
wheaten		Made of wheat; as, wheaten bread.	Middle English wheten, from Old English hwæten.
wheatworm		A small nematode worm (Anguillula tritici) which attacks the grains of wheat in the ear.	
wheder	Obsolete	Whether.	
wheedle		To entice by soft words; to cajole; to flatter; to coax.	
wheel		A circular frame turning about an axis; a rotating disk, whether solid, or a frame composed of an outer rim, spokes or radii, and a central hub or nave, in which is inserted the axle…	Middle English whele, from Old English hweogol.
wheel-shaped		Shaped like a wheel.	
wheel-worn		Worn by the action of wheels; as, a wheel-worn road.	
wheelband		The tire of a wheel.	
wheelbarrow		A light vehicle for conveying small loads.	
wheelbird	English dialect	The European goatsucker.	
wheeled		Having wheels; -- used chiefly in composition; as, a four- wheeled carriage.	
wheeler		One who wheels, or turns.	
wheelhouse		(a) A small house on or above a vessel's deck, containing the steering wheel.	
wheeling		The act of conveying anything, or traveling, on wheels, or in a wheeled vehicle.	
wheelman		One who rides a bicycle or tricycle; a cycler, or cyclist.	
wheelswarf		See Swarf — to grow languid; to faint.	
wheelwork		A combination of wheels, and their connection, in a machine or mechanism.	
wheelwright		A man whose occupation is to make or repair wheels and wheeled vehicles, as carts, wagons, and the like.	
wheely		Circular; suitable to rotation.	
wheen	Scots	A quantity; a goodly number.	
wheeze		To breathe hard, and with an audible piping or whistling sound, as persons affected with asthma.	Middle English whesen.
wheezy		Breathing with difficulty and with a wheeze; wheezing. Used also figuratively.	
wheft		See Waft, n., 4.	
whelk		Any one numerous species of large marine gastropods belonging to Buccinum and allied genera; especially, Buccinum undatum, common on the coasts both of Europe and North America, and much used as food in Europe.	Old English weoloc.
whelked		Having whelks; whelky; as, whelked horns.	
whelky		Having whelks, ridges, or protuberances; hence, streaked; striated. 2.	
whelm		To cover with water or other fluid; to cover by immersion in something that envelops on all sides; to overwhelm; to ingulf.	Middle English whelmen.
whelp		One of the young of a dog or a beast of prey; a puppy; a cub; as, a lion's whelps. 2 Sam. xvii. 8.	
when		At what time; -- used interrogatively.	Middle English when.
whenas	Obsolete	Whereas; while Whenas, if they would inquire into themselves, they would find no such matter.	
whence		From what place; hence, from what or which source, origin, antecedent, premise, or the like; how; -- used interrogatively.	
whenceever		Whencesoever.	
whenceforth	Obsolete	From, or forth from, what or which place; whence.	
whencesoever		From what place soever; from what cause or source soever.	
whenever		At whatever time.	
whensoever		At what time soever; at whatever time; whenever.	
wher	Obsolete	Whether.	
where		At or in what place; hence, in what situation, position, or circumstances; -- used interrogatively.	Middle English wher.
whereabout		About where; near what or which place; -- used interrogatively and relatively; as, whereabouts did you meet him	
whereabouts		About where; near what or which place; -- used interrogatively and relatively; as, whereabouts did you meet him	
whereas		Considering that; it being the case that; since; -- used to introduce a preamble which is the basis of declarations, affirmations, commands, requests, or like, that follow.	
whereat		At which; upon which; whereupon; -- used relatively.	
whereby		By which; -- used relatively.	
wherefore		For which reason; so; -- used relatively.	Middle English wherfor.
whereform		From which; from which or what place.	
wherein		In which; in which place, thing, time, respect, or the like; -- used relatively.	
whereinto		Into which; -- used relatively.	
whereness		The quality or state of having a place; ubiety; situation; position.	
whereof		Of which; of whom; formerly, also, with which; -- used relatively.	
whereon		On which; -- used relatively; as, the earth whereon we live.	
whereout		Out of which.	
whereso	Obsolete	Wheresoever.	
wheresoever		In what place soever; in whatever place; wherever.	
wherethrough		Through which.	
whereto		To which; -- used relatively. iii. 16.	
whereunto		Same as Whereto.	
whereupon		Upon which; in consequence of which; after which.	
wherever		At or in whatever place; wheresoever.	
wherewith		With which; -- used relatively.	
wherewithal		Wherewith. vi. 31.	
wherret	Obsolete	To box (one) on the ear; to strike or box. (the ear); as, to wherret a child.	
wherry	English dialect	(a) A passenger barge or lighter plying on rivers; also, a kind of light, half-decked vessel used in fishing.	
wherso	Obsolete	Wheresoever.	
whet		To rub or on with some substance, as a piece of stone, for the purpose of sharpening; to sharpen by attrition; as, to whet a knife.	Middle English whetten, from Old English hwettan.
whether	Archaic	Which (of two); which one (of two); -- used interrogatively and relatively.	Old English hwæþer.
whethering		The retention of the afterbirth in cows.	
whetile	English dialect	The green woodpecker, or yaffle. See Yaffle.	
whetstone	Obsolete	A piece of stone, natural or artificial, used for whetting, or sharpening, edge tools.	
whetter		One who, or that which, whets, sharpens, or stimulates.	
whettlebones	English dialect	The vertebræ of the back.	
whew	English dialect	A sound like a half-formed whistle, expressing astonishment, scorn, or dislike.	
whewellite		Calcium oxalate, occurring in colorless or white monoclinic crystals.	
whewer	English dialect	The European widgeon.	
whey		The serum, or watery part, of milk, separated from the more thick or coagulable part, esp. in the process of making cheese.	Middle English wheye.
whey-faced		Having a pale or white face, as from fright.	
wheyey		Of the nature of, or containing, whey; resembling whey; wheyish.	
wheyface		One who is pale, as from fear.	
wheyish		Somewhat like whey; wheyey.	
which		A interrogative pronoun, used both substantively and adjectively, and in direct and indirect questions, to ask for, or refer to, an individual person or thing among several of a class; as…	Old English hwilc.
whichever		Whether one or another; whether one or the other; which; that one (of two or more) which; as, whichever road you take, it will lead you to town.	
whichsoever		Whether one or another; whether one or the other; which; that one (of two or more) which; as, whichever road you take, it will lead you to town.	
whider	Obsolete	Whither.	
whiff		A sudden expulsion of air from the mouth; a quick puff or slight gust, as of air or smoke.	
whiffet		A little whiff or puff.	
whiffing		The act of one who, or that which, whiffs.	
whiffle		To waver, or shake, as if moved by gusts of wind; to shift, turn, or veer about.	
whiffler		One who whiffles, or frequently changes his opinion or course; one who uses shifts and evasions in argument; hence, a trifler.	
whiffletree		Same as Whippletree.	
whig		(Eng. Politics) One of a political party which grew up in England in the seventeenth century, in the reigns of Charles I. and II., when great contests existed respecting the royal prerogatives and the rights of the people.	
whiggamore	Scots	A Whig; -- a cant term applied in contempt to Scotch Presbyterians.	
whiggarchy		Government by Whigs.	
whiggery		The principles or practices of the Whigs; Whiggism.	
whiggish		Of or pertaining to Whigs; partaking of, or characterized by, the principles of Whigs.	
whiggishly		In a Whiggish manner.	
whiggism		The principles of the Whigs.	
whigling		A petty or inferior Whig; -- used in contempt.	
while		Space of time, or continued duration, esp. when short; a time; as, one while we thought him innocent.	Old English hwil.
whilere	Obsolete	A little while ago; recently; just now; erewhile.	
whiles		Meanwhile; meantime.	
whilk	English dialect	(Zoöl.) A kind of mollusk, a whelk.	
whilom	Obsolete	Formerly; once; of old; erewhile; at times.	
whim	English dialect	The European widgeon.	
whimbrel		Any one of several species of small curlews, especially the European species (Numenius phæopus), called also Jack curlew, half curlew, stone curlew, and tang whaup.	
whimling		One given to whims; hence, a weak, childish person; a child.	
whimmy		Full of whims; whimsical.	
whimper		To cry with a low, whining, broken voice; to whine; to complain; as, a child whimpers.	
whimperer		One who whimpers.	
whimple		See Wimple — a covering of silk, linen, or other material, for the neck and chin, formerly worn by women as an outdoor protection, and still retained in the dress of nuns.	
whimsey		A whim; a freak; a capricious notion, a fanciful or odd conceit.	
whimsical		Full of, or characterized by, whims; actuated by a whim; having peculiar notions; queer; strange; freakish.	
whimsicality		The quality or state of being whimsical; whimsicalness.	
whimsically		In a whimsical manner; freakishly.	
whimsicalness		The quality or state of being whimsical; freakishness; whimsical disposition.	
whimsy		A whim; a freak; a capricious notion, a fanciful or odd conceit.	
whimwham		A whimsical thing; an odd device; a trifle; a trinket; a gimcrack.	
whin		(Bot.) (a) Gorse; furze. See Furze.	Middle English whynne, from Old Norse hvein.
whinberry		The English bilberry; -- so called because it grows on moors among the whins, or furze.	
whinchat		A small warbler (Pratincola rubetra) common in Europe; -- called also whinchacker, whincheck, whin-clocharet.	
whine		To utter a plaintive cry, as some animals; to mean with a childish noise; to complain, or to tell of sorrow, distress, or the like, in a plaintive, nasal tone; hence, to complain or to beg in a mean, unmanly way; to moan basely.	Middle English hwinen.
whiner		One who, or that which, whines.	
whinge	Scots	To whine.	Middle English whinsen, from Old English hwinsian.
whinger	Scots	A kind of hanger or sword used as a knife at meals and as a weapon.	
whiningly		In a whining manner; in a tone of mean complaint.	
whinner	Colloquial	To whinny.	
whinny		To utter the ordinary call or cry of a horse; to neigh.	
whinock	Dialect	The small pig of a litter.	
whinstone		A provincial name given in England to basaltic rocks, and applied by miners to other kind of dark-colored unstratified rocks which resist the point of the pick. -- for example, to masses of chert.	
whinyard	Obsolete	A sword, or hanger.	
whip		To strike with a lash, a cord, a rod, or anything slender and lithe; to lash; to beat; as, to whip a horse, or a carpet.	
whip-poor-will		An American bird (Antrostomus vociferus) allied to the nighthawk and goatsucker; -- so called in imitation of the peculiar notes which it utters in the evening.	
whip-shaped		Shaped like the lash of a whip; long, slender, round, and tapering; as, a whip-shaped root or stem.	
whip-tom-kelly		A vireo (Vireo altiloquus) native of the West Indies and Florida; -- called also black-whiskered vireo.	
whipcord		A kind of hard-twisted or braided cord, sometimes used for making whiplashes.	
whipgraft		To graft by cutting the scion and stock in a certain manner. See Whip grafting, under Grafting.	
whiplash		The lash of a whip, -- usually made of thongs of leather, or of cords, braided or twisted.	
whipparee		(a) A large sting ray (Dasybatis, or Trygon, Sayi) native of the Southern United States.	
whipper		One who whips; especially, an officer who inflicts the penalty of legal whipping.	
whipperin		A huntsman who keeps the hounds from wandering, and whips them in, if necessary, to the of chase.	
whippersnapper	Colloquial	A diminutive, insignificant, or presumptuous person.	
whipping		a & n. from Whip, v.	
whippletree		The pivoted or swinging bar to which the traces, or tugs, of a harness are fastened, and by which a carriage, a plow, or other implement or vehicle, is drawn; a whiffletree; a swingletree; a singletree.	
whipsaw		A saw for dividing timber lengthwise, usually set in a frame, and worked by two persons; also, a fret saw.	
whipstaff		A bar attached to the tiller, for convenience in steering.	
whipstalk		A whipstock.	
whipster		A nimble little fellow; a whippersnapper.	
whipstick		Whip handle; whipstock.	
whipstitch		Anything hastily put or stitched together; hence, a hasty composition.	
whipstock		The rod or handle to which the lash of a whip is fastened.	
whipt		Whipped.	
whipworm		A nematode worm (Trichocephalus dispar) often found parasitic in the human intestine.	
whir		To whirl round, or revolve, with a whizzing noise; to fly or more quickly with a buzzing or whizzing sound; to whiz.	
whirl		To turn round rapidly; to cause to rotate with velocity; to make to revolve.	
whirl-blast		A whirling blast or wind.	
whirlabout		Something that whirls or turns about in a rapid manner; a whirligig.	
whirlbat		Anything moved with a whirl, as preparatory for a blow, or to augment the force of it; -- applied by poets to the cestus of ancient boxers.	
whirlbone	Obsolete	(a) The huckle bone. (b) The patella, or kneepan.	
whirler		One who, or that which, whirls.	
whirlicote	Obsolete	An open car or chariot.	
whirligig		A child's toy, spun or whirled around like a wheel upon an axis, or like a top.	Middle English whirlegigge.
whirling		a. & n. from Whirl, v. t.	
whirlpit	Obsolete	A whirlpool.	
whirlpool		An eddy or vortex of water; a place in a body of water where the water moves round in a circle so as to produce a depression or cavity in the center, into which floating objects may be drawn…	
whirlwig		A whirligig.	
whirlwind		A violent windstorm of limited extent, as the tornado, characterized by an inward spiral motion of the air with an upward current in the center; a vortex of air.	
whirry	Obsolete	To whir.	
whirtle		A perforated steel die through which wires or tubes are drawn to form them.	
whisk		The act of whisking; a rapid, sweeping motion, as of something light; a sudden motion or quick puff.	
whisker		One who, or that which, whisks, or moves with a quick, sweeping motion.	
whiskered		Formed into whiskers; furnished with whiskers; having or wearing whiskers.	
whiskerless		Being without whiskers.	
whisket	English dialect	A basket; esp., a straw provender basket.	
whiskey		Same as Whisky, a liquor.	Irish uisce beatha.
whiskeyfied		Drunk with whisky; intoxicated.	
whiskin	English dialect	A shallow drinking bowl.	
whisking		Sweeping along lightly.	
whisky		A light carriage built for rapid motion; -- called also tim- whiskey.	
whiskyfied		Drunk with whisky; intoxicated.	
whisp		See Wisp — a small bundle, as of straw or other like substance.	
whisper		To speak softly, or under the breath, so as to be heard only by one near at hand; to utter words without sonant breath; to talk without that vibration in the larynx which gives sonorous, or vocal, sound.	Old English hwisprian.
whisperer		One who whispers.	
whispering		a. & n. from Whisper. v. t.	
whisperingly		In a whisper, or low voice; in a whispering manner; with whispers.	
whisperously		Whisperingly.	
whist	Obsolete	Be silent; be still; hush; silence.	Middle English whist.
whistle		To make a kind of musical sound, or series of sounds, by forcing the breath through a small orifice formed by contracting the lips; also, to emit a similar sound, or series of notes, from the mouth or beak, as birds.	
whistlefish		A gossat, or rockling; -- called also whistler, three-bearded rockling, sea loach, and sorghe.	
whistler		One who, or that which, whistles, or produces or a whistling sound.	
whistlewing		The American golden-eye.	
whistlewood		The moosewood, or striped maple. See Maple.	
whistling	English dialect	a. & n. from Whistle, v.	
whistlingly		In a whistling manner; shrilly.	
whistly	Obsolete	In a whist manner; silently.	
whit		The smallest part or particle imaginable; a bit; a jot; an iota; -- generally used in an adverbial phrase in a negative sentence. 1 Sam. iii. 18.	
white		Reflecting to the eye all the rays of the spectrum combined; not tinted with any of the proper colors or their mixtures; having the color of pure snow; snowy; -- the opposite of Ant: black or dark; as, white paper; a white skin.	Middle English whit, from Old English hwit.
white-blaze		See White-face — a white mark in the forehead of a horse, descending almost to the nose; -- called also white-blaze.	
white-ear		The wheatear.	
white-eye		Any one of several species of small Old World singing of the genus Zosterops, as Zosterops palpebrosus of India, and Z. coerulescens of Australia.	
white-face		A white mark in the forehead of a horse, descending almost to the nose; -- called also white-blaze.	
white-foot		A white mark on the foot of a horse, between the fetlock and the coffin.	
white-fronted		Having a white front; as, the white-fronted lemur.	
white-heart		A somewhat heart-shaped cherry with a whitish skin.	
white-hot		White with heat; heated to whiteness, or incandescence.	
white-limed		Whitewashed or plastered with lime.	
white-livered		Having a pale look; feeble; hence, cowardly; pusillanimous; dastardly.	
white-pot		A kind of food made of milk or cream, eggs, sugar, bread, etc., baked in a pot.	
white-water		A dangerous disease of sheep.	
whiteback		The canvasback.	
whitebait		(a) The young of several species of herrings, especially of the common herring, esteemed a great delicacy by epicures in England.	
whitebeam		The common beam tree of England (Pyrus Aria); -- so called from the white, woolly under surface of the leaves.	
whitebeard		An old man; a graybeard.	
whitebelly		(a) The American widgeon, or baldpate. (b) The prairie chicken.	
whitebill		The American coot.	
whiteblow		Same as Whitlow grass, under Whitlow.	
whiteboy		One of an association of poor Roman catholics which arose in Ireland about 1760, ostensibly to resist the collection of tithes, the members of which were so called from the white shirts they wore in their nocturnal raids.	
whiteboyism		The conduct or principle of the Whiteboys.	
whitecap		(Zoöl.) (a) The European redstart; -- so called from its white forehead.	
whitecoat		The skin of a newborn seal; also, the seal itself.	
whitefish		(a) Any one of several species of Coregonus, a genus of excellent food fishes allied to the salmons.	
whiteflaw	Obsolete	A whitlow.	
whitehead		(a) The blue-winged snow goose. (b) The surf scoter.	
whitely	Obsolete	Like, or coming near to, white.	
whiten		To grow white; to turn or become white or whiter; as, the hair whitens with age; the sea whitens with foam; the trees in spring whiten with blossoms.	Middle English whitenen.
whitener		One who, or that which, whitens; a bleacher; a blancher; a whitewasher.	
whiteness		The quality or state of being white; white color, or freedom from darkness or obscurity on the surface.	
whitening		The act or process of making or becoming white.	
whiterump		The American black-tailed godwit.	
whites		The finest flour made from white wheat.	
whiteside		The golden-eye.	
whitesmith		One who works in tinned or galvanized iron, or white iron; a tinsmith.	
whitester	English dialect	A bleacher of lines; a whitener; a whitster.	
whitetail		(Zoöl.) The Virginia deer.	
whitethorn		The hawthorn.	
whitethroat		Any one of several species of Old World warblers, esp. the common European species (Sylvia cinerea), called also strawsmear, nettlebird, muff, and whitecap, the garden whitethroat, or golden warbler (S. hortensis)…	
whitewall	English dialect	The spotted flycatcher; -- so called from the white color of the under parts.	
whitewash		Any wash or liquid composition for whitening something, as a wash for making the skin fair.	
whitewasher		One who whitewashes.	
whiteweed		A perennial composite herb (Chrysanthemum Leucanthemum) with conspicuous white rays and a yellow disk, a common weed in grass lands and pastures; -- called also oxeye daisy.	
whitewing		(a) The chaffinch; -- so called from the white bands on the wing. (b) The velvet duck.	
whitewood		The soft and easily-worked wood of the tulip tree (Liriodendron).	
whitewort		(a) Wild camomile. (b) A kind of Solomon's seal (Polygonum officinale).	
whitflaw	Obsolete	Whitlow.	
whither		To what place; -- used interrogatively; as, whither goest thou Sir Valentine, whither away so fast Shak.	Old English hwæder.
whithersoever		To whatever place; to what place soever; wheresoever; as, I will go whithersoever you lead.	
whitherward		In what direction; toward what or which place.	
whitile	English dialect	The yaffle.	
whiting		(Zoöl.) (a) A common European food fish (Melangus vulgaris) of the Codfish family; -- called also fittin.	
whiting-mop	English dialect	(Zoöl.) A young whiting.	
whitish		Somewhat white; approaching white; white in a moderate degree.	
whitishness		The quality or state of being whitish or somewhat white.	
whitleather		Leather dressed or tawed with alum, salt, etc., remarkable for its pliability and toughness; white leather.	
whitling	English dialect	A young full trout during its second season.	
whitlow		(Med.) An inflammation of the fingers or toes, generally of the last phalanx, terminating usually in suppuration.	
whitlow-wort		Same as Whitlow grass, under Whitlow.	
whitmonday		The day following Whitsunday; -- called also Whitsun Monday.	
whitneyite		an arsenide of copper from Lake Superior.	
whitson	Obsolete	See Whitsun — of, pertaining to, or observed at, Whitsuntide; as, Whitsun week; Whitsun Tuesday; Whitsun pastorals.	
whitsour		A sort of apple.	
whitster	Obsolete	A whitener; a bleacher; a whitester.	
whitsun		Of, pertaining to, or observed at, Whitsuntide; as, Whitsun week; Whitsun Tuesday; Whitsun pastorals.	
whitsunday		(Eccl.) The seventh Sunday, and the fiftieth day, after Easter; a festival of the church in commemoration of the descent of the Holy Spirit on the day of Pentecost; Pentecost; -- so called, it is said, because…	
whitsuntide		The week commencing with Whitsunday, esp. the first three days -- Whitsunday, Whitsun Monday, and Whitsun Tuesday; the time of Pentecost.	
whitterick	English dialect	The curlew.	
whittle		(a) A grayish, coarse double blanket worn by countrywomen, in the west of England, over the shoulders, like a cloak or shawl.	Middle English whittel.
whittlings		Chips made by one who whittles; shavings cut from a stick with a knife.	
whittret	Scots	A weasel.	
whittuesday		The day following Whitmonday; -- called also Whitsun Tuesday.	
whitwall		Same as Whetile.	
whity-brown		Of a color between white and brown.	
whiz		To make a humming or hissing sound, like an arrow or ball flying through the air; to fly or move swiftly with a sharp hissing or whistling sound.	
whizzingly		With a whizzing sound.	
who		Originally, an interrogative pronoun, later, a relative pronoun also; -- used always substantively, and either as singular or plural.	Old English hwa.
whoa		Stop; stand; hold. See Ho, 2.	
whoever		Whatever person; any person who; be or she who; any one who; as, he shall be punished, whoever he may be.	
whole		Containing the total amount, number, etc.; comprising all the parts; free from deficiency; all; total; entire; as, the whole earth; the whole solar system; the whole army; the whole nation.	Middle English hool, from Old English hal.
whole-hoofed		Having an undivided hoof, as the horse.	
whole-length		Representing the whole figure; -- said of a picture or statue. -- n.	
whole-souled		Thoroughly imbued with a right spirit; noble-minded; devoted.	
wholeness		The quality or state of being whole, entire, or sound; entireness; totality; completeness.	
wholesale		Sale of goods by the piece or large quantity, as distinguished from retail.	
wholesome		Tending to promote health; favoring health; salubrious; salutary.	
wholly		In a whole or complete manner; entirely; completely; perfectly.	
whom		The objective case of who. See Who.	Old English hwam.
whomsoever		The objective of whosoever. See Whosoever.	
whoop		To utter a whoop, or loud cry, as eagerness, enthusiasm, or enjoyment; to cry out; to shout; to halloo; to utter a war whoop; to hoot, as an owl.	Middle English whopen.
whooper		One who, or that which, whooops.	
whooping		a. & n. from Whoop, v. t.	
whoot	Obsolete	To hoot.	
whop		To throw one's self quickly, or by an abrupt motion; to turn suddenly; as, she whapped down on the floor; the fish whapped over.	Middle English whappen.
whopper	Colloquial	Something uncommonly large of the kind; something astonishing; -- applied especially to a bold lie.	
whopping	Colloquial	Very large; monstrous; astonishing; as, a whapping story.	
whore		A woman who practices unlawful sexual commerce with men, especially one who prostitutes her body for hire; a prostitute; a harlot.	Old English hore.
whoredom		The practice of unlawful intercourse with the other sex; fornication; lewdness.	
whoremaster		A man who practices lewdness; a lecher; a whoremonger.	
whoremasterly		Having the character of a whoremaster; lecherous; libidinous.	
whoremonger		A whoremaster; a lecher; a man who frequents the society of whores.	
whoreson	Archaic	A bastard; colloquially, a low, scurvy fellow; -- used generally in contempt, or in coarse humor.	
whorish		Resembling a whore in character or conduct; addicted to unlawful pleasures; incontinent; lewd; unchaste. -- Whor ish*ness, n.	
whorl		(Bot.) A circle of two or more leaves, flowers, or other organs, about the same part or joint of a stem.	
whorled		Furnished with whorls; arranged in the form of a whorl or whorls; verticillate; as, whorled leaves.	
whorler		A potter's wheel.	
whort		The whortleberry, or bilberry. See Whortleberry (a).	
whortle		The whortleberry, or bilberry. looked ahead of him from behind a tump of whortles.	
whortleberry		(a) In England, the fruit of Vaccinium Myrtillus; also, the plant itself.	
whose		The possessive case of who or which. See Who, and Which.	
whosesoever		The possessive of whosoever. See Whosoever.	
whoso		Whosoever.	
whosoever		Whatsoever person; any person whatever that; whoever.	
whur		To make a rough, humming sound, like one who pronounces the letter r with too much force; to whir; to birr.	
whurry		To whisk along quickly; to hurry.	
whurt		See Whort — the whortleberry, or bilberry. See Whortleberry (a).	
why		For what cause, reason, or purpose; on what account; wherefore; -- used interrogatively.	
why-not	Obsolete	A violent and peremptory procedure without any assigned reason; a sudden conclusive happening.	
