wich		A street; a village; a castle; a dwelling; a place of work, or exercise of authority; -- now obsolete except in composition; as, bailiwick, Warwick, Greenwick.
wichitas		A tribe of Indians native of the region between the Arkansas and Red rivers.
wick		A street; a village; a castle; a dwelling; a place of work, or exercise of authority; -- now obsolete except in composition; as, bailiwick, Warwick, Greenwick.
wicked		Having a wick; -- used chiefly in composition; as, a two-wicked lamp.
wickedly		In a wicked manner; in a manner, or with motives and designs, contrary to the divine law or the law of morality; viciously; corruptly; immorally.
wickedness		The quality or state of being wicked; departure from the rules of the divine or the moral law; evil disposition or practices; immorality; depravity; sinfulness.
wicker		A small pliant twig or osier; a rod for making basketwork and the like; a withe.
wickered		Made of, secured by, or covered with, wickers or wickerwork.
wickerwork		A texture of osiers, twigs, or rods; articles made of such a texture.
wicket		A small gate or door, especially one forming part of, or placed near, a larger door or gate; a narrow opening or entrance cut in or beside a door or gate, or the door which is used to close such entrance or aperture.
wicking		the material of which wicks are made; esp., a loosely braided or twisted cord or tape of cotton.
wickliffite		See Wyclifite — a follower of Wyclif, the English reformer; a Lollard.
wiclifite		See Wyclifite — a follower of Wyclif, the English reformer; a Lollard.
wicopy		See Leatherwood — a small branching shrub (Dirca palustris), with a white, soft wood, and a tough, leathery bark, common in damp woods in the Northern United States; -- called also moosewood, and wicopy.
widdy	Scots	A rope or halter made of flexible twigs, or withes, as of birch.
wide		Having considerable distance or extent between the sides; spacious across; much extended in a direction at right angles to that of length; not narrow; broad; as, wide cloth; a wide table; a wide highway; a wide bed…
wide-angle		Having or covering an angle wider than the ordinary; -- applied to certain lenses of relatively short focus.
wide-awake		Fully awake; not Dickens.
widegap		The angler; -- called also widegab, and widegut.
widely		In a wide manner; to a wide degree or extent; far; extensively; as, the gospel was widely disseminated by the apostles.
widen		To make wide or wider; to extend in breadth; to increase the width of; as, to widen a field; to widen a breach; to widen a stocking.
wideness		The quality or state of being wide; breadth; width; great extent from side to side; as, the wideness of a room.
widespread		Spread to a great distance; widely extended; extending far and wide; as, widespread wings; a widespread movement.
widewhere	Obsolete	Widely; far and wide.
widgeon	English dialect	Any one of several species of fresh-water ducks, especially those belonging to the subgenus Mareca, of the genus Anas.
widish		Moderately wide.
widow	Colloquial	A woman who has lost her husband by death, and has not married again; one living bereaved of a husband.
widow-hunter		One who courts widows, seeking to marry one with a fortune.
widow-maker		One who makes widows by destroying husbands.
widow-wail		A low, narrowleaved evergreen shrub (Cneorum tricoccon) found in Southern Europe.
widower		A man who has lost his wife by death, and has not married again.
widowerhood		The state of being a widower.
widowhood		The state of being a widow; the time during which a woman is widow; also, rarely, the state of being a widower.
widowly		Becoming or like a widow.
width		The quality of being wide; extent from side to side; breadth; wideness; as, the width of cloth; the width of a door.
widual	Obsolete	Of or pertaining to a widow; vidual.
widwe	Obsolete	A widow.
wield		To use with full command or power, as a thing not too heavy for the holder; to manage; to handle; hence, to use or employ; as, to wield a sword; to wield the scepter.
wieldable		Capable of being wielded.
wieldance	Obsolete	The act or power of wielding.
wielder		One who wields or employs; a manager; a controller.
wielding	Obsolete	Power; authority; rule.
wieldless		Not to be wielded; unmanageable; unwieldy.
wieldsome	Obsolete	Admitting of being easily wielded or managed.
wieldy		Capable of being wielded; manageable; wieldable; -- opposed to unwieldy.
wier		Same as Weir.
wierangle	Obsolete	Same as Wariangle.
wiery	Obsolete	Wet; moist; marshy.
wife		A woman; an adult female; -- now used in literature only in certain compounds and phrases, as alewife, fishwife, goodwife, and the like.
wifehood		The state of being a wife; the character of a wife.
wifeless		Without a wife; unmarried.
wifelike		Of, pertaining to, or like, a wife or a woman.
wifely		Becoming or life; of or pertaining to a wife.
wig		A covering for the head, consisting of hair interwoven or united by a kind of network, either in imitation of the natural growth, or in abundant and flowing curls, worn to supply a deficiency of natural hair, or for ornament…
wigan		A kind of canvaslike cotton fabric, used to stiffen and protect the lower part of trousers and of the skirts of women's dresses, etc.; -- so called from Wigan, the name of a town in Lancashire, England.
wigeon		A widgeon.
wigg		A kind of raised seedcake.
wiggery		A wig or wigs; false hair.
wiggle	English dialect	To move to and fro with a quick, jerking motion; to bend rapidly, or with a wavering motion, from side to side; to wag; to squirm; to wriggle; as, the dog wiggles his tail; the tadpole wiggles in the water.
wiggler		The young, either larva or pupa, of the mosquito; -- called also wiggletail.
wigher	Obsolete	To neigh; to whinny.
wight	Obsolete	A supernatural being.
wightly	Obsolete	Swiftly; nimbly; quickly.
wigless		Having or wearing no wig.
wigwag	Colloquial	To signal by means of a flag waved from side to side according to a code adopted for the purpose.
wigwam		An Indian cabin or hut, usually of a conical form, and made of a framework of poles covered with hides, bark, or mats; -- called also tepee.
wike	English dialect	A temporary mark or boundary, as a bough of a tree set up in marking out or dividing anything, as tithes, swaths to be mowed in common ground, etc.; -- called also wicker.
wikiup		The hut used by the nomadic Indian tribes of the arid regions of the west and southwest United States, typically elliptical in form, with a rough frame covered with reed mats or grass or brushwood.
wild		Living in a state of nature; inhabiting natural haunts, as the forest or open field; not familiar with, or not easily approached by, man; not tamed or domesticated; as, a wild boar; a wild ox; a wild cat.
wild-cat		Unsound; worthless; irresponsible; unsafe; -- said to have been originally applied to the notes of an insolvent bank in Michigan upon which there was the figure of a panther.
wildebeest		The gnu.
wilded		Become wild.
wilder		To bewilder; to perplex.
wildering		A plant growing in a state of nature; especially, one which has run wild, or escaped from cultivation.
wilderment		The state of being bewildered; confusion; bewilderment.
wilderness		A tract of land, or a region, uncultivated and uninhabited by human beings, whether a forest or a wide, barren plain; a wild; a waste; a desert; a pathless waste of any kind.
wildfire		A composition of inflammable materials, which, kindled, is very hard to quench; Greek fire.
wildgrave		A waldgrave, or head forest keeper. See Waldgrave.
wilding	Poetic	A wild or uncultivated plant; especially, a wild apple tree or crab apple; also, the fruit of such a plant.
wildish		Somewhat wild; rather wild.
wildly		In a wild manner; without cultivation; with disorder; rudely; distractedly; extravagantly.
wildness		The quality or state of being wild; an uncultivated or untamed state; disposition to rove or go unrestrained; rudeness; savageness; irregularity; distraction.
wildwood		A wild or unfrequented wood.
wile		A trick or stratagem practiced for insnaring or deception; a sly, insidious; artifice; a beguilement; an allurement.
wileful		Full of wiles; trickish; deceitful.
wilful		See Willful, Willfully, and Willfulness.
wilfully		See Willful, Willfully, and Willfulness.
wilfulness		See Willful, Willfully, and Willfulness.
wiliness		The quality or state of being wily; craftiness; cunning; guile.
wilk	Obsolete	See Whelk — any one numerous species of large marine gastropods belonging to Buccinum and allied genera; especially, Buccinum undatum, common on the coasts both of Europe and North America…
will		The power of choosing; the faculty or endowment of the soul by which it is capable of choosing; the faculty or power of the mind by which we decide to do or not to do…
willemite		A silicate of zinc, usually occurring massive and of a greenish yellow color, also in reddish crystals (troostite) containing manganese.
willer		One who wills.
willet		A large North American snipe (Symphemia semipalmata); -- called also pill-willet, will-willet, semipalmated tattler, or snipe, duck snipe, and stone curlew.
willful		Of set purpose; self-determined; voluntary; as, willful murder.
willier		One who works at a willying machine.
willing		Free to do or to grant; having the mind inclined; not opposed in mind; not choosing to refuse; disposed; not averse; desirous; consenting; complying; ready.
willingly		In a willing manner; with free will; without reluctance; cheerfully.
willingness		The quality or state of being willing; free choice or consent of the will; freedom from reluctance; readiness of the mind to do or forbear.
williwaw		A whirlwind, or whirlwind squall, encountered in the Straits of Magellan.
willock	English dialect	(a) The common guillemot. (b) The puffin.
willow		(Bot.) Any tree or shrub of the genus Salix, including many species, most of which are characterized often used as an emblem of sorrow, desolation, or desertion.
willow-herb		A perennial herb (Epilobium spicatum) with narrow willowlike leaves and showy rose-purple flowers.
willow-thorn		A thorny European shrub (Hippophaë rhamnoides) resembling a willow.
willow-weed		(a) A European species of loosestrife (Lysimachia vulgaris). (b) Any kind of Polygonum with willowlike foliage.
willow-wort		(a) Same as Willow-weed. (b) Any plant of the order Salicaceæ, or the Willow family.
willowed		Abounding with willows; containing willows; covered or overgrown with willows.
willower		A willow. See Willow, n., 2.
willowish		Having the color of the willow; resembling the willow; willowy.
willowy		Abounding with willows.
willsome	Obsolete	Willful; obstinate.
willy	English dialect	A large wicker basket.
willying		The process of cleansing wool, cotton, or the like, with a willy, or willow.
willywaw		A whirlwind, or whirlwind squall, encountered in the Straits of Magellan.
wilne	Obsolete	To wish; to desire.
wilt	English dialect	To cause to begin to wither; to make flaccid, as a green plant.
wily		Full of wiles, tricks, or stratagems; using craft or stratagem to accomplish a purpose; mischievously artful; subtle.
wimble	Obsolete	An instrument for boring holes, turned by a handle. Specifically: (a) A gimlet.
wimbrel		The whimbrel.
wimple		A covering of silk, linen, or other material, for the neck and chin, formerly worn by women as an outdoor protection, and still retained in the dress of nuns.
win		To gain by superiority in competition or contest; to obtain by victory over competitors or rivals; as, to win the prize in a gate; to win money; to win a battle, or to win a country.
wince		To shrink, as from a blow, or from pain; to flinch; to start back.
wincer		One who, or that which, winces, shrinks, or kicks.
wincey		Linsey-woolsey.
winch		To wince; to shrink; to kick with impatience or uneasiness.
wincing		The act of washing cloth, dipping it in dye, etc., with a wince.
wincopipe		A little red flower, no doubt the pimpernel, which, when it opens in the morning, is supposed to bode a fair day.
wind		To turn completely, or with repeated turns; especially, to turn about something fixed; to cause to form convolutions about anything; to coil; to twine; to twist; to wreathe; as, to wind thread on a spool or into a ball.
wind-break	Dialect	To break the wind of; to cause to lose breath; to exhaust.
wind-broken		Having the power of breathing impaired by the rupture, dilatation, or running together of air cells of the lungs, so that while the inspiration is by one effort, the expiration is by two…
wind-fertilized		Anemophilous; fertilized by pollen borne by the wind.
wind-plant		A windflower.
wind-rode		Caused to ride or drive by the wind in opposition to the course of the tide; -- said of a vessel lying at anchor, with wind and tide opposed to each other.
wind-shaken		Shaken by the wind; specif. (Forestry), affected by wind shake, or anemosis (which see, above).
wind-sucker		(Far.) A horse given to wind-sucking Law.
wind-sucking		A vicious habit of a horse, consisting in the swallowing of air; -- usually associated with crib-biting, or cribbing.
wind-up		Act of winding up, or closing; a concluding act or part; the end.
windage		(Gun.) The difference between the diameter of the bore of a gun and that of the shot fired from it.
windas	Obsolete	See 3d Windlass.
windbore		The lower, or bottom, pipe in a lift of pumps in a mine.
windbound		prevented from sailing, by a contrary wind. See Weatherbound.
winder		One who, or that which, winds; hence, a creeping or winding plant.
windfall		Anything blown down or off by the wind, as fruit from a tree, or the tree itself, or a portion of a forest prostrated by a violent wind, etc.
windfallen		Blown down by the wind.
windflower		The anemone; -- so called because formerly supposed to open only when the wind was blowing.
windgall		A soft tumor or synovial swelling on the fetlock joint of a horse; -- so called from having formerly been supposed to contain air.
windhover	English dialect	The kestrel; -- called also windbibber, windcuffer, windfanner.
windiness		The quality or state of being windy or tempestuous; as, the windiness of the weather or the season.
winding		A call by the boatswain's whistle.
windingly		In a winding manner.
windjammer	Colloquial	(Naut.) A sailing vessel or one of its crew; -- orig. so called contemptuously by sailors on steam vessels.
windlace	Obsolete	See Windlass — a machine for raising weights, consisting of a horizontal cylinder or roller moving on its axis, and turned by a crank, lever, or similar means…
windlass		A machine for raising weights, consisting of a horizontal cylinder or roller moving on its axis, and turned by a crank, lever, or similar means, so as to wind up a rope or chain attached to the weight.
windle		A spindle; a kind of reel; a winch.
windless		Having no wind; calm.
windlestrae	English dialect	A grass used for making ropes or for plaiting, esp. Agrostis Spica-ventis.
windlestraw	English dialect	A grass used for making ropes or for plaiting, esp. Agrostis Spica-ventis.
windmill		A mill operated by the power of the wind, usually by the action of the wind upon oblique vanes or sails which radiate from a horizontal shaft.
windore	Obsolete	A window.
window		An opening in the wall of a building for the admission of light and air, usually closed by casements or sashes containing some transparent material, as glass, and capable of being opened and shut at pleasure.
windowed		Having windows or openings.
windowless		Destitute of a window.
windowpane		(Zoöl.) A thin, spotted American turbot (Pleuronectes maculatus) remarkable for its translucency.
windowy		Having little crossings or openings like the sashes of a window.
windpipe		The passage for the breath from the larynx to the lungs; the trachea; the weasand.
windrow		A row or line of hay raked together for the purpose of being rolled into cocks or heaps.
windsor		A town in Berkshire, England.
windstorm		A storm characterized by high wind with little or no rain.
windtight		So tight as to prevent the passing through of wind.
windward		The point or side from which the wind blows; as, to ply to the windward; -- opposed to Ant: leeward.
windy		Consisting of wind; accompanied or characterized by wind; exposed to wind.
wine		The expressed juice of grapes, esp. when fermented; a beverage or liquor prepared from grapes by squeezing out their juice, and (usually) allowing it to ferment.
wineberry		(a) The red currant. (b) The bilberry. (c) A peculiar New Zealand shrub (Coriaria ruscifolia), in which the petals ripen and afford an abundant purple juice from which a kind of wine is made.
winebibber		One who drinks much wine.
wineglass		A small glass from to drink wine.
wineglassful		As much as a wineglass will hold; enough to fill a wineglass.
wineless		destitute of wine; as, wineless life.
winery		A place where grapes are converted into wine.
winesap		A variety of winter apple of medium size, deep red color, and yellowish flesh of a rich, rather subacid flavor.
wing		One of the two anterior limbs of a bird, pterodactyl, or bat.
wing-footed		Having wings attached to the feet; as, wing-footed Mercury; hence, swift; moving with rapidity; fleet.
wing-handed		Having the anterior limbs or hands adapted for flight, as the bats and pterodactyls.
wing-leaved		Having pinnate or pinnately divided leaves.
wing-shell		(a) Any one of various species of marine bivalve shells belonging to the genus Avicula, in which the hinge border projects like a wing.
winged		Furnished with wings; transported by flying; having winglike expansions.
winger		One of the casks stowed in the wings of a vessel's hold, being smaller than such as are stowed more amidships.
wingfish		A sea robin having large, winglike pectoral fins. See Sea robin, under Robin.
wingless		Having no wings; not able to ascend or fly.
winglet		A little wing; a very small wing.
wingmanship		Power or skill in flying.
wingy		Having wings; rapid.
wink		To shut the eyes quickly; to close the eyelids with a quick motion.
winker		One who winks.
winkingly		In a winking manner; with the eye almost closed.
winkle		(a) Any periwinkle.
winkle-hawk	Dialect	A rectangular rent made in cloth; -- called also winkle-hole.
winnard	English dialect	The redwing.
winnebagoes		A tribe of North American Indians who originally occupied the region about Green Bay, Lake Michigan, but were driven back from the lake and nearly exterminated in 1640 by the IIlinnois.
winner		One who wins, or gains by success in competition, contest, or gaming.
winning		Attracting; adapted to gain favor; charming; as, a winning address.
winningly		In a winning manner.
winningness		The quality or state of being winning.
winninish		The land-locked variety of the common salmon.
winnow		To separate, and drive off, the chaff from by means of wind; to fan; as, to winnow grain.
winnower		One who, or that which, winnows; specifically, a winnowing machine.
winnowing		The act of one who, or that which, winnows.
winrow		A windrow.
winsing	Obsolete	Winsome.
winsome		Cheerful; merry; gay; light-hearted.
winsomeness		The characteristic of being winsome; attractiveness of manner.
winter		The season of the year in which the sun shines most obliquely upon any region; the coldest season of the year.
winter-beaten		Beaten or harassed by the severe weather of winter.
winter-ground		To coved over in the season of winter, as for protection or shelter; as, to winter-ground the roods of a plant.
winter-proud		Having too rank or forward a growth for winter.
winter-rig	English dialect	To fallow or till in winter.
wintergreen		A plant which keeps its leaves green through the winter.
winterkill		To kill by the cold, or exposure to the inclemency of winter; as, the wheat was winterkilled.
winterly		Like winter; wintry; cold; hence, disagreeable, cheerless; as, winterly news.
wintertide		Winter time.
winterweed		A kind of speedwell (Veronica hederifolia) which spreads chiefly in winter.
wintry		Suitable to winter; resembling winter, or what belongs to winter; brumal; hyemal; cold; stormy; wintery.
winy		Having the taste or qualities of wine; vinous; as, grapes of a winy taste.
winze		A small shaft sunk from one level to another, as for the purpose of ventilation.
wipe		To rub with something soft for cleaning; to clean or dry by rubbing; as, to wipe the hands or face with a towel.
wiper		One who, or that which, wipes.
wirble		To whirl; to eddy.
wirche	Obsolete	To work Chaucer.
wire		A thread or slender rod of metal; a metallic substance formed to an even thread by being passed between grooved rollers, or drawn through holes in a plate of steel.
wire-drawer		One who draws metal into wire.
wire-heel		A disease in the feet of a horse or other beast.
wire-puller		One who pulls the wires, as of a puppet; hence, one who operates by secret means; an intriguer.
wire-pulling		The act of pulling the wires, as of a puppet; hence, secret influence or management, especially in politics; intrigue.
wire-tailed		Having some or all of the tail quills terminated in a long, slender, pointed shaft, without a web or barbules.
wire-worker		One who manufactures articles from wire.
wiredraw		To form (a piece of metal) into wire, by drawing it through a hole in a plate of steel.
wireless		Having no wire; specif. (Elec.), designating, or pertaining to, a method of telegraphy, telephony, etc., in which the messages, etc., are transmitted through space by electric waves; as…
wirework		Work, especially openwork, formed of wires.
wireworm		(a) One of the larvæ of various species of snapping beetles, or elaters; -- so called from their slenderness and the uncommon hardness of the integument.
wiriness		The quality of being wiry.
wiring		The act of one that wires anything.
wiry		Made of wire; like wire; drawn out like wire.
wis	Obsolete	Certainly; really; indeed.
wisard		See Wizard — one devoted to the black art; a magician; a conjurer; a sorcerer; an enchanter.
wisdom		The quality of being wise; knowledge, and the capacity to make due use of it; knowledge of the best ends and the best means; discernment and judgment; discretion; sagacity; skill; dexterity.
wise		Having knowledge; knowing; enlightened; of extensive information; erudite; learned.
wise-hearted		Wise; knowing; skillful; sapient; erudite; prudent.
wise-like		Resembling that which is wise or sensible; judicious.
wiseacre		One who makes undue pretensions to wisdom; a would-be-wise person; hence, in contempt, a simpleton; a dunce.
wiseling		One who pretends to be wise; a wiseacre; a witling.
wisely		In a wise manner; prudently; judiciously; discreetly; with wisdom.
wish		To desire; to long for; to hanker after; to have a mind or disposition toward.
wish-wash		Any weak, thin drink.
wishable		Capable or worthy of being wished for; desirable.
wishbone		The forked bone in front of the breastbone in birds; -- called also merrythought, and wishing bone.
wishedly	Obsolete	According to wish; conformably to desire.
wisher		One who wishes or desires; one who expresses a wish.
wishful		Having desire, or ardent desire; longing.
wishing		a. & n. from Wish, v. t.
wishly	Obsolete	According to desire; longingly; with wishes.
wishtonwish		The prairie dog.
wishy-washy		Thin and pale; weak; without strength or substance; -- originally said of liquids.
wisket	English dialect	A whisket, or basket.
wisly	Obsolete	Certainly.
wisp		A small bundle, as of straw or other like substance.
wispen	Obsolete	Formed of a wisp, or of wisp; as, a wispen broom.
wisse	Obsolete	To show; to teach; to inform; to guide; to direct.
wistaria		A genus of climbing leguminous plants bearing long, pendulous clusters of pale bluish flowers.
wistful		Longing; wishful; desirous.
wistit		A small South American monkey; a marmoset.
wistly	Obsolete	Attentively; observingly.
wistonwish		See Wishtonwish — the prairie dog.
wit		Thou wost full little what thou meanest.
wit-cracker	Obsolete	One who breaks jests; a joker.
wit-snapper	Obsolete	One who affects repartee; a wit-cracker.
wit-starved		Barren of wit; destitute of genius.
witan		Lit., wise men; specif. (A.-S.
witch	English dialect	A cone of paper which is placed in a vessel of lard or other fat, and used as a taper.
witch-elm		See Wych-elm — a species of elm (Ulmus montana) found in Northern and Western Europe; Scotch elm.
witch-hazel		The wych-elm. (b) An American shrub or small tree (Hamamelis Virginica), which blossoms late in autumn.
witch-tree		The witch-hazel.
witchcraft		The practices or art of witches; sorcery; enchantments; intercourse with evil spirits.
witchery		Sorcery; enchantment; witchcraft.
witching		That witches or enchants; suited to enchantment or witchcraft; bewitching. -- Witch"ing*ly, adv.
witchuck	English dialect	The sand martin, or bank swallow.
witcraft		The art of reasoning; logic.
wite	Obsolete	To reproach; to blame; to censure; also, to impute as blame.
witeless	Obsolete	Blameless.
witen		pl. pres. of Wit.
witenagemote		A meeting of wise men; the national council, or legislature, of England in the days of the Anglo-Saxons, before the Norman Conquest.
witfish		The ladyfish (a).
witful		Wise; sensible.
with		See Withe — a flexible, slender twig or branch used as a band; a willow or osier twig; a withy.
withal	Obsolete	With this; with that.
withamite		A variety of epidote, of a reddish color, found in Scotland.
withdraw		To take back or away, as what has been bestowed or enjoyed; to draw back; to cause to move away or retire; as, to withdraw aid, favor, capital, or the like.
withdrawal		The act of withdrawing; withdrawment; retreat; retraction.
withdrawer		One who withdraws; one who takes back, or retracts.
withdrawing-room		A room for retirement from another room, as from a dining room; a drawing-room.
withdrawment		The act of withdrawing; withdrawal.
withe		A flexible, slender twig or branch used as a band; a willow or osier twig; a withy.
withe-rod		A North American shrub (Viburnum nudum) whose tough osierlike shoots are sometimes used for binding sheaves.
wither		To fade; to lose freshness; to become sapless; to become sapless; to dry or shrivel up.
wither-wrung		Injured or hurt in the withers, as a horse.
witherband		A piece of iron in a saddle near a horse's withers, to strengthen the bow.
withered		Faded; dried up; shriveled; wilted; wasted; wasted away. -- With"ered*ness, n.
withering		Tending to wither; causing to shrink or fade. -- With"er*ing*ly, adv.
witherite		Barium carbonate occurring in white or gray six-sided twin crystals, and also in columnar or granular masses.
witherling	Obsolete	A withered person; one who is decrepit.
withernam		A second or reciprocal distress of other goods in lieu of goods which were taken by a first distress and have been eloigned; a taking by way of reprisal; -- chiefly used in the expression capias in withernam…
withers		The ridge between the shoulder bones of a horse, at the base of the neck.
withhold		To hold back; to restrain; to keep from action.
withholder		One who withholds.
withholdment		The act of withholding.
within		In the inner or interior part of; inside of; not without; as, within doors.
withinforth	Obsolete	Within; inside; inwardly.
withinside	Obsolete	In the inner parts; inside.
without		On or at the outside of; out of; not within; as, without doors.
without-door	Obsolete	Outdoor; exterior.
withouten	Obsolete	Without.
withoutforth	Obsolete	Without; outside' outwardly.
withsay	Obsolete	To contradict; to gainsay; to deny; to renounce.
withset	Obsolete	To set against; to oppose. of Brunne.
withstand		To stand against; to oppose; to resist, either with physical or moral force; as, to withstand an attack of troops; to withstand eloquence or arguments.
withstander		One who withstands, or opposes; an opponent; a resisting power.
withstood		oWithstand.
withvine		Quitch grass.
withwind		A kind of bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis).
withwine		Same as Withvine.
withy		(Bot.) The osier willow (Salix viminalis). See Osier, n. (a).
witing	Obsolete	Knowledge.
witless		Destitute of wit or understanding; wanting thought; hence, indiscreet; not under the guidance of judgment.
witling		A person who has little wit or understanding; a pretender to wit or smartness.
witness		Attestation of a fact or an event; testimony.
witnesser		One who witness.
witted		Having (such) a wit or understanding; as, a quick-witted boy.
witticaster		A witling.
witticism		A witty saying; a sentence or phrase which is affectedly witty; an attempt at wit; a conceit.
wittified		Possessed of wit; witty.
wittily		In a witty manner; wisely; ingeniously; artfully; with it; with a delicate turn or phrase, or with an ingenious association of ideas.
wittiness		The quality of being witty.
wittingly		Knowingly; with knowledge; by design.
wittol	Obsolete	A man who knows his wife's infidelity and submits to it; a tame cuckold; -- so called because the cuckoo lays its eggs in the wittol's nest.
wittolly	Obsolete	Like a wittol; cuckoldly.
witts		Tin ore freed from earthy matter by stamping.
witty		Especially, possessing wit or humor; good at repartee; droll; facetious; sometimes, sarcastic; as, a witty remark, poem, and the like. -- Acute; smart; sharp; arch; keen; facetious; amusing; humorous; satirical; ironical…
witwal	English dialect	(a) The golden oriole. (b) The greater spotted woodpecker.
witwall	English dialect	(a) The golden oriole. (b) The greater spotted woodpecker.
witworm	Obsolete	One who, or that which, feeds on or destroys wit.
wive		To match to a wife; to provide with a wife.
wivehood	Obsolete	Wifehood.
wiveless	Obsolete	Wifeless.
wiver		(Her.) A fabulous two-legged, winged creature, like a cockatrice, but having the head of a dragon, and without spurs.
wivern		(Her.) A fabulous two-legged, winged creature, like a cockatrice, but having the head of a dragon, and without spurs.
wives		, pl of Wife.
wizard		One devoted to the black art; a magician; a conjurer; a sorcerer; an enchanter.
wizardly		Resembling or becoming a wizard; wizardlike; weird.
wizardry		The character or practices o
wizen	English dialect	To wither; to dry.
wizen-faced		Having a shriveled, thin, withered face.
wizened		Dried; shriveled; withered; shrunken; weazen; as, a wizened old man.
