wo	Obsolete	See Woe — grief; sorrow; misery; heavy calamity.	
woad		(Bot.) An herbaceous cruciferous plant (Isatis tinctoria).	Middle English wode, from Old English wad.
woad-waxen		A leguminous plant (Genista tinctoria) of Europe and Russian Asia, and adventitious in America; -- called also greenwood, greenweed, dyer's greenweed, and whin, wood-wash, wood-wax, and wood- waxen.	
woaded		Colored or stained with woad.	
woald		See Weld — (Bot.) An herb (Reseda luteola) related to mignonette, growing in Europe, and to some extent in America; dyer's broom; dyer's rocket; dyer's weed; wild woad.	
wobble		See Wabble — to move staggeringly or unsteadily from one side to the other; to vacillate; to move the manner of a rotating disk when the axis of rotation is inclined to that of the disk…	
wode	Obsolete	Mad. See Wood, a.	
wodegeld		A geld, or payment, for wood.	
woden		A deity corresponding to Odin, the supreme deity of the Scandinavians.	
woe		Grief; sorrow; misery; heavy calamity.	Middle English wo.
woe-begone		Beset or overwhelmed with woe; immersed in grief or sorrow; woeful.	
woeful		Full of woe; sorrowful; distressed with grief or calamity; afflicted; wretched; unhappy; sad.	
woefully		In a woeful manner; sorrowfully; mournfully; miserably; dolefully.	
woefulness		The quality or state of being woeful; misery; wretchedness.	
woful		Full of woe; sorrowful; distressed with grief or calamity; afflicted; wretched; unhappy; sad.	
wofully		In a woeful manner; sorrowfully; mournfully; miserably; dolefully.	
wofulness		The quality or state of being woeful; misery; wretchedness.	
wol	Obsolete	See 2d Will.	
wold		A plain, or low hill; a country without wood, whether hilly or not.	Middle English wald.
wolde		imp. of Will. See Would.	
wolf		(Zoöl.) Any one of several species of wild and savage carnivores belonging to the genus Canis and closely allied to the common dog.	Middle English wolf, from Old English wulf.
wolfberry		An American shrub (Symphoricarpus occidentalis) which bears soft white berries.	
wolffian		Discovered, or first described, by Caspar Friedrich Wolff (1733-1794), the founder of modern embryology.	
wolfhound		Originally, a large hound used in hunting wolves; now, any one of certain breeds of large dogs, some of which are nearly identical with the great Danes.	
wolfish		Like a wolf; having the qualities or form of a wolf; as, a wolfish visage; wolfish designs. -- Wolf ish*ness, n.	
wolfkin		A little or young wolf.	
wolfling		A young wolf.	
wolfram		Same as Wolframite.	German Wolfram.
wolframate		A salt of wolframic acid; a tungstate.	
wolframic		Of or pertaining to wolframium. See Tungstic.	
wolframite		Tungstate of iron and manganese, generally of a brownish or grayish black color, submetallic luster, and high specific gravity.	German Wolframit.
wolframium		The technical name of the element tungsten. See Tungsten.	
wolfsbane		A poisonous plant (Aconitum Lycoctonum), a kind of monkshood; also, by extension, any plant or species of the genus Aconitum.	
woll	Obsolete	See 2d Will.	
wollastonite		A silicate of lime of a white to gray, red, or yellow color, occurring generally in cleavable masses, rarely in tabular crystals; tabular spar.	
wolverene		A nickname for an inhabitant of Michigan.	
wolverine		A nickname for an inhabitant of Michigan.	
wolves		pl. of Wolf — (Zoöl.) Any one of several species of wild and savage carnivores belonging to the genus Canis and closely allied to the common dog.	
wolvish		Wolfish.	
woman		An adult female person; a grown-up female person, as distinguished from a man or a child; sometimes, any female person.	Middle English woman.
womanhead	Obsolete	Womanhood.	
womanhede	Obsolete	Womanhood.	
womanhood		The state of being a woman; the distinguishing character or qualities of a woman, or of womankind.	
womanish		Suitable to a woman, having the qualities of a woman; effeminate; not becoming a man; -- usually in a reproachful sense.	
womanize	Obsolete	To make like a woman; to make effeminate.	
womankind		The females of the human race; women, collectively.	
womanless		Without a woman or women.	
womanlike		Like a woman; womanly.	
womanliness		The quality or state of being womanly.	
womanly		Becoming a woman; feminine; as, womanly behavior.	
womb		The place where anything is generated or produced.	Old English wamb.
wombat		Any one of three species of Australian burrowing marsupials of the genus Phascolomys, especially the common species (P. ursinus).	
womby	Obsolete	Capacious.	
women		pl. of Woman — an adult female person; a grown-up female person, as distinguished from a man or a child; sometimes, any female person.	Old English wifmenn.
won	Obsolete	imp. & p. p. of Win.	Old English wunian.
wonder		That emotion which is excited by novelty, or the presentation to the sight or mind of something new, unusual, strange, great, extraordinary, or not well understood; surprise; astonishment; admiration; amazement.	Old English wundrian.
wonder-worker		One who performs wonders, or miracles.	
wonder-working		Doing wonders or surprising things.	
wondered	Obsolete	Having performed wonders; able to perform wonderful things.	
wonderer		One who wonders.	
wonderful		Adapted to excite wonder or admiration; surprising; strange; astonishing.	
wonderingly		In a wondering manner.	
wonderland		A land full of wonders, or marvels.	
wonderly	Obsolete	Wonderfully; wondrously.	Old English wonderlice.
wonderment		Surprise; astonishment; a wonderful appearance; a wonder.	
wonderous		Same as Wondrous.	
wonders	Obsolete	See Wondrous — in a wonderful or surprising manner or degree; wonderfully.	
wonderstruck		Struck with wonder, admiration, or surprise.	
wonderwork		A wonderful work or act; a prodigy; a miracle.	
wondrous		In a wonderful or surprising manner or degree; wonderfully.	
wone	Obsolete	Dwelling; habitation; abode.	Middle English wonen, from Old English wunian.
wong	Obsolete	A field.	
wonger	Obsolete	See Wanger — a pillow for the cheek; a pillow.	
woning	Obsolete	Dwelling.	Middle English woning.
wont		Using or doing customarily; accustomed; habituated; used.	Old English gewunod.
wonted		Accustomed; customary; usual.	Middle English woonted.
wontedness		The quality or state of being accustomed.	
wontless	Obsolete	Unaccustomed.	
woo		To court solicitously; to invite with importunity.	Middle English wowen.
wood		A large and thick collection of trees; a forest or grove; -- frequently used in the plural.	Old English wudu.
wood-bound		Incumbered with tall, woody hedgerows.	
wood-layer		A young oak, or other timber plant, laid down in a hedge among the whitethorn or other plants used in hedges.	
wood-note		A wild or natural note, as of a forest bird.	
wood-sare	Obsolete	A kind of froth seen on herbs.	
wood-sere	Obsolete	The time when there no sap in the trees; the winter season.	
wood-wash		Same as Woadwaxen.	
wood-wax		Same as Woadwaxen.	
wood-waxen		Same as Woadwaxen.	
woodbind		Woodbine.	
woodbine	Dialect	(a) A climbing plant having flowers of great fragrance (Lonicera Periclymenum); the honeysuckle.	
woodbury-type		A process in photographic printing, in which a relief pattern in gelatin, which has been hardened after certain operations, is pressed upon a plate of lead or other soft metal.	
woodchat		(a) Any one of several species of Asiatic singing birds belonging to the genera Ianthia and Larvivora.	
woodchuck		(Zoöl.) A common large North American marmot (Arctomys monax).	
woodcock		(Zoöl.) Any one of several species of long-billed limicoline birds belonging to the genera Scolopax and Philohela.	
woodcracker	English dialect	The nuthatch.	
woodcraft		Skill and practice in anything pertaining to the woods, especially in shooting, and other sports in the woods.	
woodcut		An engraving on wood; also, a print from it.	
woodcutter		A person who cuts wood.	
woodcutting		The act or employment of cutting wood or timber.	
wooded		Supplied or covered with wood, or trees; as, land wooded and watered.	
wooden		Made or consisting of wood; pertaining to, or resembling, wood; as, a wooden box; a wooden leg; a wooden wedding.	
woodenly		Clumsily; stupidly; blockishly.	
woodenness		Quality of being wooden; clumsiness; stupidity; blockishness.	
woodhack	English dialect	The yaffle.	
woodhacker	English dialect	The yaffle.	
woodhewer		A woodpecker.	
woodhole		A place where wood is stored.	
woodhouse		A house or shed in which wood is stored, and sheltered from the weather.	
woodiness		The quality or state of being woody.	
woodknacker		The yaffle.	
woodland		Land covered with wood or trees; forest; land on which trees are suffered to grow, either for fuel or timber.	
woodlander		A dweller in a woodland.	
woodless		Having no wood; destitute of wood.	
woodly	Obsolete	In a wood, mad, or raving manner; madly; furiously.	
woodman		A forest officer appointed to take care of the king's woods; a forester.	
woodmeil		See Wadmol — a coarse, hairy, woolen cloth, formerly used for garments by the poor, and for various other purposes.	
woodmonger	Obsolete	A wood seller.	
woodness	Obsolete	Anger; madness; insanity; rage.	Old English wodnes.
woodpeck	Obsolete	A woodpecker.	
woodpecker		Any one of numerous species of scansorial birds belonging to Picus and many allied genera of the family Picidæ.	
woodrock		A compact woodlike variety of asbestus.	
woodroof		A little European herb (Asperula odorata) having a pleasant taste.	
woodruff		A little European herb (Asperula odorata) having a pleasant taste.	
woodsman		A woodman; especially, one who lives in the forest.	
woodstone		A striped variety of hornstone, resembling wood in appearance.	
woodsy	Colloquial	Of or pertaining to the woods or forest.	
woodwall		The yaffle.	
woodward		An officer of the forest, whose duty it was to guard the woods.	
woodwardia		A genus of ferns, one species of which (Woodwardia radicans) is a showy plant in California, the Azores, etc.	
woodwork		Work made of wood; that part of any structure which is wrought of wood.	
woodworm		See Wood worm, under Wood.	
woody		Abounding with wood or woods; as, woody land.	
wooer		One who wooes; one who courts or solicits in love; a suitor.	Middle English wowere, from Old English wōgere.
woof		The threads that cross the warp in a woven fabric; the weft; the filling; the thread usually carried by the shuttle in weaving.	Middle English oof.
woofell		The European blackbird.	
woofy		Having a close texture; dense; as, a woofy cloud.	
woohoo		The sailfish.	
wooingly		In a wooing manner; enticingly; with persuasiveness.	
wool		The soft and curled, or crisped, species of hair which grows on sheep and some other animals, and which in fineness sometimes approaches to fur; -- chiefly applied to the fleecy coat of the sheep…	Middle English wolle, from Old English wull.
wool-dyed		Dyed before being made into cloth, in distinction from piece- dyed; ingrain.	
wool-hall		A trade market in the woolen districts.	
woold		To wind, or wrap; especially, to wind a rope round, as a mast or yard made of two or more pieces, at the place where it has been fished or scarfed, in order to strengthen it.	Dutch woelde.
woolder		(Naut.) A stick used to tighten the rope in woolding.	
woolding		(a) The act of winding or wrapping anything with a rope, as a mast. (b) A rope used for binding masts and spars.	
wooled		Having (such) wool; as, a fine-wooled sheep.	
woolen		Made of wool; consisting of wool; as, woolen goods.	
woolenet		A thin, light fabric of wool.	
woolert	English dialect	The barn owl.	
woolfell		A skin with the wool; a skin from which the wool has not been sheared or pulled.	
woolgathering		Indulging in a vagrant or idle exercise of the imagination; roaming upon a fruitless quest; idly fanciful.	
woolgrower		One who raises sheep for the production of wool. -- Wool"grow`ing, n.	
woolhead		The buffel duck.	
woolliness		The quality or state of being woolly.	
woolly		Consisting of wool; as, a woolly covering; a woolly fleece.	
woolly-head	Low	A negro.	
woolman		One who deals in wool.	
woolpack		A pack or bag of wool weighing two hundred and forty pounds.	
woolsack		A sack or bag of wool; specifically, the seat of the lord chancellor of England in the House of Lords, being a large, square sack of wool resembling a divan in form.	
woolsey		Linsey-woolsey.	
woolstock		A heavy wooden hammer for milling cloth.	
woolward	Obsolete	In wool; with woolen raiment next the skin.	
woolward-going	Obsolete	A wearing of woolen clothes next the skin as a matter of penance.	
woon	Obsolete	Dwelling. See Wone.	
woorali		Same as Curare.	
woosy	Obsolete	Oozy; wet.	
wootz		A species of steel imported from the East Indies, valued for making edge tools; Indian steel.	
wooyen		See Yuen — the crowned gibbon (Hylobates pileatus), native of Siam, Southern China, and the Island of Hainan.	
worble		See Wormil — (Zoöl.) Any botfly larva which burrows in or beneath the skin of domestic and wild animals, thus producing sores.	
word		The spoken sign of a conception or an idea; an articulate or vocal sound, or a combination of articulate and vocal sounds, uttered by the human voice, and by custom expressing an idea or ideas…	Middle English word, from Old English word.
word-catcher		One who cavils at words.	
wordbook		A collection of words; a vocabulary; a dictionary; a lexicon.	
worder	Obsolete	A speaker.	
wordily		In a wordy manner.	
wordiness		The quality or state of being wordy, or abounding with words; verboseness.	
wording		The act or manner of expressing in words; style of expression; phrasing.	
wordish		Respecting words; full of words; wordy.	
wordle		One of several pivoted pieces forming the throat of an adjustable die used in drawing wire, lead pipe, etc. Knight.	
wordless		Not using words; not speaking; silent; speechless.	
wordplay		A more or less subtle playing upon the meaning of words.	
wordsman		One who deals in words, or in mere words; a verbalist.	
wordy		Of or pertaining to words; consisting of words; verbal; as, a wordy war.	Middle English woordy, from Old English wordig.
wore		imp. of Wear. imp. of Ware.	
work		Exertion of strength or faculties; physical or intellectual effort directed to an end; industrial activity; toil; employment; sometimes, specifically, physically labor.	Old English wyrċan.
workable		Capable of being worked, or worth working; as, a workable mine; workable clay.	
workaday		See Workyday — a week day or working day, as distinguished from Sunday or a holiday.	
workbag		A bag for holding implements or materials for work; especially, a reticule, or bag for holding needlework, and the like.	
workbasket		A basket for holding materials for needlework, or the like.	
workbench		A bench on which work is performed, as in a carpenter's shop.	
workbox		A box for holding instruments or materials for work.	
workday		A day on which work is performed, as distinguished from Sunday, festivals, etc., a working day.	
worker		One who, or that which, works; a laborer; a performer; as, a worker in brass.	
workfellow		One engaged in the same work with another; a companion in work.	
workfolk		People that labor.	
workful		Full of work; diligent.	Middle English workvol, from Old English weorcful.
workhouse		A house where any manufacture is carried on; a workshop.	
working		a & n. from Work.	
working-day		Pertaining to, or characteristic of, working days, or workdays; everyday; hence, plodding; hard-working.	
workingman		A laboring man; a man who earns his daily support by manual labor.	
workless		Without work; not laboring; as, many people were still workless.	
workman		A man employed in labor, whether in tillage or manufactures; a worker.	Middle English werkman, from Old English weorcmann.
workmanlike		Becoming a workman, especially a skillful one; skillful; well performed.	
workmanly		Becoming a skillful workman; skillful; well performed; workmanlike.	
workmanship		The art or skill of a workman; the execution or manner of making anything.	
workmaster		The performer of any work; a master workman.	
workroom		Any room or apartment used especially for labor.	
workship		Workmanship.	
workshop		A shop where any manufacture or handiwork is carried on.	
worktable		A table for holding working materials and implements; esp., a small table with drawers and other conveniences for needlework, etc.	
workways		In a working position or manner; as, a T rail placed workwise, i.e., resting on its base.	
workwise		In a working position or manner; as, a T rail placed workwise, i.e., resting on its base.	
workwoman		A woman who performs any work; especially, a woman skilled in needlework.	
workyday	Obsolete	A week day or working day, as distinguished from Sunday or a holiday.	
world		The earth and the surrounding heavens; the creation; the system of created things; existent creation; the universe.	Middle English world, from Old English woruld.
world-wide		Extended throughout the world; as, world-wide fame.	
worldliness		The quality of being worldly; a predominant passion for obtaining the good things of this life; covetousness; addictedness to gain and temporal enjoyments; worldly-mindedness.	
worldling		A person whose soul is set upon gaining temporal possessions; one devoted to this world and its enjoyments.	
worldly		Relating to the world; human; common; as, worldly maxims; worldly actions.	
worldly-minded		Devoted to worldly interests; mindful of the affairs of the present life, and forgetful of those of the future; loving and pursuing this world's goods…	
worldly-wise		Wise in regard to things of this world.	
worldlywise		Wise in regard to things of this world.	
worm		Any small creeping animal or reptile, either entirely without feet, or with very short ones, including a great variety of animals; as, an earthworm; the blindworm.	Middle English worm.
worm-eaten		Eaten, or eaten into, by a worm or by worms; as, worm-eaten timber.	
worm-shaped		Shaped like a worm; as, a worm-shaped root.	
worm-shell		Any species of Vermetus.	
wormal		See Wormil — (Zoöl.) Any botfly larva which burrows in or beneath the skin of domestic and wild animals, thus producing sores.	
wormed		Penetrated by worms; injured by worms; worm-eaten; as, wormed timber.	
wormhole		A burrow made by a worm.	
wormian		Discovered or described by Olanus Wormius, a Danish anatomist.	
wormil		(Zoöl.) Any botfly larva which burrows in or beneath the skin of domestic and wild animals, thus producing sores.	
wormling		A little worm.	
wormseed		Any one of several plants, as Artemisia santonica, and Chenopodium anthelminticum, whose seeds have the property of expelling worms from the stomach and intestines.	
wormul		See Wornil.	
wormwood		(Bot.) A composite plant (Artemisia Absinthium), having a bitter and slightly aromatic taste, formerly used as a tonic and a vermifuge, and to protect woolen garments from moths.	Middle English wormwode.
wormy		Containing a worm; abounding with worms.	
worn		p. p. of Wear — to carry or bear upon the person; to bear upon one's self, as an article of clothing, decoration, warfare, bondage, etc.; to have appendant to one's body; to have on; as, to wear a coat…	Old English geworen.
worn-out		Consumed, or rendered useless, by wearing; as, worn-out garments.	
wornil		See Wormil — (Zoöl.) Any botfly larva which burrows in or beneath the skin of domestic and wild animals, thus producing sores.	
worral		An Egyptian fork-tongued lizard, about four feet long when full grown.	
worrel		An Egyptian fork-tongued lizard, about four feet long when full grown.	
worrier		One who worries.	
worriment	Colloquial	Trouble; anxiety; worry.	
worrisome		Inclined to worry or fret; also, causing worry or annoyance.	
worrit		To worry; to annoy.	
worry		To harass by pursuit and barking; to attack repeatedly; also, to tear or mangle with the teeth.	Old English wyrġan.
worryingly		In a worrying manner.	
worse		Bad, ill, evil, or corrupt, in a greater degree; more bad or evil; less good; specifically, in poorer health; more sick; -- used both in a physical and moral sense.	Old English wyrsa.
worsen		To make worse; to deteriorate; to impair.	
worship		Hence, a title of honor, used in addresses to certain magistrates and others of rank or station.	Old English weorþscipe.
worshipability		The quality of being worthy to be worshiped.	
worshipable		Capable of being worshiped; worthy of worship.	
worshiper		One who worships; one who pays divine honors to any being or thing; one who adores.	
worshipful		Entitled to worship, reverence, or high respect; claiming respect; worthy of honor; -- often used as a term of respect, sometimes ironically. so dear and worshipful.	
worst		Bad, evil, or pernicious, in the highest degree, whether in a physical or moral sense.	
worsted		Well-twisted yarn spun of long-staple wool which has been combed to lay the fibers parallel, used for carpets, cloth, hosiery, gloves, and the like.	
wort		(Bot.) A plant of any kind.	Middle English wort.
worth		To be; to become; to betide; -- now used only in the phrases, woe worth the day, woe worth the man, etc., in which the verb is in the imperative, and the nouns day, man, etc., are in the dative.	Old English weorþan.
worthful		Full of worth; worthy; deserving.	
worthily		In a worthy manner; excellently; deservedly; according to merit; justly; suitably; becomingly.	
worthiness		The quality or state of being worthy; desert; merit; excellence; dignity; virtue; worth.	
worthless		Destitute of worth; having no value, virtue, excellence, dignity, or the like; undeserving; valueless; useless; vile; mean; as, a worthless garment; a worthless ship; a worthless man or woman; a worthless magistrate.	
worthwhile		Worth the time or effort spent. See worth while. worthy. -- worthwhileness.	
worthy		Having worth or excellence; possessing merit; valuable; deserving; estimable; excellent; virtuous.	Middle English worthien.
wost	Obsolete	2d pers. sing. pres. of Wit, to know.	
wot	Obsolete	1st & 3d pers. sing. pres. of Wit, to know. See the Note under Wit, v.	
wotest	Obsolete	2d pers. sing. pres. of Wit, to know.	
woteth	Obsolete	3d pers. sing. pres. of Wit, to know.	
wottest	Obsolete	2d pers. sing. pres. of Wit, to know.	
wotteth	Obsolete	3d pers. sing. pres. of Wit, to know.	
wou-wou		The agile, or silvery, gibbon; -- called also camper. See Gibbon.	
woul	Obsolete	To howl.	
would		Commonly used as an auxiliary verb, either in the past tense or in the conditional or optative present.	
would-be		' (as, a would-be poet.	
woulding	Obsolete	Emotion of desire; inclination; velleity.	
wouldingness	Obsolete	Willingness; desire.	
wound		imp. & p. p. of Wind to twist, and Wind to sound by blowing.	
woundable		Capable of being wounded; vulnerable.	
wounder		One who, or that which, wounds.	
woundily	Obsolete	In a woundy manner; excessively; woundy.	
woundless		Free from wound or hurt; exempt from being wounded; invulnerable. may miss our name, And hit the woundless air.	
woundwort		Any one of certain plants whose soft, downy leaves have been used for dressing wounds, as the kidney vetch, and several species of the labiate genus Stachys.	
woundy	Obsolete	Excessive.	
wourali		Same as Curare.	
wove		p. pr. & rare vb. n. of Weave.	
woven		p. p. of Weave — to unite, as threads of any kind, in such a manner as to form a texture; to entwine or interlace into a fabric; as, to weave wool, silk, etc.; hence…	
wow-wow		See Wou-wou — the agile, or silvery, gibbon; -- called also camper. See Gibbon.	
wowf	Scots	Disordered or unsettled in intellect; deranged.	
wox		imp. of Wax — to increase in size; to grow bigger; to become larger or fuller; - - opposed to wane.	
woxen		p. p. of Wax — to increase in size; to grow bigger; to become larger or fuller; - - opposed to wane.	
