wrack		A thin, flying cloud; a rack.	Old English wræc.
wrackful	Obsolete	Ruinous; destructive.	
wrain-bolt		Same as Wringbolt.	
wraith	Scots	An apparition of a person in his exact likeness, seen before death, or a little after; hence, an apparition; a specter; a vision; an unreal image.	
wrangle		To dispute angrily; to quarrel peevishly and noisily; to brawl; to altercate.	
wrangler		An angry disputant; one who disputes with heat or peevishness.	
wranglership		The honor or position of being a wrangler at the University of Cambridge, England.	
wranglesome	English dialect	Contentious; quarrelsome.	
wrannock	English dialect	The common wren.	
wranny	English dialect	The common wren.	
wrap		To snatch up; transport; -- chiefly used in the p. p. wrapt.	Middle English wrappen.
wrappage		That which wraps; envelope; covering.	
wrapper		One who, or that which, wraps.	
wraprascal		A kind of coarse upper coat, or overcoat, formerly worn.	
wrasse		Any one of numerous edible, marine, spiny-finned fishes of the genus Labrus, of which several species are found in the Mediterranean and on the Atlantic coast of Europe.	
wrastle	Obsolete	To wrestle.	
wrath		Violent anger; vehement exasperation; indignation; rage; fury; ire.	Middle English wraththe.
wrathful		Full of wrath; very angry; greatly incensed; ireful; passionate; as, a wrathful man.	
wrathily	Colloquial	In a wrathy manner; very angrily; wrathfully.	
wrathless		Free from anger or wrath.	
wrathy	Colloquial	Very angry.	
wraw	Obsolete	Angry; vexed; wrathful.	
wrawful	Obsolete	Ill-tempered.	
wrawl	Obsolete	To cry, as a cat; to waul.	
wrawness	Obsolete	Peevishness; ill temper; anger.	
wray	Obsolete	To reveal; to disclose.	Middle English wreien, from Old English wregan.
wreak	Obsolete	To execute in vengeance or passion; to inflict; to hurl or drive; as, to wreak vengeance on an enemy.	Old English wrecan.
wreaken		p. p. of Wreak — to execute in vengeance or passion; to inflict; to hurl or drive; as, to wreak vengeance on an enemy.	
wreaker	Obsolete	Avenger.	
wreakful	Obsolete	Revengeful; angry; furious. -- Wreak"ful*ly, adv.	
wreakless	Obsolete	Unrevengeful; weak.	
wreath		Something twisted, intertwined, or curled; as, a wreath of smoke; a wreath of flowers. of his tortuous train Curled many a wanton wreath.	
wreath-shell		A marine shell of the genus Turbo. See Turbo.	
wreathe		To twist; to convolve; to wind one about another; to entwine.	
wreathen		Twisted; made into a wreath. xxviii. 22.	
wreathless		Destitute of a wreath.	
wreathy		Wreathed; twisted; curled; spiral; also, full of wreaths.	
wrecche	Obsolete	A wretch.	
wreck		The destruction or injury of a vessel by being cast on shore, or on rocks, or by being disabled or sunk by the force of winds or waves; shipwreck.	Middle English wrek, from Anglo-Norman wrec.
wreck-master		A person appointed by law to take charge of goods, etc., thrown on shore after a shipwreck.	
wreckage		The act of wrecking, or state of being wrecked.	
wrecker		One who causes a wreck, as by false lights, and the like.	
wreckfish		A stone bass.	
wreckful		Causing wreck; involving ruin; destructive.	
wrecking		a. & n. from Wreck, v.	
wreeke	Obsolete	See 2d Wreak.	
wreke	Obsolete	See 2d Wreak.	
wren		(Zoöl.) Any one of numerous species of small singing birds belonging to Troglodytes and numerous allied of the family Troglodytidæ.	
wrench		A violent twist, or a pull with twisting.	Old English wrencan.
wrest		To turn; to twist; esp., to twist or extort by violence; to pull of force away by, or as if by, violent wringing or twisting.	Old English wræstan.
wrester		One who wrests.	
wrestle		To contend, by grappling with, and striving to trip or throw down, an opponent; as, they wrestled skillfully.	
wrestler		One who wrestles; one who is skillful in wrestling.	
wrestling		Act of one who wrestles; specif., the sport consisting of the hand-to-hand combat between two unarmed contestants who seek to throw each other.	
wretch		A miserable person; one profoundly unhappy.	Old English wrecca.
wretched		Very miserable; sunk in, or accompanied by, deep affliction or distress, as from want, anxiety, or grief; calamitous; woeful; very afflicting.	
wretchedly		In a wretched manner; miserably; despicable.	
wretchedness		The quality or state of being wretched; utter misery.	
wretchful	Obsolete	Wretched.	
wretchless	Obsolete	Reckless; hence, disregarded. -- Wretch less*ness, n.	
wrey	Obsolete	See Wray — to reveal; to disclose.	
wrie	Obsolete	See Wry — turned to one side; twisted; distorted; as, a wry mouth.	
wrig	Obsolete	To wriggle.	
wriggle	Obsolete	To move the body to and fro with short, writhing motions, like a worm; to squirm; to twist uneasily or quickly about.	
wriggler		One who, or that which, wriggles.	
wright		One who is engaged in a mechanical or manufacturing business; an artificer; a workman; a manufacturer; a mechanic; esp., a worker in wood; -- now chiefly used in compounds, as in millwright, wheelwright…	Old English wyrhta.
wrightine		A rare alkaloid found in the bark of an East Indian apocynaceous tree (Wrightia antidysenterica), and extracted as a bitter white crystalline substance.	
wring		To twist and compress; to turn and strain with violence; to writhe; to squeeze hard; to pinch; as, to wring clothes in washing. so sweat that men might him wring.	Old English wringan.
wringbolt		A bolt used by shipwrights, to bend and secure the planks against the timbers till they are fastened by bolts, spikes, or treenails; -- not to be confounded with ringbolt.	
wringer		One who, or that which, wrings; hence, an extortioner.	
wringing		a. & n. from Wring, v.	
wringstaff		A strong piece of plank used in applying wringbolts.	
wrinkle		A small ridge, prominence, or furrow formed by the shrinking or contraction of any smooth substance; a corrugation; a crease; a slight fold; as, wrinkle in the skin; a wrinkle in cloth.	
wrinkly		Full of wrinkles; having a tendency to be wrinkled; corrugated; puckered.	
wrist		(Anat.) The joint, or the region of the joint, between the hand and the arm; the carpus.	
wristband		The band of the sleeve of a shirt, or other garment, which covers the wrist.	
wrister		A covering for the wrist.	
wristlet		An elastic band worn around the wrist, as for the purpose of securing the upper part of a glove.	
writ		3d pers. sing. pres. of Write, for writeth.	
writability		Ability or capacity to write.	
writable		Capable of, or suitable for, being written down.	
writative		Inclined to much writing; -- correlative to talkative.	
write		To set down, as legible characters; to form the conveyance of meaning; to inscribe on any material by a suitable instrument; as, to write the characters called letters; to write figures.	Middle English writen, from Old English writan.
writer		One who writes, or has written; a scribe; a clerk.	
writership		The office of a writer.	
writhe		To twist; to turn; now, usually, to twist or turn so as to distort; to wring.	Middle English writhen, from Old English wriþan.
writhen		Having a twisted distorted from.	
writhle	Obsolete	To wrinkle.	
writing		The act or art of forming letters and characters on paper, wood, stone, or other material, for the purpose of recording the ideas which characters and words express, or of communicating them to others by visible signs.	
written		p. p. of Write, v.	
wrizzle	Obsolete	To wrinkle.	
wroken		p. p. of Wreak — to execute in vengeance or passion; to inflict; to hurl or drive; as, to wreak vengeance on an enemy.	
wrong		imp. of Wring — to twist and compress; to turn and strain with violence; to writhe; to squeeze hard; to pinch; as, to wring clothes in washing. so sweat that men might him wring.	Middle English wrong, from Old English wrang, from Old Norse rangr.
wrong-timed		Done at an improper time; ill-timed.	
wrongdoer		One who injures another, or who does wrong.	
wrongdoing		Evil or wicked behavior or action.	
wronger		One who wrongs or injures another.	
wrongful		Full of wrong; injurious; unjust; unfair; as, a wrongful taking of property; wrongful dealing. -- Wrong ful*ness, n.	
wronghead		A person of a perverse understanding or obstinate character.	
wrongheaded		Wrong in opinion or principle; having a perverse understanding; perverse. -- Wrong head`ed*ness, n.	
wrongless	Obsolete	Not wrong; void or free from wrong. -- Wrong"less*ly, adv.	
wrongly		In a wrong manner; unjustly; erroneously; wrong; amiss; as, he judges wrongly of my motives.	
wrongness		The quality or state of being wrong; wrongfulness; error; fault.	Middle English wrongnesse.
wrongous		Constituting, or of the nature of, a wrong; unjust; wrongful.	Middle English wrongous.
wroot		imp. of Write — to set down, as legible characters; to form the conveyance of meaning; to inscribe on any material by a suitable instrument; as, to write the characters called letters; to write figures.	
wrote	Obsolete	To root with the snout. See 1st Root.	
wroth		Full of wrath; angry; incensed; much exasperated; wrathful.	Middle English wroth, from Old English wraþ.
wrought		imp. & p. p. of Work.	
wrung		imp. & p. p. of Wring.	
wry		Turned to one side; twisted; distorted; as, a wry mouth.	Middle English wrien, from Old English wrigian.
wrybill		See Crookbill — a new Zealand plover (Anarhynchus frontalis), remarkable for having the end of the beak abruptly bent to the right.	
wrymouth		Any one of several species of large, elongated, marine fishes of the genus Cryptacanthodes, especially C. maculatus of the American coast.	
wryneck		A twisted or distorted neck; a deformity in which the neck is drawn to one side by a rigid contraction of one of the muscles of the neck; torticollis.	
wrynecked		Having a distorted neck; having the deformity called wryneck.	
wryness		The quality or state of being wry, or distorted.	
wrythen		Writhen.	
