xanthamide		An amido derivative of xanthic acid obtained as a white crystalline substance, C2H5O.CS.NH2; -- called also xanthogen amide.
xanthate		A salt of xanthic; a xanthogenate.
xanthelasma		See Xanthoma — a skin disease marked by the development or irregular yellowish patches upon the skin, especially upon the eyelids; -- called also xanthelasma.
xanthian		Of or pertaining to Xanthus, an ancient town on Asia Minor; -- applied especially to certain marbles found near that place, and now in the British Museum.
xanthic		Tending toward a yellow color, or to one of those colors, green being excepted, in which yellow is a constituent, as scarlet, orange, etc.
xanthide	Archaic	A compound or derivative of xanthogen.
xanthidium		A genus of minute unicellular algæ of the desmids.
xanthin		(Physiol. Chem.) A crystalline nitrogenous body closely related to both uric acid and hypoxanthin, present in muscle tissue, and occasionally found in the urine and in some urinary calculi.
xanthine		A white microcrystalline nitrogenous compound, C5H4O2N4, present in muscle tissue, in the liver, spleen, pancreas, and other organs, and also in urine (in small quantities) and some urinary calculi…
xanthinine		A complex nitrogenous substance related to urea and uric acid, produced as a white powder; -- so called because it forms yellow salts, and because its solution forms a blue fluorescence like quinine.
xanthium		A genus of composite plants in which the scales of the involucre are united so as to form a kind of bur; cocklebur; clotbur.
xantho-		A combining form from Gr. xanqo`s yellow; as in xanthocobaltic salts. Used also adjectively in chemistry.
xanthocarpous		Having yellow fruit.
xanthochroi		A division of the Caucasian races, comprising the lighter- colored members.
xanthochroic		Having a yellowish or fair complexion; of or pertaining to the Xanthochroi.
xanthochroid		Having a yellowish or fair complexion. -- n.
xanthochroism		Abnormal coloration of feathers in which yellow replaces the normal color, as in certain parrots.
xanthodontous		Having yellow teeth.
xanthogen	Archaic	(a) The hypothetical radical supposed to be characteristic of xanthic acid.
xanthogenate		A salt of xanthic acid.
xanthogenic		Producing a yellow color or compound; xanthic. See Xanthic acid, under Xanthic.
xanthoma		A skin disease marked by the development or irregular yellowish patches upon the skin, especially upon the eyelids; -- called also xanthelasma.
xanthomatous		Of or pertaining to xanthoma.
xanthomelanous		Of or pertaining to the lighter division of the Melanochroi, or those races having an olive or yellow complexion and black hair.
xanthophane		The yellow pigment present in the inner segments of the retina in animals.
xanthophyll		A yellow coloring matter found in yellow autumn leaves, and also produced artificially from chlorophyll; -- formerly called also phylloxanthin.
xanthopous		Having a yellow stipe, or stem.
xanthoproteic		Pertaining to, or derived from, xanthoprotein; showing the characters of xanthoprotein; as, xanthoproteic acid; the xanthoproteic reaction for albumin.
xanthoprotein		A yellow acid substance formed by the action of hot nitric acid on albuminous or proteid matter.
xanthopuccine		One of three alkaloids found in the root of the yellow puccoon (Hydrastis Canadensis).
xanthorhamnin		A glucoside extracted from Persian berries as a yellow crystalline powder, used as a dyestuff.
xanthorhiza		A genus of shrubby ranunculaceous plants of North America, including only the species Xanthorhiza apiifolia, which has roots of a deep yellow color; yellowroot.
xanthorhoea		A genus of endogenous plants, native to Australia, having a thick, sometimes arborescent, stem, and long grasslike leaves.
xanthose		An orange-yellow substance found in pigment spots of certain crabs.
xanthosis		The yellow discoloration often observed in cancerous tumors.
xanthospermous		Having yellow seeds.
xanthous		Yellow; specifically (Ethnol.), of or pertaining to those races of man which have yellowish, red, auburn, or brown hair.
xanthoxylene		A liquid hydrocarbon of the terpene series extracted from the seeds of a Japanese prickly ash (Xanthoxylum pipertium) as an aromatic oil.
xanthoxylum		A genus of prickly shrubs or small trees, the bark and rots of which are of a deep yellow color; prickly ash.
