xylamide		An acid amide derivative of xylic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance.
xylan		A gummy substance of the pentosan class, present in woody tissue, and yielding xylose on hydrolysis; wood gum.
xylanthrax		Wood coal, or charcoal; -- so called in distinction from mineral coal.
xylate		A salt of xylic acid.
xylem		That portion of a fibrovascular bundle which has developed, or will develop, into wood cells; -- distinguished from phloëm.
xylene		Any of a group of three metameric hydrocarbons of the aromatic series, found in coal and wood tar, and so named because found in crude wood spirit.
xylenol		Any one of six metameric phenol derivatives of xylene, obtained as crystalline substances, (CH3)2.C6H3.OH.
xyletic		Pertaining to, or designating, a complex acid related to mesitylenic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance by the action of sodium and carbon dioxide on crude xylenol.
xylic		Pertaining to, derived from, or related to, xylene; specifically, designating any one of several metameric acids produced by the partial oxidation of mesitylene and pseudo-cumene.
xylidic		Pertaining to, or designating, either one of two distinct acids which are derived from xylic acid and related compounds, and are metameric with uvitic acid.
xylidine		Any one of six metameric hydrocarbons, (CH3)2.C6H3.NH2, resembling aniline, and related to xylene.
xylindein		A green or blue pigment produced by Peziza in certain kinds of decayed wood, as the beech, oak, birch, etc., and extracted as an amorphous powder resembling indigo.
xylite		A liquid hydrocarbon found in crude wood spirits.
xylitone		A yellow oil having a geraniumlike odor, produced as a side product in making phorone; -- called also xylite oil.
xylo-		A combining form from Gr. xy`lon wood; as in xylogen, xylograph.
xylobalsamum		The dried twigs of a Syrian tree (Balsamodendron Gileadense).
xylocarpous		Bearing fruit which becomes hard or woody.
xylocopa		A genus of hymenopterous insects including the carpenter. See Carpenter bee, under Carpenter. -- Xy*loc"o*pine, a.
xylogen		(a) (Bot.) Nascent wood; wood cells in a forming state. (b) Lignin.
xylograph		An engraving on wood, or the impression from such an engraving; a print by xylography.
xylographer		One who practices xylography.
xylographic		Of or pertaining to xylography, or wood engraving.
xylographical		Of or pertaining to xylography, or wood engraving.
xylography		The art of making prints from the natural grain of wood.
xyloid		Resembling wood; having the nature of wood.
xyloidin		A substance resembling pyroxylin, obtained by the action of nitric acid on starch; -- called also nitramidin.
xylol		Same as Xylene.
xylology		The branch of dendrology treating of the gross and minute structure of wood.
xylonite		See Zylonite — celluloid.
xylophaga		A genus of marine bivalves which bore holes in wood.
xylophagan		(a) One of a tribe of beetles whose larvæ bore or live in wood. (b) Any species of Xylophaga.
xylophagides		A tribe or family of dipterous flies whose larvæ live in decayed wood.
xylophagous		(a) Eating, boring in, or destroying, wood; -- said especially of certain insect larvæ, crustaceans, and mollusks.
xylophilan		One of a tribe of beetles (Xylophili) whose larvæ live on decayed wood.
xylophilous		Of or pertaining to the xylophilans.
xylophone		(Mus.) An instrument common among the Russians, Poles, and Tartars, consisting of a series of strips of wood or glass graduated in length to the musical scale, resting on belts of straw, and struck with two small hammers.
xyloplastic		Formed of wood pulp by molds; relating to casts made of wood pulp in molds.
xylopyrography		The art or practice of burning pictures on wood with a hot iron; -- called also poker painting.
xyloquinone		Any one of a group of quinone compounds obtained respectively by the oxidation of certain xylidine compounds.
xylorcin		A derivative of xylene obtained as a white crystalline substance which on exposure in the air becomes red; -- called also betaorcin.
xylose		An unfermentable sugar of the pentose class, C5H10O5, formed by the hydrolysis of xylan; wood sugar.
xylostein		A glucoside found in the poisonous berries of a species of honeysuckle (Lonicera xylosteum), and extracted as a bitter, white, crystalline substance.
xylotile		Same as Parkesine.
xylotomist		One versed or engaged in xylotomy.
xylotomous		Capable of boring or cutting wood; -- said of many insects.
xylotomy		Art of preparing sections (transverse, tangential, or radial) of wood, esp. by means of a microtome, for microscopic examination.
xylotrya		A genus of marine bivalves closely allied to Teredo, and equally destructive to timber.
xylyl		Any one of three metameric radicals which are characteristic respectively of the three xylenes.
xylylene		Any one of three metameric radicals, CH2.C6H4.CH2, derived respectively from the three xylenes.
xyridaceous		Of or pertaining to a natural order (Xyrideæ) of endogenous plants, of which Xyris is the type.
xyris		A genus of endogenous herbs with grassy leaves and small yellow flowers in short, scaly-bracted spikes; yellow-eyed grass.
xyst		A long and open portico, for athletic exercises, as wrestling, running, etc., for use in winter or in stormy weather.
xystarch		An office Dr. W.
xyster		An instrument for scraping bone.
xystus		A long and open portico, for athletic exercises, as wrestling, running, etc., for use in winter or in stormy weather.
