yacare		A South American crocodilian (Jacare sclerops) resembling the alligator in size and habits.	Portuguese jacaré.
yacca		A West Indian name for two large timber trees (Podocarpus coriaceus, and P.	
yacht		A light and elegantly furnished vessel, used either for private parties of pleasure, or as a vessel of state to convey distinguished persons from one place to another; a seagoing vessel used only for pleasure trips, racing…	
yachter		One engaged in sailing a jacht.	
yachting		Sailing for pleasure in a yacht.	
yachtman		See Yachtsman — one who owns or sails a yacht; a yachter.	
yachtsman		One who owns or sails a yacht; a yachter.	
yaf		Gave. See Give.	
yaffingale	English dialect	The yaffle.	
yaffle		The European green woodpecker (Picus, or Genius, viridis).	
yager		In the German army, one belonging to a body of light infantry armed with rifles, resembling the chasseur of the French army.	
yaguarundi		Same as Jaguarondi.	
yahoo		One of a race of filthy brutes in Swift's See in the Dictionary of Noted Names in Fiction.	
yahwe		A modern transliteration of the Hebrew word translated Jehovah in the Bible; -- used by some critics to discriminate the tribal god of the ancient Hebrews from the Christian Jehovah.	
yahweh		A modern transliteration of the Hebrew word translated Jehovah in the Bible; -- used by some critics to discriminate the tribal god of the ancient Hebrews from the Christian Jehovah.	
yahwism		The religion or worship of Yahweh (Jehovah), or the system of doctrines, etc., connected with it.	
yahwist		The author of the passages of the Old Testament, esp. those of the Hexateuch, in which God is styled Yahweh, or Jehovah; the author of the Yahwistic, or Jehovistic, Prophetic Document (J); also, the document itself.	
yajur-veda		See Veda — the ancient sacred literature of the Hindoos; also, one of the four collections, called Rig-Veda, Yajur-Veda, Sama-Veda, and Atharva-Veda…	
yak		A bovine mammal (Poëphagus grunnies) native of the high plains of Central Asia.	Tibetan གཡག.
yakamilk		See Trumpeter, 3 (a).	
yakare		Same as Yacare.	
yakin		A large Asiatic antelope (Budorcas taxicolor) native of the higher parts of the Himalayas and other lofty mountains.	
yakoots		(Ethnol.) A nomadic Mongolian tribe native of Northern Siberia, and supposed to be of Turkish stock.	
yaksha		A kind of demigod attendant on Kuvera, the god of wealth.	Sanskrit यक्ष.
yakut		The Turkish language of the Yakuts, a Mongolian people of northeastern Siberia, which is lingua franca over much of eastern Siberia.	
yalah		The oil of the mahwa tree.	
yam		A large, esculent, farinaceous tuber of various climbing plants of the genus Dioscorea; also, the plants themselves.	
yama		The king of the infernal regions, corresponding to the Greek Pluto, and also the judge of departed souls.	
yamen		In China, the official headquarters or residence of a mandarin, including court rooms, offices, gardens, prisons, etc.; the place where the business of any public department is transcated.	Mandarin Chinese 衙门.
yamma		The llama.	
yamp		An umbelliferous plant (Carum Gairdneri); also, its small fleshy roots, which are eaten by the Indians from Idaho to California.	
yang		The cry of the wild goose; a honk.	
yank	Colloquial	A jerk or twitch.	
yankee		A nickname for a native of citizen of New England, especially one descended from old New England stock; by extension, an inhabitant of the Northern States as distinguished from a Southerner; also…	
yankee-doodle		The name of a tune adopted popularly as one of the national airs of the United States.	
yankeeism		A Yankee idiom, word, custom, or the like.	
yaourt		A fermented drink, or milk beer, made by the Turks.	
yap		To bark; to yelp.	
yapock		A South American aquatic opossum (Chironectes variegatus) found in Guiana and Brazil.	
yapon		Same as Yaupon.	
yarage		The power of moving, or being managed, at sea; -- said with reference to a ship.	
yard		A measure of length, equaling three feet, or thirty-six inches, being the standard of English and American measure.	Old English geard.
yardarm		Either half of a square-rigged vessel's yard, from the center or mast to the end.	
yardful		As much as a yard will contain; enough to fill a yard.	
yardland	Obsolete	A measure of land of uncertain quantity, varying from fifteen to forty acres; a virgate.	
yardstick		A stick three feet, or a yard, in length, used as a measure of cloth, etc.	
yardwand		A yardstick.	
yare	Obsolete	Ready; dexterous; eager; lively; quick to move.	Middle English yare.
yarely	Obsolete	In a yare manner.	
yark	English dialect	To yerk.	Middle English ȝarken.
yarke		Same as Saki.	
yarn		Spun wool; woolen thread; also, thread of other material, as of cotton, flax, hemp, or silk; material spun and prepared for use in weaving, knitting, manufacturing sewing thread, or the like.	Middle English yarn.
yarnen	Obsolete	Made of yarn; consisting of yarn.	
yarnut		See Yernut — an earthnut, or groundnut. See Groundnut (d).	
yarr	Obsolete	To growl or snarl as a dog.	
yarrish	English dialect	Having a rough, dry taste.	
yarrow		An American and European composite plant (Achillea Millefolium) with very finely dissected leaves and small white corymbed flowers.	
yarwhip	English dialect	The European bar-tailed godwit; -- called also yardkeep, and yarwhelp.	
yataghan		A long knife, or short saber, common among Mohammedan nations, usually having a double curve, sometimes nearly straight.	
yate	Obsolete	A gate. See 1st Gate.	
yaud	English dialect	See Yawd — a jade; an old horse or mare.	
yaul		See Yawl — a small ship's boat, usually rowed by four or six oars.	
yaulp		To yaup.	
yaup	Scots	To cry out like a child; to yelp.	
yauper		One who, or that which, yaups.	
yaupon		A shrub (Ilex Cassine) of the Holly family, native from Virginia to Florida.	Catawba yąpą.
yautia		In Porto Rico, any of several araceous plants or their starchy edible roots, which are cooked and eaten like yams or potatoes, as the taro.	
yaw		To rise in blisters, breaking in white froth, as cane juice in the clarifiers in sugar works.	
yaw-weed		A low, shrubby, rubiaceous plant (Morinda Royoc) growing along the seacoast of the West Indies.	
yawd	English dialect	A jade; an old horse or mare.	
yawi		A fore-and-aft-rigged vessel with a mainmast stepped a little farther forward than in a sloop and carrying a mainsail and jibs, with a jigger mast far aft, usually placed abaft the rudder post.	
yawl		A small ship's boat, usually rowed by four or six oars.	
yawl-rigged		Having two masts with fore-and-aft sails, but differing from a schooner in that the after mast is very small, and stepped as far aft as possible.	
yawn		To open the mouth involuntarily through drowsiness, dullness, or fatigue; to gape; to oscitate.	
yawningly		In a yawning manner.	
yawp		See Yaup — to cry out like a child; to yelp.	Middle English yolpen.
yaws		A disease, occurring in the Antilles and in Africa, characterized by yellowish or reddish tumors, of a contagious character, which, in shape and appearance, often resemble currants, strawberries, or raspberries.	
