ye	Obsolete	an old method of printing the article the (AS. þe), the "y" being used in place of the Anglo-Saxon thorn.
yea		Yes; ay; a word expressing assent, or an affirmative, or an affirmative answer to a question, now superseded by yes.
yead	Obsolete	Properly, a variant of the defective imperfect yode, but sometimes mistaken for a present.
yean		To bring forth young, as a goat or a sheep; to ean.
yeanling		A lamb or a kid; an eanling.
year		The time of the apparent revolution of the sun trough the ecliptic; the period occupied by the earth in making its revolution around the sun, called the astronomical year; also, a period more or less nearly agreeing with this…
yeara		The California poison oak (Rhus diversiloba). See under Poison, a.
yearbook		A book published yearly; any annual report or summary of the statistics or facts of a year, designed to be used as a reference book; as, the Congregational Yearbook.
yeared	Obsolete	Containing years; having existed or continued many years; aged.
yearling		An animal one year old, or in the second year of its age; -- applied chiefly to cattle, sheep, and horses.
yearly		Happening, accruing, or coming every year; annual; as, a yearly income; a yearly feast.
yearn	Obsolete	To pain; to grieve; to vex.
yearnful	Obsolete	Desirous.
yearningly		With yearning.
yearnings	Scots	The maws, or stomachs, of young calves, used a rennet for curdling milk.
yearth	Obsolete	The earth.
yeast		The foam, or troth (top yeast), or the sediment (bottom yeast), of beer or other in fermentation, which contains the yeast plant or its spores…
yeast-bitten		A term used of beer when the froth of the yeast has reëntered the body of the beer.
yeastiness		The quality or state of being yeasty, or frothy.
yeasty		Frothy; foamy; spumy, like yeast.
yedding	Obsolete	The song of a minstrel; hence, any song.
yede		Went. See Yode.
yeldhall	Obsolete	Guildhall.
yeldrin	English dialect	The yellow-hammer; -- called also yeldrock, and yoldrin.
yeldrine	English dialect	The yellow-hammer; -- called also yeldrock, and yoldrin.
yelk		Same as Yolk.
yell		To cry out, or shriek, with a hideous noise; to cry or scream as with agony or horror.
yellow	Slang	Being of a bright saffronlike color; of the color of gold or brass; having the hue of that part of the rainbow, or of the solar spectrum, which is between the orange and the green.
yellow-covered	Colloquial	Covered or bound in yellow paper.
yellow-eyed		Having yellow eyes.
yellow-golds		A certain plant, probably the yellow oxeye.
yellowammer		See Yellow-hammer.
yellowbill		The American scoter.
yellowbird		(a) The American goldfinch, or thistle bird. See Goldfinch. (b) The common yellow warbler; -- called also summer yellowbird.
yellowfin		A large squeteague.
yellowfish		A rock trout (Pleurogrammus monopterygius) found on the coast of Alaska; -- called also striped fish, and Atka mackerel.
yellowhammer	Dialect	(a) A common European finch (Emberiza citrinella).
yellowing		The act or process of making yellow.
yellowish		Somewhat yellow; as, amber is of a yellowish color. -- Yel"low*ish*ness, n.
yellowlegs		Any one of several species of long-legged sandpipers of the genus Totanus, in which the legs are bright yellow; -- called also stone snipe, tattler, telltale, yellowshanks; and yellowshins.
yellowness	Obsolete	The quality or state of being yellow; as, the yellowness of an orange. 2.
yellowroot		Any one of several plants with yellow roots. Specifically: (a) See Xanthorhiza.
yellows		(Far.) A disease of the bile in horses, cattle, and sheep, causing yellowness of the eyes; jaundice.
yellowseed		A kind of pepper grass (Lepidium campestre).
yellowshanks		See Yellolegs.
yellowshins		See Yellolegs.
yellowtail		(a) Any one of several species of marine carangoid fishes of the genus Seriola; especially, the large California species (S. dorsalis) which sometimes weighs thirty or forty pounds, and is highly esteemed as a food fish…
yellowthroat		Any one of several species of American ground warblers of the genus Geothlypis, esp. the Maryland yellowthroat (G. trichas), which is a very common species.
yellowtop		A kind of grass, perhaps a species of Agrostis.
yellowwood		The wood of any one of several different kinds of trees; also, any one of the trees themselves.
yellowwort		A European yellow-flowered, gentianaceous (Chlora perfoliata).
yelp		To utter a sharp, quick cry, as a hound; to bark shrilly with eagerness, pain, or fear; to yaup.
yelper	English dialect	An animal that yelps, or makes a yelping noise. Specifically: (Zoöl.) (a) The avocet; -- so called from its sharp, shrill cry.
yelting		The Florida and West Indian red snapper (Lutianus aya); also, sometimes, one of certain other allied species, as L. caxis.
yeman	Obsolete	A yeoman.
yen		The unit of value and account in Japan.
yend	English dialect	To throw; to cast.
yenite		A silicate of iron and lime occurring in black prismatic crystals; -- also called ilvaite.
yeoman		A common man, or one of the commonly of the first or most respectable class; a freeholder; a man free born.
yeomanlike		Resembling, or suitable to, a yeoman; yeomanly.
yeomanly		Pertaining to a yeoman; becoming or suitable to, a yeoman; yeomanlike.
yeomanry		The collective body of yeomen, or freeholders.
yeorling		The European yellow-hammer.
yer	Obsolete	Ere; before.
yerba		An herb; a plant.
yerd	Obsolete	See 1st & 2d Yard.
yerk		To throw or thrust with a sudden, smart movement; to kick or strike suddenly; to jerk.
yern	Obsolete	See 3d Yearn.
yerne	Obsolete	Eagerly; briskly; quickly.
yernut		An earthnut, or groundnut. See Groundnut (d).
yerst	Obsolete	See Erst — previously; before; formerly; heretofore.
yes		Ay; yea; -- a word which expresses affirmation or consent; -- opposed to Ant: no.
yest		See Yeast — the foam, or troth (top yeast), or the sediment (bottom yeast), of beer or other in fermentation, which contains the yeast plant or its spores…
yester		Last; last past; next before; of or pertaining to yesterday. whom yester sun beheld Mustering her charms.
yester-evening		The evening of yesterday; the evening last past.
yester-morning		The morning of yesterday.
yesterday		The day last past; the day next before the present.
yestereve		The evening of yesterday; the evening last past.
yestermorn		The morning of yesterday.
yestern		Of or pertaining to yesterday; relating to the day last past.
yesternight		The last night; the night last past.
yesternoon		The noon of yesterday; the noon last past.
yesterweek		The week last past; last week.
yesteryear		The year last past; last year.
yestreen		Yester-evening; yesternight; last night.
yesty		See Yeasty — frothy; foamy; spumy, like yeast.
yet		Any one of several species of large marine gastropods belonging to the genus Yetus, or Cymba; a boat shell.
yeve	Obsolete	To give.
yew		See Yaw — to rise in blisters, breaking in white froth, as cane juice in the clarifiers in sugar works.
yewen		Made of yew; as, yewen bows.
yex	Obsolete	To hiccough.
yezdegerdian		Of or pertaining to Yezdegerd, the last Sassanian monarch of Persia, who was overthrown by the Mohammedans; as, the Yezdegerdian era, which began on the 16th of June, a. d. 632.
yezdi		Same as Izedi.
yezidee		Same as Izedi.
yezidi		Same as Izedi.
