yockel		The yaffle.
yode		Went; walked; proceeded. See Yede.
yodel		To sing in a manner common among the Swiss and Tyrolese mountaineers, by suddenly changing from the head voice, or falsetto, to the chest voice, and the contrary; to warble.
yodle		To sing in a manner common among the Swiss and Tyrolese mountaineers, by suddenly changing from the head voice, or falsetto, to the chest voice, and the contrary; to warble.
yodler		One who yodels.
yoga		A species of asceticism among the Hindoos, which consists in a complete abstraction from all worldly objects, by which the votary expects to obtain union with the universal spirit, and to acquire superhuman faculties.
yogi		A follower of the yoga philosophy; an ascetic.
yogism		Yoga, or its practice.
yoicks		A cry of encouragement to foxhounds.
yoit	English dialect	The European yellow-hammer.
yojan		A measure of distance, varying from four to ten miles, but usually about five.
yoke		A bar or frame of wood by which two oxen are joined at the heads or necks for working together.
yoke-toed		Having two toes in front and two behind, as the trogons and woodpeckers.
yokeage	Dialect	See Rokeage — parched Indian corn, pounded up and mixed with sugar; -- called also yokeage.
yokefellow		An associate or companion in, or as in; a mate; a fellow; especially, a partner in marriage.
yokel		A country bumpkin.
yokelet	English dialect	A small farm; -- so called as requiring but one yoke of oxen to till it.
yokemate		Same as Yokefellow.
yold		Yielded.
yolden		Yielded.
yolk		The yellow part of an egg; the vitellus.
yoll	Obsolete	To yell.
yom		Day; -- a Hebrew word used in the names of various Jewish feast days; as, Yom Kippur, the Day of Atonement; Yom Teruah (lit., day of shouting), the Feast of Trumpets.
yon	Poetic	At a distance, but within view; yonder.
yoncopin		A local name in parts of the Mississippi Valley for the American lotus (Nelumbo lutea).
yond	Obsolete	Furious; mad; angry; fierce.
yonder		At a distance, but within view.
yoni		The symbol under which Sakti, or the personification of the female power in nature, is worshiped.
yonker	Obsolete	A young fellow; a younker.
yore	Obsolete	In time long past; in old time; long since.
yorkshire		A county in the north of England.
yot	English dialect	To unite closely.
yote	Obsolete	To pour water on; to soak in, or mix with, water.
you		The pronoun of the second person, in the nominative, dative, and objective case, indicating the person or persons addressed.
youl	Obsolete	To yell; to yowl.
young		Not long born; still in the first part of life; not yet arrived at adolescence, maturity, or age; not old; juvenile; -- said of animals; as, a young child; a young man; a young fawn.
youngger		One who is younger; an inferior in age; a junior. ix. 12.
youngish		Somewhat young.
youngling		A young person; a youth; also, any animal in its early life.
youngly		Ignorantly; weakly.
youngness		The quality or state of being young.
youngster	Colloquial	A young person; a youngling; a lad.
youngthly	Obsolete	Pertaining to, or resembling, youth; youthful.
younker	Obsolete	A young person; a stripling; a yonker.
youpon		Same as Yaupon.
your		The form of the possessive case of the personal pronoun you.
yours		See the Note under Your. See the Note under Your.
yourself		An emphasized or reflexive form of the pronoun of the second person; -- used as a subject commonly with you; as, you yourself shall see it; also, alone in the predicate, either in the nominative or objective case; as…
youth		The quality or state of being young; youthfulness; juvenility.
youthful		Not yet mature or aged; young.
youthhood		The quality or state of being a youth; the period of youth.
youthly	Obsolete	Young; youthful.
youthsome	Obsolete	Youthful.
youze		The cheetah.
yowl		To utter a loud, long, and mournful cry, as a dog; to howl; to yell.
yowley	English dialect	The European yellow-hammer.
yox	Obsolete	See Yex — to hiccough.
