za		An old solfeggio name for B flat; the seventh harmonic, as heard in the or æolian string; -- so called by Tartini.	
zabaism		See Sabianism — the doctrine of the Sabians; the Sabian religion; that species of idolatry which consists in worshiping the sun, moon, and stars; heliolatry.	
zabian		See Sabian — of or pertaining to Saba in Arabia, celebrated for producing aromatic plants.	
zabism		See Sabianism — the doctrine of the Sabians; the Sabian religion; that species of idolatry which consists in worshiping the sun, moon, and stars; heliolatry.	
zacco		See Zocco — same as Socle.	
zachun		An oil pressed by the Arabs from the fruit of a small thorny tree (Balanites Ægyptiaca), and sold to piligrims for a healing ointment.	
zaerthe		Same as Zärthe.	
zaffer		A pigment obtained, usually by roasting cobalt glance with sand or quartz, as a dark earthy powder.	
zaim		A Turkish chief who supports a mounted militia bearing the same name.	
zaimet		A district from which a Zaim draws his revenue.	
zain		A horse of a dark color, neither gray nor white, and having no spots.	
zalambdodont		Of or pertaining to a tribe (Zalambdodonta) of Insectivora in which the molar teeth have but one V-shaped ridge.	
zamang		An immense leguminous tree (Pithecolobium Saman) of Venezuela.	
zambo		The child of a mulatto and a negro; also, the child of an Indian and a negro; colloquially or humorously, a negro; a sambo.	
zamia		A genus of cycadaceous plants, having the appearance of low palms, but with exogenous wood.	
zamindar		A landowner; also, a collector of land revenue; now, usually, a kind of feudatory recognized as an actual proprietor so long as he pays to the government a certain fixed revenue.	
zamindari		The jurisdiction of a zamindar; the land possessed by a zamindar.	
zamindary		The jurisdiction of a zamindar; the land possessed by a zamindar.	
zamite		A fossil cycad of the genus Zamia.	
zamouse		A West African buffalo (Bubalus brachyceros) having short horns depressed at the base, and large ears fringed internally with three rows of long hairs.	
zampogna		A sort of bagpipe formerly in use among Italian peasants.	
zander		A European pike perch (Stizostedion lucioperca) allied to the wall-eye; -- called also sandari, sander, sannat, schill, and zant.	
zandmole		The sand mole.	
zante		See Zantewood — (a) A yellow dyewood; fustet; -- called also zante, and zante fustic. See Fustet, and the Note under Fustic.	
zantewood		(a) A yellow dyewood; fustet; -- called also zante, and zante fustic. See Fustet, and the Note under Fustic.	
zantiot		A native or inhabitant of Zante, one of the Ionian Islands.	
zany	Obsolete	A merry-andrew; a buffoon.	Italian zanni.
zanyism		State or character of a zany; buffoonery.	
zapas		See Army organization, above.	
zapatera		A cured olive which has spoiled or is on the verge of decomposition; loosely, an olive defective because of bruises, wormholes, or the like.	
zaphrentis		An extinct genus of cyathophylloid corals common in the Paleozoic formations.	
zapotilla		See Sapodilla — a tall, evergeen, tropical American tree (Achras Sapota); also, its edible fruit, the sapodilla plum.	
zaptiah		A Turkish policeman.	
zarathustrian		Of or pertaining to Zarathustra, or Zoroaster; Zoroastrian.	
zarathustric		Of or pertaining to Zarathustra, or Zoroaster; Zoroastrian.	
zarathustrism		See Zoroastrianism — the religious system of Zoroaster, the legislator and prophet of the ancient Persians, which was the national faith of Persia; mazdeism.	
zaratite		A hydrous carbonate of nickel occurring as an emerald-green incrustation on chromite; -- called also emerald nickel.	
zareba		An improvised stockade; especially, one made of thorn bushes, etc. "Ah, what wonderful instinct on the part of this little creature to surround itself with a zareba like the troops after Osman Digma." R.	
zarf		A metallic cuplike stand used for holding a finjan.	Turkish zarf, from Arabic ظرف.
zarnich		Native sulphide of arsenic, including sandarach, or realgar, and orpiment.	
zarthe		A European bream (Abramis vimba).	
zastrugi		Grooves or furrows formed in snow by the action of the wind, and running parallel with the direction of the wind.	
zati		A species of macaque (Macacus pileatus) native of India and Ceylon.	
zauschneria		A genus of flowering plants.	
zax		A tool for trimming and puncturing roofing states.	Middle English sax, from Old English seax.
zayat		A public shed, or portico, for travelers, worshipers, etc.	Burmese ဇရပ်.
