zea		A genus of large grasses of which the Indian corn (Zea Mays) is the only species known.	
zeal		Passionate ardor in the pursuit of anything; eagerness in favor of a person or cause; ardent and active interest; engagedness; enthusiasm; fervor.	
zealant	Obsolete	One who is zealous; a zealot; an enthusiast.	
zealed	Obsolete	Full of zeal; characterized by zeal. & Fl.	
zealful		Full of zeal.	
zealless		Wanting zeal.	
zealot		One who is zealous; one who engages warmly in any cause, and pursues his object with earnestness and ardor; especially, one who is overzealous, or carried away by his zeal; one absorbed in devotion to anything; an enthusiast…	
zealotical		Like, or suitable to, a zealot; ardently zealous.	
zealotism		The character or conduct of a zealot; zealotry.	
zealotist	Obsolete	A zealot.	
zealotry		The character and behavior of a zealot; excess of zeal; fanatical devotion to a cause.	
zealous		Filled with, or characterized by, zeal; warmly engaged, or ardent, in behalf of an object.	Greek ζήλος.
zebec		See Xebec — a small three-masted vessel, with projecting bow stern and convex decks, used in the Mediterranean for transporting merchandise, etc. It carries large square sails, or both.	
zebra		Either one of two species of South African wild horses remarkable for having the body white or yellowish white, and conspicuously marked with dark brown or brackish bands.	
zebrawood		(a) A kind of cabinet wood having beautiful black, brown, and whitish stripes, the timber of a tropical American tree (Connarus Guianensis).	
zebrine		Pertaining to, or resembling, the zebra.	
zebrinny		A cross between a male horse and a female zebra.	
zebrula		A cross between a male zebra and a female horse.	
zebrule		A cross between a male zebra and a female horse.	
zebu		A bovine mammal (Ros Indicus) extensively domesticated in India, China, the East Indies, and East Africa.	French zebu.
zebub		A large noxious fly of Abyssinia, which like the tsetse fly, is destructive to cattle.	
zechin		See Sequin — an old gold coin of Italy and Turkey.	
zechstein		The upper division of the Permian (Dyas) of Europe.	
zed		The letter Z; -- called also zee, and formerly izzard.	Greek ζῆτα.
zedoary		A medicinal substance obtained in the East Indian, having a fragrant smell, and a warm, bitter, aromatic taste.	
zeekoe		A hippopotamus.	
zehner		An Austrian silver coin equal to ten kreutzers, or about five cents.	
zein		A nitrogenous substance of the nature of gluten, obtained from the seeds of Indian corn (Zea) as a soft, yellowish, amorphous substance.	
zeitgeist		The spirit of the time; the general intellectual and moral state or temper characteristic of any period of time.	
zemindar		Same as Zamindar.	
zemindari		Same as Zamindary.	
zemindary		Same as Zamindary.	
zemni		The blind mole rat (Spalax typhlus), native of Eastern Europe and Asia.	
zemstvo		In Russia, an elective local district and provincial administrative assembly.	Russian земство.
zenana		The part of a dwelling appropriated to women.	
zend		Properly, the translation and exposition in the Huzvâresh, or literary Pehlevi, language, of the Avesta, the Zoroastrian sacred writings; as commonly used, the language (an ancient Persian dialect) in which the Avesta is written.	
zend-avesta		The sacred writings of the ancient Persian religion, attributed to Zoroaster, but chiefly of a later date.	
zendik		An atheist or unbeliever; -- name given in the East to those charged with disbelief of any revealed religion, or accused of magical heresies.	
zenick		A South African burrowing mammal (Suricata tetradactyla), allied to the civets.	
zenik		See Zenick — a south African burrowing mammal (Suricata tetradactyla), allied to the civets.	
zenith		That point in the visible celestial hemisphere which is vertical to the spectator; the point of the heavens directly overhead; -- opposed to nadir.	Middle English senith.
zenithal		Of or pertaining to the zenith.	
zeolite		A term now used to designate any one of a family of minerals, hydrous silicates of alumina, with lime, soda, potash, or rarely baryta.	
zeolitic		Of or pertaining to a zeolite; consisting of, or resembling, a zeolite.	
zeolitiform		Having the form of a zeolite.	
zephyr		The west wind; poetically, any soft, gentle breeze.	Greek Ζέφυρος.
zephyrus		The west wind, or zephyr; -- usually personified, and made the most mild and gentle of all the sylvan deities.	
zeppelin		A dirigible balloon of the rigid type, consisting of a cylindrical trussed and covered frame supported by internal gas cells, and provided with means of propulsion and control.	
zequin		See Sequin — an old gold coin of Italy and Turkey.	
zerda		The fennec.	
zeriba		Same as Zareba.	
zero		(Arith.) A cipher; nothing; naught.	French zéro, from Italian zero.
zest		A piece of orange or lemon peel, or the aromatic oil which may be squeezed from such peel, used to give flavor to liquor, etc.	French zeste.
zeta		A Greek letter corresponding to our z.	
zetetic		Seeking; proceeding by inquiry.	Greek ζητητικός.
zetetics		A branch of algebra which relates to the direct search for unknown quantities.	
zeuglodon		A genus of extinct Eocene whales, remains of which have been found in the Gulf States.	
zeuglodont		Any species of Zeuglodonta.	
zeuglodonta		Same as Phocodontia.	
zeugma		A figure by which an adjective or verb, which agrees with a nearer word, is, by way of supplement, referred also to another more remote; as, where fuit, which agrees directly with currus, is referred also to arma.	Greek ζεῦγμα.
zeugmatic		Of or pertaining to zeugma; characterized by zeugma.	
zeugobranchiata		Same as Zygobranchia.	
zeus		The chief deity of the Greeks, and ruler of the upper world (cf. Hades).	
zeuzerian		Any one of a group of bombycid moths of which the genus Zeuzera is the type.	
zeylanite		See Ceylanite — a dingy blue, or grayish black, variety of spinel.	
