zibet		A carnivorous mammal (Viverra zibetha) closely allied to the civet, from which it differs in having the spots on the body less distinct, the throat whiter, and the black rings on the tail more numerous.
zibeth		A carnivorous mammal (Viverra zibetha) closely allied to the civet, from which it differs in having the spots on the body less distinct, the throat whiter, and the black rings on the tail more numerous.
ziega		Curd produced from milk by adding acetic acid, after rennet has ceased to cause coagulation.
zietrisikite		A mineral wax, vert similar to ozocerite.
zif		The second month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, corresponding to our May.
zigger	English dialect	Same as Sicker.
zighyr	English dialect	Same as Sicker.
zigzag		Something that has short turns or angles.
zigzaggery		The quality or state of being zigzag; crookedness.
zigzaggy		Having sharp turns.
zikkurat		A temple tower of the Babylonians or Assyrians, consisting of a lofty pyramidal structure, built in successive stages, with outside staircases, and a shrine at the top.
zilla		A low, thorny, suffrutescent, crucifeous plant (Zilla myagroides) found in the deserts of Egypt.
zillah		A district or local division, as of a province.
zimb		A large, venomous, two-winged fly, native of Abyssinia.
ziment-water		A kind of water found in copper mines; water impregnated with copper.
zimocca		A sponge (Euspongia zimocca) of flat form and fine quality, from the Adriatic, about the Greek islands, and the coast of Barbary.
zinc		An abundant element of the magnesium-cadmium group, extracted principally from the minerals zinc blende, smithsonite, calamine, and franklinite, as an easily fusible bluish white metal, which is malleable, especially when heated.
zincane	Obsolete	Zinc chloride.
zincic		Pertaining to, containing, or resembling, zinc; zincous.
zincide		A binary compound of zinc.
zinciferous		Containing or affording zinc.
zincification		The act or process of applying zinc; the condition of being zincified, or covered with zinc; galvanization.
zincify		To coat or impregnate with zinc.
zincing		The act or process of applying zinc; galvanization.
zincite		Native zinc oxide; a brittle, translucent mineral, of an orange-red color; -- called also red zinc ore, and red oxide of zinc.
zincking		The act or process of applying zinc; galvanization.
zincky		, Pertaining to zinc, or having its appearance.
zinco-		A combining form from zinc; in chemistry, designating zinc as an element of certain double compounds.
zinco-polar	Obsolete	Electrically polarized like the surface of the zinc presented to the acid in a battery, which has zincous affinity.
zincode		The positive electrode of an electrolytic cell; anode.
zincograph		A zinc plate prepared for printing by zincography; also, a print from such a plate.
zincographer		Am engraver on zinc.
zincographic		Of or pertaining to zincography; as, zincographic processes.
zincographical		Of or pertaining to zincography; as, zincographic processes.
zincography		The art or process of engraving or etching on zinc, in which the design is left in relief in the style of a wood cut, the rest of the ground being eaten away by acid.
zincoid	Obsolete	Pertaining to, or resembling, zinc; -- said of the electricity of the zincous plate in connection with a copper plate in a voltaic circle; also, designating the positive pole.
zincous		(Chem.) (a) Of, pertaining to, or containing, zinc; zincic; as, zincous salts.
zingaro		A gypsy.
zingel		A small, edible, freshwater European perch (Aspro zingel), having a round, elongated body and prominent snout.
zingiberaceous		Of or pertaining to ginger, or to a tribe (Zingibereæ) of endogenous plants of the order Scitamineæ.
zink	Obsolete	See Zinc — an abundant element of the magnesium-cadmium group, extracted principally from the minerals zinc blende, smithsonite, calamine, and franklinite, as an easily fusible bluish white metal…
zinkenite		A steel-gray metallic mineral, a sulphide of antimony and lead.
zinky		See Zincky — , Pertaining to zinc, or having its appearance.
zinnia		Any plant of the composite genus Zinnia, Mexican herbs with opposite leaves and large gay-colored blossoms.
zinnwaldite		A kind of mica containing lithium, often associated with tin ore.
zinsang		The delundung.
zinziberaceous		Same as Zingiberaceous.
zion		(Jewish Antiq.) A hill in Jerusalem, which, after the capture of that city by the Israelites, became the royal residence of David and his successors.
zionism		Among the Jews, a theory, plan, or movement for colonizing their own race in Palestine, the land of Zion, or, if that is impracticable, elsewhere, either for religious or nationalizing purposes…
zip		A hissing or sibilant sound such as that made by a flying bullet.
ziphioid		See Xiphioid — of, pertaining to, or resembling, a cetacean of the genus Xiphius or family Xiphiidæ.
zirco-		A combining form (also used adjectively) designating zirconium as an element of certain double compounds; zircono-; as in zircofluoric acid, sodium zircofluoride.
zircofluoride		A double fluoride of zirconium and hydrogen, or some other positive element or radical; as, zircofluoride of sodium.
zircon		A mineral occurring in tetragonal crystals, usually of a brown or gray color.
zircona		Zirconia.
zirconate		A salt of zirconic acid.
zirconia		The oxide of zirconium, obtained as a white powder, and possessing both acid and basic properties.
zirconic		Pertaining to, containing, or resembling, zirconium; as, zirconic oxide; zirconic compounds.
zirconium		A rare element of the carbon-silicon group, intermediate between the metals and nonmetals, obtained from the mineral zircon as a dark sooty powder, or as a gray metallic crystalline substance.
zircono		See Zirco- — a combining form (also used adjectively) designating zirconium as an element of certain double compounds; zircono-; as in zircofluoric acid, sodium zircofluoride.
zirconoid		A double eight-sided pyramid, a form common with tetragonal crystals; -- so called because this form often occurs in crystals of zircon.
zither		An instrument of music used in Austria and Germany.
zittern		See Cittern — an instrument shaped like a lute, but strung with wire and played with a quill or plectrum.
zizania		A genus of grasses including Indian rice. See Indian rice, under Rice.
zizel		The suslik.
zizith		The tassels of twisted cords or threads on the corners of the upper garment worn by strict Jews.
