zoanthacea		A suborder of Actinaria, including Zoanthus and allied genera, which are permanently attached by their bases.	
zoantharia		Same as Anthozoa.	
zoantharian		Of or pertaining to the Zoantharia. -- n.	
zoanthodeme		The zooids of a compound anthozoan, collectively.	
zoanthoid		Of or pertaining to the Zoanthacea.	
zoanthropy		A kind of monomania in which the patient believes himself transformed into one of the lower animals.	
zoanthus		A genus of Actinaria, including numerous species, found mostly in tropical seas.	
zobo		A kind of domestic cattle reared in Asia for its flesh and milk.	
zocco		Same as Socle.	
zoccolo		Same as Socle.	
zocle		Same as Socle.	
zodiac		(Astron.) (a) An imaginary belt in the heavens, 16º or 18º broad, in the middle of which is the ecliptic, or sun's path.	
zodiacal		Of or pertaining to the zodiac; situated within the zodiac; as, the zodiacal planets.	
zoea		A peculiar larval stage of certain decapod Crustacea, especially of crabs and certain Anomura.	
zoetrope		An optical toy, in which figures made to revolve on the inside of a cylinder, and viewed through slits in its circumference…	
zohar		A Jewish cabalistic book attributed by tradition to Rabbi Simon ben Yochi, who lived about the end of the 1st century, a. d.	
zoic		Of or pertaining to animals, or animal life.	
zoide		See Meride — a permanent colony of cells or plastids which may remain isolated, like Rotifer, or may multiply by gemmation to form higher aggregates, termed zoides.	
zoilean		Having the characteristic of Zoilus, a bitter, envious, unjust critic, who lived about 270 years before Christ.	
zoilism		Resemblance to Zoilus in style or manner; carping criticism; detraction.	
zoisite		A grayish or whitish mineral occurring in orthorhombic, prismatic crystals, also in columnar masses.	
zoism		Reverence for animal life or belief in animal powers and influences, as among savages.	
zokor		An Asiatic burrowing rodent (Siphneus aspalax) resembling the mole rat.	
zolaesque		In the style of Zola (see Zolaism).	
zolaism		The literary theories and practices of the French novelist Emile Zola (1840-1902); naturalism, esp. in a derogatory sense. -- Zo tic (#), a. -- Zo ner's lines`.	
zollverein		Literally, a customs union; specifically, applied to the several customs unions successively formed under the leadership of Prussia among certain German states for establishing liberty of commerce among themselves and common…	
zomboruk		See Zumbooruk — a small cannon supported by a swiveled rest on the back of a camel, whence it is fired, -- used in the East.	
zona		A zone or band; a layer.	
zonal		Of or pertaining to a zone; having the form of a zone or zones.	
zonar		A belt or girdle which the Christians and Jews of the Levant were obliged to wear to distinguish them from Mohammedans.	
zonaria		A division of Mammalia in which the placenta is zonelike.	
zonate		Divided by parallel planes; as, zonate tetraspores, found in certain red algæ.	
zone		(Geog.) One of the five great divisions of the earth, with respect to latitude and temperature.	Latin zona, from Greek ζώνη.
zoned		Having zones, or concentric bands; striped.	
zoneless		Not having a zone; ungirded.	
zonnar		See Zonar — a belt or girdle which the Christians and Jews of the Levant were obliged to wear to distinguish them from Mohammedans.	
zonular		Of or pertaining to a zone; zone-shaped.	
zonule		A little zone, or girdle.	
zonulet		A zonule.	
zonure		Any one of several of South African lizards of the genus Zonura, common in rocky situations.	
zoo-		A combining form from Gr. zwo^,n an animal, as in zoögenic, zoölogy, etc.	
zoochemical		Pertaining to zoöchemistry.	
zoochemistry		Animal chemistry; particularly, the description of the chemical compounds entering into the composition of the animal body, in distinction from biochemistry.	
zoochemy		Animal chemistry; zoöchemistry.	
zoochlorella		One of the small green granulelike bodies found in the interior of certain stentors, hydras, and other invertebrates.	
zoocyst		A cyst formed by certain Protozoa and unicellular plants which the contents divide into a large number of granules, each of which becomes a germ.	
zoocytium		The common support, often branched, of certain species of social Infusoria.	
zoodendrium		The branched, and often treelike, support of the colonies of certain Infusoria.	
zooe-		A combining form from Gr. zwo^,n an animal, as in zoögenic, zoölogy, etc.	
zooechemical		Pertaining to zoöchemistry.	
zooechemistry		Animal chemistry; particularly, the description of the chemical compounds entering into the composition of the animal body, in distinction from biochemistry.	
zooechemy		Animal chemistry; zoöchemistry.	
zooechlorella		One of the small green granulelike bodies found in the interior of certain stentors, hydras, and other invertebrates.	
zooecium		One of the cells or tubes which inclose the feeling zooids of Bryozoa.	
zooecyst		A cyst formed by certain Protozoa and unicellular plants which the contents divide into a large number of granules, each of which becomes a germ.	
zooecytium		The common support, often branched, of certain species of social Infusoria.	
zooedendrium		The branched, and often treelike, support of the colonies of certain Infusoria.	
zooeerythrine		A peculiar organic red coloring matter found in the feathers of various birds.	
zooegamous		Of or pertaining zoögamy.	
zooegamy		The sexual reproduction of animals.	
zooegenic		Of or pertaining to zoögeny, animal production.	
zooegeny		The doctrine of the formation of living beings.	
zooegeographical		Of or pertaining to zoögraphy.	
zooegeography		The study or description of the geographical distribution of animals.	
zooegloea		A colony or mass of bacteria imbedded in a viscous gelatinous substance.	
zooegony		The doctrine of the formation of living beings.	
zooegrapher		One who describes animals, their forms and habits.	
zooegraphic		Of or pertaining to the description of animals.	
zooegraphical		Of or pertaining to the description of animals.	
zooegraphist		A zoögrapher.	
zooegraphy		A description of animals, their forms and habits.	
zooelatry		The worship of animals.	
zooeloger		A zoölogist.	
zooelogical		Of or pertaining to zoölogy, or the science of animals.	
zooelogically		In a zoölogical manner; according to the principles of zoölogy.	
zooelogist		One who is well versed in zoölogy.	
zooelogy		That part of biology which relates to the animal kingdom, including the structure, embryology, evolution, classification, habits, and distribution of all animals, both living and extinct.	
zooemelanin		A pigment giving the black color to the feathers of many birds.	
zooemorphic		Of or pertaining to zoömorphism.	
zooemorphism		The transformation of men into beasts.	
zooen		(a) An animal which is the sole product of a single egg; -- opposed to zooid.	
zooenic		Of or pertaining to animals; obtained from animal substances.	
zooenite		(a) One of the segments of the body of an articulate animal. (b) One of the theoretic transverse divisions of any segmented animal.	
zooenomy		The laws animal life, or the science which treats of the phenomena of animal life, their causes and relations.	
zooenule		Same as Zoönite.	
zooepathology		Animal pathology.	
zooephaga		An artificial group comprising various carnivorous and insectivorous animals.	
zooephagan		A animal that feeds on animal food.	
zooephagous		Feeding on animals.	
zooephilist		A lover of animals.	
zooephily		Love of animals.	
zooephite		A zoöphyte.	
zooephoric		Bearing or supporting the figure of an animal; as, a zoöphoric column.	
zooephorous		The part between the architrave and cornice; the frieze; -- so called from the figures of animals carved upon it.	
zooephyta		An extensive artificial and heterogeneous group of animals, formerly adopted by many zoölogists.	
zooephyte		(a) Any one of numerous species of invertebrate animals which more or less resemble plants in appearance, or mode of growth, as the corals, gorgonians, sea anemones, hydroids, bryozoans, sponges, etc.…	
zooephytic		Of or pertaining to zoöphytes.	
zooephytical		Of or pertaining to zoöphytes.	
zooephytoid		Pertaining to, or resembling, a zoöphyte.	
zooephytological		Of or pertaining to zoöphytology; as, zoöphytological observations.	
zooephytology		The natural history zoöphytes.	
zooepraxiscope		An instrument similar to, or the same as, the, the phenakistoscope, by means of which pictures projected upon a screen are made to exhibit the natural movements of animals, and the like.	
zooepsychology		Animal psychology.	
zooerythrine		A peculiar organic red coloring matter found in the feathers of various birds.	
zooesperm		One of the spermatic particles; spermatozoid.	
zooesporangium		A spore, or conceptacle containing zoöspores.	
zooespore		(Bot.) A spore provided with one or more slender cilia, by the vibration of which it swims in the water.	
zooesporic		Of or pertaining to zoöspores; of the nature of zoöspores.	
zooetic		Containing the remains of organized bodies; -- said of rock or soil.	
zooetomical		Of or pertaining to zoötomy.	
zooetomist		One who dissects animals, or is skilled in zoötomy.	
zooetomy		The dissection or the anatomy of animals; -- distinguished from androtomy.	
zooetrophic		Of or pertaining to the nourishment of animals.	
zoogamous		Of or pertaining zoögamy.	
zoogamy		The sexual reproduction of animals.	
zoogenic		Of or pertaining to zoögeny, animal production.	
zoogeny		The doctrine of the formation of living beings.	
zoogeographical		Of or pertaining to zoögraphy.	
zoogeography		The study or description of the geographical distribution of animals.	
zoogloea		A colony or mass of bacteria imbedded in a viscous gelatinous substance.	
zoogony		The doctrine of the formation of living beings.	
zoographer		One who describes animals, their forms and habits.	
zoographic		Of or pertaining to the description of animals.	
zoographical		Of or pertaining to the description of animals.	
zoographist		A zoögrapher.	
zoography		A description of animals, their forms and habits.	
zooid		(Biol.) An organic body or cell having locomotion, as a spermatic cell or spermatozooid.	
zooidal		Of or pertaining to a zooid; as, a zooidal form.	
zoolatry		The worship of animals.	
zoologer		A zoölogist.	
zoological		Of or pertaining to zoölogy, or the science of animals.	
zoologically		In a zoölogical manner; according to the principles of zoölogy.	
zoologist		One who is well versed in zoölogy.	
zoologize		To study zoölogy; esp., to collect animals for study.	
zoology		That part of biology which relates to the animal kingdom, including the structure, embryology, evolution, classification, habits, and distribution of all animals, both living and extinct.	
zoomelanin		A pigment giving the black color to the feathers of many birds.	
zoomorphic		Of or pertaining to zoömorphism.	
zoomorphism		The transformation of men into beasts.	
zoon		(a) An animal which is the sole product of a single egg; -- opposed to zooid.	
zoonic		Of or pertaining to animals; obtained from animal substances.	
zoonite		(a) One of the segments of the body of an articulate animal. (b) One of the theoretic transverse divisions of any segmented animal.	
zoonomy		The laws animal life, or the science which treats of the phenomena of animal life, their causes and relations.	
zoonule		Same as Zoönite.	
zoopathology		Animal pathology.	
zoophaga		An artificial group comprising various carnivorous and insectivorous animals.	
zoophagan		A animal that feeds on animal food.	
zoophagous		Feeding on animals.	
zoophilist		A lover of animals.	
zoophily		Love of animals.	
zoophite		A zoöphyte.	
zoophoric		Bearing or supporting the figure of an animal; as, a zoöphoric column.	
zoophorous		The part between the architrave and cornice; the frieze; -- so called from the figures of animals carved upon it.	
zoophyta		An extensive artificial and heterogeneous group of animals, formerly adopted by many zoölogists.	
zoophyte		(a) Any one of numerous species of invertebrate animals which more or less resemble plants in appearance, or mode of growth, as the corals, gorgonians, sea anemones, hydroids, bryozoans, sponges, etc.…	
zoophytic		Of or pertaining to zoöphytes.	
zoophytical		Of or pertaining to zoöphytes.	
zoophytoid		Pertaining to, or resembling, a zoöphyte.	
zoophytological		Of or pertaining to zoöphytology; as, zoöphytological observations.	
zoophytology		The natural history zoöphytes.	
zoopraxiscope		An instrument similar to, or the same as, the, the phenakistoscope, by means of which pictures projected upon a screen are made to exhibit the natural movements of animals, and the like.	
zoopsychology		Animal psychology.	
zoosperm		One of the spermatic particles; spermatozoid.	
zoosporangium		A spore, or conceptacle containing zoöspores.	
zoospore		(Bot.) A spore provided with one or more slender cilia, by the vibration of which it swims in the water.	
zoosporic		Of or pertaining to zoöspores; of the nature of zoöspores.	
zootic		Containing the remains of organized bodies; -- said of rock or soil.	Greek ζῷον.
zootomical		Of or pertaining to zoötomy.	
zootomist		One who dissects animals, or is skilled in zoötomy.	
zootomy		The dissection or the anatomy of animals; -- distinguished from androtomy.	
zootrophic		Of or pertaining to the nourishment of animals.	
zoozoo	English dialect	The wood pigeon.	
zope		A European fresh-water bream (Abramis ballerus).	
zopilote		The urubu, or American black vulture.	
zoril		Same as Zorilla.	
zorilla		Either one of two species of small African carnivores of the genus Ictonyx allied to the weasels and skunks.	
zoroastrian		Of or pertaining to Zoroaster, or his religious system.	
zoroastrianism		The religious system of Zoroaster, the legislator and prophet of the ancient Persians, which was the national faith of Persia; mazdeism.	
zoroastrism		Same as Zoroastrianism.	
zoster		Shingles.	
zostera		A genus of plants of the Naiadaceæ, or Pondweed family.	
zosterops		A genus of birds that comprises the white-eyes. See White-eye.	
zouave		(a) One of an active and hardy body of soldiers in the French service, originally Arabs, but now composed of Frenchmen who wear the Arab dress.	
zounds		An exclamation formerly used as an oath, and an expression of anger or wonder.	
zoutch		To stew, as flounders, eels, etc., with just enough or liquid to cover them.	
